
    
  Sole Texan, veteran and conservative seeking the GOP nomination — and the presidency — to appear at UTEP, UT- Austin and University of Houston

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will hold three town hall meetings in his home state of Texas next week, at which he will discuss his platform of constitutionally-limited government, the restoration of economic and civil liberties, and provisions of his path-breaking 'Plan to Restore America.'
The 12-term Congressman from Texas will hold events on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, April 25th, 26th, and 27th at the University of Texas at El Paso, the University of Texas at Austin, and the University of Houston, respectively. Event times all are 7:00 p.m. in their respective time zones, and the events are free and open to the public with online registration strongly encouraged.
Ron Paul's college campus town hall meetings in the Lone Star State are being organized by 'Youth for Ron Paul' (YFP). YFP, an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign, launched in September 2011, and since its inception, students nationwide have organized 613 chapters and recruited more than 81,000 people. To learn more about 'Youth for Ron Paul,' including how to sign-up and establish a local chapter, visit the YFP website by clickinghere.
In addition to his college campus town hall meetings, Dr. Paul is holding a private fundraiser in Austin as well as exclusive, by-appointment press interviews in all three cities. Interview times and locations vary, meaning interviews are not restricted to the university locations or the evening. Members of the Texas and national print, broadcast, and online media desiring a candidate interview should contact Assistant Press Secretary Arick Stall anytime day or night at aricks@ronpaul2012.com. Please, no exceptions.
An open press opportunity will follow each of Ron Paul's town hall meetings. Ron Paul's Austin fundraiser, however, is closed to all media.
Details of the events are as follows. Please note time zones differ.
Wednesday, April 25, 2012
7:00 p.m. MT
Campus Town Hall Meeting w/ Ron Paul
University of Texas at El Paso
Memorial Gym
500 West University Avenue
El Paso, TX 79968
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
Thursday, April 26, 2012
7:00 p.m. CT
Campus Town Hall Meeting w/ Ron Paul
University of Texas at Austin
LBJ Library Lawn
2313 Red River Street
Austin, TX 78705
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
Friday, April 27, 2012
7:00 p.m. CT
Campus Town Hall Meeting w/ Ron Paul
University of Houston
Hofheinz Pavilion
3466 Cullen Boulevard
Houston, TX 77204
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
  