
    SANTA FE, NM- New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson has a successful first quarter, proving the strength, efficiency, and healthy grassroots and Internet support for his Presidential candidacy. The campaign today filed its first quarter financial report with the Federal Election Commission (FEC), showing Governor Richardson raised more than $6.2 million, with more than $5 million cash on hand as of March 31, a retention rate of over 80%.
The FEC reports shows Governor Richardson received significant grassroots support- nearly 14,000 individuals contributed to the Governor's campaign, with almost 9,000 of those making a contribution of $100 or less. Nearly 18% of the contributions to the campaign came from the Internet, a total of approximately $1.1 million.
"The report clearly shows Governor Bill Richardson is a strong, viable candidate with broad and growing support," said Amanda Cooper, Deputy Campaign Manager for the Richardson campaign. "It's important to note that the Governor didn't begin raising money until late January, and took in a significant amount of funds despite devoting much of his time to the successful 60-day New Mexico legislative session. The campaign is on goal, on budget, and building momentum. Bill Richardson is a tireless campaigner and a proven, battle-tested fundraiser, and we feel very good about where we are."
Ms. Cooper noted that of the nearly 15,000 total contributions to the campaign, just over 1,500 were maximum individual contributions (the $2,300 federal limit). "That means the majority of our supporters- well over 80% - can give more as the campaign moves forward," added Cooper.
The Richardson campaign reported debt of less than $20,000 and received $6,400 in general election contributions.
In addition to more than 30% of the contributions coming from grassroots sources, Governor Richardson also received support from a number of prominent individuals from the business, government, and entertainment communities: Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell, US Representative Tom Udall, US Senator Jeff Bingaman, former Clinton White House official Mickey Ibarra, motion picture producer Jerry Weintraub, actor Michael Douglas, singer/songwriter Randy Travis, attorney Norm Brownstein, developer Al Ratner, former Texas Governor Mark White, actor/director Rob Reiner, author Judy Blume, software developer and gay rights activist Tim Gill, labor attorney Ken Jarin, management and technology consultant Gila Bronner, government affairs consultant Darius Anderson, actor Val Kilmer, New Mexico Lieutenant Governor Diane Denish, former college and NFL coach Barry Switzer, and racing legend Al Unser.
  