
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Lieutenant General Claudius "Bud" Elmer Watts III and Brigadier General Thomas R. Mikolajcik will serve as Chairmen of South Carolina Veterans for Romney, a coalition of veterans who will work to expand Governor Romney's base of support in the Palmetto State.
"Generals Watts and Mikolajcik served America with great distinction, and I am honored to have them as part of my South Carolina team," said Governor Romney. "Together, we recognize that our nation is confronting a new generation of global challenges, and we need to invest more in our military and expand our Armed Forces. At the same time, we must always remain steadfast in our commitment to those who have been willing to sacrifice for this great country."
With today's announcement, Lieutenant General Watts said, "Governor Romney understands the nature of the threats facing our nation and will make sure that our men and women in uniform have the very best training and technology to get the job done."
Joining General Watts, Brigadier General Mikolajcik said, "Governor Romney's record on veterans' issues is very strong. He firmly believes that the commitment to our troops doesn't end when their service is finished and that we must take care of those who have sacrificed to protect us. I look forward to telling my fellow veterans in South Carolina of his plans to keep America secure."
Background On South Carolina Veterans For Romney Chairmen:
Lieutenant General Claudius "Bud" Elmer Watts III Served As Comptroller Of The U.S. Air Force And President Of The Citadel. General Watts' Air Force career spanned 31 years during which he served in numerous flying positions, amassing more than 7,000 flying hours and commanding various units up to wing level. He also held numerous staff positions, culminating as Comptroller of the United States Air Force in 1986. General Watts was named the 17th President of The Citadel in 1989 and served in that position until his retirement in 1996.
Brigadier General Thomas R. Mikolajcik Is An Air Force Academy Graduate With 27 Years Of Military Service. General Mikolajcik served in the Air Force as a pilot, staff officer and held numerous command positions. He retired in 1996 as United States Air Force Director of Transportation and is a consultant in logistics and transportation. The General is an adviser to the Metro Chambers Military Relations Policy Council and was awarded the South Carolina Order of the Palmetto in 1994.
  