
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Governor Mitt Romney today announced the names of the latest Florida Gulf Coast officials who are endorsing his candidacy for President of the United States. These leaders include St. Petersburg Councilman Bill Foster, Clearwater Mayor Frank Hibbard, Pasco County Commissioner Ann Hildebrand and Hernando County Commissioner David Russell, Jr.
"I am pleased to welcome these four respected leaders to our team in Florida. With their tremendous records of service in their communities, Bill, Frank, Ann and Dave bring a wealth of experience and commitment to our efforts, especially in this critical region," said Governor Romney. "As we continue to share our agenda for innovation and transformation with voters across the country, I look forward to continuing to aggressively campaign in this state, where we are building a solid foundation for success."
These leaders join a large and growing state organization that includes an accomplished Florida Steering Committee and a Florida Finance Team comprised of nearly 80 business and community leaders from across the state. The Florida Steering Committee is chaired by former Lieutenant Governor Toni Jennings, former Speakers of the House Allan Bense and John Thrasher, former Chairman of the Republican Party of Florida Al Cardenas and U.S. Congressman Tom Feeney. Fellow west central Florida leader St. Petersburg Mayor Rick Baker also serves as a Florida Co-Chair.
Background On West Central Florida Leaders:
City Councilman Bill Foster Has Served District 3 Of St. Petersburg Since 1998. Foster currently chairs the Budget Taxation and Finance Committee as well as the Investment Oversight Committee. Foster is a fourth generation St. Petersburg native and an 18-year partner with the law firm of Foster & Foster, specializing in probate, estates, trusts and real estate. His community involvement includes the Sunken Gardens and Downtown Development Task Forces. Foster is a graduate of Samford University and Cumberland Law School, Samford University.
Mayor Frank Hibbard Was Elected Mayor Of Clearwater In 2005. Hibbard previously served on the Clearwater City Council from 2002-2005. Hibbard is a graduate of Florida State University with B.S. degrees in Business and Economics, as well as an M.B.A. He has served as the Volunteer Executive to the United Way of Pinellas County and the Board of Corporate Partners at H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, as well as a Board Member of the Jim Moran Institute of Entrepreneurial Study, Florida State College of Business. A graduate of the class of 2000 Leadership Pinellas, Mayor Hibbard is presently a member of the Leadership Florida class of 2007. He is the City's representative on the Clearwater Marine Aquarium Foundation, Secretary of the Pinellas County Metropolitan Planning Organization, President of the Mayor's Council of Pinellas County and a member of the Board of Directors of the Florida League of Mayors.
Commissioner Ann Hildebrand Has Served On The Pasco County Commission For The Past 22 Years. Hildebrand was first elected in 1984 and was recently re-elected for the 6th time in 2004. She currently is serving her fifth term as Chair of the Commission. Hildebrand has held several political appointments, both at the regional and local levels, including past-Chair and current board member of Tampa Bay Water, past-Chair of the Pasco County Expressway Authority, past-Chair of the Tourist Development Council and past-Chair of the Metropolitan Planning Organization. Hildebrand's community involvement includes founder and President of the Good Samaritan Clinic, current Chairman of United Way Campaign 2007, board member of the United Way of Pasco County, board member of Morton Plant-North Bay Hospital and past board member of the American Red Cross-Tampa Bay Chapter. Hildebrand is a graduate of Michigan State University, and is a former social worker.
County Commissioner David Russell, Jr. Was Elected To The Hernando County Commission In 2006. Russell served parts of Hernando, Sumter and Pasco counties in the Florida House of Representatives as the Representative from District 44 from 1998-2006. During that time, he served as Chair of the House Transportation Committee and the House Infrastructure Council. Russell is also the current Chairman of the Hernando County Metropolitan Planning Organization.
  