
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288 - 6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced seven members of his New Hampshire Statewide Finance Committee. These New Hampshire community and business leaders will help Governor Romney expand his base of support in the state and raise the resources needed to be competitive throughout the election process.
"New Hampshire has the distinction of being first in the nation for their primary, and this is a first rate team to go along with that designation. I am grateful to have these leaders on my team as I discuss how to address a new generation of challenges and keep our county strong," said Governor Romney.
With today's announcement, State Chair Bruce Keough said, "This outstanding group of New Hampshire leaders will help deliver the support needed to make New Hampshire Romney country. We've already seen the results of their hard work. Combined with Governor Romney's optimistic vision for the future, they raised more money from New Hampshire residents than all other candidates in the first quarter. Together, our team will continue to work to make sure Governor Romney has the resources he needs to bring real change to Washington."
Background On Governor Romney's New Hampshire Statewide Finance Committee Co-Chairs:
Jackie Eastwood (Durham) is the Founder and CEO of TissueLink Medical Inc. in Dover, NH. Now retired, she provided executive leadership for 30 years from the start up and led multi-national medical device companies. She was the Ernst and Young Entrepreneur of the Year 2004 for New England and finalist for NH High Tech Council Entrepreneur of the Year 2006.
Gary Levy (Portsmouth) is a Portsmouth businessman and Newmarket resident. He has served on the Governor's Efficiency Committee and holds a seat on the Pease Development Authority Board.
Background On Governor Romney's New Hampshire Statewide Finance Committee Members:
Karl Norwood (Amherst) is President of NAI Norwood Group. He is the past chairman of the State Republican Finance Committee. He also serves on the Elliot Hospital Board of Trustees and is a Director of Amoskeag Industries.
Rob Prunier (Hollis) is a Principal of a commercial construction business and has been politically involved in New Hampshire for many years. He also serves as Director of Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Nashua, on the Committee at St. Joseph Hospital and at Bishop Guertin High School. He is a member of the Nashua Rotary West and lives in New Hampshire with his wife and four children.
Michael Kane (Newcastle) is a Principal of The Kane Company, the seacoast region's leading commercial real estate brokerage services company founded in 1981. He began working on political campaigns when he helped with Ronald Reagan's primary bid. Kane has worked on behalf of many campaigns including Steve Forbes and Senator John Sununu.
David Vicinanzo (Concord) is a Partner with Nixon Peabody LLP, a national law firm with an office in Manchester. A long-time federal prosecutor, he was formerly the first Assistant U.S. Attorney for New Hampshire. Vicinanzo, his wife Mary and their children live in Concord.
Robert A. Cruess (Amherst) is President and CEO of TFMoran Inc., an engineering firm in Bedford, NH. He serves on numerous boards and committees, including the NH Board of Professional Engineers, a director of Hampshire First Bank, and is a commissioner of New England Interstate Water Pollution Control Commission. In 2006, The Greater Manchester Chamber of Commerce named Cruess "Small Business Person of the Year."
  