
    President's Visit to Chile
Q. Do you like Chile?
The President. Very much.
Q. Did you eat something special inside? Did you eat something special?
The President. No, no. I just had lunch, so I just had a Coke. And I was visiting with the people. It was very nice.
Q. Are you tired from all this week, these 2 days here in our country? Are you tired?
The President. Tired?
Q. Yes.
The President. A little, but I'm going to go back and get a little nap, and then I'll be fine tonight.
Q. [Inaudible]—Kenneth Starr's going to keep investigating you, and Paula Jones says she's going to appeal——
The President. [Inaudible]—I've had a great time.
Paula Jones Civil Lawsuit
Q. What do you think about Paula Jones appealing, Mr. President? Are you disappointed that she's appealing?
The President. Oh, I don't have an opinion about it. You know, I don't have any comment about it. My comment is, I spent my day today with people who are interested in human problems and human promise and not so interested in politics. And I don't think I ought to be commenting on politics while I'm here. I feel good about what happened before, and I feel good about where we are, and mostly I feel good about the job I'm doing here for the American people in Chile. And that's what I'm interested in. I don't really have any comment on anything that they do.
Q. Will things dragging on hamper that, sir?
The President. No. No. I'm going to—you know, I'm going to do my job. And I'm not— it's an unusual political environment, but I'm just not going to let the politics get into my way. I haven't done it for 4 years; I'm not going to start now.
Independent Counsel's Investigation
Q. Do you think Ken Starr should wrap things up?
The President. I don't have any comment on that, either. I just don't—I shouldn't be commenting on domestic politics while I'm overseas. I'm here doing my job, and I'm thrilled by the people I've met and what I've seen, the reception I've received on behalf of the United States. And we're here to do important work, and that's what I'm going to do.
  