
    Today, more than 80 scientists signed onto a letter endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States ahead of the 50th anniversary of Earth Day.
The letter includes some of the most prominent scientists and public health experts in the country, including:

Five Nobel Laureates or National Medal of Science winners;
Several MacArthur Genius Grant Award Winners;
More than 20 members of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine;
Six current or former deans of leading science or public health schools;
Former government science advisors, including a former Senior Advisor the President for Science and Technology, and a former Director of the National Institutes of Health;
A former president of the National Academy of Sciences; and
Five former U.S. State Department Science Envoys.

In their letter, the scientists highlighted Biden's lifelong commitment to listening to science, experts, and facts and praised his bold plan to tackle climate change while also criticizing Donald Trump for suppressing and silencing science and failing to act on climate change.
"Now more than ever, the United States needs a President who trusts and respects scientists and will confront the climate crisis head on, rather than leave our children and grandchildren to suffer its consequences. On Earth Day, we speak with one voice: we must elect Joe Biden the next president of the United States—for all our sakes," the scientists wrote.
Below is the full letter and names of the scientists who signed on:
April 21, 2020
The undersigned include Nobel Laureates; senior leaders in academia; lead authors of reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC); public health experts; members of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine; and science advisors to multiple administrations of both parties. We have made it our life's work to advance the frontiers of scientific knowledge, including informing society about the grave risks posed by climate change and other health and environmental threats.
We are writing the week of the 50th Anniversary of Earth Day to endorse Joe Biden for President. Vice President Biden has long trusted the scientific consensus on climate change and for more than thirty years has advanced policies to support scientific research and slow climate change. As a U.S. senator, he introduced one of the first climate change bills in 1986, promoted policies to curtail carbon emissions as a Senator and through the Obama-Biden administration, and has committed to meet the climate challenge with ambitious policies and urgent action as President. We are confident that, unlike President Trump, Joe Biden will respect, collaborate with, and listen to leaders in the scientific community and public health experts to confront the existential climate crisis and other environmental threats.
Around the world, scientists overwhelmingly agree that greenhouse gas emissions are changing the climate by warming global temperatures, raising sea levels, acidifying the oceans, and intensifying droughts, wildfires, and severe storms. President Trump's own administration released a national climate assessment—with contributions from 300 scientists, including many of us—warning that climate change could cost America hundreds of billions of dollars per year by the end of the century.
Regrettably, President Trump's response to that report was: "I don't believe it." Worse, Trump has repeatedly suppressed science and silenced scientists. His administration has scrubbed federal websites of references to climate change and forced researchers to truncate forecasts from scientific models investigating the dire consequences of climate change. He has barred widely respected scientists from sitting on the Environmental Protection Agency's scientific advisory board; sought to block the use of relevant scientific research in making federal regulations; and even defunded critical research about how high levels of pollution impact the healthy development of children.
We believe it is our solemn responsibility to inform our fellow citizens about the dangers of climate change and about the actionable pathways to slow it. But time is running out: global emissions must fall sharply by 2030 and swiftly reach a net-zero level thereafter to avert a climate catastrophe. Without leadership, strong policy, global cooperation, and technological innovation, the world will not be able to rein in runaway greenhouse gas emissions in time. Vice President Biden's plan to address climate change leads with science and facts and pledges U.S. leadership on climate action. By contrast, President Trump abandoned the Paris Climate Agreement abroad and has refused to follow the science as he dismantles nearly one hundred environmental rules and regulations at home.
Now more than ever, the United States needs a President who trusts and respects scientists and will confront the climate crisis head on, rather than leave our children and grandchildren to suffer its consequences. On Earth Day, we speak with one voice: we must elect Joe Biden the next president of the United States—for all our sakes.
The below experts are co-signing in their personal capacity and not on behalf of institutions or organizations with which they may be professionally affiliated.
Signed,
Andreas Acrivos, Ph.D.Bruce Alberts, Ph.D.Bernard Amadei, Ph.D.John Balmes, M.D.Bonnie. L. Bassler, Ph.D.James M. Berger, Ph.D.Indy Burke, Ph. D.Donald D. Brown, M.D.John Carlson, Ph.D.Christine K. Cassel, M.D.Kim Cobb, Ph.D.Dan Costa, Ph.D.Yi Cui, Ph.D.John O. Dabiri, Ph.D.Gretchen C. Daily, Ph.D.Ruth DeFries, Ph.D.Pete DeMenocal, Ph.D.Abby F. Dernburg, Ph.D.Tammy Dickinson, Ph.D.David Drubin, Ph.D.Andrea Dutton, Ph.D.Anne EhrlichPaul R. Ehrlich, Ph.D.Michael B. Eisen, Ph.D.L. W. Enquist, Ph.D.Steve Fetter, Ph.D.Linda Fried, M.D.Joseph Gall, Ph.D.Lisa Goddard, Ph.D.Carol W. Greider, Ph.D.Taekjip Ha, Ph.D.Zeke Hausfather, Ph.D.John Holdren, Ph.D.Kathy Jacobs, M.L.A.Richard J. Jackson, M.D./M.P.H.Jon JarvisDaniel Kammen, Ph.D.Patrick L. Kinney, Ph.D.Bob Kopp, Ph.D.Se-Jin Lee, M.D./Ph.D.Arthur L. Lerner-Lam, Ph.D.Michael Lu, M.D./M.S./M.P.H.Jane Lubchenco, Ph.D.Amy Luers, Ph.D.Katharine Mach, Ph.D.Arunava Majumdar, Ph.D.Michael E. Mann, Ph.D.Barbara Meyer, Ph.D.Jerry L. Miller, Ph.D.Joshua W. Modell, Ph.D.Jeremy Nathans, M.D./Ph.D.Franklin M. Orr, Jr., Ph.D.A.-H. Alissa Park, Ph.D.Gregory A. Petsko, D.Phil.William H. Press, Ph.D.Sonny Ramaswamy, Ph.DIrwin Redlener, M.D.Jasper Rine, Ph.D.Donald Rio, Ph.D.Andrew A. Rosenberg, Ph.DLinda Rudolph, M.D/M.P.HBarbara Schaal, Ph.D.Randy Schekman, Ph.DJeffrey Shaman, Ph.D.Drew T. Shindell, Ph.D.Thomas J. Silhavy, Ph.D.Bob Simon, Ph.D.Varun Sivaram, Ph.D.Jason E. Smerdon, Ph.D.Kirk Smith, Ph.DAdam H. Sobel, Ph.D.Sean Solomon, Ph.D.Alfred Sommer, M.D.Richard W. (Rick) Spinrad, Ph.D.Dan Steingart, Ph.D.Susan Strome, Ph.D.Karel Svoboda, Ph.D.Fyodor D. Urnov, Ph.D.Harold Varmus, M.D.Adm. Jon White (Ret.)Robert H. Wurtz, Ph.D.King-Wai Yau, Ph.D.
  