
    Pool Reports by Daniel Bush, Newsweek 



Sent:
Reports:




April 24, 2023 09:47

In-town pool report #1 -- brunch lid
Good morning on a brisk, sunny day in Washington. The White House has called a brunch lid until 12:45 p.m.
The president's schedule is below. Reach out with any questions.
9:30 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing  Closed Press
10:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
12:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE VICE PRESIDENT have lunch President's Private Dining Room Closed Press
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT, THE FIRST LADY, and the Secretary of Education honor the Council of Chief State School Officers' 2023 Teachers of the Year Rose Garden Open Press (Preset 12:15 PM, Gather 1:45 PM — Palm Room Doors) [RSVP here by 6:00 AM]
3:15 PM THE PRESIDENT meets with Tennessee State Representatives Justin Jones, Justin Pearson, and Gloria Johnson Oval Office In-House Pool Spray (Gather 3:05 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room) 
Briefing Schedule
1:15 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan


April 24, 2023 13:17

In-town pool report #2 -- two-minute warning for briefing
Two-minute warning for the press briefing.


April 24, 2023 13:20

In-town pool report #3 -- briefing underway
The briefing, with an appearance by National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, began at 1:19 p.m.


April 24, 2023 14:05

in-town pool report #4 — 2 min warning for Rose Garden event
Two-minute warning. 


April 24, 2023 14:08

In-town pool report #5 — event underway
President Biden walked out to the Rose Garden at 2:05 p.m., accompanied by First Lady Jill Biden and Education Secretary Cardona.
The event is being live-streamed by the White House. 


April 24, 2023 14:18

In-town pool report #6 — background on teachers event
Background from the White House:
The President, the First Lady, and Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona are honoring the Council of Chief State School Officers' 2023 Teachers of the Year in the Rose Garden. Teachers from states and territories across the United States are being honored for their excellence in teaching and commitment to students' learning.
Speaking program Secretary Miguel Cardona Department of Education The First Lady Rebecka Peterson, 2023 National Teacher of the Year The President
As a classroom teacher for more than 30 years, the First Lady continues to shine a spotlight on teachers and the profession. Dr. Biden is proud to continue the White House tradition of hosting the Council of Chief State School Officers' National and State Teachers of the Year.
As the she did in 2021 and 2022, the First Lady will give each teacher a brass bell in honor of her grandmother, who was also a teacher, and who used to call her students to class with a big brass bell.
Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO)
The Council of Chief State School Officers runs the National Teacher of the Year Program. Since 1952, the program has engaged and recognized exceptional educators across the country, amplifying their voices, and empowering them to participate in policy discussions at the state and national levels.
Background on the 2023 National Teacher of the Year, Rebecka Peterson
Rebecka Peterson is a mathematics teacher at Union High School in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Peterson says her students bring out the best version of her, and she hopes she does the same. She helps administer the blog "One Good Thing," in which she posts something good from her classroom every day. She has contributed 1,400 posts to the blog, inspiring her students to reflect on hope and joy in their own journals.
This year, she has broadened the scope of "One Good Thing" as she is visiting teachers in all 77 Oklahoma counties in her role as Oklahoma Teacher of the Year. She shares about Oklahoma educators' stories of hope, tenacity and creativity on the "Teachers of Oklahoma" social media pages. At the forefront of her education philosophy is listening to stories.
A proud immigrant of Swedish-Iranian descent, Peterson is passionate about making mathematics engaging, relevant and accessible to all, no matter their background.
Peterson was recently named one of six state-level finalists for the Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching. This is Peterson's 14th year in education and her 11th at Union High School. She earned a Bachelor of Science in mathematics from Oklahoma Wesleyan University and a Master of Arts in mathematics at the University of South Dakota.
In attendance for the President, First Lady, and Secretary of Education's remarks on the 2023 Teachers of the Year in the Rose Garden:
Reggie LeDon White, Alabama Teacher of the Year Harlee Harvey, Alaska Teacher of the Year & 2023 National Teacher of the Year Finalist Konelio Cornelius Sagiao Alofaituli, American Samoa Teacher of the Year Ty White, Arizona Teacher of the Year  Capri Bell Salaam, Arkansas Teacher of the Year  Jason Torres-Rangel, California Teacher of the Year  Jimmy Day II, Colorado Teacher of the Year  Carolyn Kielma, Connecticut Teacher of the Year & 2023 National Teacher of the Year Finalist Ashley Lockwood, Delaware Teacher of the Year  Cara Kaiser, Department of Defense Education Activity Teacher of the Year Jermar Rountree, District of Columbia Teacher of the Year & 2023 National Teacher of the Year Finalist Melissa Matz, Florida Teacher of the Year  Michael Kobito, Georgia Teacher of the Year  Stephane Camacho Concepcion, Guam Teacher of the Year  Michael Ida, Hawaii Teacher of the Year  Karen Lauritzen, Idaho Teacher of the Year  Kimberly Radostits, Illinois Teacher of the Year 2023 & National Teacher of the Year Finalist Tara Cocanower, Indiana Teacher of the Year  Krystal Colbert, Iowa Teacher of the Year  Brian Skinner, Kansas Teacher of the Year  Mandy Perez, Kentucky Teacher of the Year  Brittany Bonnaffons, Louisiana Teacher of the Year  Matt Bernstein, Maine Teacher of the Year  Berol Dewdney, Maryland Teacher of the Year  Danielle Charbonneau, Massachusetts Teacher of the Year  Nanette Hanson, Michigan Teacher of the Year  Sarah Lancaster, Minnesota Teacher of the Year  Skye Morgan, Mississippi Teacher of the Year  Christina Andrade Melly, Missouri Teacher of the Year  Catherine Matthews, Montana Teacher of the Year  Renee Jones, Nebraska Teacher of the Year  Connie L. Hall, Nevada Teacher of the Year  Christine Girtain, New Jersey Teacher of the Year  Tara Hughes, New Mexico Teacher of the Year  Billy Green, New York Teacher of the Year  Leah Carper, North Carolina Teacher of the Year  Ivona Todorovic, North Dakota Teacher of the Year  Donovan Tudela, Northern Mariana Islands Teacher of the Year Melissa Kmetz, Ohio Teacher of the Year Rebecka Peterson, Oklahoma Teacher of the Year & 2023 National Teacher of the Year Winner Rosa Floyd, Oregon Teacher of the Year Elizabeth Raff, Pennsylvania Teacher of the Year Lisa D. Leaheey, Rhode Island Teacher of the Year Deion Jamison, South Carolina Teacher of the Year Alyssa Cassels, South Dakota Teacher of the Year Melissa Collins, Tennessee Teacher of the Year Shelley Jeoffroy, Texas Teacher of the Year Chad Warnick, Utah Teacher of the Year Robyn Newton, Vermont Teacher of the Year Fabiana Parker, Virginia Teacher of the Year Dana Miles, Washington Teacher of the Year Amber Nichols, West Virginia Teacher of the Year Lori Danz, Wisconsin Teacher of the Year Zach Beam, Wyoming Teacher of the Year 


April 24, 2023 14:45

In-town pool report #7 — remarks over
President Biden finished his remarks at 2:39 p.m. He chatted with attendees and then began walking back to the Oval Office.
Biden stopped to answer shouted questions from the press. It was very difficult for your pooler, and everyone else, to hear over music from the Marine Band.
In response to a question about 2024, Biden appeared to say:
"I told you I'm planning on running. You'll know real soon."
Please check against the transcript, if it captures this exchange. 


April 24, 2023 14:55

In-town pool report #8 — POTUS quote update
After huddling with colleagues to review the tape, the consensus is that President Biden said the following, in response to a question on his re-election plans:
"I told you I'm planning on running. I'll let you know real soon."
Check against the TV pool feeds coming soon. 


April 24, 2023 15:22

In-town pool report #9 —for Oval Office spray
The pool is gathering now. 


April 24, 2023 15:47

In-town pool report #10 — Oval Office remarks
The pool was ushered into the Oval Office at 3:40 p.m.
President Biden was seated beside Vice President Harris in front of the fireplace, with Tennessee State Representatives Justin Jones, Justin Pearson, and Gloria Johnson across from them on the couches.
"You're standing up for our kids, you're standing up for our communities," Biden told the Tennessee lawmakers at the top of the meeting.
"What the Republican legislature did was shocking, it was undemocratic," Biden added.
"We passed the most signifncant gun laws" in decades, Biden said, "but there's more to do."
The pool was then asked to leave the Oval Office. Biden responded to one question about his 2024 plans, saying only, "Stay tuned."
Pool left the Oval Office at 3:43 p.m. 


April 24, 2023 17:07

In-town pool report #11 -- Tenn. lawmakers heading to sticks
The three Tennessee lawmakers who met with President Biden and VP Harris this afternoon are heading to the sticks now.


April 24, 2023 17:42

In-town pool report #12 — Stakeout remarks
The Tennessee state lawmakers came to the stakeout location at 5:14 p.m., following their meeting with President Biden and VP Harris.
State Reps. Justin Jones and Justin Pearson were expelled from the Tennessee state legislature earlier this month for protests over gun violence after a mass shooting in Nashville, Tenn. They were later reinstated. State Rep. Gloria Johnson narrowly avoided being expelled.
Pearson said the meeting with POTUS and the VP focused on "the need to have more gun violence prevention " at the federal and state level.
"It is a moral issue. It is about our children and our schools and not turning [schools] into a war zone."
Johnson said they discussed red flag and safe storage laws, an assault weapons ban and strengthening background checks, among other gun control measures.
"There's such incredible interest in getting something done. In action," Johnson said.
When asked the state lawmakers did not say what additional specific actions, if any, Biden discussed taking at the national level.
"We talked about how Tennessee can be a model for the nation," Jones said. "This is not a moment it is a movement."
The lawmakers left the sticks at 5:37 p.m. Check transcript for quotes/additional comments. 


April 24, 2023 17:47

In-town pool report note -- stakeout otter link
Here's a link, with a thanks to Raquel Krähenbühl.
https://otter.ai/u/xvxz7GOCQ1GzUKrvOC5-8yaM6tM?f=%2Fshared-notes&tab=summary


April 24, 202317:53

In-town pool report # 13 -- lid
The White House called a lid. Have a good evening.



  