
    On March 1, 1979, I forwarded to the Congress the Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan and three mandatory Conservation Contingency Plans. Submission of these plans had been urged by both Houses of Congress as necessary if the United States is to be prepared for supply interruptions. Now congressional approval of these plans is crucial if the Nation is to have the standby capability to respond to energy shortfalls. That essential congressional approval is in doubt.
Should serious supply interruptions occur, America's arsenal of available measures must include contingency plans to ration gasoline and to mandate conservation by the American public. If these standby plans are not passed by the Congress, the public could rightly ask why their Government was not prepared for an emergency, particularly after the warning given by the Iranian supply curtailment.
Yesterday, the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee voted to forward the Emergency Building Temperature Restrictions Conservation Plan to the House of Representatives with a favorable recommendation. However, the committee voted not to forward the Emergency Gasoline Sales Restrictions Plan, even though this plan would only be implemented if a State failed to develop its own plan for conserving gasoline. There is, however, still the opportunity for Congress to approve the latter plan. Failure to pass this plan would raise serious questions about the seriousness of Congress in dealing with our energy problem.
In the Senate, the Energy Committee has already voted against a plan to restrict unnecessary outdoor lighting in a time of severe energy shortages. The House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce will vote today on the Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan.
My authority to put this plan into a state of readiness is essential to the energy security of our Nation. Although the petroleum shortfall we are now experiencing does not warrant implementation of a rationing plan, prudence and common sense demand that we must be prepared should other disruptions seriously deepen current shortfalls and create a situation of true national crisis.
We must demonstrate to the American public and the world that this country can be prepared and ready for emergencies rising from oil supply interruptions. Failure to do so will demonstrate a weakness of resolve that is simply unacceptable in current circumstances. I hope that the Congress will live up to its responsibility to the American people.
  