
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Michigan State Representative Fulton Sheen will serve as Chairman of the Romney for President "Council on Families" for Michigan. Representative Sheen will lead efforts to organize supporters who share Governor Romney's pro-life, pro-family conservative vision.
"Representative Sheen has an impeccable record of service with regard to advancing the pro-family cause in Michigan. He has already been enormously helpful to me in raising issues of significance for Michigan families," said Governor Romney. "I am pleased to have him play such a critical role in my effort."
With today's announcement, Representative Sheen said, "Over the last year, Governor Romney has demonstrated to me that he will be a President who leads on the issues I care most about. His aggressive defense of traditional marriage and his commitment to protecting human life are just two of the reasons I believe in him. He also has a firm grasp of the major issues confronting our nation, including a commitment to stop overspending, to aggressively confront violent Jihadists and to compete – and win – in the world economy."
Background On Representative Fulton Sheen:
Representative Fulton Sheen Represents Allegan County In The Michigan House Of Representatives. He serves on the Tax Policy Committee and is minority vice-chair of the Families and Children's Services Committee. He currently is a member of the National Council of Insurance Legislators (NCOIL). He is chair of the Financial Services Committee as well as on the Health, Life Insurance, State and Federal Relations and Executive committees. Representative Sheen is also a member of the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) and serves on their Tax and Fiscal Committee.
Representative Sheen is very involved in Christian ministry and heads a faith-based disaster relief group called Isaiah 58:12. He and his wife also mentor young people in his daughter's Zion Colony Christian Outreach Ministry.
  