
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key administration post:
•      William J. Boarman, Public Printer of the United States
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint Michael Marshall to be the Alternate Federal Co-Chair for the Delta Regional Authority. His bio is below.
President Obama said, "Bill and Mike bring with them a depth of experience, and I am confident they will serve ably in their new roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key administration post:
William J. Boarman, Nominee for Public Printer of the United States
William J. Boarman is President of the Printing, Publishing & Media Workers Sector of the Communications Workers of America (CWA), and the Senior Vice President of CWA. Mr. Boarman has been associated with the printing industry, its labor relations and personnel management for over 40 years starting with his four-year apprenticeship at McArdle Printing in Washington, D.C., succeeding to Journeyman Printer (Practical Printer by Trade) in 1971. In 1974 Mr. Boarman accepted an appointment as Printer to GPO. In 1977, Mr. Boarman took a leave of absence from GPO to serve in various elected posts within the International Typographical Union, which merged with CWA in 1987. He is chairman of the CWA/ITU Negotiated Pension Plan, a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan with assets of $1 billion; President of the International Allied Printing Trades Association; and President of the Union Printers Home, a 122-bed skilled nursing facility in Colorado Springs, CO. Mr. Boarman served three terms as co-chair of the Council of Institutional Investors (CII) and as the first-ever public member of the Maryland Commission on Judicial Disabilities.
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key administration post:
Michael Marshall, Appointee for Alternate Federal Co-Chair, Delta Regional Authority
Mike Marshall is a farm manager and past President of First State Bank & Trust of Sikeston, Missouri with 30 years in the banking industry. For thirteen years, he served as a Commissioner on the Southeast Missouri Regional Port Authority where he was involved in a cooperative effort with federal, state, and the private sectors to increase the import-export volume to over 1 million tons per year. Mr. Marshall has worked on specific infrastructure projects such as the Sikeston Northern Interchange Project and the Tri-state Mississippi River Bridge Summit which includes Southeast Missouri, Southern Illinois, and Western Kentucky. In 2003, Marshall was elected as Mayor of Sikeston, and during his term he established a Land Clearance and Redevelopment Authority. He also served as President of the Sikeston Chamber of Commerce.
  