
    "President Obama may be back in Florida to talk about trade, but Floridians — like all Americans — still have one simple question: Where are the jobs? Given Florida's 9.4% unemployment rate, it's a question the President would rather not answer. Americans need a president who understands the importance of free trade and economic growth — not more excuses and broken promises from President Obama." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Today, President Obama's Magical Misery Tour Will Make Another Stop In Florida — This Time To Discuss The Economy And Trade:
Today, President Obama Will Return To Florida To Discuss The Economy And Trade. "President Barack Obama will return to Florida on Friday for the second time in four days, this time at the Port of Tampa to announce initiatives to promote trade with Latin America on his way to the Summit of the Americas in Colombia." (Bill Varian, "Obama To Announce Trade Initiatives At Port Of Tampa Visit," Tampa Bay Times, 4/11/12)
"It Will Mark The Third Time This Week That An Obama Stops In Florida." (Bill Varian, "Obama To Announce Trade Initiatives At Port Of Tampa Visit," Tampa Bay Times, 4/11/12)
No Matter How Many Stops The Magical Misery Tour Makes In Florida, It Won't Change Things For Struggling Florida Families:
Gas Prices In Florida Have More Than Doubled During President Obama's Time In Office, Increasing From $1.86 Per Gallon In January 2009 To $3.96 Per Gallon Today. (AAA Daily Fuel Gauge Report, www.aaa.com, Accessed 4/12/12)
Under President Obama, Florida's Unemployment Rate Has Increased From 8.7% In January 2009 To 9.4% In February 2012. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics Website, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/9/12)


    Tampa's Unemployment Rate Is Currently 9.8%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics Website, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/12/12)
  

Florida Had The Seventh-Highest Foreclosure Rate In The Nation In 2011. "Likewise, Florida had the seventh-highest foreclosure rate in 2011, with 2.06 percent, according to RealtyTrac." (Danielle Kurtzleben, "Obama Faces Challenge In A Battered Florida," U.S. News, 1/24/12)
And While President Obama May Talk About Free Trade Today, He Spent Years Campaigning Against Trade And Delaying Existing Free Trade Agreements:
In The 2008 Democratic Primary, Candidate Obama Was "Harshly Critical Of NAFTA On The Campaign Trail." "It's true that Obama has been harshly critical of NAFTA on the campaign trail, citing shortfalls in its protections for workers and the environment. He has used words like ‘devastating' and ‘a big mistake' to describe the agreement." (Alexander Lane, "Obama's Been Critical Of NAFTA," Politifact.com, 10/15/08)
President Obama Delayed Sending Three Of President Bush's Free-Trade Agreements To Congress For Nearly Three Years. "President Obama says he wants to get the U.S. economy growing, so here's a tip that may help: In order for Congress to ratify free-trade agreements, the White House must first send the signed deals to the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. We don't want to pick on poor Mr. Earnest, who is no doubt doing his best, but it's worth noting that all three of these trade deals were signed three or more years ago, before Mr. Obama became President. If he wants them passed, stop the kvetching and send them to Congress." (Editorial, "The Biggest Trade Barrier," The Wall Street Journal, 8/20/11)


    The Delay Even Surprised A White House Official In 2011: "We Have Not Sent Them Over?" "If you are surprised to learn this, you are not alone. White House deputy press secretary Josh Earnest only learned the news on Friday during a press conference. Asked why the FTAs haven't been sent, he responded, ‘We have not sent them over?'" (Editorial, "The Biggest Trade Barrier," The Wall Street Journal, 8/20/11)
  

President Obama Also Has Failed To Address China's Currency Manipulation, Which Contributes To Our Lingering Trade Deficit:
Under President Obama, The U.S. Trade Deficit With China Increased From $226.9 Billion In 2009 To $295.5 Billion In 2011. (U.S. Census Bureau Website, www.census.gov, Accessed 4/12/12)
President Obama Has Repeatedly Declined To Label China As A Currency Manipulator. "Romney, the front-runner in the Republican race to challenge President Barack Obama for the White House in November, has promised if elected he would quickly label China a currency manipulator, something the Obama administration has six times declined to do." (Doug Palmer, "Romney Would Squeeze China On Currency Manipulation-Adviser," Reuters, 3/27/12)
  