
    
  By the President of the United States Of America
  A Proclamation

Cancer is the second leading cause of death among Americans today. This year, 350,000 Americans will die of it. Striking at young and old, cancer is varied, insidious, and relentless.
In the past, we have learned to cope with and cure other, equally frightening illnesses. With years of research, we have virtually eliminated such plagues as diphtheria, cholera, smallpox and typhus in America. And we are going to conquer cancer. The struggle will be long, difficult and costly, and the victory may come by inches. But it will come.
Today, medical efforts against cancer, conceived and developed in our great research institutions, are going forward all over America.
The National Cancer Program, authorized by the National Cancer Act of 1971, provides twin ventures in cancer control and cancer research, as cancer control efforts translate the results of research into useful tools for the bedside physician and for the community effort in cancer prevention. There must be no slowdown in these efforts.
As a means of giving continued emphasis to the need for a broad, systematic attack on cancer, the Congress, by a joint resolution of March 28, 1938 (52 Stat. 148), requested the President to issue annually a proclamation setting aside the month of April as Cancer Control Month.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard M. Nixon, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of April, 1974, as Cancer Control Month, and I invite the Governors of the States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the appropriate officials of all other areas under the United States flag to issue similar proclamations.
To give new emphasis to this serious problem, and to encourage the determination of the American people to meet it, I also ask the medical and health professions, the communications industries, and all other interested persons and groups to unite during this appointed time in public reaffirmation of our Nation's strong commitment to control cancer.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-eighth.

RICHARD NIXON
April 3, 1974.

  