
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 20
In the morning, the President met with the other leaders of the P-8 Summit on Nuclear Safety and Security in St. Catherine Hall at the Kremlin, followed by a working luncheon with the P-8 leaders and President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine. In the afternoon, the President met again with P-8 leaders. Later in the afternoon, he met with Prime Minister John Major of the United Kingdom at the Kremlin.
April 21
In the morning, the President met with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia at the Kremlin. In the afternoon, he met with Russian political leaders at Spaso House, and then addressed the American community in Moscow at the U.S. Embassy. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
April 22
In the early afternoon, the President traveled to Great Falls, MD, where he assisted volunteers with the cleanup of the C&O Canal, which was damaged by flooding in January 1996. He then returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President and Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany will meet May 23 in Milwaukee, WI.
The President announced his intention to appoint Judith M. Gueron, Kristin Anderson Moore, Joan M. Reeves, and Gary J. Stangler to the Advisory Board on Welfare Indicators.
April 23
The President had a telephone conversation with President Juan Carlos Wasmosy of Paraguay to discuss the unrest there.
The President announced reforms of the U.S. intelligence community based on the recommendations of the Commission on the Roles and Capabilities of the U.S. Intelligence Community.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Lyon, France, June 27-29 to participate in the annual summit of industrialized nations.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes on April 18-19.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes on April 21-22.
April 24
In the afternoon, the President attended a Clinton-Gore '96 luncheon at the Jefferson Hotel.
April 25
The President announced his intention to appoint Harold Wishna to the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
April 26
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Wilmington, DE, where he attended the Senate Democratic Issues Conference at the Hotel DuPont. In the early evening, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA, where he attended a Democratic National Committee reception at the Franklin Institute and a Democratic dinner at City Hall. In the late evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Daniel Lamaute to the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
  