
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

In the course of America's existence, our citizens too often have been called upon to make the ultimate sacrifice for the cause of peace, freedom, and justice. From Bunker Hill to Beirut, these brave men and women have passed into the hands of our Creator so that we may enjoy the fruits of liberty. As Americans gather this Memorial Day to pay homage to their sacred memory and selfless commitment, we can offer no higher praise than that these patriots defended the high ideals bestowed upon this Nation by our Founding Fathers.
Today, as we commend their deeds, we also bear a heavy burden of responsibility to ensure that their sacrifice was not in vain by never wavering in our dedication and determination to maintain the peace, to safeguard human rights, and to protect the economic well-being of our Nation for future generations.
In honor and recognition of those Americans to whom we pay tribute today, the Congress, by joint resolution of May 11, 1950 (64 Stat. 158), has requested the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for permanent peace and designating a period on that day when the people of the United States might unite in prayer.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Memorial Day, May 28, 1984, as a day of prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each locality at 11 o'clock in the morning of that day as a time to unite in prayer. I urge the press, radio, television, and all other information media to cooperate in this observance.
I also request the Governors of the United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the appropriate officials of all units of government to direct that the flag be flown at half-staff during this Memorial Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the United States and in all areas under its jurisdiction and control, and I request the people of the United States to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the customary forenoon period.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 13th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.

RONALD REAGAN
  