
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

True patriotism requires more than civic pride; it also requires constant loyalty to the principles upon which our country was founded. On the 1st of May each year, we American observe "Loyalty Day" -- an occasion for reaffirming our allegiance to the United States and our devotion for reaffirming our allegiance ot the United States and our devotion to the ideals of liberty and self-government.
Loyalty Day reminds us that freedom and democratic government are principles worthy of our lasting fidelity. Noting that it was not only their right but also their duty to oppose depotism, our Nation's founders boldly declared America's freedom and independence. "For the support of this Declaration," they avowed, ". . . we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred Honor." Despite the great risks and sacrifices they would surely face, the Founders knew that securing the God-given rights and freedom of the American people warranted such a solemn promise.
Generations of Americans since then have expressed the same selfless devotion to the cause of freedom. Although they were cruelly tested by the horrors of war, our Nation's veterans -- and those servicemen and women who were killed in the line of duty -- demonstrated exceptional devotion to their country. Those who wear our Nation's uniform today, and all those public officials who honor their solemn pledge to uphold and defend our Constitution, also give loyal service to our Nation.
Loyalty Day gives all Americans an opportunity to reaffirm their allegiance to the United States. On this occasion, we rededicate ourselves to the ideal of liberty and justice for all -- a timeless ideal worthy of our abiding faith and fealty.
To foster loyalty and love of country, the Congress, by joint resolution approved July 18, 1958 (72 Stat. 369; 36 U.S.C. 162), has designated May 1 of each year as "Loyalty Day."
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 1989, as Loyalty Day, an I call upon all Americans and patriotic, civic, fraternal, and educational organizations to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies. I also call upon all Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings and grounds on that day.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  