
    (Charleston, WV) - The Clinton campaign today announced the formation of the West Virginia Veterans for Hillary Steering Committee. The committee includes retired military personnel and veterans who served during peacetime and in war, including World War II, Korea, Vietnam, the Persian Gulf, and Iraqi Freedom. Brigadier General Jack Yeager, Ret. will serve as the Steering Committee Chair.
"Hillary Clinton is a champion for veterans, soldiers, and military families. She is ready to be Commander-in-Chief on day one," said Brigadier General Jack Yeager, Ret. "The West Virginia Veterans for Hillary Steering Committee will be working in every corner of the state to mobilize support for Clinton. She has a strong record of achievement on issues affecting the military community and will be a staunch advocate for veterans in the White House."
Hillary has fought hard to improve the lives of veterans and military families. In the Senate, Clinton worked to gain access to TRICARE for National Guard and Reserve members. Hillary also fought to improve treatment for post traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury. The nearly 1,000 West Virginia citizens that join the armed forces each year, along with members of the Army and Air National Guard from the state, now receive regular health screenings to detect Traumatic Brain Injury, thanks to legislation Hillary introduced.
Clinton was instrumental in passing legislation that increased the military survivor benefit from $12,000 to $100,000. She also sponsored legislation to immediately end the prohibition on concurrent receipt that prevents many disabled veterans from receiving both military retirement pay and VA disability pay at the same time.
As President, Hillary will enact a GI Bill of Rights for the Twenty-First Century and will continue fighting to ensure that America keeps its promises to our men and women in uniform. Clinton will work to ensure that all of the 1.8 million uninsured veterans in this country have access to quality, affordable health care. As President, she will commit to getting a fair, accurate, and timely decision for every veteran filing a disability claim.
Veterans interested in becoming involved with the West Virginia Veterans for Hillary Steering Committee should e-mail WVeterans@hillaryclinton.com or contact the Clinton campaign state headquarters at 304-346-1913.
The West Virginia Veterans for Hillary Steering Committee includes;
Chair: Jack E. Yeager, Brigadier General, Ret., WV National Guard (Kanawha County)
Homer Ball, Army (WWII) Mercer County
Russell (Jeep) Ball, Army (WWII) Taylor County
Mike Burdiss, Air Force (Vietnam) Wyoming County
Charles (Dick) Burnside, Army (WWII & Korea) Lewis County
Howard Cashwell, Major Ret., National Guard; Navy (WWII) Summers County
John Clarke, Marine Corps (Vietnam) Ohio County
Lionel Collins, Marine Corps, Ret. (Vietnam) Logan County
Charles Conroy, Army (Vietnam) Kanawha County
Earl Crigger, Army (Vietnam) McDowell County
Gerald Crosier, Army, Monroe County
George (Lee) Fisher, Army (Vietnam) Braxton County
Harry Morgan Freeman, WV Air National Guard (Iraqi Freedom) Berkeley County
Donald Gill , Air Force, Clay County
Keith Gwinn, Navy Retired, Kanawha County
Tommy Harbour, Coast Guard (WWII) Cabell County
Don Kinnard, Navy, Ret., Marine Corps (Vietnam) Putnam County
James Koonce, Army (Korea) Marshall County
Leonard Lancaster, Navy (WWII) Fayette County
John Looney, Army (Vietnam) Ohio County
John McIntyre, Marine Corps (Persian Gulf) Wood County
Anthony Mezzatesta, Army (WWII) Hampshire County
Marlene Middleton, WV Air National Guard, Ret. (Persian Gulf) Fayette County
Gordon Morris, Marine Corps (Vietnam) Wetzel County
Russ Perando, Army, Grant County
Phil Prichard, Army (Vietnam) Marion County
Steve Seago, Army (Vietnam) Tyler County
Charles L. Silliman, Lt. Col. Retired - Air Force, Hardy County
Jacob Stafford, Air Force, Wyoming County
Leatrice (Libby) Stout, Army, Harrison County
Joseph Talbott, Marine Corps, Webster County
John Tiano, Army, Harrison County
Larry Wilder, Army (Vietnam) Kanawha County
Johnny Wilkins, Army (Vietnam) Hardy County
Hershel (Woody) Williams, Marine Corps (WWII), Cabell County
  