
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Molly Hering Bordonaro, of Oregon, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malta. Ms. Bordonaro currently serves as a Principal of The Gallatin Group in Portland, Oregon. She previously served as an Associate with Norris, Beggs & Simpson. Earlier in her career, Ms. Bordonaro served as Senior Legislative Director for the American Legislative Exchange Council. She earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado.
The President intends to nominate Donald E. Booth, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Liberia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Booth currently serves as Director of the Office of Technical and Specialized Agencies at the Department of State's Bureau of International Organization Affairs. He previously served as Director of the Office of West African Affairs. Prior to this position, Mr. Booth served as Deputy Director of the Office of Southern African Affairs. He earned his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University and his master's degrees from Boston University and the National War College .
The President intends to nominate Joseph A. Mussomeli, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Cambodia. Mr. Mussomeli, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in Manila, Philippines. He previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Manama, Bahrain and as Political Counselor in Rabat, Morocco. Earlier in his career, Mr. Mussomeli worked as a Senior Watch Officer in the Operations Center at the Department of State. He received his bachelor's degree from Trenton State College and his J.D. from Rutgers University.
The President intends to nominate David Horton Wilkins, of South Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States to Canada. Mr. Wilkins currently serves as Speaker of the South Carolina House of Representatives. He began his legislative career in 1980, serving six years as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee and two years as Speaker Pro Tem pore. He is also a Senior Partner in the law firm of Wilkins & Madden, in Greenville, South Carolina. He received his bachelor's degree from Clemson University and his J.D. from the University of South Carolina School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Julie Finley, of the District of Columbia, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as the Representative of the United States to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Ms. Finley currently serves as a Trustee and Treasurer for the National Endowment for Democracy. She previously served as a Founder and Board Member of the U.S. Committee on NATO. The President intends to nominate Shara L. Aranoff, of Maryland, to be Commissioner of the United States International Trade Commission, for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring December 16, 2012. Ms. Aranoff currently serves as the Senior International Trade Counsel on the Democratic Staff of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee. She previously served as Attorney-Adviser in the Office of General Counsel at the U.S. International Trade Commission. Earlier in her career, Ms. Aranoff clerked for the Honorable Herbert P. Wilkins, Associate Justice, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court. She received her bachelor's degree from Princeton University and her J.D. from Harvard Law School. She was also attended the University of Geneva, Switzerland as a Fulbright Scholar.
The President intends to nominate Richard J. Griffin, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Diplomatic Security). Mr. Griffin currently serves as Inspector General at the Department of Veterans Affairs. He previously served in the U.S. Secret Service for 26 years, retiring in 1997 as Deputy Director. During his career, Mr. Griffin served in the Office of Protective Operations, the Office of Investigations, the Los Angeles Field Office, and the Presidential Protective Division. He received his bachelor's degree from Xavier University and his master's degree from Marymount University.
The President intends to designate Deborah A. Price, of Missouri, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of Education (Legislative and Congressional Affairs). Ms. Price currently serves as Assistant Deputy Secretary for the Office of Safe and Drug Free Schools at the Department of Education. She previously served as Chief of Staff of the Office of Federal Student Aid. Prior to her work at the Department of Education, Ms. Price was a policy adviser to U.S. Senator Don Nickles. She received her bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri-Columbia.
The President intends to nominate Dennis P. Walsh, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 16, 2009. Mr. Walsh currently serves as Special Assistant to the National Labor Relations Board. He previously served as a Member of the National Labor Relations Board. Earlier in his career, Mr. Walsh served as an Associate with Spear, Wilderman, Borish, Endy, Browning & Spear. He earned his bachelor's degree from Hamilton College and his J.D. from Cornell Law School.
  