
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

One of the great treasures of America is the unity of its people. No nation is composed of citizens with such diverse cultural, racial and religious backgrounds as is the United States of America. And while the unique contributions of each segment of our population are important, the significant fact remains that each of us, whatever background, remains loyal to the Nation and to the ideals of freedom for which it stands.
Throughout our history, all Americans have toiled together to build this land into the freest and most prosperous Nation on earth. And when the times required it, our people stood shoulder-to-shoulder proclaiming to any in the world who would threaten, that all were Americans and proud of it.
Seldom are we called upon to consciously consider and express loyalty to our Nation and its ideals of liberty. It would be well to do so. The world is filled with tyranny and deprivation. Each of us can thank God that we are living in this blessed land. And when differences arise among us, which is only natural in a free society, we should always remain aware that we are one people, together and indivisible.
As we strive to solve the problems confronting us, it is appropriate to stop for a moment and reflect upon our national institutions, our heritage of freedom and what it means to be an American.
To encourage such reflection, a joint resolution of the Congress was enacted on July 18, 1958 (72 Stat. 369, 36 U.S.C. 162), designating the first day of May of each year as Loyalty Day, and requesting that the President issue an annual proclamation inviting public observance.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, call upon all Americans and upon patriotic, civic, and educational organizations to observe Friday, May 1, 1981, as Loyalty Day, with appropriate ceremonies.
I call upon officials of the Government to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings and grounds on that day in testimony of our loyalty.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred eightyone, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifth.

RONALD REAGAN
  