
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 14
In the late evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Anchorage, AK.
April 15
In the early morning, the President and Hillary Clinton departed from Anchorage, AK, en route to Cheju, South Korea.
The President announced his intention to nominate Victor Ashe to the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service.
April 16
In the early morning, the President and Hillary Clinton arrived in Cheju, South Korea.
In the afternoon, following the news conference, President Clinton and President Kim held a working lunch.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Tokyo, Japan. In the evening, they attended a dinner with Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto at the Akasaka Palace.
April 17
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton participated in a welcoming ceremony with Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko at the Akasaka Palace, followed by a state call and discussion with the Emperor and Empress at the Imperial Palace.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Tokyo to the U.S.S. Independence in Yokosuka. Later in the afternoon, they returned to Tokyo.
The President announced the selection of Lori Esposito Murray as Special Adviser to the President and Director on the Chemical Weapons Convention at the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
The President named Ana M. Guzman as Chair of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans.
The President announced the nomination of John C. Kornblum to be Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs and Barbara Mills Larkin to be Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs.
The President announced his intention to appoint Glenn Roger Delaney as a Commissioner (Commercial Fishing Interest Representative) of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following persons as members of the Commission on U.S.-Pacific Trade and Investment Policy: Morton Bahr, Jason S. Berman, Eugene Eidenberg, James Fallows, Lawrence M. Johnson, Kenneth Lewis, Robert Z. Lawrence, James C. Morgan, Harold A. Poling, Ron Sims, Bruce Stokes, Jackson P. Tai, Yah Lin Trie, Ko-Yung Tung, Robert A. Wilson, Jr., and Meredith Woo-Cumings.
April 18
In the morning, following his address to the Diet, the President attended a reception with Japanese party leaders in the Speaker's Drawing Room.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton paid a farewell call to the Emperor and Empress at the Akasaka Palace, and then toured the Chrysler Setagaya Branch automobile showroom, where they greeted Japanese families who had purchased American right-hand drive vehicles.
In the evening, the President traveled to St. Petersburg, Russia, where he toured the Catherine Palace.
April 19
In the morning, the President toured the Russian Museum and the Church of the Spilled Blood. In the afternoon, following his visit to Kazan Cathedral, he toured the Hermitage Museum.
In the evening, the President traveled to Moscow, where he attended a dinner for leaders of the P-8 Summit on Nuclear Safety and Security at the Kremlin.
The President announced his intention to nominate Morris N. Hughes as Ambassador to Burundi.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alan G. Lowy to the Board of Directors of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation.
  