
    Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the House and Senate, my dear friends and those of Betty, members of the Capitol Hill Club, and guests:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for us to be here. And may I say to the portrait painter, the artist, that I am very flattered. I think it is excellent. Obviously, I like the pose. You know, as a fiscal conservative, I always enjoy seeing a politician with his hand in his own pocket. [Laughter] But I do thank you, Mr. Johnson, and I am very grateful.
Obviously, Harold, I am very, very pleased to see that the Capitol Hill Club will have this portrait in a prominent place in a club that means a great deal to me. I can recall when the Capitol Hill Club was in a very small, old building where the new Library of Congress is now being constructed. I can recall very vividly when it was over in the hotel for a good many years and was a wonderful place where all of us could get together, have a good time, do things as fellow Republicans.
I was also part of the group that helped to put this building and the one next door together. And I recall with a great deal of satisfaction when we had a groundbreaking and then when we had the dedication. I have come to this building as well as the one next door on many, many occasions.
I think this complex is one of the finest things we have, as Republicans, in the Nation's Capital. It means a great deal to each and every one of us individually, to the party. I think it is a good symbol of Republican togetherness. I am delighted, of course, to see so many people here tonight. I just hope and trust that we can have many, many more occasions like this in the Capitol Hill Club.
I think it is important for us to get together. I think it is vitally essential that Republicans assemble in their own organization, their own club, and I appreciate the fine leadership that Harold is giving, along with others, to make certain that the Capitol Hill Club can be a meeting place for all of us.
So, I thank you from the bottom of my heart, Harold, and all of you who have contributed. I thank you on behalf of Betty, and I wish you all the very, very best.
I can say for her, as well as for myself, it is wonderful to see all of you tonight and to have the expression of friendship and support which is important to me and to us in these very difficult times.
Thank you very much.
  