
    Vice President Harris Visits Dalton, Georgia as Part of Investing in America Tour
Yesterday, as part of the Investing in America tour, the Vice President visited Dalton, Georgia to announce a commitment between Qcells and Summit Ridge Energy to manufacture 2.5 million solar panels — the largest community solar order in American history. This commitment, catalyzed by the Inflation Reduction Act, will strengthen American manufacturing and create jobs across the nation.
While in Georgia, the Vice President highlighted how the Administration's Investing in America agenda is creating millions of good jobs that don't require a four-year degree, rebuilding our infrastructure, paving the path for a clean energy future, strengthening supply chains, and lowering costs for working families.
Read more about the Vice President's trip below:
The Atlanta Journal Constitution: VP Harris announces huge Qcells solar panel deal during Georgia visit[Zachary Hansen, 4/6/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris visited an expanding solar panel factory in northwest Georgia on Thursday where she announced an order for millions of Peach State-built panels as she touted how federal climate and economic efforts are combining to create jobs in rural areas.
Harris toured the Qcells plant near I-75 in Whitfield County, one of two northwest Georgia locations where the South Korean company is expanding its solar panel production. The Qcells' Dalton expansion and a new facility in Bartow County, combined, represent the largest ever investment in clean energy manufacturing in U.S. history, company leaders and elected officials say.
The $2.5 billion expansion, which will result in 2,500 additional jobs, is the type of investment Harris and the White House are highlighting in its "Investing in America" tour […]
Georgia Public Broadcasting: Vice President Harris announces record solar deal at Northwest Georgia factory[Stephen Fowler, 4/6/23]
A rapidly expanding solar panel manufacturer in Northwest Georgia will help fulfill the country's largest-ever community solar project, Vice President Kamala Harris announced in Dalton Thursday. […]
"America, our beloved country, is a nation that I believe has always been powered by the ambition and aspirations of her people, the ambition and aspiration to see what can be unburdened by what has been," she said. "And not just to imagine a better future, but to build it, and that is the spirit that powers our nation." [...]
WSB-TV: In exclusive interview with Channel 2, VP Kamala Harris says clean energy is the future of economy[Richard Elliot, 4/6/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris visited a North Georgia solar panel manufacturing plant Thursday afternoon, and in an exclusive interview with Channel 2 Action News, Harris said she sees clean energy as the future of America's economy. […]
After the vice president addressed the crowd, Channel 2?s Richard Elliot spoke to her exclusively about why she thinks QCells and other solar panel plants are critical for the US economy.
"Right here in Dalton, Georgia, we are looking at some of the most significant US-based manufacturing by American workers of solar panels around the country and around the world," Harris said. [...]
AP: Harris promotes huge community solar deal in Georgia visit[Matthew Daly, 4/6/23]
Continuing its efforts to promote renewable energy, the Biden administration on Thursday announced what it says will be the largest community solar effort in U.S. history, enough to power 140,000 homes and businesses in three states. […]
The solar project is made possible by tax credits in the Inflation Reduction Act, the landmark climate and health law Congress approved last year, Harris and other officials said. […]
Reuters: U.S. VP Harris takes Biden's jobs message to Marjorie Taylor Greene's district[Trevor Hunnicutt, 4/6/23]
[…] Harris, a Democrat, went to the small town of Dalton to talk about the growing solar manufacturing business as part of a nationwide tour by President Joe Biden and his top aides to promote his economic agenda in 20 states over three weeks. […]
Harris announced further expansion, including an order for 2.5 million new solar panels involving Summit Ridge Energy. [...]
Spectrum News: In Georgia visit, VP Harris announces largest community solar order in U.S. history[David Mendez, Justin Tasolides, 4/6/23]
[…] "Georgia, I'm here today because all of this work demonstrates a very important and probably obvious point: It shows that when we invest in climate, when we invest in clean energy, when we invest in U.S.-based manufacturing, we invest in America and her people all across our nation," Harris added. […]
Harris hailed Ossoff and Warnock, praising their hard work for the people of Georgia and particularly praising the former's "passion for solar energy," which the vice president said the two of them share.
"I see your senators as they work in Washington, D.C.," she said. "I've seen them in rooms where the cameras on and where the cameras off, and each and every time they are always fighting for the families of Georgia and always fighting to create good jobs and to strengthen manufacturing here in Georgia." […]
Additional Coverage:

CNBC: Vice President Harris to announce major U.S. order for community solar power
Atlanta Business Chronicle: Kamala Harris to visit Dalton as Georgia boasts $31B in manufacturing wins
E&E News: Companies to announce major Ga. Solar deal as Harris visits
Fox 5 Atlanta: Vice President Kamala Harris speaks at solar panel plant in Dalton
Atlanta Voice: VP Harris returns to Georgia to visit Qcells facility in Dalton, talks solar manufacturing
11 Alive: VP Kamala Harris visits Georgia today, announces 'historic' solar power deal
Fox Business: Kamala Harris visits Marjorie Taylor Greene's district to unveil $2.5B 'community solar' investment in Georgia
The Hill: Harris announces largest single investment in US solar power at Georgia plant

  