
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Tracie Stevens, Chair, National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
•      Malcolm D. Jackson, Assistant Administrator for Environmental Information, Environmental Protection Agency
President Obama said, "The American people will be well-served by the skill and experience these two exceptional individuals will bring to their roles. I am confident that they will be tremendous assets to my administration, and I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
Tracie Stevens, Nominee for Chair, National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
Tracie Stevens has been the Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs at the U.S. Department of Interior since July 2009. In this role, Ms. Stevens provides policy guidance to the Assistant Secretary regarding tribal issues such as gaming, law enforcement, energy, tribal consultation, economic development, land-into-trust, tribal government disputes, budget priorities, and treaty and natural resource rights. She has also been active in rebuilding the nation-to-nation relationship between Tribes and the Department of Interior. Ms. Stevens is a member of the Tulalip Tribes in Washington State. From 2006 to 2009, Ms. Stevens was a Senior Policy Analyst with the Tulalip Tribe's government affairs office. Prior to that, she served as a Legislative Policy Analyst (2003-2006) and as Executive Director of Strategic Planning for the Tulalip Casino (2001-2002). In her capacity as Senior Policy Analyst with the Tulalip Tribes, Ms. Stevens also served as the Chair of the Gaming Subcommittee for the Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians (2003-2009), the Secretary of the Board of the Directors for the Washington Indian Gaming Association (2002-2009) and as the Northwest Delegate for the National Indian Gaming Association (2003-2009). Ms. Stevens holds a Bachelor of Arts in Social Sciences from the University of Washington-Seattle.
Malcolm D. Jackson, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Environmental Information, Environmental Protection Agency
Malcolm D. Jackson recently served as the Senior IT Business Unit Director of CIGNA Insurance Disability Management Business, where he managed all IT aspects that supported short term disability, long term disability, life and accident insurance products and services. From 2006 to 2008, Mr. Jackson also served as the Senior IT Business Unit Director for CIGNA Insurance Corporate Business Functions. During this tenure, Mr. Jackson directed the development of IT applications for Human Resources, Finance, Legal and Public Affairs, and Investments. In addition, Mr. Jackson had IT oversight for Corporate Owned Life Insurance, Reinsurance, and Settlement Annuities. Prior to joining CIGNA Insurance, Mr. Jackson held various positions in the areas of IT, engineering, marketing and general business management at Monsanto, Quaker Oats, General Dynamics, and Shell Oil Company. Throughout his career, Mr. Jackson has developed expertise in IT strategy, development of large scale enterprise resource planning, establishing performance metrics, and business process re-engineering. Mr. Jackson is a Board member of the Children's Literacy Initiative in Philadelphia, and a Board member of the Jackson State University National Alumni Association, where he chairs the membership committee. Mr. Jackson holds a B.S. from Jackson State University and an M.B.A. from Northwestern University, J.L. Kellogg School of Management.
  