
    Pool Reports by Philip Wegmann, RealClearPolitics



Sent:
Reports:




April 18, 202011:54 

In-Town Pool Report #1
The White House moved the pool call time to 4:30pm. As of now, there are no public events on the president's schedule. I will let you know immediately if anything changes. Good morning.



April 18, 202012:53 

In-Town Pool Report #2: Briefing at 5:00pm
The White House has updated its schedule. There is now a press briefing scheduled for 5:00pm. Call time for pool remains 4:30pm.



April 18, 202013:56 

In-Town Pool Report #3: Readout of Call with President of Mexico
The White House passes along the following:
"Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke by phone with President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico. The leaders expressed their appreciation for the two countries' strong economic ties, their joint efforts to curb spread of COVID-19, and continued commitment to protecting the health and safety of Americans and Mexicans. The leaders also discussed the need to maintain restrictions on travelers crossing their land borders for non-essential purposes, while ensuring cross-border activities that are critical to commerce, health security, supply security, and other essential industries remain unimpeded. President Trump offered additional resources to the Government of Mexico to support its health care system."



April 18, 202014:30 

In-Town Pool Report #4: Readout of Call with President of the Republic of Korea
The White House passes along the following:
"Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Moon Jae-in of the Republic of Korea. President Trump congratulated President Moon for his Party's strong victory during South Korea's general elections earlier this week. The President also expressed his appreciation for South Korea's assistance to the United States in procuring COVID-19 tests and for its support to the American people. Both leaders agreed to continue working together to defeat the pandemic and restore global economic growth. President Trump and President Moon also discussed ways to further strengthen the United States-Republic of Korea security relationship."



April 18, 202015:21 

In-Town Pool Report #5: Readout of Call with the King of the Kingdom of Bahrain
The White House passes along the following:
"Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with King Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa of the Kingdom of Bahrain. The President and the King discussed the latest developments in the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The President and the King will continue to work together to defeat the virus, minimize its economic impact, and focus on critical regional issues. The King thanked the President for his efforts to stabilize the world oil markets and protect jobs in the industry. The President thanked the King for Bahrain's strong support for efforts to achieve peace in the Middle East, and for hosting the United States Fifth Fleet."



April 18, 202016:39 

In-Town Pool Report #6: Call with President of Poland
The White House passes along the following:
"Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Andrzej Duda of Poland. President Trump and President Duda discussed the latest developments on and efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic. President Trump thanked President Duda for committing to send supplies and Polish doctors to Chicago to assist in America's fight against the virus. President Duda thanked President Trump for the presence of American service members stationed in Poland. The two leaders agreed to work closely together, including with the EU, to defeat the virus and stimulate the global economy. The leaders also discussed critical bilateral and regional issues. President Trump thanked President Duda for his strong action on 5G security."



April 18, 202017:08 

In-Town Pool Report #7: Two Minute Warning
The White House has given the two minute warning for the press conference. I'll pass along any color, if there is any that can't be seen from your television screens. You know the drill.



April 18, 202017:26 

In-Town Pool Report #8: Notable Attendees
The president continues to speak, and nearby there are some new faces in the briefing room: Chief of staff Mark Meadows and White House press secretary Kayleigh Mcenany and White House director of strategic communication Alyssa Farah.



April 18, 202018:17 

In-Town Pool Report #9: Briefing Concludes
It is over.



April 18, 202018:21 

In-Town Pool Report #10: Travel / Photo Lid
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 6:20pm. Have a good one.




  