
    DES MOINES, IA — Following Senator Klobuchar's visit to the Iowa Statehouse on Thursday, the Amy for America presidential campaign announced additional key Iowa hires, including Political Director, Deputy Organizing Director and Digital Media Manager.
Jamie Woods, Iowa Political Director — Jamie currently serves as the Iowa Democratic Party's Black Caucus Chair and is on the Board of Directors for Emerge Iowa, a diverse organization that grooms women to run for political office at the local, state, and national level. Jamie has been involved in numerous Democratic campaigns in Iowa, including helping to elect Representative Phyllis Thede and Representative Ako Abdul-Samad to the Iowa House. She previously worked on President Obama's presidential campaigns, and as the African-American Outreach Coordinator in the Davenport office for Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign. Jamie was inducted into the Iowa African American Hall of Fame in 2017 for her work in Iowa. Jamie grew up in a family that's been dedicated to public service with her father, two brothers, former spouse, and many others having served in the armed forces and her son and daughter both involved in JROTC.
Andrew Larabee, Iowa Deputy Organizing Director — Andrew got his start in politics as a Field Organizer with President Obama's re-election campaign in Ohio. Since then, he has led field programs for Democrats and progressive issue campaigns across the country. Andrew has also managed several grassroots campaigns in the Midwest, including John Hamilton's successful campaign for Mayor of Bloomington, Indiana.
Alli Peters, Iowa Digital Media Manager — Last cycle, Alli created digital content for Dean Phillips' successful congressional race. Alli also spent several years working with small businesses in the Midwest to grow their digital presence through photography, graphic design and social media. She received a dual degree in Political Science and Business Marketing from the University of Minnesota - Twin Cities.
Klobuchar's growing Iowa team is led by State Director Lauren Dillon and Iowa Campaign Chair Andy McGuire, who recently announced Andrew Nelson as Iowa Organizing Director and Courtney Rice as Iowa Press Secretary.
  