
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 4
In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, from a weekend stay in Little Rock, AR.
In the afternoon, the President hosted a working lunch for Prime Minister John Major of the United Kingdom in the Residence.
In the evening, the President attended a fundraising dinner at Senator Edward M. Kennedy's residence. Following the dinner, he met with Prime Minister Major at Georgia Brown's restaurant.
The President announced his intention to appoint William Podlich as Chairman and Loretta Armenta, Glenn Biggs, Linda Griego, Dionicio Morales, and Penny Pritzker as members of the Community Adjustment and Investment Program Advisory Committee for the North American Development Bank.
April 5
In the afternoon, the President hosted a working lunch for President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt in the Residence.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
—Judith Aronson;
—A. Arthur Davis;
—Sandra Stillman Gartner;
—June S. Hamra;
—James H. Newberry, Jr.;
—Neal K. Okabayashi;
—Sally R. Peltz;
—Edna Louise Saffy;
—Bettylu K. Saltzman;
—Carol T. Toussaint.
April 6
In the morning, the President met with members of the House Southwestern Regional Democratic Caucus in the Roosevelt Room.
The White House announced the President has named Richard L. Morningstar as Special Adviser to the President and to the Secretary of State on Assistance to the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union and Coordinator of U.S. Assistance to the New Independent States.
April 7
In the morning, the President traveled to Dallas, TX.
In the afternoon, the President attended a luncheon at the Mansion at Turtle Creek. He then traveled to Sacramento, CA.
In the evening, the President attended a California State Democratic Party fundraiser at a private residence.
  