
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, The Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




April 18, 202211:33

FLOTUS Pool Report EER
Greetings from the South Lawn where the weather is gloomy but the egg-citement is high.
FLOTUS welcomed the crowd with kick off remarks from South Portico balcony:
"Welcome to the Easter Egg Roll. I are so excited that you are here, your first lady and as a teacher, I've seen it again and again that learning doesn't only happen in the classroom. There are so many fun opportunities to learn around us every day. And that's especially true here at the White House."
"Education is what we wanted to honor in this Easter Egg Roll today so we turned the south lawn into small communities."
FLOTUS is wearing a purple coat and pink flowered dress, open toe wedge shoes and purple gloves.
Biden family members spotted here: Hunter, Melissa, Baby Beau, Ashley, Natalie.
First event was the egg roll.
Jimmy Fallon cheered on his daughters in the competition as POTUS and FLOTUS watched.
POTUS kicked off the first race but then Dr. Biden helped with blowing the whistle. "Go, you got it," POTUS cheered on kids.
As POTUS took selfies, FLOTUS worked the rope line. POTUS eventually joined her.
FLOTUS and POTUS then went to reading nook.
"I'm going to quickly read Brown Bear Brown Bear so you don't get soaking wet," FLOTUS said.
POTUS read the first lines and then FLOTUS took over. POTUS held the book for her.
At one point in the story when FLOTUS read the "what do you see line," POTUS chimes in: "I see Joey."
Jimmy Fallon then joined them to read from his book "Nana," which Dr. Biden noted is what she is called.
Hunter Biden was talking to people seated in the reading nook ahead of POTUS and FLOTUS arrival.
After reading FLOTUS sat on a bench as people swapped in around her to take pics. Jen Psaki, her husband and kids were among those who posed with FLOTUS for a pic.
Some color from the event:
Spotted in the crowd for POTUS and FLOTUS remarks: Education Secretary Miguel Carson and Stephanie Cutter.
Weather is mid-40s and sprinkling.
The South Lawn is packed with kids and grown ups alike. Various characters in costume are roaming, including minions, Snoopy, and Charlie Brown.
There are a few tents on the lawn but most of the area is open space. Spirits are high - people yelling "we love Joe" - as the rain continues.
FLOTUS headed back into White House just before 11 am.
As pool headed back inside we spotted Secretary of State Tony Blinken walking with a couple of little ones toward the West Wing.
Here is the background material on the event: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/15/white-house-announces-theme-and-activities-for-the-2022-easter-egg-roll/
Thanks to AP's Darlene Superville for her help.




  