
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Anuj Chang Desai, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the term expiring September 30, 2011, vice Stephen C. King, term expired.
Anuj Chang Desai, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the term expiring September 30, 2014. (Reappointment)
Barbara Jeanne Ells, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring October 18, 2016, vice Lisa Genevieve Nason, term expired.
Wanda Felton, of New York, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2013, vice Linda Mysliwy Conlin, term expired.
Deborah Downing Goodman, of Oklahoma, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring October 18, 2014, vice Jeanne Givens, term expired.
David S. Johanson, of Texas, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for a term expiring December 16, 2018, vice Charlotte A. Lane, term expired.
Cynthia Chavez Lamar, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2016. (Reappointment)
William Carl Lineberger, of Colorado, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2016, vice Kathryn D. Sullivan, term expired.
Timothy G. Massad, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Herbert M. Allison, Jr., resigned.
Sean Robert Mulvaney, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2015, vice Bijan Rafiekian, term expired.
James Harold Thessin, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Paraguay.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Jonathan Andrew Hatfield, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Corporation for National and Community Service, vice Gerald Walpin, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011.
  