
    Sir:*
I have the honor to acknowledge your communication of March 29, 1926, in which you enclose an extract from the minutes of the meeting of the Council of the League proposing that invitations be issued to the governments of the States actual signatories of the Protocol of the Permanent Court of International Justice and to the Government of the United States to appoint delegates to meet in Geneva on September first of the current year for the purpose of discussing any questions which it may be proper for them to discuss in this connection and for the purpose of framing any new agreement which may be found necessary to give effect to the special conditions on which the United States is prepared to adhere to the Protocol. I further note your statement that invitations have been issued to the various States signatory to the Protocol and you now extend an invitation to the United States for such purpose. I am also advised that in the invitation sent to the States other than the United States the League has asked them to indicate to the United States Government the difficulty of treating the American reservations to adhesion to the Protocol of the Permanent Court by direct exchange of notes and to point out the need for a general agreement.
While acknowledging the courtesy of the invitation of the League of Nations to attend such a meeting, I do not feel that any useful purpose could be served by the designation of a delegate by my Government to attend a Conference for this purpose. The Senate gave its consent to the adherence of the United States to the Statute of the Permanent Court with certain specific conditions and reservations set forth in the Resolution, which I forwarded to you as the depository of the Protocol. These reservations are plain and unequivocal and, according to their terms, they must be accepted by the exchange of notes between the United States and each one of the forty-eight states signatory to the Statute of the Permanent Court before the United States can become a party and sign the Protocol. The Resolution specifically provided this mode of procedure.
I have no authority to vary this mode of procedure or to modify the conditions and reservations or to interpret them and I see no difficulty in the way of securing the assent of each signatory by direct exchange of notes as provided for by the Senate. It would seem to me to be a matter of regret if the Council of the League should do anything to create the impression that there are substantial difficulties in the way of such direct communication. This Government does not consider that any new agreement is necessary to give effect to the conditions and reservations on which the United States is prepared to adhere to the Permanent Court. The acceptance of the reservations by all the nations signatory to the Statute of the Permanent Court constitute such an agreement. If any machinery is necessary to give the United States an opportunity to participate through representatives for the election of judges, this should naturally be considered after the reservations have been adopted and the United States has become a party to the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice. If the States signatory to the Statute of the Permanent Court desire to confer among themselves, the United States would have no objection whatever to such a procedure, but, under the circumstances it does not seem appropriate that the United States should send a delegate to such a Conference.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.
FRANK B. KELLOGG.
  