
    "I think this is a time when young people are questioning the support they gave to President Obama three and a half years ago. He promised bringing the country together; that sure hasn't happened. He promised a future with good jobs and good opportunity; that hasn't happened. And the pathway that he pursued is one which has not worked. Young people recognize that and I think that's why they're going to increasingly look for a different approach."  - Mitt Romney
Press Availability      
Aston, Pennsylvania
April 23, 2012
Click Here To Watch The Video
MITT ROMNEY: "I think young voters in this country have to vote for me if they're really thinking about what's in the best interest of the country and what's in their personal best interest because the President's policies have led to extraordinary statistics. When you look at fifty percent of the kids coming out of college today can't find a job or can't find a job which is consistent with their skills, how in the world can you be supporting a president that's led to that kind of an economy? And then the debt that's been amassed that they're going to have to pay off all their lives. We're fighting to make sure that we can reduce the deficits and eliminate this debt overhang, and yet, the President continues to amass these huge deficits. I think young people will understand that ours is the party of opportunity and jobs and if they want to have a president that can create good jobs and can allow them to find a bright and prosperous future for themselves and for their families, then I hope they're going to vote for me and I think we're going to take that message to young people across the country. I think this is a time when young people are questioning the support they gave to President Obama three and a half years ago. He promised bringing the country together; that sure hasn't happened. He promised a future with good jobs and good opportunity; that hasn't happened. And the pathway that he pursued is one which has not worked. Young people recognize that and I think that's why they're going to increasingly look for a different approach."
  