
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Douglas Jay Feith to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. He is currently the Managing Attorney with Feith and Zell, P.C., in Washington, D.C. He served from 1984 to 1986 as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Negotiations Policy and was Special Counsel to Assistant Secretary of Defense Richard Perle from 1982 to 1984. Feith is a graduate of Harvard College and Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to nominate Kevin J. Martin to be Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission for a five-year term expiring June 30, 2006. He is currently Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and was Deputy General Counsel for Bush for President. Martin served at the FCC as Legal Advisor to Commissioner Furchtgott-Roth from 1997 to 1999. He is a graduate of the University of North Carolina, received a Master's in Public Policy from Duke University, and earned his law degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Kathleen Q. Abernathy to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2005. She is Vice President for Public Policy of BroadBand Office Communications, Inc., and was formerly the Vice President of Air Touch Communications from 1993 to 1998. She served at the FCC from 1992 to 1993 as legal advisor to Commissioner Sherry Marshall and as legal advisor to Chairman James Quello. She has served as an Adjunct Professor at Catholic University Law School and Georgetown University Law Center and is a graduate of Marquette University and Catholic University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Michael J. Copps to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2004. He most recently served as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade Development from 1998 to 2001 and as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Basic Industries from 1993 to 1998. From 1989 to 1993, he held the position of Senior Vice President of the American Meat Institute and from 1985 to 1989 he was Director of Government Affairs for Collins and Aikman Corporation. Copps served for 15 years in the Office of Senator Fritz Hollings in several positions including Chief of Staff. He is a graduate of Wofford College and earned a Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina.
The President intends to nominate A. Elizabeth Jones to be Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs. Jones is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister. She is currently Special Advisor for Caspian Basin Energy Diplomacy and was Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the State Department's Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs from 1998 to 2000. She served as the Ambassador to Kazakhstan from 1995 to 1998 and has held a variety of posts both in Washington, D.C., and abroad. She is a graduate of Swarthmore College and received a Master's degree from Boston University.
The President intends to nominate Thelma J. Askey to be the Director of the Trade and Development Agency. Ms. Askey previously served as a Commissioner with the International Trade Commission after being nominated by former President Clinton, and her term expired in December of 2000. She has also served with the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee. Originally from Millington, Tennessee, she holds her B.A. from Tennessee Technological University and has completed graduate work in international economics at American University.
  