
    Travelers To Share Stories of Hillary Delivering Change to Rural New York
PORTLAND, OR - Hillary Clinton for President today announced that "Travelers for Hillary" will launch a multi-day tour of the south coast and south Willamette Valley tomorrow. The travelers, made up of a rural chamber of commerce president and a rural New Yorker who credits Hillary with saving her job, will reach out to local Oregonians in towns and cities across the state to discuss Hillary's record of creating jobs in small communities.
"If you want to see what kind of president Hillary Clinton would be, just look at what she's done for the two million people living in rural New York State," said Garry Douglas, president and CEO of the North Country Chamber of Commerce in Plattsburgh, N.Y., and a lifetime Republican. "From her creation of rural trading cooperatives, to her Farm-to-Fork initiative, to her support for broadband in all rural areas, and her efforts to keep VA facilities open, Hillary is committed to helping small towns and rural communities thrive."
Douglas praised Clinton as a critical part of the effort to save 800 manufacturing jobs in northern New York when Wyeth Pharmaceuticals decided to close its plant in Rouses Point, N.Y. in 2005. An employee of the plant, Paula Miller, is volunteering her time to tell others how grateful she is to Hillary for saving her job.
"When news hit that Wyeth was closing, Hillary was the first to respond," said Miller, a 25-year employee at the plant. "She helped bring in a new pharmaceutical company to buy the plant, and all of our jobs were saved. And it was all thanks to Hillary. She really fought for us."
Douglas and Miller are volunteers and part of a larger "Travelers for Hillary" group made up of more than 60 farmers, wine growers, and rural developers in upstate New York. The group has already covered more than 10,000 miles across eight states telling stories of Hillary's impact as a senator on their towns and communities.
For more information, please log on to www.hillaryclinton.com.
  