
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals, appoint two individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate April H. Foley, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Hungary. Ms. Foley most recently served as First Vice President and Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Prior to this, she was Director of Strategy for Reader's Digest Association, Incorporated. Earlier in her career, she was Director of Business Planning and Corporate Strategy at PepsiCo, Incorporated where she worked for 17 years. Ms. Foley received her bachelor's degree from Smith College and her master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Tracey Ann Jacobson, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tajikistan. Ms. Jacobson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as United States Ambassador to Turkmenistan. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Riga, Latvia. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Executive Secretary at the National Security Council. Ms. Jacobson received her bachelor's and master's degrees from the Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate Kevin J. Martin, of North Carolina, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission, for an additional five-year term expiring June 30, 2011. Upon appointment, he will be redesignated Chairman. Mr. Martin currently serves as Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy. Earlier in his career, he was an advisor to FCC Commissioner Harold Furchtgott-Roth. Mr. Martin received his bachelor's degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and his master's degree from Duke University. He later went on to receive his JD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Sue C. Payton, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Research and Development. Ms. Payton currently serves as the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Advanced Systems and Concepts at the Department of Defense. She previously served as Acting Director of Defense Research and Engineering. Prior to this, she was Vice President of Applied Technology for ImageLinks, Incorporated. Earlier in her career, she was the Senior Site Systems Integration Manager for Martin Marietta, and Advanced Technology Manager for Lockheed Martin. Ms. Payton received her bachelor's degree from Eastern Illinois University and her master's degree from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to nominate Steven C. Preston, of Illinois, to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration. Mr. Preston currently serves as Executive Vice President of Strategic Services at The ServiceMaster Company. He previously served as the company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to that, Mr. Preston was Senior Vice President and Treasurer of First Data Corporation. Earlier in his career, he was a Senior Vice President in Investment Banking at Lehman Brothers. Mr. Preston received his bachelor's degree from Northwestern University and his master's degree from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to nominate Gaddi H. Vasquez, of California, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as the United States Representative to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture. Mr. Vasquez currently serves as the Director of the United States Peace Corps. Prior to this, he was a Division Vice President for Public Affairs at Southern California Edison Company. From 1987 to 1995, he was County Supervisor of Orange County, California, and from 1985 to 1987, he served in the California Governor's Office, first as the Deputy Appointments Secretary, then as Chief Deputy Appointments Secretary. Mr. Vasquez received his bachelor's degree from the University of the Redlands.
The President intends to nominate Lawrence A. Warder, of Texas, to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Education. Mr. Warder most recently served as Global Director of Operations for Deloitte Consulting, a company he worked for since 1969. Throughout his more than thirty years with the company, Mr. Warder served in senior management positions in their London, New York, Dallas and Detroit offices. Earlier in his career, Mr. Warder was a Supervisor for Financial Systems at General Tire and Rubber Company. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Akron and his master's degree from Kent State University.
The President intends to appoint Ralph B. Marquez, of Texas, to be a Member of the Joint Public Advisory Committee of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation.
The President intends to appoint David A. Ullrich, of Illinois, to be a Commissioner of the United States Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, for a six-year term.
The President intends to designate General Robert H. Foglesong, U.S.A.F. (Ret.), of West Virginia, to be Co-Chairman of the United States-Russian Joint Commission on POW/MIAs.
  