
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Allison Herren Lee of Colorado, to be a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a five-year term expiring June 5, 2022.
Allison Herren Lee is a veteran securities law practitioner of more than two decades. She served at the Securities and Exchange Commission from 2005 to 2018 in various roles including Senior Counsel in the Complex Financial Instruments Unit, and as Counsel to Commissioner Kara M. Stein. She has also served as a Special Assistant United States Attorney, and prior to government service, was a litigation partner at Sherman & Howard, LLC in Denver, Colorado. Since leaving the SEC, she has, among other things, lectured and taught courses in financial regulation and corporate law at Universidad de Navarra in Pamplona, Spain, and LUISS Universita Guido Carli, Dipartimento di Giurisprudenza in Rome, Italy.
Alma L. Golden of Texas, to be Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Bureau for Global Health).
Dr. Alma Golden currently serves as the Senior Deputy Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Bureau for Global Health. A pediatrician by training, Dr. Golden has worked in private pediatrics, indigent health services, academic medicine, public health, healthcare administration, and health policy. Dr. Golden has served as faculty at both the Texas A&M Health Science Center and University of Texas Medical Branch. Under President George W. Bush, she was Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Office of Population Affairs in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Dr. Golden earned her M.D. and post-doctoral training from the University of Texas and B.A. from Houston Baptist College.
Richard B. Norland of Iowa, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Libya.
Richard B. Norland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as the Foreign Policy Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff since 2016. He served twice as U.S. Ambassador – first in Uzbekistan and then in Georgia. Ambassador Norland was the Deputy Commandant and International Affairs Advisor at the National War College, Fort McNair, Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassies in Afghanistan and Latvia, and a Director on the NSC Staff. He earned a B.S. from Georgetown University, School of Foreign Service, a Masters of International Public Policy from Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, and a Masters of National Security Strategy degree from the National War College. Ambassador Norland is the recipient of a Presidential Distinguished Service Award. His foreign languages include French, Russian, and Norwegian.
Michelle Bowman of Missouri, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Community Bank Representative) for a 14-year term beginning February 1, 2020.
Ms. Bowman currently serves as a Governor on the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, the first Governor designated with community banking expertise. Previously, Ms. Bowman served as the Kansas State Bank Commissioner, a position to which she was the first woman appointed and confirmed by the Kansas State Senate. She served as the State Bank Commissioner until November 2018. Ms. Bowman also served as an executive at Farmers and Drovers bank. Additionally, she has served on the staff of Senator Bob Dole, as counsel for several U.S. House committees, as Director of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and as Deputy Assistant Secretary and Policy Advisor to Secretary Tom Ridge at the Department of Homeland Security. Ms. Bowman graduated from the University of Kansas and received a J.D. from Washburn University School of Law."

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Frederick M. Nutt of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator (Management) at the United States Agency for International Development.
Mr. Nutt is currently Senior Advisor at the Office of Management and Budget where he is supporting the implementation of the President's Management Agenda and other financial management policies. He previously served as Managing Director and Senior Advisor for Management at the Overseas Private Investment Corporation where he was responsible for managing financial resources and overseeing the acquisition of information technology, facilities, and security operations.
Prior to serving in these roles, Mr. Nutt was at the then newly authorized Millennium Challenge Corporation, starting up the management operations, including financial and management information systems. Previously, Mr. Nutt was Senior Advisor to the Chief Financial Officer at the Environmental Protection Agency where he worked on the migration of financial management systems to federal shared service providers. He also worked on budget and appropriations legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives, while serving in the Office of the Speaker. Mr. Nutt is from Reedville, Virginia and is a graduate of Virginia Tech.
  