
    Today, Washington Congresswoman and Congressional Progressive Caucus Co-Chair Pramila Jayapal released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Today I am announcing my endorsement of Vice President Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"Vice President Biden is a deeply dedicated public servant with the ability to unite the American people. I am moved by his compassion and ability to connect with people on the most human level. As co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, I believe wholeheartedly that government can and must be a force for good — expanding access to health care and education, fighting the climate crisis, passing humane immigration reform, and looking out for working people instead of corporate interests. I started this campaign as an ardent and vocal surrogate for Bernie Sanders, and while I have not always agreed with Vice President Biden on matters of policy, I am ready to work with him to craft and then implement the most progressive agenda of any candidate in history.
"As President, Donald Trump has consistently sided with the wealthy and well-connected over working families and regular Americans, fostered racism and xenophobia and undermined democratic norms and the rule of law. He and his administration have demonstrated repeatedly — and most recently in their disastrous response to COVID-19 — an inability to govern, make tough decisions, speak the truth and unite the country in common purpose. Any progress toward a better future requires defeating him this November.
"Our progressive movement of people organizing in the streets and in the halls of Congress has only grown bigger and more diverse, and we have made enormous strides towards racial, gender, and economic justice. We are ready for a President who will encourage us to be as big as we can be, with compassion and bold leadership. That President must be Joe Biden, and I will do everything I can to help him win back the White House, take back the Senate, and preserve our House Majority. Together, I am confident we can build a more perfect union."
Jayapal was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2016 and previously served in the Washington State Senate. She also served as National Health Policy Chair for Senator Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign.
Jayapal's endorsement builds on other Washington State endorsements, including Governor Jay Inslee, former Washington Governor Chris Gregoire, former Washington Governor, Secretary of Commerce, and U.S. Ambassador to China, Gary Locke, Seattle Mayor Jenny Durkan, State Senator Marko Liias, former Congressman Brian Baird, as well as numerous other Washington leaders from across the state.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  