
    
  "Ted Cruz Has Demonstrated That He is a Man of Faith and Principle"

HOUSTON, Texas - Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today welcomed the endorsements of more than 50 additional Wisconsin clergy and faith leaders, who joined Team Cruz over the weekend. This announcement follows the endorsement of 50 Wisconsin faith leaders last week. With more than 100 Wisconsin clergy and faith leaders adding their support, the campaign now enjoys the public support of more than 1,100 clergy and faith leaders.
"Ted Cruz has demonstrated that he is a man of faith and principle," said Pastor Wayne Devrou of Grace Bible Fellowship in Oostburg. "He was raised with, and exhibits, the character and desire to stand on principles - not only for political reasons, but for personal ones. His record confirms that he does what he says he will do. In Washington, Ted has been a principled leader and an advocate for religious liberty and constitutional conservatism. Ted has earned my respect and I'm pleased to be one of many clergy who have pledged their support for Ted. We urge people of faith in Wisconsin to cast their votes in support of a conservative champion."
"I am thrilled to have received so much support from faith leaders and clergy in Wisconsin," said Cruz. "Our system of government requires the participation of men and women of integrity, faith, and courage. These leaders have taken the time to research the candidates and make their conclusions known. With their support, and the support of organizations such as Catholic Vote, the Wisconsin Right to Life PAC, and Wisconsin Family Action PAC, we look forward to a strong performance in the Wisconsin primary tonight."
The list of new Wisconsin clergy and faith leader endorsements appears below. Titles and affiliations of all endorsers are provided for identification purposes only.
Pastor Dave Barna, Calvary Baptist Church
Pastor Rose Bellefeuil, Hartford Tabernacle
Pastor Timothy Board, Bible Church
Mary Booker, Christian Education Director, Full Gospel Church
Pastor Lee Bundy, Song of Joy Foursquare Church
Reverend Oliver K. Burrows III, Ark Fellowship
Pastor Mundt Connie, Creek Bible Church
Pastor Brown David, First Baptist Church
Pastor Paul Davis, Kingdom Agenda Church
Reverend Wayne Devrou, Grace Bible Fellowship
Pastor Ed Hays, Cornerstone Christian Life Tabernacle
Pastor and Alderman John Engelhardt, Muskego Apostolic Tabernacle
Deacon Michael Fisher, Living Hope Church
Pastor Carlos Galvin, Bible Baptist Church
Richard Guyer, Treasurer, The Province of St. Joseph
Pastor Joseph Hanthorn, Christian Life Church
Associate Pastor Joseph Helm, Brookside Baptist
Pastor Steve Hollenbeck, East Delavan Baptist Church
Pastor Michael Hook, United Penecostal Church - True Life
Pastor Lonnie Johnson, Oneida Assembly of God
Deacon Lucas Johnson, Living Hope Church
Pastor Gordon Scott Jones, Southport Baptist Church
Pastor & Counselor Robert Karz, Training for Life Ministries
Pastor Terry Kelb, Faith Baptist Church
Pastor Ken Keltner, Brookside Baptist Church
Reverend Timothy Kleiner, Refuge Church
Reverend Jennifer Kleiner, Canaland Christian Academy, Good News Fellowship Church
Pastor James Lambro, UCPI
Mrs. Jill Lemkuil, The Salvation Army
Pastor Robert Loggans, Calvary Baptist Church
James Maillette, Executive Vice President, Wisconsin Family Council
Pastor Don Mallas, Parkway Church
Reverend Deborah Mallek, Refuge Church
Pastor Allen Manser, Calvary Chapel of Wausau
Pastor Constantine Marcus, Hope Community Church
Pastor Jimmy McDonald, New Freedom Church
Joann Meyer, Women's Ministry, Hartford Tabernacle of Joy
Pastor Robert Meyer, Hartford Tabernacle of Joy
Pastor Marshall Newble, Apostolic Worship Center
Pastor Dean Noonan, Faith Baptist Church
Pastor Ben Peterson, Former Pastor, Fellowship Baptist Church
Pastor Raymond Rivera, Sword of the Spirit Ministries
Ted Salter, Men's Ministry, Full Gospel Church
Jerry Simmons, Church Planter, Iron Ridge Mission
Bill Stocks, Director, Living Word Church
Pastor Anthony Tamel, Perkway Apostolic Church
Todd Tisch, traveling evangelist
Pastor Paul Turner, Grace Bible Church
Joshua Watson, Adult Education Pastor, White Stone Community Church
Pastor Bob Wetzler, Woodland Church
Teresa Zellner, Children's Pastor, Woodland Church
Pastor Elwyn Zimmerman, Crossroads Community Church
  