
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted April 11
Carol Jones Carmody, of Louisiana, for the rank of Minister during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization.
Peter R. Chaveas, of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malawi.
Myles Robert Rene Frechette, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Colombia.
Donna Jean Hrinak, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Dominican Republic.
Joseph Edward Lake, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Albania.
Johnny Young, of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Togo.
Bonnie O'Day, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1995, vice George H. Oberle, Jr., term expired.
Leo J. O'Donovan, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 1998, vice David N. Baker, term expired.
Judith O. Rubin, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 1998, vice Sally Brayley Bliss, term expired.
Rhonda Reid Winston, of the District of Columbia, to be an associate judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for a term of 15 years, vice Peter Henry Wolf, term expired.
Submitted April 12
Irvin Hicks, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ethiopia.
Timothy A. Chorba, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Singapore.
Maria Otero, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 1994, vice Victor Blanco, resigned.
Maria Otero, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2000 (reappointment).
A. J. Eggenberger, of Montana, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 1998 (reappointment).
Herbert Kouts, of New York, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 1997 (reappointment).
Jan M. Chaiken, of Massachusetts, to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, vice Steven D. Dillingham, resigned.
Gregory Moneta Sleet, of Delaware, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Delaware for the term of 4 years, vice William C. Carpenter, Jr., resigned.
Redding Pitt, of Alabama, to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Alabama for the term of 4 years, vice James E. Wilson.
Faith S. Hochberg, of New Jersey, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey for the term of 4 years, vice Michael Chertoff.
Valerie Lau, of California, to be Inspector General, Department of the Treasury, vice Donald E. Kirkendall, resigned.
Patricia Ann Brown, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 1996, vice James Nowell Wood, term expired.
Ira Ronald Feldman, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 1998, vice Harvey Lichtenstein, term expired.
Barbara Wallace Grossman, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 1998, vice Arthur Mitchell, term expired.
Submitted April 13
Robert Krueger, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Burundi.
Steven Mark Hart Wallman, of Virginia, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the term expiring June 5, 1997, vice Edward H. Fleischman, resigned.
Submitted April 14
Rachelle B. Chong, of California, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 1992, vice Sherrie Patrice Marshall, resigned.
Susan Ness, of Maryland, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 1994, vice Ervin S. Duggan, resigned.
Susan Ness, of Maryland, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 1994 (reappointment).
Cynthia A. Metzler, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor (new position).
Ronald K. Noble, of New York, to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement (new position).
Raymond G. Romero, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Jeffrey Neil Shane, resigned.
Alan Sagner, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for the remainder of the term expiring January 31, 1998, vice David P. Prosperi.
Dharmendra K. Sharma, of California, to be Administrator of the Research and Special Programs Administration, Department of Transportation (new position).
  