
    Pool Reports by Takaaki Abe, Nippon Television 



Sent:
Reports:




April 16, 202109:52

POTUS Foreign Pool Report #1 (4/16/21)-PM Suga's schedule 
Good morning or Ohayo Gozaimasu. It's a beautiful day at the White House.
My name is Taka Abe with Japan's Nippon Television. It’s my pleasure to be your foreign pool reporter today as a Japanese journalist who has covered the White House since the George W. Bush administration.
Today, Prime Minister Suga makes an official working visit.
According to Japanese and US government announcements and sources, here are parts of his known schedule.
Yesterday, Thursday April 15
Prime Minister Suga departed Haneda Airport, Tokyo, Japan around 7am ET (8pm LT)
He arrived at Joint Base Andrews around 8 pm, overnighting at Blair House.
Today, Friday April 16
Prime Minister Suga had a breakfast meeting with former Ambassador Caroline Kennedy at 8am, and participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery at 9:30am.
He will meet Vice President Harris in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office at 11am.
He will meet with President Biden at the Oval Office at 1:30pm (closed press), and participate in an expanded bilat meeting in State Dining Room at 2:30pm.
Both leaders will hold a joint press conference in the Rose Garden at 4:15pm.
Prime Minister Suga will participate in a CSIS Webinar and will delivers remarks on his vision for the Japan-U.S. Alliance at 6pm.
https://www.csis.org/events/my-vision-japan-us-alliance
Tomorrow, Friday April 17
In the morning, Prime Minister Suga will depart Joint Base Andrews en route to Japan.



April 16, 202110:32

POTUS Foreign Pool Report #2 (4/16/21)-Background information 
First, I would like to correct my 1st foreign pool report. Yes, tomorrow is Saturday. It is Tomorrow, Saturday April 17, NOT Friday, April 17....
While waiting for Japanese Prime Minister Suga's arrival here, I would like to share some background information about his visit to the White House.
Mr. Yoshihide Suga, who is 72 years young, was born on Dec 6, 1948 to a family of strawberry farmers in rural Akita Prefecture, in the northern part of Japan.
(For the record, your foreign pool reporter was also born in the same prefecture!)
Mr. Suga has a black belt in Karate. He likes sweets, and doesn't drink.
Speaking of his eating habit, he lost about 30 pounds by going on a morning soup curry diet almost 10 years ago.
Mr. Suga was the chief cabinet secretary under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe for almost 8 years from Dec 2012-Sep 2020, and became the longest-serving chief cabinet secretary in the country. The main jobs of the chief cabinet secretary are to serve as the chief spokesperson of the government, usually holding press briefings twice a day, and to coordinate policies among the ministries and agencies. Mr. Suga specifically focused on domestic issues during his tenure.
He held his regular press briefings more than 3,200 times while serving the chief cabinet secretary. He had a famous morning routine, waking up at 5am, doing 100 sit-ups, and going for a 40 min walk.
When Mr. Suga visited Washington on May 2019, he enjoyed a morning walk around the White House. His favorite book is "It Worked for Me: In Life and Leadership" by Colin Powell and Tony Koltz which has become a bestseller in Japan after Mr. Suga mentioned that he drew inspiration and guidance from it during his time as chief cabinet secretary.
Mr. Suga became Japan' 99th Prime Minister on September 16th, 2020 succeeding Mr. Shinzo Abe, the longest-serving prime minister in the country. Prime Minister Suga continues his morning walk routine.
Prime Minister Suga received 2 shots of the Pfizer vaccine on March 16 and April 6 respectively in Tokyo.
Neither his wife, Mariko, nor any cabinet members are on the trip with him.
According to Japanese sources, the size of the delegation accompanying Prime Minister Suga is around 80, a little bit smaller than usual. All delegation members including journalists have received 2 shots of the COVID-19 vaccine ahead of the trip.
Prime Minister Suga had a congratulatory phone call with President-elect Biden on Nov 11, 2020 (ET)
Prime Minister Suga had a phone call with President Biden on Jan 27.
Both leaders participated in G7 Leaders' video conference on Feb 19.
They also participated in the first-ever Quad leaders summit via video conference along with Prime Minister Morrison of Australia and Prime Minister Modi of India on March 12.
He visited Japan in Jan, 1979 as a Senator, and then in Aug 2011 and Dec 2013 as the Vice President.
Today President Biden hosts Prime Minister Suga at the White House for an official working visit. This is President Biden's first in-person meeting with a foreign leader, and as the White House says, it reflects the importance of the bilateral relationship and the friendship with the Japanese people.
This is Prime Minister Suga's first time meeting with President Biden and Vice President Harris.
Secretary of State Anthony Blinken and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin also visited Japan last month. It was their first foreign trip and first in-person talks with foreign counterparts.
President Obama also hosted Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso at the White House on Feb 24, 2009 as his first meeting with a foreign leader.



April 16, 202113:34

POTUS Foreign Pool Report #3 (4/16/21)-PM Suga Arrival 
Japanese Prime Minister Suga's vehicle (black van) arrived at the doors of the West Wing at 1:32 pm
He came out from the vehicle 10 sec later. He was greeted by the Chief of Protocol.
I believe the Presidents (at least in the case of George W. Bush and Barack Obama whom I covered) usually do not greet foreign leaders as they arrive at the West Wing, with the exception of President Trump.
A military honor cordon lined the both sides of the drive way.



April 16, 202115:46

POTUS Foreign Pool Report #4 (4/16/21)-Expanded Bilat 
Pool was led into State Dining Room at 3:08 pm for a pool spray at the top of PM Suga and POTUS expanded bilat meeting.
All officials wore masks.
First POTUS spoke, and PM Suga spoke in Japanese afterward. Please check official transcript.
It was hard to hear, but here is some highlights from PM Suga' remarks.
*Appreciate for having me as the first foreign leader to meet you
*I send my condolences for the loss of the mass shooting in Indianapolis
*The US-Japan relationship is a cornerstone for peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific and the world, and its importance is higher than ever
*Would like to reaffirm the strong tie for the US-Japan alliance
*Would like to discuss various issues from COVID-19 to climate change on US-Japan cooperation to achieve a free and open Indo-Pacific
Both leaders did not respond to shouted questions from the pool.
Your pool was ushered out at 3:12 pm



April 16, 202116:14

POTUS Foreign Pool Report #5 (4/16/21)-More from expanded bilat 
Per the translator in the room, here is an English transcript of PM Suga remarks
Thank you very much. Thank you for accepting me as the first foreign leader under your presidency. My deepest gratitude to you.
And yesterday, there was a shooting in Indianapolis, so I heard, and causing much casualty. I would like to express my condolences to the victims, and my sympathies to the families. Innocent citizens must not be exposed to any such violence.
Freedom, democracy, human rights, and the rule of law, are the universal values that link our alliance that is prevalent in the Indo-Pacific, and this is the very foundation of prosperity and stability of the region and the globe.
And the importance of such values has heightened to unprecedented level. And upon my visit to the United States I wish to reaffirm the new and tight bond between us, and in order to realize a free and open Indo-Pacific, there are many common challenges, as well as emerging global issues, including COVID-19 and climate change.
I wish to spend time with you to again confirm the close ties between our two countries and thank you again for accepting us.



April 16, 202117:39

POTUS Foreign Pool Report #6 (4/16/21)-Joint Presser 
Your pool was led into the Rose Garden at 4:54pm
Your foreign pool had a quick conversation with Kurt Campbell, NSC Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific before the press conference, and he described the meeting as the best and an outstanding one.
The joint press conference was on whitehouse.gov/live
PM Suga took questions about Taiwan, human rights in Xinjiang, Tokyo Olympics, vaccinations, and climate change.
Your pool was ushered out at 5:34 pm



April 16, 202117:40

POTUS Foreign Pool Report #7 (4/16/21)-PM Suga departure 
Japanese Prime Minister Suga departed the White House at 5:38pm.



April 16, 202117:41

POTUS Foreign Pool Report #8 (4/16/21)-Official timeline 
According to the Japanese side, here is the official timeline.
1105-1207: Bilat meeting between PM Suga and VPOTUS
1340-1400: 1:1 bilat meeting between PM Suga and POTUS
1400-1455: Restricted bilat meeting
1508-1613: Expanded bilat meeting
That's it from your foreign pool reporter today.
Have a great weekend to all.




  