
    Prominent Montana leader cites Obama's out-of-touch comments about rural America
BILLINGS, MT - Today, Hillary Clinton received the endorsement of another prominent Montana leader, Yellowstone County Commissioner Bill Kennedy.
"I am honored to have Bill Kennedy in my corner," said Sen. Clinton. "His years spent making Billings and rural Montana a better place to live are commendable. The people of Montana need a plan they can count on, results that can rely on, and a champion they can depend on. I will be that President for them."
"Of the three remaining presidential candidates, it is clear to me that Sen. Clinton best understands the issues facing Yellowstone County, Montana, and rural America," said Kennedy. "She is a leader on providing real solutions for our healthcare system and a long-time advocate for SCHIP which insures thousands of Montana kids. She fought alongside Senator Max Baucus to stop the misguided effort to privatize social security and protect our seniors."
Kennedy said Sen. Obama's remarks last week at a San Francisco fundraiser solidified his support for Sen. Clinton. Speaking about rural voters, Obama told a group of California donors " it's not surprising, then, they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations."
"In Montana; going to church or going hunting is part of our heritage, not something we 'cling to' out of bitterness or frustration," Kennedy said. "Sen. Obama showed a real disconnect with rural Montana. It might work to look down on us from San Francisco, but it won't sell when he comes back to Montana."
Kennedy is past President of the Montana Association of Counties and Chairman of the National Association of Counties Rural Action Caucus. Kennedy has served on the Yellowstone County Commission since 1993, spending much of his time and energy on improving healthcare and infrastructure, improving Yellowstone County's economy and keeping the promise to Montana veterans.
Bill Kennedy was born and raised in Billings; He taught 7th and 8th grades in Colstrip and returned to Billings to teach 7th and 8th grade at the Billings Catholic Schools, he also ran a Family Literacy program for School District 2 in Billings. He is the past parish administrator of St. Thomas Church in Billings.
  