
    WHAT: President Trump has successfully promoted U.S. agriculture and food trade around the world, breaking down barriers to U.S. agricultural exports.
Today, President Trump is announcing that the Administration has finalized technical requirements to allow the export of U.S. pork to Argentina for the first time since 1992. This announcement concludes a process started by the President in April 2017 when he first raised the issue of U.S. pork exports during a meeting with Argentine President Mauricio Macri.
Since the beginning of his Administration, the President has negotiated deals to increase market access for U.S. agriculture around the world. In May 2017, the Trump Administration announced that the European Union agreed to reduce burdensome inspection requirements for U.S. citrus exports. Around the same time, the Trump Administration announced the arrival of U.S. beef in Brazil, the first shipment to the country in 13 years.
Building on that success, the Trump Administration reached agreements opening Vietnam to distillers dried grains for the first time since 2016, Japan to Idaho chipping potatoes for the first time in 11 years, and Korea to poultry for the first time since 2014.
The actions of the Administration will provide U.S. agriculture and food producers with access to markets worth billions in trade.
WHY: President Trump believes that American food producers have not been treated fairly on the international stage and has committed to levelling the playing field for America's farmers.
Throughout his presidency, President Trump has called for better treatment of America's farmers. Countries such as China have not played fairly when it comes to trade in agricultural products. For years, these countries have taken advantage of the U.S. by throwing up barriers to U.S. exports while enjoying the benefits of the U.S. economy uninhibited.
President Trump has vowed to level the playing field. He will work to increase access for our farmers to the international markets that have tried to shut them out, including through trade agreements that break down unfair barriers.
At the same time, the President will not allow farmers to bear the brunt of the trade dispute with China. The President will take strong action to confront those countries who do not treat us fairly and work to get a better deal for American exports. He will continue to seek fairer trade for U.S. products, including agriculture. President Trump will fight for our farmers and level the playing field for U.S. agriculture around the world.
  