
    To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to acceptance, I transmit herewith the Agreement to Promote Compliance With International Conservation and Management Measures by Fishing Vessels on the High Seas, which was adopted at Rome by consensus by the Conference of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization ("FAO") on November 24, 1993.
This Agreement was negotiated largely on the initiative of the United States, in response to the fisheries crises that have arisen in many corners of the world. In my view, it represents a significant breakthrough and offers the international community an opportunity to develop responsible fishing practices on a global basis. The Agreement once implemented, will begin to resolve many of the problems that have undermined the sustainability of high seas fishing resources. By becoming party to this Agreement, the United States would continue to demonstrate its commitment to preserving these resources and the livelihoods that depend on them.
The Agreement sets forth a broad range of obligations for Parties whose fishing vessels operate on the high seas, including the obligation to ensure that such vessels do not undermine international fishery conservation and management measures. Parties must also prohibit their vessels from fishing on the high seas without specific authorization and must take enforcement measures in respect of vessels that contravene requirements flowing from the Agreement.
The Agreement also creates an important role for the FAO as a clearinghouse of data relating to high seas fishing. Through the collection and dissemination of such data, it will be possible to improve our knowledge of all high seas fisheries, which is of critical importance if the international community is to protect these valuable resources successfully.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to the Agreement and give its advice and consent to acceptance.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, April 25, 1994.
  