
    "There are choices in life, and I think it's great. But I also think that if you stay at home and raise five great children, which I immodestly say I have done, why, I think it was worth the trip, and I respect her a lot. And I do also know that you have an opportunity to give back by volunteering, and the Romneys do. That's their background." — First Lady Barbara Bush
"America Live"
Fox News
April 12, 2012
Click Here To Listen To First Lady Barbara Bush
MEGYN KELLY, FOX NEWS: "Another woman who chose to stay at home and raise a family is our former First Lady Barbara Bush. She joins us right now by phone. Mrs. Bush, thank you so much for being here with us."
BARBARA BUSH, FORMER FIRST LADY: "Not at all. Ann Romney spoke so well. I don't need to say anything. But raising five boys [who] are hard-working, decent, honest, giving children is not bad. Plus Ann did choose to stay home with her children, and does a lot of volunteer work. I don't think people are very understanding of the fact that she has MS, works very hard for them. She's had breast cancer and she works very hard for at-risk youth. You know, some people choose to stay at home, raise their children, but some people really aren't built that way, they can do both. But five boys is a handful, trust me. Raising George Walker was not easy."
KELLY: "And as our viewers know, not only were you married to a president, you raised a president, you raised a governor. But I want to ask you about this comment, because this seems to be something that's really struck a chord with a lot of our viewers. This pitting stay-at-home moms against working moms, or the suggestion that if you choose to stay at home and raise your children as you did, that you don't or cannot well understand the plight of working women. Your thoughts on that?"
BUSH: "Well, I think I can understand that, and I was lucky, my husband worked very, very hard, and I could afford to stay home. And I realize it's a luxury, and I know Ann does, too. She is a good friend of mine, but she also knows that it's very important that you give back, and she has and is giving back. I think she is a wonderful woman. And I'm not criticizing Hilary what's her name. I'm being corrected, but whatever her name is..."
KELLY: "Hilary Rosen."
BUSH: "... If Hilary Rosen chose to do it the other way, that's fine. There are choices in life, and I think it's great. But I also think that if you stay at home and raise five great children, which I immodestly say I have done, why, I think it was worth the trip, and I respect her a lot. And I do also know that you have an opportunity to give back by volunteering, and the Romneys do. That's their background. I knew his mother and father. They were the greatest volunteers in the world. He actually started the feeling for George for the Points of Light foundation, which has helped thousands and millions of Americans. So I'm not critical of Hilary, but I'm just sorry that she took a knock at those of us who chose and were able, I must confess, able is a very important part of that, to stay home and take care of their children."
  