
    "If anything, it is President Obama's track record that has sent a message to our friends and allies, be they in governments or be they in dissident movements who want to stand with us, who want to lock arms with us, who are looking to American leadership, who are really left exposed and isolated in a way that I have not seen in American foreign policy history for years." - Dan Senor
Dan Senor, Ambassador Pierre Prosper, and Secretary John Lehman
"President Obama's Failed Foreign Policy" Press Conference Call
April 26, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "President Obama's Failed Foreign Policy" Press Conference Call:
SENOR: "Today Vice President Biden is making remarks in New York City dealing with foreign policy and national security. According to some of the excepts from the speech that we've seen, the Vice President seems to focus on a fantasy narrative, if you will, about the Obama administration's record in improving America's relations in the world, 'repairing' relations with American allies and that Governor Romney would take America's foreign policy and national security strategy back to a period where America's going it alone. And our only reaction to Vice President Biden's characterization of both the administration's track record and the direction Governor Romney would like to take it in is which allies and which friends is he talking about?...So, if anything, it is President Obama's track record that has sent a message to our friends and allies, be they in governments or be they in dissident movements who want to stand with us, who want to lock arms with us, who are looking to American leadership, who are really left exposed and isolated in a way that I have not seen in American foreign policy history for years."
...
AMB. PROSPER: "The Vice President today will say what he claims to be accomplishments but effectively he'll be glossing over all the negotiating failures and missteps that the President... President Obama has shown himself to be ineffective in this area, negotiating many times against himself and many times negotiating from a position of weakness. He's constantly giving while the others take and we get nothing in return. Meanwhile weapons are produced, atrocities are committed, as I said, democracies are being trampled and U.S. influence wanes. The result is that the United States becomes a spectator on issues of national security. We've also been embarrassed by North Korea where, again, it continues to be a conciliatory, leaning forward approach, and yet the North Koreans will launch a missile, surprising the United States, violating their agreement. Russia is another example where we give, Russia gets and we get nothing in return. The United States abandoned its missile defense sites in Poland and Czechoslovakia, yet Russia does nothing but obstruct our efforts in Iran, Syria and, even worse, the President is caught whispering to the Russians regarding the START Treaty, that he'll be more flexible after he's reelected. It'll be interesting to see what that means. What is the greater concession that will be given?"
...
SEC. LEHMAN: "And now the administration, after giving major concessions in the START Treaty, is proposing reductions down to 300 nuclear weapons, which would be absolutely crazy because of the fact that the current disturbers of the peace in the world are thought by the IISS to have over 300 new cells. So for us to, in effect, withdraw the security guarantee of our nuclear umbrella to our allies by even proposing those kinds of numbers is a gross abdication of leadership. So, this is a serious crisis and perhaps could be the central issue in the campaign."
  