
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




April 19, 202108:44

VP Travel Pool #1 - Pool at JBA
Good morning from JBA!
Your pool is tested and waiting for VP Harris’ trip to North Carolina to begin.
Here’s the guidance from the OVP if you missed it:
At 9:25AMEDT, the Vice President will travel to Greensboro and High Point, North Carolina.
At 11:50AM EDT, the Vice President will deliver remarks on the American Jobs Plan at Guilford Technical Community College.
At 2:30PM EDT, the Vice President will tour Thomas Built Buses, a manufacturer of electric school buses, which are a pillar of the American Jobs Plan’s investment in electric vehicles.



April 19, 202109:25

VP Travel Pool #2 - Helicopter landed/ staff list
Hey there,
The VP’s helicopter just landed. VP’s office says the EPA Administrator is traveling with her and below is some of the staff traveling with the VP:
Tina FlournoySymone SandersKate Childs GrahamHope HallVincent EvansHernia ZiskendIke IrbyHope HallOpal Vadhan
We are back on the plane. Wheels up momentarily.



April 19, 202109:40

VP Travel Report #3 - wheels up and FIX
Autocorrect is not my friend - name of staffer should be HERBIE Ziskend and EPA Administrator Regan will meet her in NC.
Also: The VP was greeted by Lt. C. Tara Opielowski, Deputy Commander of the 89th Airlift Support Group
Wheels up at 9:39. Flight is 1 hour and five minutes.



April 19, 202110:36

VP Travel pool #4 - Landed in NC
After a bit of a bumpy flight, AF2 landed at Piedmont Travel Airport at 10:30 in NC.
The VP’s Personal Aide Opal Vadham came back to say hi. (She says if she’s ever in your shot, just give her a wave and she will jump out as quickly as she can.)



April 19, 202110:50

VP travel Pool #5 - loaded and rolling to speech
Hi there!
The VP came off the plane and was greeted at the airport by:
- Administrator Michael Regan, Environmental Protection Agency- Governor Roy Cooper- Congresswoman Kathy Manning
They bumped elbows and chatted for a few minutes. Pool was under the wing of AF2 and couldn't hear. We are now rolling to Guillory Technical Community College where the VP will give a speech on the American Jobs Plan.
Motorcade rolled at 10:49.
Excerpts of the speech from OVP:"It will be the largest jobs investment our country has made since World War II. And it's not just about jobs. It's about good jobs. But I want to break down what I mean by a "good job". In the 21st century. In America.
I believe you shouldn't have to work more than one job to pay your bills and feed your family. One good job should be enough. At a good job, you shouldn't have to worry about your safety at work. At a good job, you shouldn't have to go into debt for a diploma that promises a decent paycheck.
It's pretty simple: A good job allows people the freedom to build the life you want.
To reach as high as you want.
To aspire.
Good jobs are what the President and I will create with the American Jobs Plan."



April 19, 202111:27

VP travel Pool #6 - arrived, event started
Arrived at 11:11 at Guilford Technical Community College. We are in the pre-program remarks section. Room picture is attached. We're surrounded by machinery. Picture attached because I don't know machinery.
There are about 30 people in seats. Working to find out who is in the chairs. The event is being live-streamed on the White House YouTube channel.
On background from OVP:Harris' "first extended econ speech at the Center for Advanced Manufacturing at Guilford Technical Community College. The purpose of the speech is to focus on what President Biden and Vice President Harris have accomplished in the first 90 days, why the AJP is critical to creating an economy that works for all Americans, and lay out a vision for how the AJP invests in creating good jobs – good jobs are jobs empowering workers, paying a good wage, and offering the chance to do meaningful and purposeful work rebuilding our economy."
https://twitter.com/eugenedaniels2/status/1384170428608876557?s=21 



April 19, 202111:59

VP Travel pool #7 - color from event
Harris walked on stage at 11:
Between each speaker, an aide wipes off the lectern. Before Harris went on, the seal was affixed to the front. There’s some jazzy music that is being played between each speaker.
The VP was introduced by Vanessa Keshguerian. She has on a blue shirt sleeve dress shirt, she will be the first generation college graduate when in her family when she graduates in May. She has a short haircut with purple hair.
There’s a crowd of 40 composed of local electeds, statewide electeds, students and college officials.A glass of water with a straw was put on a little table to the right (when facing the audience) of the lectern.
She thanked Vanessa and shouted out Regan and Cooper.
Again, you can watch on the WH YouTube page.



April 19, 202112:13

VP Travel pool #8 - holding after speech
Speech ended at 12:06. VP walker to her left and out of sight.
Pool is currently holding in a classroom with desks and a projector. Not sure how long but will update when we’re on the move.



April 19, 202113:33

VP Travel #9 - Back in motorcade, headed to second event
The pool was held in a classroom for a little over an hour while the VP did a photo line. We had some BBQ for lunch.
We're now back in the motorcade headed to the tour part of the trip. From the OVP so you don't have to dig through emails.
The VP will "participate in a walking tour of the Thomas Built Buses (TBB) manufacturing plant in High Point, NC to drive the message that the American Jobs Plan (AJP) would provide $20 billion to electrify school buses, creating good jobs like the ones at this plant."
Motorcade rolled out at 1:32.



April 19, 202113:57

VP travel pool #10 — Arrival at plant
Pool arrived at 1:46. There are dozens of electric buses outside of the facility.
The VP will get a tour of the facility with:

Administrator Michael Regan, Environmental Protection Agency
Governor Roy Cooper
Congressman David Price (NC-04)
Mayor Jay Wagner (High Point, NC)
Leslie Kilgore, VP of Engineering
Cameron Essex, Plant Supervisor
Mark Ward, Plant Manager
Mark Childers, Powertrain Technology Sales Manager
John O’Leary, CEO of Daimler Trucks North America

Fair warning: it’s pretty loud in here so not sure how much we will be able to hear when the VP is on the tour.


April 19, 202114:45

VP travel pool 11 - tour has begun
The tour has started. List of participants is in previous email.
Will send color after tour.



April 19, 202115:23

VP travel report #12 - Color and quotes from your
This is long. Sorry I'm advance.
Supervisor of the plant greets her when she walks in. He explained to VP Harris the beginning process of building the buses. Pool was moved before we could hear their full conversation.
The VP then moved over to a different section to meet up with Mark Ward, the manager where he explained how the body of the electric bus (the big yellow part) gets attached. Couldn't really hear through masks but the VP asked questions while Ward explained how the seats get attached, the body gets fastened, etc.
The pool then moved outside where all of the electric vehicles were held. One bus was plugged into a white and green charging station. Mark Childers says it takes 3 hours to fully charge the bus. The bus is named the Jooley. The charge can last a full day depending on routes.
No charging stations are at the schools yet.
What's required for a traditional school bus driver to drive these. Childers says it's not a lot of work to switch over. Says the drivers have raved about it.
"School bus drivers at every special people."Says she remembers her bus drivers. "They are very much a part of the educational ecosystem."
Btw, the bus is on and completely silent. Can't hear a thing.
Harris: "You guys are a model of what our country is capable of doing."
She asks how much does it normally cost to fill up a traditional school bus. Mark says "On an average of 15 years, $85,000 of fuel costs."
She points out "not to mention the costs associated with the fumes, with the exhaust." He agrees.
Harris on yellow color: "There's just so much nostalgia about the yellow school bus. Your gone to this new technology but you kept the yellow bus. That's very special."
Says The President knew she was coming out and said he would love to be here too.
Harris: "This Thomas bus is a model for the country and the world on what is possible."
Says it's a public health issue because of fumes kids inhale, the emissions it emits and the cost savings of the electric buses.
The Republican Mayor of Hawthorne thanks Harris for coming. Thank you so much for coming and passes it to Gov. Cooper.
Regan thanks Gov. Cooper for his leadership and Harris' goals of electrifying and cleaning up schools.
She answered a couple of questions right after. Working on quotes now.



April 19, 202116:01

VP travel pool #13 - full quotes from Harris
The previous email should say "Sorry in advance" for the length. The motorcade was holding and is now rolling as of 3:59
VP took two questions after speaking. One on Northern Triangle work and one on vaccine hesitancy.
Full quotes below.
On Northern Triangle: So, we are making progress but let's just be very clear that this is a complicated, complex issue that actually has been an issue for a long time, and the work that we are putting into it now is work that is going to require a long standing commitment beyond administrations. It is work that is not going to evidence its impact overnight because the issues are so intractable and we're looking at my focus which is a diplomatic focus on the Northern Triangle, it is about bringing together as I did the members of the cabinet.
And the progress there is that Commerce is going to host a virtual trade mission. The Department of Agriculture under the leadership of Secretary Vilsack is increasing its focus on the work that needs to happen to support the agricultural efforts of that region that have been decimated because of extreme climate because of poverty but it's evidenced itself in a number of ways including stream food insecurity.
We're bringing together USAID, which is increasing its work around its program that is focused on disaster relief. So this is some of the work that's happening as you know I met last week with the Prime Minister of Japan in approached him about the work that Japan can do in growth to assist. We are also working through the UN, with Ambassador Thomas Greenfield around bringing our allies, to really renew a focus in that region. So it is something that is going to require diplomatic work, it is something that is going to require a multilateral approach, in addition to what we can do with our agencies.
This week I'm bringing together foundation leaders from across our country to really encourage them to do more in terms of the civil society piece of this, which will be about both growing the work that they've already done historically, but also engaging civil society in the region in the Northern Triangle.
On Vaccine Hesitancy:We have to take seriously the vaccine hesitancy issue. And I will argue however that we need to do that and always couple that with what we need to do to make sure people have access and they know where to actually get the vaccine because I'm finding as many people want to take it as just need to figure out where they can get i.
And by the way today as you all know April 19 we now have opened it up for everyone, everyone is eligible over the age of 16. In terms of the hesitancy issue it's real. So that is about continuing to do the work of reminding folks that it is safe, that it is effective that it will save their lives, reminding folks that it is not enough to get vaccinated, we also want to make sure people continue to wear their masks, social distance wash their hands.
But you know, we also have to realize that part of the hesitancy, I'm hearing more of this comes from the fact that some people think, well, this thing just got created too quickly. Like, it just overnight, it seems to have occurred well we have to correct the record and make people aware, and Dr. Fauci has talked about this, this vaccine is the product of a long period of extensive research over many many years. So, this is the work we have to do which is to educate people about the effectiveness specifically as it relates to the J&J vaccine. I know the CDC has information on their website for people who are concerned, but the reality is that at least right now and I believe that all of the scientists and the public health experts are telling us it has affected a very very small fraction of those who have received it, and the most important thing again is that everyone gets the vaccine when it's their turn. We remain committed to the fact that we will have enough vaccines in the United States by the first of May to vaccinate everyone. And so we want to encourage everyone to do their part, and to get their vaccine.



April 19, 202116:40

VP Travel pool #14 - Suprise stop - Woolworth's
Pool pulled up around 4:23 to International Civil Rights Center & Museum. This is the museum that was built around the original Woolworth's building.
From their website: The original Woolworth's building has been rehabilitated and turned into the International Civil Rights Center & Museum. The museum's mission is to commemorate the A&T Four and their role in launching the sit-in movement that inspired peaceful direct-action demonstrations across the country. The seats and counter remain in the building in their original footprint. The museum includes exhibits and videos about the A&T Four and the greater American Civil Rights Movement, and guided tours are available.
Harris walked in and could be heard greeting staff members on her way in. She was greeted by four members of staff. (Their names are below). She asked where Rosa Parks sat and says she wants to sit there and sits down. (She met Parks before she passed away). Staff members are explaining the history behind the sit-ins, the chairs, etc.
She points out a picture of John Lewis that's on the wall before going under a sign that said "Colored Entrance" from the old train station per a museum staffer. The room is full of memorabilia from the Civil Rights Museum.
Tour participants:Marvin Skip Alston-Guilford County Board of CommissionersReverend Anthony SpearmanLaTonya Wiley-museum tour guideJohn Swain-Museum director
Pool is now back in motorcade and waiting to roll back to the airport.



April 19, 202116:51

CORRECTION for VP travel pool #14
One correction on tour from OVP — MELVIN Skip Alston-Guilford County Board of Commissioners



April 19, 202117:19

VP Travel pool #15 — wheels up
After an uneventful ride from the museum, the motorcade made it back to the airport. The VP walked up the stairs, waved and headed just after 5 PM.
Wheels up at 5:18. Flight is about an hour.
See y’all back in DC!



April 19, 202118:21

VP Travel Pool #16- that's a wrap!
After a much smoother flight than this morning AF2 landed around 6:07 and Harris got on Marine Two seven minutes later.
She came down the stairs and saluted her greeter.
That’s all from me y’all. Have a good night and good week.




  