
    Pool Reports by Peter Baker, New York Times



Sent:
Reports:




April 16, 202011:47 

Pool Report #1
We have a lunch lid until 1:15 p.m.



April 16, 202012:34 

Pool Report #2
The White House passes along this readout for the president's G7 call this morning:
Today, President Donald J. Trump chaired a videoconference with the leaders of the Group of Seven (G7) countries. The leaders reviewed the coordinated efforts to jointly combat the COVID-19 pandemic since their last meeting on March 16, 2020, and discussed next steps to restore health, safety, and prosperity.
G7 leaders agreed to remain committed to taking every necessary measure to ensure a strong and coordinated global response to this health crisis and the associated humanitarian and economic calamity and to launch a strong and sustainable recovery. The leaders recognized that the G7 nations annually contribute more than a billion dollars to the World Health Organization (WHO), and much of the conversation centered on the lack of transparency and chronic mismanagement of the pandemic by the WHO. The leaders called for a thorough review and reform process.
G7 leaders also discussed efforts to pool their research and talent to combat COVID-19 by sharing all relevant epidemiologic data and emerging best practices, making research data and results publicly available, and providing access to the world's most powerful supercomputing resources. Going forward, G7 leaders tasked their ministers to work together to prepare all G7 economies to re-open safely and on a foundation that will allow the G7 nations to reestablish economic growth with more resilient health systems and trusted supply chains.



April 16, 202014:29 

Pool Report #3
The White House passes this along:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks celebrating all of America's truckers who are answering the call to action to transport supplies across the country. This event will highlight the great work of our truckers and thank them for their continued dedication to keeping America moving.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpTim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison
Trump AdministrationSecretary Elaine L. Chao, U.S. Department of Transportation
External ParticipantsChris Spear, CEO, American Trucking AssociationsStephen Richardson, Truck Driver, American Trucking AssociationsDylan Madigan, Truck Driver, DHLTina Peterson, Truck Driver, FedExCharlton Paul, Truck Driver, UPS



April 16, 202015:17 

Pool Report #4
Truckers event
POTUS led a short ceremony on the South Lawn to honor truckers who continue to make their runs during the pandemic. Lined up along the White House driveway were four trucks from FedEx, UPS, DHL and the American Trucking Associations. Four drivers and Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao joined POTUS, who gave a loving pat to one of the trucks as he emerged from the Diplomatic Entrance to kick off the event at 2:28 p.m.
It is a sunny but chilly spring day around 54 degrees and this time POTUS wore his dark overcoat. He was positioned dozens of yards away from the press but stood close to the secretary and drivers. A voice coming from a loudspeaker evidently in front of the White House could be heard.
“In the war against the virus, American truckers are thefoot soldiers who are really carrying us to victory,” he said.
“Thank God for truckers,” he said. “That'll be our theme: Thank God for truckers.”
He added that he knew the industry through his past work in business. “I've had many a concrete truck in New York delivering to my buildings.”
It is a sunny but chilly spring day around 54 degrees and this time POTUS wore his dark overcoat. He was positioned dozens of yards away from the press but stood close to the secretary and drivers. A voice coming from a loudspeaker evidently in front of the White House could be heard.
POTUS invited Secretary Chao to say a few words. “The whole country is cheering you on,” she said, addressing truckers. “Without you, it would be impossible to keep our economy moving and get medical equipment and essential supplies to where they need to be.” She added: “You are truly America's heroes.”
Each of the four truck drivers then said a few sentences and were presented ceremonial keys by POTUS.
He said little of substance other than to note that he will be releasing a plan to reopen the country later in the day and will preview it in a call with the governors. “I think they'll be very happy with what we're doing,” he said. “They want to win this war and we're going to win it.”
He pointed out that the Payroll Protection program had run out of money and needed to be replenished and said again that he hopes to work with Democrats on a $2 trillion infrastructure program that would please the truckers. “If we can get some Democrat support, you're going to have nice roads again,” he said.
He noted that truck drivers were considered essential workers, then mused on his own designation. “I don't know if they call me essential,” he said.
He looked ahead to the day when the economy would be running again. “Once we get going, the truckers are going to be working so hard you're not going to be able to take a day of rest in between, maybe a couple of hours,” he said. He added, “I know plenty of truckers. They're great people.”
He praised Secretary Chao for doing an “incredible job” and gave her one of the keys as well.
As he departed, he ignored a question asking him to preview his reopening plan.



April 16, 202018:08 

Pool Report #5
POTUS came into the briefing room and began at 6:06 p.m. As always, it's being broadcast and live-streamed, so will send along any color that might not be visible.



April 16, 202019:24 

Pool Report #6
POTUS ended the briefing at 7:18 p.m. What you might not have been able to see is Jon Karl asked VPOTUS on the way out about Kroger Stores asking that grocery workers be classified as secondary first responders for purposes of priority getting masks and other PPE. VPOTUS said they were working with all the food suppliers, without directly answering.
White House has promised to provide the slides soon and will pass them along when we get them.



April 16, 202019:32 

Pool Report #7 -- lid
We got a photo/travel lid at 7:31 p.m.
Good night everyone!



April 16, 202019:48

Pool Report #8
Here are the slides. Good night again.
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/Guidelines-for-Ope...




  