
    
  Is the world safer because Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State? No.

HOUSTON, Texas — Today U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, issued the following statement in reaction to the announcement that Hillary Clinton is running for President:
"Hillary Clinton just announced what we've known for a long time — she's running for president, again. But the good news is that we're ready for Hillary — we know exactly what to expect.
"Hillary Clinton represents the failed policies of the past and there's going to be a very clear choice to make in 2016. Does America want a third Obama term or are we ready for strong conservative leadership to make America great again?
"Her announcement raises a critical question: Is the world a safer place because Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State?
"The answer is obvious. No. The Obama-Clinton national security policies have made the world more dangerous for America and for our allies.
"She designed and implemented 'leading from behind.' On her watch we have witnessed the rise of Russia, Iran, and ISIS. Radical Islamic terrorists are on the march. Here at home, the Obama-Clinton economic policies have made life harder and harder for millions of hard-working Americans.
"We know that a Hillary Clinton Administration would be no different than an Obama Administration.
"Obamacare, amnesty, and the ongoing assault on our constitutional rights would continue. Our rights to religious liberty, to free speech, and to keep and bear arms would continue to be threatened by the federal government. There would be more scandals, more corruption, more lawlessness, and more abuse of power.
"The American people have had enough. I believe now, more than ever, is a time for truth.
"It is time to champion the rights of the American people, and to defend America's sovereignty and the Constitution.
"Courageous conservatives can and will reignite the promise of America. Together we're going to win. We're going to restore freedom and the Constitution and make America great again."
In addition, Sen. Cruz also released the following video on Facebook and Twitter:


  