
    Pool Reports by Brian Bennett, TIME Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




April 5, 202110:50

In town pool report #1 - checking in
Greetings from a sunny, spring day at the White House. Temperatures are in the 60s.
President Biden started the day at Camp David and is scheduled to arrive aboard Marine One at the Ellipse around 11:30 am. (The arrival today is not on the South Lawn.)
At 1 pm, Biden is scheduled to give remarks on the "tradition of Easter at the White House" from the Blue Room balcony. There's a press briefing with White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki scheduled for 1:30 pm.



April 5, 202111:56

In town pool report #2 - Biden arrival, brief comments
Marine One touched down on wide flat lawn of the Ellipse at 11:41 am.
President Biden walked out with the First Lady and Biden walked over to talk to the press. He started talking about his infrastructure proposal and took issue with Republicans saying there were things in there not related to infrastructure. He said that clean water is infrastructure, investing in schools is infrastructure, high speed rail is infrastructure. "That's infrastructure," he said.
"I'm going to push as hard as I can," Biden said.
"Everybody else in the rest of the world is investing in infrastructure and we're going to do it here."
Biden answered a question about the corporate tax rate and defended his position on raising it. He spoke for about 2 or 3 minutes then turned and stepped into the black limousine behind him.
It was hard to hear over the helicopter noise. Will send more fuller quotes soonest.
From the White House press office --
Returning with the President: 
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffYohannes Abraham, Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary for the National Security CouncilAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



April 5, 202112:26

In town pool report #3 - Biden quotes from arrival 
Here are fuller quotes from Biden's arrival on the Ellipse.
Biden walked off Marine One and talked over to the press pool waiting behind barricades near his limousine.
Biden: "Let me say something."
"It's kind of interesting. When the Republicans put forward an infrastructure plan, they thought everything from broadband to other things were worth paying for infrastructure."
"When you're in a situation where you can't turn on a water fountain in school because the water affects your health, that's infrastructure. I'm talking about making sure we take asbestos out of schools, that's infrastructure. I'm talking about building high speed rail, that's infrastructure. I'm talking about making sure we are in a situation where we can redo federal buildings that are absolutely leaking energy every single day, that's infrastructure, in addition to roads and bridges and broadband."
Talking about Republicans: "They know we need it."
Question: Are you worried that a higher tax will drive corporations away from the country?
Biden: "Not at all." "There's no evidence of that." "Tax was 36 percent. Now it's down to 21 percent." (He mentioned his proposed rate of 28 percent, the exact words were hard to hear.)
"You're talking about companies in the Fortune 500 that haven't paid a single penny in tax for 3 years. Come on man."
Question: Where is there room to negotiate with Republicans given that your definitions of infrastructure are so different?
Biden: "Well, I'm not going to negotiate with you on that." "I'm going to push as hard as I can, to compete with the rest of the world." "Everybody else in the rest of the world is investing billions and billions of dollars in infrastructure and we're going to do it here. Thank you."
Biden then turned to get into the limousine. He didn't answer a shouted question about whether he was concerned about a fourth wave in the coronavirus pandemic.
As always, please check quotes against transcript.



April 5, 202112:29

In town pool report #4 - CSPAN video link to arrival remarks, gathering for Easter remarks 
Pool is gathering for Biden's scheduled 1 pm remarks on Easter traditions at the White House.
Here's the link to the CSPAN video of Biden's remarks at the Marine One arrival:
https://www.c-span.org/video/?510545-1/president-biden-speaks-reporters-...



April 5, 202112:48

In town pool report #5 - no news. Easter remarks background info, photo
President Biden is scheduled to give remarks at 1 pm from the Blue Room balcony about White House Easter traditions, such as the Easter egg roll, which was cancelled this year. (More details from the White House below.)
The south portico is decorated with large painted cutouts of rabbits and chicks (all painted wearing protective masks.) The steps are covered in fake grass. At around 12:45 pm, a breeze blew over a largr brown rabbit and a grey rabbit. (White House staff are working to secure them.)
Joe Biden and Jill Biden's signatures are on a couple large egg shaped cut outs. Champ and majors paw prints are on two others. I'll attach a photo of the set up.
On background from the White House:
The White House Easter Egg Roll is an annual event for participants to enjoy festivities on the South Lawn and celebrate the beginning of spring. This year marks the 143rd year of the Easter Egg Roll tradition, which began in 1878. This event is designed for families with children ages 13 and under, with over 30,000 tickets normally distributed.
Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the White House Easter Egg Roll has been canceled for this year. To spread Easter cheer safely this year, The President and the First Lady distributed wooden souvenir Easter Eggs to vaccination sites across the nation and local hospitals. 
Participants

The President
The First Lady
The Easter Bunny – is a mythical woodland creature best known for distributing candy, toys and eggs to children around Easter. This year, Lt. Col. Brandon Westling, United States Air Force Military Aide to the President will play the role of the Easter Bunny.




April 5, 202113:30

In town pool report #6 no news. Biden remarks on Easter traditions at the White House
President Biden, First Lady Jill Biden walked out of the White House onto the Blue Room balcony at 1:07 pm. With them was Lt. Col. Brandon Westling dressed head-to-toe as the Easter Bunny wearing a large maroon-colored mask.
Biden: "Jill and I want to thank you for joining us today and we have a special guest, as you can see to my left here."
"Easter is a day of joy where we celebrate resurrection and renewal but this year we know many people are still going without the many comforts of the season. The virus is not gone. And the second year in a row most will be apart from their family and friends and a full congregation that goes with so much joy."
"Scripture tells us joy cometh in the morning. As we celebrate the renewal of this season we know that longed for dawn is almost here. We will rebuild our nation. We will remake and reimagine what we can be."
"We will look forward to next year when the White House will bring join to the season once again and there will be an Easter egg roll. God willing."
"May God protect our troops and take care of the Easter bunny."
Biden then stepped aside so the Easter Bunny could stand between him and the First Lady, in front of the microphone and behind the Presidential seal. The First Lady picked a flower from the balcony arrangement and handed it to the bunny.



April 5, 202114:38

In town pool report #7 - no news. briefing over 
Briefing ended at 2:29 pm.
(Someone wearing an Easter Bunny costume came into the press room at around 2:24 pm. The bunny was wearing a maroon protective mask and carrying a basket of White House commemorative eggs and chocolates. "We have a special guest," Psaki said. One reporter asked if this was the same costume Sean Spicer wore when he dressed as the Easter Bunny. "It does not look similar," Psaki said, but said she would have to check.)



April 5, 202115:26

In town pool report #8 - lid 
The White House called a lid at 3:16 pm.
Also, here is an update on the White House bunny costumes from the White House press shop --->
For those who have asked:
There are two bunny costumes. Sean Spicer wore a different suit than the bunny who visited the Brady Press Briefing Room today. There are indeed longer lashes on the bunny who visited the Briefing Room today.




  