
    President Biden's Investing in America Agenda is Unleashing a Manufacturing and Clean Energy Boom and Accelerating the Production of Affordable Electric Vehicles
As part of President Biden's goal of having 50 percent of all new vehicle sales be electric by 2030, the White House is announcing the first set of public and private commitments to support America's historic transition to electric vehicles (EV) under the EV Acceleration Challenge. These commitments are part of President Biden's Investing in America agenda to spur domestic manufacturing, strengthen supply chains, boost U.S. competitiveness and create good-paying jobs. Because of President Biden's leadership and historic investments, electric vehicle sales have tripled and the number of publicly available charging ports has grown by over 40 percent since he took office. There are now more than three million EVs on the road and over 135,000 public EV chargers across the country.
President Biden's Inflation Reduction Act adds and expands tax credits for purchases of new and used EVs—helping bring the benefits of clean energy to communities across the nation. The law also provides incentives to electrify heavy-duty vehicles like clean school buses, and includes support for the installation of residential, commercial, and municipal EV charging infrastructure. These incentives complement investments from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and other federal initiatives that are spurring the domestic manufacturing of EVs and batteries and the development of a national EV charging network that provides access to low income and disadvantaged communities.
These incentives will lower the cost of EVs and EV charging infrastructure; increase consumer demand and competition; promote equity and inclusion; and accelerate the growth of the EV market. They are creating good-paying manufacturing jobs in America building EVs, bringing supply chains home, and unleashing unprecedented private sector investments—with more than $100 billion already announced for battery manufacturing alone. The White House announced the EV Acceleration Challenge to bring a clean, safe, affordable, and reliable transportation future to Americans even faster.
Today companies and nonprofits including Blink Charging, the National Automobile Dealers Association, Pacific Gas & Electric, Uber, ZipCar and others, are announcing new commitments to expand EV fleets, increase consumer education, and grow the availability of EV charging.
ACCELERATING THE EV TRANSITION 
The Biden-Harris Administration's Investing in America agenda has spurred public and private sector commitments to accelerate the transition to electric vehicles. State and local governments are also leveraging federal funds to expand electrification of their vehicle fleets. These announcements build on the EV charging network expansion and manufacturing announcements highlighted by the White House in February, which will add more than 100,000 public chargers across the country. Announcements being spotlighted today fall into four categories: Consumer Education and Support, Tools and Resources, EV Fleet Expansion, and Community Charging: Commercial and Multifamily:
Fleet Expansion

Uber is committing to reach 400 million EV miles driven on its platform in the U.S. by the end of 2023 by distributing resources through its Green Future program to help hundreds of thousands of drivers transition to EVs and through its partnerships with automakers, rental companies, and charging companies.


Zipcar is committing to allocate 25% of its electric vehicles to disadvantaged communities in 2023.


Redwood Materials is committed to scaling production of critical battery components in the U.S., with the goal of powering 5 million EVs by 2030 and will use recycled content from end-of-life batteries to achieve this target, including end-of-life EVs and consumer rechargeable lithium-ion devices and batteries.


Highland Electric Fleets, a full-service fleet electrification company, is committing to help 1,000 North American school districts, including those in historically underserved communities, improve student and community health by electrifying their school bus fleets by 2030.


Xcel Energy and Colorado Car Share are committing to launch an electric car sharing program for underserved and high emissions communities in Colorado by the end of 2023.


Ceres is committing to support the 32+ major global and U.S. member companies of its Corporate Electric Vehicle Alliance in transitioning to EVs by: 1) developing a resource for companies to promote sustainable EV supply chain practices and 2) providing a platform for peer-to-peer dialogue on commercial fleet electrification best practices by the end of 2023.


World Resources Institute's Electric School Bus Initiative is committing to expand its toolkit in May with the launch of a Total Cost of Ownership tool designed to help estimate the lifetime cost of electric school bus ownership, and an updated Market Report & Buyer's Guide for fleet owners transitioning to electric school buses.


Revel is committing to expand its all-electric, all-employee rideshare fleet from 200 to 500 EVs by June 2023 and to open the first public fast charging site in Harlem, as part of the company's goal to triple public fast charging access for all New Yorkers over the next year.


The City of Madison is committing to convert 100% of the gas vehicles (900) in its fleet to electric vehicles by 2030.


Broken Arrow Neighbors (BAN) is committing to replace 100% of its cargo vehicles (4) which pickup 52 times per week the food given to BAN's neighbors in need with EV cargo vans by 2023.

Community Charging: Commercial and Multifamily

Blink Charging is committing to invest $49 million to increase its manufacturing capacity in Bowie, Maryland from 10,000 to 40,000 chargers per year by 2024.


Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) and Ecology Action are committing to directly install approximately 2,000 electric vehicle (EV) charging ports at no cost to customers at approximately 450 multifamily properties and small businesses in underserved communities by 2025 to increase access to charging and EV adoption.


We Realize Inc. is committing to add over 200,000 electric semi-truck Level 2 and DC Fast charging stations to its to its nationwide network by 2030.


The National EV Charging Initiative, a coalition of business, labor, government and non-profits organized by the Natural Resources Defense Council, is committing to launch its Energize! campaign on May 15 to stretch federal funding for EV charging further by securing complementary state, utility, and private investments and policies that also speed the energization of charging stations for cars, trucks, and buses.


This June, EPRI is committing to launch "EVs2Scale2030", a new three-year initiative to mobilize 500 industry stakeholders including, utilities, vehicle manufacturers, fleet operators, and charging providers, to ready the grid and accelerate the charging infrastructure needed to support the large-scale electrification of transportation.


itselectric is committing to install 100 curbside Level 2 chargers in cities across the U.S. to focus on charging infrastructure for drivers without dedicated off-street parking by the end of 2023.


TeraWatt Infrastructure is developing a network of high-powered charging centers for electric fleets and committing to deliver one terawatt-hour of charging for light-, medium- and heavy-duty vehicles by 2025, which is equivalent to powering over 160,000 homes for a year.


Smart Charge America is committing to install over 140,000 Level 2 chargers by 2030.


Sustainable CT is committing to provide matching funds for a dozen community-led EV infrastructure and EV procurement projects in 2023 across Connecticut through its Community Match Fund.


Span.IO, Inc., a climate technology company enabling consumer electrification through its products and services commits to tripling the number of EV home charger installs by 2024.


Virginia Clean Cities' Mid-Atlantic Partnership is committing to deploying 375 public charging stations in Virginia, DC, Maryland, and West Virginia by the end of 2024, including public charging in rural and underserved communities.


Qmerit is committing to aid 100 companies in electrifying their fleets through installation of home and workplace charging and to help 500 companies deploy EV charging for their employees or customers by the end of 2023.

Consumer Education and Support

Generation180, a clean energy nonprofit organization, and REVERB.org will partner on Dave Matthews Band's Summer Tour in a commitment to launch the National Going Electric Pledge campaign to inspire all Americans to make their next vehicle electric.


Lucid is committing over the next 8 months to demonstrate the Lucid Air's 500+ mile range in the 42-city Dream Ahead Tour to show Americans how efficient electric vehicles can provide consumers the range they need while using less energy and reducing costs.


Avanza EV, a new national initiative by Citizen Energy, is committing to deploy chargers and bilingual EV education in at least 1,500 low-income majority Latino multifamily housing communities and engage at least 400,000 families by 2028.


Climate Power is committing to educate over 1 million people about EVs through its influencer network by June 2024.


Sierra Club, a grassroots environmental organization with millions of members and supporters, is committing to empower its network of advocates with campaign resources to leverage new federal and state investments for accelerating the adoption of electric cars, trucks, transit buses, school buses, bikes and more, with a focus on the communities most harmed by air pollution.


The Electric Vehicle Association is committing to host over 500 EV Events in 2023, with events in every state providing information from actual EV owners on how easy, economical, and amazing it is to drive electric.


Drive Clean Colorado, a Clean Cities Coalition, is committing to deliver EV ride & drives to 5,000 Coloradans in 2023, with a focus on underserved and disproportionately affected communities.


Drive Clean Indiana, in collaboration with the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) and eight state utility partners, is committing to launch GoEVIN, a new statewide education, outreach, and marketing campaign that will reach Hoosiers to support deployment of EV Charging Infrastructure in late-Spring to early-Summer 2023.

Tools and Resources 

National Automobile Dealers Association (NADA) and Center for Sustainable Energy are committing to launch online dealer training in 2023 that will be available to over 180,000 salespeople at NADA's 16,000+ member dealers to help them master the nuances of selling electric vehicles and accelerate mass-market EV adoption.


Exelon, the nation's largest utility serving over 10 million customers in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest, is committing to expand its customer-facing tools and resources in the second half of 2023 by offering a comprehensive fleet electrification assessment service through its EVsmart Program designed to help customers and businesses navigate vehicle electrification, create fleet electrification plans, and estimate total costs of ownership savings.


WEX, payment solution provider for more than a half of a million commercial fleet operators in the U.S., is committing to launch a free tool to predict savings generated by converting to electric vehicles as well as an innovative solution to reimburse employees who charge their commercial fleet vehicles at home.


The County of Los Angeles is committing to accelerate equitable EV adoption by expanding multi-lingual access to its Electrifyze.la EV education platform to support underserved communities in conjunction with an infrastructure goal of 10,000 charging stations at County facilities by 2030 including in the near term, 150 stations at public housing sites and 120 at multi-family housing sites by 2024.


Southeast Electric Transportation Regional Initiative (Duke University, Georgia Tech, and partner organizations) is committing to launch a public-facing web portal this spring that will identify, aggregate, and increase visibility of active federal, state, university, and other private and public sector funding, business, and engagement opportunities for electric vehicles and charging stations in the region.

In addition, the following two announcements were made recently as part of the EV Acceleration Challenge:
Community Charging: Commercial and Multifamily

Enel X Way is committing to sell over 2,000,000 EV chargers in North America by 2030, including over 10,000 public DC fast charging stations, and is also committing to enter the North American EV public charging station market in 2023.


· Walmart is committing to install new electric vehicle fast-charging stations at thousands of Walmart and Sam's Club locations across the country by 2030.

Today's announcements build on previous commitments that have been announced since March 8, 2023. The full list of announcements can be found here.
The EV Acceleration Challenge is accepting submissions on a rolling basis. The White House will be highlighting additional commitments.
Organizations can submit a commitment on the EV Acceleration Challenge landing page.
  