
    L. D. Britt, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for the remainder of the term expiring May 1, 2005, vice John F. Potter.
William C. De La Pena, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for a term expiring June 20, 2007, vice Robert E. Anderson, term expired.
Vinicio E. Madrigal, of Louisiana, to be a Member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for a term expiring June 20, 2003, vice Carol Johnson Johns.
Linda J. Stierle, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for a term expiring May 1, 2007, vice Shirley Ledbetter Jones.
Randy Paul Ely, of Texas, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Texas for the term of four years, vice D. W. Bransom, Jr., term expired.
Thomas M. Fitzgerald, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Pennsylvania for the term of four years, vice Frank Policaro, Jr., term expired.
Walter Lukken, of Indiana, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2005, vice David D. Spears, term expired.
James E. McMahon, of South Dakota, to be United States Attorney for the District of South Dakota for the term of four years, vice Karen Elizabeth Schreier, resigned.
Stephen Robert Monier, of New Hampshire, to be United States Marshal for the District of New Hampshire for the term of four years, vice Raymond Gerard Gagnon, term expired.
Ruben Monzon, of Texas, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Texas for the term of four years, vice Hiran Arthur Contreras, term expired.
Gary Edward Shovlin, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for the term of four years, vice Alan D. Lewis.
David William Thomas, of Delaware, to be United States Marshal for the District of Delaware for the term of four years, vice Timothy Patrick Mullaney, Sr., term expired.
Jose Gerardo Troncoso, of Nevada, to be United States Marshal for the District of Nevada for the term of four years. (Reappointment)
  