
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Arthur Darrow Baylor, of Alabama, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Alabama for the term of four years, vice Jesse Seroyer, Jr.
Michael Robert Bladel, of Iowa, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Iowa for the term of four years, vice Charles E. Beach, Sr.
Kevin Anthony Carr, of Wisconsin, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Wisconsin for the term of four years, vice William P. Kruziki, resigned.
Donald J. Cazayoux, Jr., of Louisiana, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana for the term of four years, vice David R. Dugas.
Edward Carroll DuMont, of the District of Columbia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Paul R. Michel, retiring.
John A. Gibney, Jr., of Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice Robert E. Payne, retired.
Kevin Charles Harrison, of Louisiana, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Louisiana for the term of four years, vice William Carey Jenkins, retired.
Pamela Cothran Marsh, of Florida, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Florida for the term of four years, vice Gregory Robert Miller.
Darryl Keith McPherson, of Illinois, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Illinois for the term of four years, vice Kim Richard Widup.
Zane David Memeger, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for the term of four years, vice Patrick Leo Meehan.
Peter J. Smith, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Pennsylvania for the term of four years, vice Thomas A. Marino, resigned.
Edward L. Stanton, III, of Tennessee, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee for the term of four years, vice David F. Kustoff, resigned.
John F. Walsh, of Colorado, to be United States Attorney for the District of Colorado for the term of four years, vice Troy A. Eid, resigned.
Henry Lee Whitehorn, Sr., of Louisiana, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Louisiana for the term of four years, vice William R. Whittington, resigned.
Stephen R. Wigginton, of Illinois, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois for the term of four years, vice Ronald J. Tenpas, resigned.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Stephanie Villafuerte, of Colorado, to be United States Attorney for the District of Colorado for the term of four years, vice Troy A. Eid, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on September 30, 2009.
  