
    "The steadfast alliance between Japan and the United States is an enduring force of peace and stability in the Pacific region and around the world." --Donald J. Trump, President of the United States
STRENGTHENING OUR TIES: President Donald J. Trump and his Administration are expanding cooperation within the United States–Japan alliance.

Today, President Donald J. Trump and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe met at the White House to affirm the strength of the United States–Japan alliance.
This alliance is a cornerstone for peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and around the world.
President Trump and Prime Minister Abe coordinate closely on ongoing efforts to achieve the final, fully verified denuclearization of North Korea.
Through the leadership of President Trump and Prime Minister Abe, the United States and Japan have strengthened our defense partnership.

In his November 2017 visit to Yokota Airbase, President Trump emphasized the United States unwavering commitment to protect the people of Japan.


President Trump has worked closely with Prime Minister Abe since the beginning of his presidency.

President Trump was honored to be hosted in Japan by Prime Minister Abe in 2017.
The two leaders have met and spoken on multiple occasions since President Trump has been in office.


The economies of the United States and Japan account for approximately 30 percent of global gross domestic product, meaning our strong ties support global prosperity and stability.

IMPROVING OUR TRADE RELATIONSHIP: President Trump is committed to achieving fair, balanced, and reciprocal trade between the United States and Japan.

Last fall, President Trump and Prime Minister Abe agreed to enter into negotiations for a United States–Japan Trade Agreement.
This marks an important first step in rebalancing and improving our trade relationship by reducing tariffs and non-tariff barriers.
An agreement with Japan will look to grow our economy, support high-paying jobs, and promote fair and balanced trade.
In 2018, the United States had a $67.6 billion trade deficit in goods with Japan, our fourth largest behind China, Mexico, and Germany.
United States exporters in key sectors—such as automobiles, agriculture, and services—have long been challenged by high barriers contributing to large overall trade deficits.

DEEPENING OUR GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP: President Trump has worked with Japan to maintain a free, open, and prosperous Indo-Pacific region.

President Trump is working with Prime Minister Abe to enhance our shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific region.
Under President Trump, the United States and Japan have negotiated a series of beneficial deals, including agreements on energy and infrastructure investment in November 2017.
The United States and Japan are working to advance the Indo-Pacific region's rules-based maritime order, improve regional energy security, ensure secure and resilient telecommunications systems, and boost resiliency to natural disasters.

  