
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual, appoint eighteen individuals, and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Peter W. Bodde, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malawi. Mr. Bodde, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Islamabad. Prior to this, he served as Consul General at the United States Consulate in Frankfurt, Germany. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Office of Management Policy at the State Department. Mr. Bodde received his bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland.
The President intends to appoint David Steele Bohigian, of Missouri, to be a Commissioner-Observer on the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Department of Commerce Representative).
The President intends to appoint Richard F. Mangogna, of Florida, to be Chief Information Officer for the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Mangogna currently serves as an Independent Consultant with the Mason Harriman Group. Prior to this, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer at JP Morgan Chase. Earlier in his career, he served as President and CEO of Covidea.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee:
Edward A. Mueller, of Colorado, and upon appointment designate Chairman, for a term of one year
John T. Stankey, of Texas, and upon appointment designate Vice Chairman, for a term of one year
Michael W. Laphen, of Virginia
Thomas J. Lynch, of Pennsylvania
William A. Roper, of California
The President intends to designate the following individual to be Vice Chairman of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council:
Alfred R. Berkeley III, of Maryland
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council:
David J. Bronczek, of Tennessee
Wesley Bush, of California
Philip G. Heasley, of Florida
D.M. Houston, of Virginia
David Kepler, of Michigan
James A. Reid, of Maryland
Matthew K. Rose, of Texas
Michael J. Wallace, of Maryland
Greg Wells, of Texas
John M. Williams, Jr., of Arizona
Martha B. Wyrsch, of Texas
  