
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced the members of his Indiana Statewide Finance Committee. These Co-Chairs will help Governor Romney expand his base of support in Indiana and raise the resources necessary to campaign across the nation.
Serving as Co-Chairs will be former Congressman Chris Chocola, Secretary of State Todd Rokita, former State Representative Dan Dumezich, David Dorff and Bob Grand.
"I am grateful to have the support of these prominent Indiana citizens, leaders who will help me share my optimistic vision for the future with every part of the Hoosier State," said Governor Romney. "These individuals understand, as I do, that our nation faces a new generation of challenges that will only be met through strong and principled leadership."
Background On Governor Romney's Indiana Statewide Finance Committee Co-Chairs:
Chris Chocola Represented Indiana's 2nd Congressional District From 2003 To 2007. While serving in Congress, Chocola was a leader in the fight against wasteful government spending. He was a member of the Ways and Means Committee and introduced comprehensive budget reform legislation to improve the government's accounting practices and stop runaway spending. He co-founded "Washington Waste Watchers," a Congressional working group designed to identify and eliminate government waste, fraud and abuse.
The Honorable Todd Rokita Is Serving His Second Term As Indiana Secretary Of State. Secretary Rokita has acted to streamline the government aspect of business development and to modernize Indiana's legal infrastructure to aid in capital formation. He was elected by his peers nationally to serve on the Executive Board of the federal Election Assistance Commission's Standards Board and is president-elect of the National Association of Secretaries of State. Prior to taking office, he practiced law and later served as General Counsel to the Indiana Secretary of State.
David L. Dorff Is The President Of Marathon Development Company, A Consulting Firm In Indianapolis. Dorff is also the former Director of the Office of Small Business Advocacy in the Indiana Governor's Office. He is involved with several community activities including Badges Without Borders, Indianapolis Civic Theatre, Boy Scouts of America Crossroads Council, and St. Vincent's Finance Board.
Dan Dumezich Is A Partner At The Chicago Office Of Mayer Brown Rowe And Maw. Dumezich is a former Indiana State Representative and was also the Chairman of Secretary Todd Rokita's recent re-election campaign.
Bob Grand Is The Managing Partner At The Indianapolis Office Of Barnes And Thornburg. Grand served as the Bush-Cheney Finance Chairman for Indiana and as a member of the Bush-Cheney recount team in Palm Beach County, Florida in 2000. He also serves as the State Republican Committee Finance Chairman and has been an adviser to many Indiana Republican Candidate Committees.
  