
    This afternoon, the President will visit the University of Iowa in Iowa City to deliver remarks as part of a concerted effort to get Congress to prevent interest rates on student loans from doubling in July. Prior to delivering remarks in the Field House, the President will participate in a roundtable with five students currently receiving Stafford federal student loans. The roundtable is pooled press and the following students will be participating in the discussion:
Myranda Burnett, JuniorMyranda Burnett is a junior at the University of Iowa majoring in Therapeutic Recreation. Burnett is from Burlington, Iowa and is the oldest of four children. She will be the first in her family to receive a degree from a college or university. Burnett is using Stafford federal student loans to help pay for her schooling and will be negatively impacted if her interest rates double next year. Besides being a student, Burnett is the executive secretary for the National Residence Hall Honorary organization and works as a desk clerk at Rienow Residence Hall. She is also recently engaged and is planning to get married in 2014 after she and her fiancé finish school.
Blake Anderson, JuniorBlake Anderson is a junior at the University of Iowa majoring in Finance. Anderson is from Eldridge, Iowa, a town about an hour away from Iowa City. Anderson is the youngest of three children and all of his family members have attended a four year university. Anderson is using Stafford federal student loans to help pay for his schooling in addition to holding a part time job on campus. He is planning to graduate a semester early in order to keep his student loans as low as possible.
Jordan Garrison-Nickerson, SophomoreJordan Garrison-Nickerson is a sophomore at the University of Iowa with a double major in accounting and communications and a minor in environmental science. Nickerson is from West Des Moines and was raised by a single mother, who is currently unemployed. Nickerson would have been unable to attend college without Stafford federal student loans.
Marissa Boles, SeniorMarissa Boles is a senior at the University of Iowa majoring in Psychology. Boles is from Melcher-Dallas, a rural community in southern Iowa. While going to college was a challenge financially, she knew she needed an education. Boles took out Stafford federal loans to help pay for her education and has worked part time for three of her four years at school. After graduation, Boles hope to continue her work as a para-educator in the child psychology unit of the local hospital and eventually go to graduate school.
Martin Lopez, SophomoreMartin Lopez is a sophomore at the University of Iowa, majoring in Social Work. Lopez was born in Chicago and raised in Nichols, Iowa, a town near West Liberty. Lopez is very active on campus, serving as president of his fraternity, a Peer Leader for the Iowa Edge program and a Resident Mentor for Upward Bound. Lopez took out Stafford federal student loans to help pay for his education. He is the oldest of four siblings and his attendance at the University of Iowa would not be possible without financial aid.
  