
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate ten individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Ruben Monzon to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Texas. Monzon is currently the Director of the Security Advisory Group for Swailes and Company in Houston, Texas, and he was previously the Resident Manager of Pinkerton Consulting and Investigations. He has also worked as Director of Security for Prime Bank and an Investigator for Texas Instruments. From 1969 to 1995, Monzon served the Drug Enforcement Administration in New Orleans, Washington, D.C., San Antonio, Miami, Panama City and Houston. A former member of the U.S. Marine Corps, he has a bachelor's degree from Hardin Simmons University.
The President intends to nominate Gary Edward Shovlin to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Shovlin has served with the U.S. Marshal's service since 1983, first in the Southern District of Texas, then with the Middle District of Pennsylvania. He is currently the Deputy U.S. Marshal for the District of Maryland. From 1977 to 1983, he was a law enforcement officer with the U.S. Secret Service. Shovlin is a graduate of Gettysburg College.
The President intends to nominate David William Thomas to be United States Marshal for the District of Delaware. Thomas has served with the with the Delaware State Police since 1984 and has been promoted through the ranks to Sergeant. From 1974 to 1984, he was a Patrol Officer with the University of Delaware Department of Public Safety. Thomas has completed course work at the University of Delaware and will earn a bachelor's degree from Wilmington College in May.
The President intends to nominate Stephen Robert Monier to be United States Marshal for the District of New Hampshire. Monier has been the Director of Emergency Services for the American Red Cross in Manchester, New Hampshire since 2000, and from 1997 to 2000, he was a law enforcement consultant with EMS Consulting. Monier served the Golfstown Police Department from 1970 to 1998, rising through the ranks to Chief of Police. He is a graduate of St. Anselm College.
The President intends to nominate Jose Gerardo Troncoso to be United States Marshal for the District of Nevada. Troncoso has served as U.S. Marshal for the District of Nevada since 1997. From 1974 to 1997, he served with the Las Vegas Police Department where he was promoted through the ranks to Chief of Police. Troncoso earned a Master's degree from LaSalle University.
The President intends to nominate Thomas M. Fitzgerald to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Pennsylvania. Fitzgerald is currently Chief of Police for the Murrysville Police Department, and from 1973 to 2000, he served with the Allegheny County Police Department where he was promoted through the ranks to Superintendent. Fitzgerald holds a bachelor's degree from Geneva College and a Master's degree from St. Francis University.
The President intends to nominate the following four individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences:
L.D. Britt of Virginia for a term expiring May 1, 2005 William C. De La Pena of California for a term expiring June 20, 2007 Vinicio E. Madrigal of Louisiana for a term expiring June 20, 2003 Linda J. Stierle of Maryland for a term expiring May 1, 2007
  