
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts: Peter S. Silva, Assistant Administrator for Water Programs, Environmental Protection Agency; and Martha Johnson, Administrator, General Services Administration.
President Obama said,"The dedication and intelligence that these fine public servants will bring to their respective roles gives me confidence that they will be effective and important additions to our team as we work to tackle the many challenges our nation faces."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Peter S. Silva, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Water Programs, Environmental Protection Agency
Peter S. Silva is a Civil Engineer with nearly 32 years of experience in the water and wastewater fields. He has served in varying capacities in the public sector specializing in water resources policy with extensive experience in U.S.-Mexico border issues. Mr. Silva currently is a Senior Policy Advisor for the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. Prior to this he was the Vice-Chair of the California Water Resources Control Board for six years, having been appointed by both Governors Davis and Schwarzenegger. Mr. Silva was appointed by President Clinton to serve for three years on the Board of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission (BECC). He also served as the BECC Deputy General Manager for three years in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. His other experience includes ten years at the City of San Diego, four years in charge of the IBWC San Diego office and five years with the California RWQB in San Diego. Mr. Silva lives in the community of Jamul, California with his wife, Ana and son, Diego. He is a registered Civil Engineer in the state of California
Martha Johnson, Nominee for Administrator, General Services Administration
Martha Johnson served as co-lead for the Obama Presidential Transition Agency Review Team for GSA and is the Vice President of Culture at Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC), a role she has held since 2007. As vice president, Johnson is helping direct the change in culture within the 90,000 person corporation. From 2002 to 2007, Johnson was a vice president at SRA International where she managed a strategic consulting group that served federal clients including the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Labor. From 1996 – 2001, Johnson was Chief of Staff at the GSA, coordinating and supporting the strategic reinvention of a 20,000 person agency from a mandatory supplier of goods and services to a competitive, supplier-of-choice. From 1993 to 1996, Johnson served as the Assistant Deputy Secretary in the Department of Commerce, Office of the Deputy Secretary. Johnson was a Search Manager for the Office of Presidential Personnel in 1993. Before joining the Clinton Administration, she worked in a series of jobs that rounded out her business credentials in finance, marketing and diversity consulting in Human Relations management. Martha Johnson received her B.A. from Oberlin College in 1974 and her M.B.A. from Yale University in 1979.
  