
    President Bush. Mr. President, welcome. It's good to have you back. We just had a wonderful discussion about our bilateral relations and a great discussion about the world. I really enjoy talking to a man of vision and strength and character. President Kufuor has done a fantastic job for Ghana. He's told the people of his country he'd bring honesty to government, and he has. He told the people of his country that he would work on a—create a stable economic platform for—and he has done that as well. And he's a man of peace. He cares deeply about peace in the region.
As a result of his leadership and our confidence in his Government, we're very happy to work with his country to promote what we've called the Millennium Challenge Account. It's a statement of our respect, and it's a statement for our appreciation for somebody who is willing to invest in his people, is willing to fight corruption, who is willing to help a market economy grow.
Mr. President, congratulations on your record of leadership. Thank you for being a man of peace. Thank you for coming to Washington.
President Kufuor. I want to thank the President for understanding Africa. His works, for the past 5 years or so, have done so much in terms of contributing to the fight against HIV/AIDS on two fronts— the fund you set up, $15 billion fund, some of which has helped to, in a way, save and also make life easier for over 400,000 afflicted people.
Then on the education front, I was honored with a visit from Mrs. Bush just about 2 months ago, during which she launched a program towards linking the messages of the United States and Africa, to work out curriculum for primary and basic education, and also for supplying textbooks and education materials for children, and also helping with education for girls.
And then there's AGOA, which Ghana is benefiting from, even though there we need more help. [Laughter] And then there's the TIFA, Trade and Investment Framework law. I believe this is a President that is helping Africa help itself. And we count on your support.
On the MCA front, everything going to plan, Ghana and the United States will sign a compact by July. And that would enable Ghana pursue modernized agriculture. We are largely an agricultural country, and these projects that would free hundreds of millions of dollars to help modernize our agriculture would affect as many as 3 million people, help reduce poverty, and also push growth for the economy.
So we see the President as a friend of Ghana's and, I can say, of much of Africa. Thank you.
President Bush. Thank you, Mr. President. Let's go have lunch.
  