
    
  Heidi Cruz and Carly Fiorina Campaign in Wisconsin

HOUSTON, Texas - Heidi Cruz and former presidential candidate Carly Fiorina were in Wisconsin recently campaigning on behalf of the Cruz for President campaign. Below is a summary of news coverage:


NBC News: Cruz's Dynamic Duo Counter Trump's Women Woes
In a week full of headlines emphasizing Donald Trump's problems attracting the support of women voters, the Ted Cruz campaign turned to its new tandem of Heidi Cruz (the candidate's wife) and Carly Fiorina (his former primary foe) to present a distinctly different message ahead of Tuesday's Wisconsin primary.
"What I think is happening with women - as well, frankly, as with men - is the more people see of Donald Trump, the less they like him," Fiorina told NBC News after a campaign stop in Appleton, Wisconsin, on Thursday.
Trump's difficulties in winning over women has been apparent throughout the primary season but new polling from Wisconsin indicates he may be headed into trouble in that state's primary next Tuesday. And the Cruz campaign appears poised to be the beneficiary.
Excellent day criss-crossing Wisconsin with @heidiscruz @CarlyFiorina... A-list, VIP campaigners for @tedcruz! pic.twitter.com/f8J5zJG2f4
— Catherine Frazier (@catblackfrazier) April 1, 2016

River Falls Journal: Heidi Stops in Hudson
Heidi Cruz and her daughters made a stop in Hudson Friday morning at the campaign office of her husband, U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz.
Traveling with her were the Cruz daughters, Catherine and Caroline, as well as former candidate, now supporter, Carly Fiorina, and U.S. Sen. Mike Lee of Utah.
Heidi Cruz described her husband as the most honest man she knows and one who is committed to conservative values and a conservative approach to governing based on the Constitution.  She also remarked on how much she was enjoying touring Wisconsin and hoped to return to see more of the state.


WEAU: Wisconsinites Excited to Have Heidi and Carly
Heidi Cruz and Carly Fiorina...talked with locals about the campaign, the Wisconsin weather and their thoughts on the primary election Tuesday.
"I'd say I'm a stronger Ted Cruz supporter than I was before I came," said Jenny Nohelty of Eau Claire.
"I think it's so exciting that we're having Heidi and Carly come here because I admire both those women so much, and just coming out and meeting the folks and this whole place is just crammed full of people at 8 o'clock in the morning in a snow storm," said Westermann Dorthy of Eau Claire.


Yahoo News: As Trump stumbles with women, Cruz turns to a new weapon: His mom
Speaking to voters in Madison, Wis., on Wednesday, Cruz heaped praise upon his mom, now 81, calling her a career "pioneer" who has been "my best friend my entire life." And as he did so, he looked across the stage where Darragh sat beaming — in what was her first campaign appearance ever...
Cruz's mother wasn't the only woman onstage. At her side was her son's wife, Heidi, and Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard executive who endorsed Cruz when she ended her own bid for the Republican nomination. They each took turns speaking about being a professional woman balancing their work and family lives. And they spoke of how Cruz is the best choice for president because he has surrounded himself with strong women.
The event was part of what the Cruz campaign billed as a "celebration of women" — as the Texas senator looks to female voters as a possible way to stop GOP rival Donald Trump's march to the party's nomination.

WRN: 'Women for Ted Cruz' event brings candidate to Madison
Texas Senator Ted Cruz joined by his wife Heidi, mother Eleanor and Carly Fiorina at a "Women For Cruz" campaign event in Madison on Wednesday - the same day that the latest Marquette University Law School Poll showed Cruz leading Donald Trump and Ohio Governor John Kasich on the Republican side of Wisconsin's Presidential Primary.
"We're here because we love our families. We're here because we love our country, and because America right now is in crisis," Cruz said. "This event is a celebration of strong women."
Cruz accused Democrats of trying to pigeonhole women, who he referred to as "the majority" of the United States and "not a special interest group."
Heidi Cruz told several hundred people at the Madison Sheraton that she and her husband share a strong Christian faith. Eleanor Cruz provided a glimpse of the candidate as a youngster, recalling how she used to drive her son to twice a week study groups on the U.S. Constitution.
  