
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      David S. Johanson, Member, United States International Trade Commission
•      Sean Robert Mulvaney, Member, Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
David S. Johanson, Nominee for Member, United States International Trade Commission
David S. Johanson served as International Trade Counsel on the Republican staff of the Committee on Finance of the United States Senate, a position he held since 2003. Prior to his employment at the Committee on Finance, he practiced international trade law at the law firm of Stewart and Stewart in Washington, D.C. Earlier in his career, Mr. Johanson worked on Capitol Hill for Representative George Radanovich, Representative Wally Herger, and Senator Phil Gramm. He has published several articles on international trade law in various legal journals. Mr. Johanson received a B.A. degree from Stanford University, a M.Phil. degree from Cambridge University, and a J.D. degree from the University of Texas.
Sean Robert Mulvaney, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States
Sean Mulvaney currently serves as director of the Economic Policy Program at the German Marshall Fund of the United States. Prior to this position, Mr. Mulvaney worked for the U.S. Agency for International Development, where he served until November 2008 as Assistant Administrator for Management, a Presidentially appointed and Senate-confirmed position. Previously, he was Assistant to the Speaker for Appropriations, Budget, and U.S. Trade Policy in the U.S. House of Representatives. From 2001 until 2005, he served as a trade and foreign policy advisor to the chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations. From 1998 to 2001, Mr. Mulvaney worked in brand management for the consumer products division of Glaxo Smithkline. Mr. Mulvaney received a B.A.S. in Economics from Washington University in St. Louis in 1990 and a Masters in International Management from Thunderbird, the American Graduate School of Global Management in 1997.
  