
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to designate one individual, his appointment of three individuals and his intention to appoint six individuals.
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to designate one individual, his appointment of three individuals and his intention to appoint six individuals.
The President intends to designate John L. Howard to be Federal Environmental Executive of the Environmental Protection Agency. Howard has served as Senior Associate Director at the Council on Environmental Quality, where he has served as deputy to the chairman for policy and has assisted in developing the Administration's environmental and natural resources policies. Before joining the Administration, he served as Environmental and Natural Resources Policy Director in the Texas Governor's Office from 1996 to 2000 and practiced environmental law with Bracewell & Patterson. Howard is a graduate of Baylor University and University of Texas Law School.
The President has appointed the following three individuals to serve as Members of the Federal Service Impasse Panel for the remainder of five-year terms expiring January 10, 2004:
Mark A. Carter of West VirginiaJohn G. Cruz of CaliforniaGrace Flores-Hughes of Virginia
The President intends to appoint John Paul Hammerschmidt to be a Member of the President's Task Force to Improve Healthcare Delivery to our Nation's Veterans, and upon appointment, designate Co-Chair. Hammerschmidt represented the Third District of Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives for 13 terms from the 90th through the 102nd Congresses. While serving in the Congress, he was the ranking member on the House Veteran's Affairs Committee.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals as Members of Board of Directors of the Federal Prison Industries, Inc.:
Audrey J. Roberts of Tennessee to be the Retailers/Consumer RepresentativeKenneth Rocks of Pennsylvania to be the Labor RepresentativeDonald R. Elliot of Pennsylvania to be the Industry RepresentativeDiane K. Morales of Texas to be the Defense RepresentativeDavid D. Spears of Kansas to be the Agriculture Representative
  