
    When the Going Gets Tough: In an interview yesterday, Hillary responded to Sen. Obama's complaints about the debate the other night "Having been inside the White House, I know the pressures inside the White House; I know how hard it is every single day. When the going gets tough you can't run away. And it's going to be tough going to deal with these hard problems." [Watch here.]
Superdelegate Gains: Hillary received the endorsement of three superdelegates yesterday, including Congresswoman Betty Sutton (D-OH), and two prominent former NJ Governors Jim Florio and Brendan Byrne. Read more and more.
Today on the Trail: Hillary continues barnstorming the Keystone State, hosting "Solutions for Pennsylvania" rallies in West Chester, West Lawn, York, California, and McKeesport.
Ending the War in Iraq: Yesterday, Former Vice Admiral and current Congressman Joe Sestak (D-PA) and Rear Admiral David Stone highlighted Hillary's commitment to ending the war in Iraq. Read more.
An Evening with Dr. Maya Angelou: Yesterday, Hillary joined Dr. Maya Angelou before a crowd of 2,000 in Winston Salem, NC "talking informally about bridging inequalities in the 21st century, among other broad themes. Along the way, they also mixed in bits of policy issues from Clinton's presidential platform." Read more.
Debate in the Hoosier State: Hillary is ready to debate Sen. Obama in the Hoosier State...Comm. Dir. Howard Wolfson: "There remain a good number of undecided voters and they want more information...If the American people are as engaged as they are and as interested as they are in this race and these issues, they deserve to have the candidates come before them and take tough questions." Read more.
Making News In West Virginia: The campaign officially opens its Charleston, WV headquarters today with Brigadier General Jack Yeager. The campaign also plans to gear up for Early Vote in the state, which begins April 23. Read more.
If You Read One Thing Today: "Obama's Secret Weapon: The Media" Read more.
Good Wishes on Passover: Hillary offered greetings and good wishes to Jewish families around the world for a joyous Passover. Hag Sameach -- May this be a season of joy for all! Read more.
  