
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 21
The President went from Plains to Calhoun, Ga.
April 22
While in Calhoun, the President attended the dedication service at the First Baptist Church for his granddaughter, Sarah Rosemary Carter, daughter of Jack and Judy Carter. He returned to the White House in the afternoon.
April 23
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Cabinet;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
April 24
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore, Robert G. Beckel, Special Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House), and William H. Cable, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House);
—Representative Martin A. Russo of Illinois;
—Gov. Cliff Finch and Lt. Gov. Evelyn Gandy of Mississippi.
The President met in the Oval Office with Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Minister of External Affairs of India, who was in the United States in connection with the annual meeting of the Indo-U.S. Joint Commission, which he cochairs with Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance. The President invited Mr. Vajpayee to the White House to exchange views on topics of mutual interest. Mr. Vajpayee brought greetings from President N. S. Reddy and Prime Minister Morarji Desai, and he delivered a letter to the President from the Prime Minister.
The President transmitted to the Congress the annual report for 1978 of the United States-Japan Cooperative Medical Science Program.
April 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—leaders of the Building and Construction Trades Department of the AFL- CIO;
—Mr. Moore, Danny C. Tate, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (Senate), James C. Free, Special Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House), and Mr. Cable.
April 26
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Barry P. Bosworth, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, and Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore, Robert Thomson, Special Assistant for Congressional Liaison (Senate), Mr. Tate, and Mr. Cable;
—a group of Congressmen, to discuss the windfall profits tax proposal;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Texas as a result of severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding, beginning on or about April 18, which caused extensive damage to private property.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of North Dakota as a result of severe storms, snowmelt, and flooding, beginning on or about April 11, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
April 27
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Mr. Jordan, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Mr. Schultze;
—members of the United Press International Newspaper Advisory Board (transcript will be printed next week);
—officers of the National Association of Home Builders.
  