
    
NEW YORK – U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Wednesday told more than 27,000 people packed into Washington Square Park and the city streets surrounding the Lower Manhattan landmark that he and Hillary Clinton have major differences on issues ranging from Wall Street reform to trade policy and how to combat climate change.
"It is not just about electing a president, it is about creating a political revolution. It is about creating a government which works for all of us, not just wealthy campaign contributors," Sanders said from a stage in front of the park's massive arch.
Ahead of next Tuesday's Democratic Party primary election in New York, Sanders is on a winning streak, drawing big and boisterous crowds like the one in the park.

  I don't think there's any doubt that our campaign today has the momentum. We have won seven out of the last eight primaries and caucuses. Bernie Sanders

Sanders also leads Clinton in two recent national polls and "national poll after national poll has us defeating Donald Trump by double digits," says Sanders.
Detailing his differences with Clinton, Sanders said he opposed and she supported trade deals like the North American Free Trade Agreement and others that have sent good-paying jobs in the United States to low-wage countries overseas. "Secretary Clinton supported virtually every one of these awful trade agreements," he said.

Sanders also said he would take on Wall Street and break up the biggest banks. He questioned whether Clinton would stand up to those who have bankrolled her campaign with $15 million in Wall Street conations to her super PAC and millions more in lucrative speaking fees for speeches to Goldman Sachs and others after she stepped down as secretary of state. "She should release the transcripts," Sanders said.
The rally featured filmmaker Spike Lee, actress Rosario Dawson, civil rights activist Linda Sarsour, actor Tim Robbins and musicians from the bands Vampire Weekend and Dirty Projectors.


    
  



    
  



    
  

  