
    Pool Reports by Kéthévane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




April 27, 202312:08

VP supplemental pool #1
Hello,
I'm your pooler for the Vice President's State Luncheon for President Yoon Suk Yeol and Mrs. Kim Keon Hee of the Republic of Korea. The lunch is co-hosted with Secretary Antony Blinken at the State Department.
Pool is not traveling with the VP who was earlier on Capitol Hill, presiding over an address by President Yoon to a Joint Meeting of Congress.
Pool is currently holding at State waiting for the start of the lunch which is scheduled for 1:20pm.
There will be a pool spray at the top.


April 27, 2023 13:24

VP supplemental pool #2
Pool was ushered through the reception room where some guests were still mingling. Your pooler spotted John Kerry and Rep. Michael McCaul.
Pool is now inside the Benjamin Franklin State Dining room where guest are slowly taking their seats for the luncheon. Spotted by your pooler, Sen. Jon Ossoff, Rep. Nancy Pelosi, HUD Marcia Fudge, former Biden Chief of Staff Ron Klain.
There is a long head table in the middle of the room in front of the podium and roughly 25 smaller tables.


April 27, 2023 14:04

VP supplemental pool #3
The VP, Secretary Blinken and President Yoon walked in at 1:20pm.
Blinken spoke first.
The VP took the podium at 1:28pm.
"Our alliance is truly a global one. An alliance that is leading on on the most pressing issues of our time."
"you have set South Korea on a path to economic and global success. And together the Biden Harris administration with your administration has set our alliances on a path forward to continue to deliver security and prosperity for our people."
VP spoke of the cultural ties between the 2 countries, mentioning k-pop band BTS who visited the WH last year.
VP also admitted she & the 2nd gentleman binge-watched "Squid Games."
"our administration is grateful to you for strengthening our ties and serving as a steadfast ally and partner. And this is a decisive moment in our world's history. A critical moment and inflection point in many ways. And at a time when autocracy and aggression are all too present, your leadership is critical."
She wrapped her remarks at 1:39pm and raised a glass to President Yoon.
President Yoon spoke of the importance of the alliance. Said he had an "Invaluable discussion" w/ POTUS on further strengthening the alliance (per english translation)
Remarks ended at 1:44pm and pool was ushered out as the VP, Secretary and President Yoon were taking their seats.


April 27, 2023 14:04

VP supplemental pool #4
Pool left state at 1:57pm. We are no longer with the VP.
The luncheon is ongoing.
That's all from me! Have a great day!


April 27, 2023 14:01

VP supplemental pool #5
Your pooler was too quick to sign off!
Per VP's office:Members of the head table
- The Vice President of the United States - The Second Gentleman of the United States - Secretary Antony Blinken, U.S. Department of State- Ms. Evan Ryan, Cabinet Secretary- President Yoon Suk Yeol, Republic of Korea- Mrs. Kim Keon Hee, First Lady, Republic of Korea- Ms. Esperanza Jelalian, Executive director of the U.S.-Korea Business Council- Sarah Min, Commissioner, President's Advisory Commission on AANHPI- Gideon Yu, Co-Owner, San Francisco 49ers- Robert Jones, Chancellor, University of Illinois Urbana-Campaign- Phil Gordon, National Security Advisor to the VP- Park Jin, Minister of Foreign Affairs- General Paul LaCamera, Commander, United States Korea Combined Forces- Herbie Hancock, American Jazz pianist- Diane Reeves, American Jazz singer



  