
    President Bush to Nominate Six Individuals, Appoint Eighteen, and Designate One to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals, appoint eighteen individuals, and designate one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Walter Robert Bradley of Kansas, to be United States Marshal for the District of Kansas. He has been with the United States Marshals Service Witness Security Division since 1983, and has worked through the ranks to the position of Chief Deputy. Prior to joining the Marshals Service, he was a patrol officer for the Shawnee Police Department from 1979 to 1983. From 1976 to 1979, he was a police officer for the Highland Falls Police Department in Highland Falls, New York. He holds B. S. and M. A. degrees from Wichita State University.
The President intends to nominate Ray Elmer Carnahan of Arkansas, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Arkansas. Carnahan has been with the Arkansas State Police since 1966, working his way to the rank of Captain. He holds A. A. and B. A. degrees from the University of Arkansas at Little Rock.
The President intends to nominate Theresa A. Merrow of Kentucky, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Georgia. Ms. Merrow has been with the United States Marshal Service since 1989 in Atlanta, Oklahoma City, and Lexington. She holds an A. A. degree from Macon State College.
The President intends to nominate Steven M. Biskupic of Wisconsin, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. He has been an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Wisconsin since 1989. Mr. Biskupic holds J. D. and B. A. degrees from Marquette University.
The President intends to nominate Jan Paul Miller of Illinois, to be United States Attorney for the Central District of Illinois. Mr. Miller is currently serving as Interim United States Attorney for the Central District of Illinois, having previously served as Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Maryland from 1989 to 2002. He holds a J. D. from Harvard Law School and a B.A. degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
The President intends to nominate Stuart D. Rick of Maryland, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring March 1, 2007.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals as Members of the Board of Directors of the Vietnam Education Foundation:
For an initial term of three years —
Herbert Monroe Allison, Jr., of New York Robert Leamon Bryant of North Carolina
For an initial term of two years —
Chung Wook Kim of Maryland Tuan Joseph Pham of Minnesota
For an initial term of one year —
Frank Jao of California Marilyn Castor Mashon Pattillo of Texas
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Members of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Corporation:
George M. Kraw of California, to be an Employee Representative for the remainder of a three-year term expiring February 19, 2005
Judith F. Mazo of the District of Columbia, to be an Employee Representative for the remainder of a three-year term expiring February 19, 2005
Mary Ann Melody Larson McDonald of California to be a Public Representative for the remainder of a three-year term expiring February 19, 2005
The President intends to appoint the following individuals as Members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
Judson C. Ball of Wyoming Bray Bruce Barnes of New Jersey William Dewayne Dunlap of Minnesota Ann Hundley Hoover of Oklahoma Linda Nordstrom of Washington Wilbur O. Powers of South Carolina Noel Quinones of Puerto Rico Juan F. Woodroffe of Puerto Rico T. Caroline D. Wyly of Texas
The President intends to designate Terry Bathen of Virginia, to be Acting Inspector General for the Corporation for National and Community Service.
  