
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 19
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in the Balkans.
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Martin Butora of Slovakia; Sheila Sisulu of South Africa; Dato Ghazzali bin Sheikh Abdul of Malaysia; Farid Abboud of Lebanon; Leonard Nangolo Iipumbu of Namibia; Alfred Toro Hardy of Venezuela; and Peter Moser of Austria.
The President announced his intention to appoint Solomon D. Trujillo as a member of the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Solomon D. Trujillo as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
The President announced his intention to appoint Shahara Ahmad-Llewellyn to the Board of Governors for the United Services Organizations, Inc.
The White House announced that the President proposed a $6.049 billion emergency supplemental package to fund the military and humanitarian efforts in Kosovo.
The White House announced that the President met with FEMA Director James Lee Witt and 14 members of the Project Impact Fire Services Partnership for Disaster Prevention.
April 20
The President announced his intention to nominate Gwen C. Clare to be Ambassador to Ecuador.
The President announced his intention to nominate Oliver P. Garza to be Ambassador to Nicaragua.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dr. Ikram Khan to be a member to the Board of Regents for the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences.
The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on April 3 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes beginning on April 15.
April 21
In the evening, the President met with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom in the Residence.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard L. Morningstar to be Ambassador to the European Union with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
The President announced his intention to appoint James R. Houghton and Susan D. Auld as members of the National Skill Standards Board.
The President announced the appointment of John Dillon as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
April 22
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation from the White House with Attorney General Janet Reno in Littleton, CO, concerning the attack at Columbine High School.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Alexandria, VA, and later, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the afternoon, the President met with NATO Secretary General Javier Solana in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joyce E. Leader to be Ambassador to Guinea.
  