
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




April 10, 202313:03

FLOTUS pool report #1 - Easter Egg Roll kickoff plus Baby Beau sighting
FLOTUS and POTUS came out on the South Portico Balcony - followed by two Easter bunnies - at 10:08 am.
"Learning doesn't only happen in the classroom," FLOTUS said as she introduced her Egg-ucation theme.
After remarks was the traditional egg roll.
FLOTUS held hands with the Easter bunny as they walked toward the egg roll. She hugged two little girls who ran over to her and helped them line up for the egg roll. She was the official whistle blower to get the race started.
She and POTUS then separated for different events.
Next stop for FLOTUS was the reading nook, which is in the Jacquline Kennedy Garden outside the East Wing. Lots of beautiful pink, white and yellow tulips were in bloom.
Rows of benches were set up in front of the portico.Dr. Biden read Brown Bear Brown Bear What do you see?
She came out at 10:42 saying "Hi everyone. Happy Easter. Welcome to the White House."
She sat down to read and said to Baby Beau: "Go ahead you can come up." She told the crowd: "This is Beau my grandson."
Baby Beau held the book open for her to read. "Thank you Beau. Thank you for reading with Nana," she said when she was done.
After the reading FLOTUS posed for photos with guests. Baby Beau was spotted outside the garden with mom Melissa and Secretary of State Anthony Blinken.
Next stop is the talent stage. It was next to a dinosaur activity tent complete with a large animatronic T-Rex.
Pool is holding for next activity.
Spotted around the Egg Roll: Meena Harris, Sec/State Anthony Blinken, Anita Dunn, and Surgeon General Vivek Murthy with their respective children.
The South Lawn is packed with guests and characters in costume including the Minions, the Racing Presidents, Winnie the Pooh, Tigger, and Superman and Wonderwoman.
The Fife and Drum Corps played ahead of POTUS and FLOTUS arrival on South Portico Balcony. Kiddos were participating in the egg race. Lots of parents taking pics of their kids with White House in background.
The Marine Band played with the Navy choir singing "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," "Let there be Peace on Earth," and "America the Beautiful" as the crowd waited for the Bidens.
Balcony had banners decorating it that says White House Easter Egg Roll. Cutouts of Willow the cat, bunnies and eggs decorate the grounds around the portico.
Here is the Easter Egg Roll on the event in case you need:



April 10, 202313:41

FLOTUS Pool report #2 - Lion King performance
FLOTUS' last stop of the Easter Egg Roll was the talent show.
Before she arrived, a DJ played various songs. Kids and adults alike performed to the Cha Cha Slide and the Cupid Shuffle.
There was more excitement at the tent next door where an animatronic T-Rex was loose and walking around the South Lawn.
FLOTUS arrived on stage at 12:03 pm to cheers the crowd.
She said: "The Lion King has amazed and enchanted kids and grown ups alike. And now they're bringing their magic to the Easter Egg Roll."
She introduced the cast from The Lion King from Broadway. They performed the opening song from the musical along with "Can you feel the love tonight"
FLOTUS stood off stage and to the side to watch the performances. She shook hands with the cast as they came off stage and posed for a photo with them.
Hunter Biden passed the pool as it made its way back got the White House press room.
Also spotted on the South Lawn: Real Housewives of Potomac's Dr. Wendy Osefo
And that's a wrap from the FLOTUS pool.




  