
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate John A. Cloud, Jr., of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lithuania. Mr. Cloud, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in Berlin, Germany. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for International Economics for the National Security Council. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission to the European Union in Brussels, Belgium. Mr. Cloud received his bachelor's degree from the University of Connecticut and his master's degree from The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Lurita Alexis Doan, of Virginia, to be Administrator of General Services. Ms. Doan most recently served as President and Chief Executive Officer of New Technology Management, Inc., a surveillance technology company that she founded in 1990. She has received a number of awards for her work, including the General Services Administration's Circle of Excellence Award, as well as the Award for Entrepreneurial Innovation from the Department of Commerce. Earlier in her career, Ms. Doan was an instructor at Southeastern Louisiana University. She received her bachelor's degree from Vassar College and her master's degree from the University of Tennessee-Knoxville.
The President intends to nominate R. David Paulison, of Florida, to be Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management at the Department of Homeland Security. This position was previously titled Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response. Mr. Paulison currently serves as Acting Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as Administrator of the United States Fire Administration. During this time, he was also Director for Preparedness within the Federal Emergency Management Agency. He previously served as Fire Chief for the Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department, where he began his career as a rescue fire-fighter in 1971. Mr. Paulison received his bachelor's degree from Florida Atlantic University.
The President intends to nominate John Clint Williamson, of Louisiana, to be Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues. Mr. Williamson currently serves as Director for Stability Operations for the National Security Council. Prior to this, he served as Senior Advisor to the Iraqi Ministry of Justice. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Department of Justice for the United Nations Mission in Kosovo and also as a prosecutor at the International Criminal Tribunal for Yugoslavia in The Hague, The Netherlands. Mr. Williamson received his bachelor's degree from Louisiana Tech University and his JD from Tulane University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission, for the Life of the Commission:
Raymond Richard Geddes, of New York
Stephen Odland, of Florida
Mary E. Peters, of Arizona
  