
    Good morning. Governor Thomson, Speaker of the House of Representatives, President of the Senate, distinguished members of the legislature, distinguished Members of Congress.. ladies and gentlemen:
It is really a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of coming to this wonderful community, your State capital, in a State that has a long and enviable history and tradition.
You may not be biggest, but you certainly are strong in character and wonderful people. The Granite State is the proper word to underscore the strength of all of you, and I thank you for your warm welcome.
I am especially gratified and pleased and most appreciative for the warm welcome of Governor Thomson. I am also very appreciative of the invitation to speak to the State legislature.
Fortunately, a good many years ago, I came to the State of New Hampshire-back in the late 1930's. I was trying to learn to ski, but in the process, I became well acquainted with a great many people from this State.
Over the years, I have had a great experience in knowing such outstanding people as my good friend Norris Cotton, who so ably represented the State of New Hampshire in the House of Representatives as well as the United States Senate.
You know, I have been doing a little reading about New Hampshire history, and I found that the people of New Hampshire--before the Continental Congress declared independence--the people from this part of the 13 colonies enacted, or passed, or approved a declaration of independence some 6 months previously. I congratulate you as the ancestors of those people who had the strength and the foresight a good many years ago to take that important step in establishing our great country.
Now, I know all of the schoolchildren want to hurry back, and so I won't detain you any longer. If I have any influence with your teachers--and I probably don't--I will give you all an A-plus, and I will do. that whether you are a Democrat or a Republican.
Thank you very much.
  