
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

In 1982, the President's Task Force on Victims of Crime called national attention to the plight of millions of Americans who fall prey to violence and other forms of criminal activity each year. The Task Force found that these individuals were often victimized twice -- first by the crime itself, and then by the criminal justice system.
Since the release of the Task Force's findings, significant changes have been made in the criminal justice system and in its treatment of crime victims. More assistance and compensation programs have been made accessible to crime victims and their families. The majority of the States have passed legislation to ensure fair treatment of crime victims, and 45 States now have a Crime Victim's Bill of Rights. On the Federal level, since passage of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, nearly $420 million has been awarded to States to aid crime victims across the Nation. These funds are not exacted from law-abiding taxpayers; rather, they come from fines and penalties assessed on convicted Federal offenders.
The movement to aid crime victims and to promote greater respect for their rights and needs within the criminal justice system originated in grass-roots efforts -- efforts that frequently began with one group of crime victims reaching out to help others. They have had a dramatic impact. Today, social workers, school administrators, church congregations, business and civic leaders, lawmakers, and individual volunteers are all cooperating with criminal justice officials as they strive to bring compassion, timely restitution, and healing to crime victims.
None of us should rest, however, until our laws and practices fully reflect the sympathy we have for the victims of crime and the intolerance we have for criminals. We must continue working together to help crime victims reclaim their dignity, health, and security. We must also strive to ensure that criminals receive punishment commensurate with the harm they have inflicted.
During National Crime Victims' Rights Week, as organizations across the country hold special events to increase awareness of the problems experienced by crime victims, we also recognize those generous Americans who work -- often as volunteers -- on behalf of crime victims and their families.
By Senate Joint Resolution 242, the Congress has designated the week of April 22 through April 28, 1990, as "National Crime Victims' Rights Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of April 22 through April 28, 1990, as National Crime Victims' Rights Week. I call upon all Americans -- government officials, law enforcement officers, health care professionals, religious and business leaders, and private citizens -- to renew their determination to respond with speed and sensitivity to the needs of innocent crime victims and their families. I also urge every American to learn about ways to minimize the risk of victimization and to demonstrate his or her appreciation for those who work for justice.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 25th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  