
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 13
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with professional golfer Tiger Woods to congratulate Mr. Woods on winning the Masters golf tournament.
April 14
The President announced his intention to appoint J. Randall MacDonald to serve as a member of the Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality in the Health Care Industry.
The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding April 4 and continuing.
April 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Brooklyn, NY. In the evening, he traveled to Queens.
The President had a telephone conversation with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia to express his sympathy for the victims of the fire at Mina. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Brian Dean Curran as Ambassador to Mozambique.
The President announced his intention to nominate Olivia A. Golden to serve as Assistant Secretary for Family Support (Administration for Children and Families) at the Department of Health and Human Services.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jack Roderick as a member of the Arctic Research Commission.
The White House announced that the administration is requesting nominations for representatives to serve on the Advisory Commission on Public Interest Obligations of Digital Television Broadcasters.
April 16
In the evening, the President attended a foreign policy retreat with Members of Congress at Blair House.
The White House announced that Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan accepted the President's invitation to Washington, DC, for an official working visit, April 25.
April 17
The President announced his intention to appoint Emily Malino to serve as a member of the Commission of Fine Arts.
April 18
In the morning, the President attended Vice President Al Gore's meeting with Hong Kong Democratic Party Leader Martin Lee in the Vice President's West Wing Office.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Daryl L. Jones to be a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force Academy.
The President announced his intention to appoint Edward Blakely, Donald G. Fisher, Amy Meyer, Mary G. Murphy, William K. Reilly, and Toby Rosenblatt to the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust..
  