
    The President met yesterday with Chinese President Xi Jinping. The two leaders committed to continue narrowing differences and expanding practical cooperation on regional and global challenges. Both leaders agreed to sign the Paris climate agreement on April 22, to join the agreement as soon as possible this year, and to work together and with other parties to bring the Paris Agreement into force as early as possible. The leaders also agreed to galvanize global action to phase down HFCs under the Montreal Protocol and to work to secure an accord on a global market-based measure for addressing greenhouse gas emissions from international aviation.
The President commended our strengthening bilateral cooperation on nuclear security issues, including the establishment of China's nuclear security Center of Excellence and its commitment to reactor conversions. Both leaders committed to advance cooperation on development and public health initiatives, and to strengthen coordination in addressing the shared threat presented by North Korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missile systems. Both leaders affirmed their commitment to achieving the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and the full implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 2270.
The President reiterated America's unwavering support for upholding human rights and fundamental freedoms in China. On cyber issues, both leaders reaffirmed the cyber commitments announced during President Xi's September 2015 State Visit and agreed to ensure their full implementation. The President reiterated that we will continue to monitor whether Chinese actions demonstrate their adherence to the commitments. The President further emphasized the importance of establishing a level playing field for all firms to compete fairly in China. The President urged China to address differences with its neighbors on maritime issues peacefully and in accordance with international law and emphasized the United States global interest in upholding freedom of navigation and overflight.
  