
    Today President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate a thirteenth wave of judicial nominees and seventh wave of United States Marshal nominees as follows:
If confirmed, A. Marvin Quattlebaum, Jr., of South Carolina will serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Marvin Quattlebaum serves as a U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, where he has served since his confirmation by the U.S. Senate and appointment by President Trump in 2018. Before ascending to the bench, Judge Quattlebaum was a partner in the Greenville, South Carolina, office of Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough, LLP—the same firm where he started his legal career as an associate in 1989.During his 28 years at Nelson Mullins, Judge Quattlebaum's practice focused on complex business and civil litigation in Federal courts nationwide. On the basis of this expertise, he was invited to serve both as a Fellow in the American College of Trial Lawyers and as a permanent member of the Judicial Conference for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. From 2011 to 2012, Judge Quattlebaum served as the President of the South Carolina Bar. Judge Quattlebaum earned his B.A., cum laude, from Rhodes College and his J.D. from the University of South Carolina School of Law, where he served as a member of the South Carolina Law Review.
If confirmed, Julius "Jay" N. Richardson of South Carolina will serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Jay Richardson serves as the Deputy Criminal Chief of the United States Attorney's Office for the District of South Carolina. Since becoming an Assistant United States Attorney in 2009, he has focused on prosecuting violent crime, gangs, terrorism, public corruption, civil rights, and narcotics trafficking. He recently served as the lead prosecutor on United States v. Dylann Storm Roof, where the jury convicted and sentenced Roof to death for his racist massacre of nine African-American worshippers during a Bible study at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Mr. Richardson previously handled complex civil litigation for three years as an associate with the Washington, D.C., firm of Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans & Figel (now known as Kellogg Hansen). Before entering private practice, Mr. Richardson served as a law clerk to Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist of the Supreme Court of the United States and Judge Richard A. Posner of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Mr. Richardson earned his B.S. from Vanderbilt University and his J.D., with high honors, from the University of Chicago, where he served as an articles editor of the University of Chicago Law Review.
If confirmed, Richard J. Sullivan of New York will serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Richard Sullivan serves as a U.S. District Judge of the Southern District of New York, where he has served since 2007. He also serves as an Adjunct Professor of Law at Columbia Law School and has served as an Adjunct Professor of Law at Fordham University School of Law. Prior to his confirmation and appointment by President George W. Bush, Judge Sullivan served as General Counsel and Managing Director of Marsh, Inc. Before joining Marsh, Judge Sullivan served for eleven years as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. In this capacity, he served for three years as Chief of the office's International Narcotics Trafficking Unit, as Director of the New York-New Jersey Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force, and as Chief of the Narcotics Unit. In 1998, the Federal Law Enforcement Foundation presented him with the Federal Prosecutor of the Year Award for his outstanding service as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and in 2003, the Association of the Bar of the City of New York presented him with the Henry L. Stimson Medal for similar service. Before joining the United States Attorney's Office, Judge Sullivan practiced as a litigation associate at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, where his practice focused on securities litigation, white collar criminal defense, and internal corporate investigations. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Sullivan served as a law clerk to Judge David M. Ebel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Judge Sullivan earned his B.A. from the College of William & Mary and his J.D. from Yale Law School.
If confirmed, Roy K. Altman of Florida will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Roy Altman is a partner at Podhurst Orseck P.A., where his practice has focused on aviation and commercial litigation since 2014. Before entering private practice, Mr. Altman served for six years as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, where he prosecuted hundreds of cases covering the full range of Federal criminal conduct. Over this period, Mr. Altman tried more than 20 cases to jury verdict and argued several of these before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. During his service as a Federal prosecutor, Mr. Altman won a number of awards including the Director of the Executive Office of U.S. Attorneys Award for "Superior Litigation Team" in United States v. Mentor (first-degree murder), the Director of the Executive Office of U.S. Attorneys Award for "Superior Litigation Performance" in United States v. Flanders (human trafficking), the Federal Bar Association Young Federal Lawyer Award (one of five attorneys under 37 nationwide), and the "Federal Prosecutor of the Year" award from the Miami-Dade County Association of Chiefs of Police and the Law Enforcement Officers Charitable Foundation. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Altman served as a law clerk to Miami-based Circuit Judge Stanley Marcus of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Mr. Altman earned his B.A., cum laude, from Columbia University, where he played baseball and football, and his J.D. from Yale Law School, where he served as the projects editor of the Yale Law Journal.
If confirmed, Thomas P. Barber of Florida will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. Tom Barber serves as a Circuit Judge in the criminal division of the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit, where he has served since his appointment by the Governor in 2008. As a Circuit Judge he has handled the full range of civil and criminal cases. He previously served for four years as a Hillsborough County Court Judge. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Barber practiced for five years in the trial and business litigation department of Carlton Fields, P.A. He then served as an Assistant Statewide Prosecutor in the Office of Statewide Prosecution and as an Assistant State Attorney for the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit. Upon completion of his service as a prosecutor he returned to Carlton Fields, P.A., where his practice focused on business litigation until his appointment to the bench. Judge Barber earned his B.A. from the University of Florida, where he was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa, and his J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
If confirmed, Rodolfo "Rudy" Ruiz II of Florida will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Rudy Ruiz currently serves as a Circuit Judge in the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of Florida since his appointment by the Governor in 2014. As a Circuit Judge, Judge Ruiz has presided over both civil and criminal divisions. He previously served for two years as a County Court Judge in the Eleventh Judicial Circuit, where he handled a full range of civil and criminal cases. Before ascending to the bench, Judge Ruiz served for three years as an Assistant County Attorney in the Miami-Dade County Attorney's Office, where he handled a wide range of civil defense matters in Federal and State court at both trial and appellate levels. Before joining the County Attorney's Office, Judge Ruiz practiced corporate law in the Miami office of White & Case LLP. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Ruiz served as a law clerk to Judge Federico A. Moreno of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Judge Ruiz earned his B.S. from Duke University and his J.D. from Georgetown University, where he was an articles editor of the American Criminal Law Review.
If confirmed, Rodney Smith of Florida will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Rodney Smith serves as a Circuit Judge in the civil and felony criminal divisions of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit, where he has served since his appointment by the Governor in 2012. In this capacity, he also serves as co-chair of the Diversity Committee of the Florida Conference of Circuit Judges. He previously served for four years as a Miami-Dade County Court Judge of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit, where he handled both civil and criminal cases. Before ascending to the bench, Judge Smith served as a senior assistant city attorney in the Office of the City Attorney for Miami Beach, where he handled a broad range of civil defense matters. Before joining the City Attorney's office, Judge Smith practiced insurance defense law at a number of private Miami firms. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Smith served for four years as an Assistant State Attorney in the Miami-Dade County State Attorney's Office. Judge Smith earned his B.S., cum laude, from Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University, and his J.D., cum laude, from the Michigan State University College of Law.
If confirmed, T. Kent Wetherell, II, of Florida will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida. Kent Wetherell is a Judge on the First District Court of Appeal, where he has served since his appointment by the Governor in 2009. He previously served for seven years as an Administrative Law Judge of the Florida Division of Administrative Hearings, where he heard a wide variety of cases, involving rule challenges, bid protests, hospital certificates of need, environmental permit challenges, employment discrimination claims, and professional license disputes. Before becoming a judge, Judge Wetherell served for two years in the Office of the Florida Attorney General as Deputy Solicitor General. Prior to entering government service, Judge Wetherell spent four years in private practice at the Tallahassee firm of Hopping Green Sams & Smith, where his practice focused on representing landowners and developers on land use matters before local governments and State agencies and representing corporate clients in administrative rule challenge and bid protest hearings. Judge Wetherell earned his B.S., magna cum laude, from Florida State University and his J.D., with high honors, from the Florida State University College of Law, where he was inducted into the Order of the Coif and served as an articles editor of the Florida State University Law Review.
If confirmed, Richard A. Hertling of Maryland will serve as a Judge on the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. Richard Hertling is Of Counsel in the Washington, D.C., office of Covington & Burling, LLP, where he has worked since 2013, after retiring from 27 years in Federal service. Before entering private practice, Mr. Hertling served as Staff Director and Chief Counsel of the U.S. House of Representatives' Committee on the Judiciary. During President George W. Bush's Administration, Mr. Hertling served in the United States Department of Justice for four years, including service as Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for Legal Policy and Acting Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs. Before entering the Bush Administration, Mr. Hertling served as the Republican Staff Director of the United States Senate's Committee on Governmental Affairs. Earlier, he served as Chief Counsel of the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary's Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology & the Law. Mr. Hertling has served as a staffer to four United States Senators: Lamar Alexander, Arlen Specter, Fred Thompson, and Peter Fitzgerald. Before entering the legislative branch, Mr. Hertling spent more than three years as a trial attorney in the Federal Programs Branch within the Department of Justice's Civil Division. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Hertling served as a law clerk to Judge Henry A. Politz of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Mr. Hertling earned his B.A., with honors and magna cum laude, from Brown University and his J.D. from the University of Chicago Law School.
If confirmed, Kim Gaffney of Wisconsin will serve as the United States Marshal for the Western District of Wisconsin. Kim Gaffney is currently the Sheriff of Marquette County, Wisconsin, a position he has held for 11 years. He began his law enforcement career with the Marquette County Sheriff's Office in 1975, serving as a Deputy Sheriff, Detective, and Chief Deputy before being elected Sheriff in 2007. Additionally, Mr. Gaffney has served as the President of the Badger State Sheriffs' Association (BSSA) since 2017. He previously chaired the BSSA Legislative and Training Committees; and, he served as vice chair of the Wisconsin Training and Standards Board for Law Enforcement. Mr. Gaffney received the Wisconsin Governor's Life Saving Award in 1984, and earned his Wisconsin Law Enforcement Certification from Fox Valley Technical College in 1977.
If confirmed, Denny Wade King of Tennessee will serve as the United States Marshal for the Middle District of Tennessee. Denny King began his law enforcement career in 1973 as a Patrolman with the LaFollette, Tennessee, Police Department. In 1974, Mr. King became a Trooper with the Tennessee Department of Safety. He rose through the ranks of the Department, and in January 2002, he was appointed Commissioner of Safety by Governor Don Sundquist. He served in this capacity until September 2002, when he was appointed United States Marshal for the Middle District of Tennessee by President George W. Bush. Mr. King served as U.S. Marshal for over 10 years, until January 2013. In retirement, he has served as a part-time Security Officer and Private Investigator with Music City Security & Investigations, Inc. He has also served as Director of Admissions and Development Officer for Bethel University and Program Administrator and Recruiter for Tennessee Tech University. Mr. King holds a Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice from Bethel University and an Associate of Science in Criminal Justice from Walter State Community College.
If confirmed, Susan Lewellyn Pamerleau of Texas will serve as the United States Marshal for the Western District of Texas. Susan Pamerleau is a retired United States Air Force Major General, who served as Sheriff of Bexar County, Texas, from 2013 to 2016. She served for 32 years in the United States Air Force, retiring in 2000 as the Director of Personnel Force Management, Headquarters Air Force, The Pentagon. From 2001 to 2007, Ms. Pamerleau served as Vice President and Senior Vice President for USAA in San Antonio, Texas. In 2012, she was elected Sheriff of Bexar County, Texas, the 11th largest Sheriff's Office in the nation. Ms. Pamerleau currently serves on the Board of Directors for Government Personnel Mutual Life Insurance Company, and also the boards of several non-profit agencies in her community. Ms. Pamerleau holds a Master of Public Administration from Golden Gate University, a Bachelor of Arts in Sociology from the University of Wyoming, and is a graduate of the FBI's National Executive Institute.
If confirmed, Barrett W. Rich of Tennessee will serve as the United States Marshal for the Western District of Tennessee. Barrett Rich currently serves as a Board Member on the Tennessee Board of Parole, a position he has held since his appointment by Governor Bill Haslam in 2014. He began his law enforcement career in 1996 as a Cadet with the Shelby County, Tennessee Sheriff's Office. Mr. Rich went on to serve as an Officer with the Oakland Police Department and a Deputy Sheriff with the Fayette County Sheriff's Office before joining the Tennessee Highway Patrol as a State Trooper in 2000. He served in this capacity until 2005. After three years as an Insurance Agent with the Tennessee Farm Bureau, Mr. Rich was elected to the Tennessee House of Representatives in 2008, representing Tennessee's 94th district. He served as a State Representative for three terms, until 2014. He was selected to serve as the House Majority Whip in his second term, from 2010 to 2012. Mr. Rich is an Eagle Scout, and he earned a B.S. in Management and Organizational Development from Bethel College and a J.D. from the Nashville School of Law and.
If confirmed, Richard E. Taylor, Jr., of Texas will serve as the United States Marshal for the Northern District of Texas. Richard Taylor currently serves as Acting United States Marshal for the Northern District of Texas, a position he has held since August 2015. He began his career with the United States Marshals Service (USMS) after serving in the U.S. Air Force from 1989 to 1995. Mr. Taylor served as a Deputy U.S. Marshal in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia and the Southern District of Texas, then as a Senior Inspector with the Investigative Operations Division in Los Angeles, California. In 2007, he was promoted to Supervisory Deputy U.S. Marshal in the District of Arizona. From 2009 to 2015, he served at USMS headquarters, supporting the Judicial Security and Information Technology Divisions. He returned to Texas in July 2015 to serve as the Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal in the Northern District of Texas, and assumed the role of Acing U.S. Marshal for the district one month later. He was officially designated Acting U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Texas by the Attorney General in September 2015. Mr. Taylor holds an M.P.A. from California State University, Northridge, and a B.S. in Management from National Louis University.
If confirmed, Enoch "Nick" Willard of New Hampshire will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of New Hampshire. Nick Willard currently serves as Chief of Police for the Manchester, New Hampshire, Police Department, a position he has held since 2015. He began his law enforcement career as a Patrol Officer with the Sanbornton, New Hampshire, Police Department, after serving in the U.S. Air Force from 1985 to 1989. He joined the Manchester Police Department as a Patrol Officer in 1992. In his nearly 26 years with the department, he rose through the ranks, serving as Detective, Patrol Sergeant, Detective Sergeant, Detective Lieutenant, Detective Captain, and Assistant Chief of Police, before assuming his current role as Chief of Police in July 2015. He holds an A.S. in Criminal Justice from the New Hampshire Technical Institute, and is a graduate of the FBI National Academy's 247th Session.
  