
    Effort to curb global warming will offset emissions from offices, travel
The Clinton Campaign today announced that it will mark Earth Day by becoming carbon neutral, offsetting carbon emissions produced by the campaign and doing its part in the fight against global climate change.
"In order to address the climate crisis, we all must act -- and that includes our campaign," Clinton said. "As a nation, it is past time that we met this challenge head-on by increasing energy efficiency and investments in clean and renewable energy. If we do nothing, the planet will continue to warm over the next century, with widespread and potentially devastating effects."
In February in a landmark study, the United Nations panel on Climate Change reported that there is overwhelming evidence that human activities are the main driver behind global warming.
In addition to purchasing carbon offsets, the campaign will take a series of conservation measures, buying 100 percent recycled paper products; recycling paper, glass, cans and cardboard; installing motion-controlled lights to reduce energy when offices are not in use; and locating its headquarters next to a subway station to encourage staff to use public transportation.
Clinton has proposed creating a $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund to support clean and renewable energy technologies that will reduce America's oil dependence and greenhouse gas emissions while promoting new jobs and a cleaner environment. She supports legislation to establish a flexible, market-based system to combat global warming, and additional investments in biofuels, wind, clean coal and other clean energy technologies that hold promise for mitigating climate change.
By partnering with Native Energy to support renewable energy projects and purchase carbon offsets, the Clinton campaign will balance out the carbon emissions produced by its offices and travel, making it carbon neutral. For more information on carbon offsets and Native Energy's programs, visit www.nativeenergy.com.
  