
    Pool Reports by Annie Linskey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




April 1, 202311:38 CAT

VP pool report 1 - Harris arrives at farm
Good morning from Zambia - the final day of Harris's Afrcia trip. Today we're visiting a farm, doing a pool spray of the VP with officials she's working with to secure investments to the continent and then flying back to JBA this evening.
At 10:42 am, VP Harris's motorcade left the RON for Panuka Farms.
Zambians lined the streets to see Harris's motorcade as it drove by. One billboard along the street was for "Oriental Steel" - with Chinese writing on it.
By 11:18 am, the motorcade turned onto a dirt road
Children cheered as the VPs motorcade drove past homes.
At 11:31 am the VP arrived at the farm.
"I've been looking to this" Harris said.
Background about Harris's day and events.
On Background from a White House Official 
Today, April 1, the Vice President will visit Panuka Farm, a Zambian owned, operated, and worked farm that is using climate-smart agriculture techniques and digital tools to increase the quantity and quality of their produce. The visit will highlight the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to addressing food security, including through supporting climate-smart agriculture and access to digital tools to enhance production and access to capital for farmers.
The event follows the Vice President's announcement yesterday of more than $7 billion in private sector commitments that will support climate resilience, adaptation, and mitigation across the continent of Africa. This includes commitments to support climate smart agriculture and increase access to financing and insurance to more than 116 million farmers. Read the fact sheetHERE.
Additional Background on Panuka Farm
Panuka Farm is an innovative horticulture farm focused on high value vegetables. Their current core products are English cucumbers, sweet peppers (red, yellow and green), iceberg lettuce, sweetcorn, broccoli and cauliflower.
The Farm is a 100% renewable energy powered farming enterprise. The Farm has greenhouses, solar, drip irrigation, and currently in trial migration to organic fertilizers and pesticides. 95% of the workforce are recruited locally and there are equal numbers of male and female employees. The Farm operates a 6 months graduate trainee program for fresh agricultural graduates from various universities and colleges to help with skills development. So far, the farm has run 2 cohorts for 2021 and 2022 of 6 graduates per cohort. The next cohort ex ?pected in second quarter of 2023.
The Vice President with also meet with the founders of Lupiya, a Zambian-owned/operated online marketplace for microloans focused on women, rural, and marginalized borrowers.
Bios 
Bruno Mweemba, Managing Director and Founder Bruno is a Development Finance Expert and Chartered Accountant with over 18 years of experience. He is also the Managing Director and Founder for Panuka Enterprise Limited. The Farm is still in start up phase, soon to graduate into growth stage with the intention to climate proof its production processes to guarantee production consistency.
He is currently also the Technical Advisor on Environmental Finance for the African Region under the Biodiversity Finance Initiative (BIOFIN), which is a program under the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Prior to joining BIOFIN in Zambia, Bruno also worked for the Swedish Embassy and Sida (as financial controller), Indaba Agriculture Policy Research Institute (as Director of Finance), National Aids Council (as an Accountant), Investrust Bank (Credit Analyst in Corporate Finance), Zambia Air Force (Airman). Academically, he has a Master of Philosophy in Development Finance (Nelson Mandela University, South Africa) and an MBA in Financial Services (University of East London, United Kingdom). He is also a Certified Expert in Climate & Renewable Energy Finance (Frankfurt School of Finance & Management-Germany), Chartered Accountant (ACCA), and an Infrastructure Project Finance Expert (Middlesex University-UK).
Harold Mweemba, Farm Production Manager  Harold graduated with a Diploma in General Agriculture from the Zambia College of Agriculture I Monze Zambia. Joined Panuka Farm as an intern four years and was later promoted to being a field supervisor in 2020 in charge of open field production. In 2022, he was elevated to being the Production Manager for both open fields and greenhouses. He now also overseas Panuka Farm 2 which is a new extension of Panuka Farm 1.
Alice Changwe, Field Supervisor, English Cucumber
Alice graduated with a Certificate in General Agriculture from Chipembi College of Agriculture in 2020. Immediately after completion of her studies, she was selected to be part of the first cohort of the 6 month Panuka Farm Graduate Trainee program which was all women.
Maluba Mwaanga, Field Supervisor, Open Fields Production  Maluba graduated with a Diploma in General Agriculture from the Natural Resources Development College (NRDC). During his final year, he had a three month internship at Panuka Farm. Due to his excellent performance during his internship, he was recruited at Panuka Farm upon his completion of his studies in January 2022.  Evelyn Kaingu, Co-Founder and CEO of Lupiya
Evelyn is a finance expert and entrepreneur. She is a graduate of the University of Greenwich and is an alumna of the U.S. Global Entrepreneurship Summit.
Muchu Kaingu, Co-Founder and CTO of Lupiya
Muchu is a software engineer and tech entrepreneur who has developed systems and apps for the African landscape. He is a graduate of the University of Greenwich and an alumnus of the U.S. Global Innovation through Science and Technology initiative.
###
*
On Saturday, April 1 in Lusaka, the Vice President will convene business and philanthropic leaders to build on the work of her trip and discuss next steps.
In particular, they will discuss public and private sector investments to promote digital inclusion across the continent of Africa. They will explore ways to expand access to digital services, which will drive development across sectors and across demographics.
At this convening in Lusaka, the Vice President will issue a call to action to business and philanthropic leaders to make direct investments and social impact commitments in support of the Digital Transformation with Africa Initiative (DTA). President Biden launched DTA at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit in December 2022, as part of the broader Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII). As we said at the time, "A signature initiative of the Biden-Harris Administration, DTA will expand digital access and literacy and strengthen digital enabling environments across the continent. Working with Congress, this initiative intends to invest over $350 million and facilitate over $450 million in financing for Africa in line with the African Union's Digital Transformation Strategy and the U.S. Strategy Toward Sub-Saharan Africa."
Throughout her trip to Africa, the Vice President has worked with African partners to galvanize U.S., African, and global private sector investments for the continent, including more than $7 billion in climate adaptation, resilience, and mitigation commitments and $1 billion in commitments to empower African women. In advance of this trip, the Vice President personally engaged with CEOs and heads of foundations and nonprofits, in person and on the phone, to help identify and secure investments and commitments in support of our Administration's efforts in Africa. In her bilateral meetings with President Akufo-Addo of Ghana, President Samia of Tanzania, and President Hichilema of Zambia, the Vice President launched a series of new initiatives to strengthen business ties and advance democracy and good governance ??which the Vice President has underscored is critical to foster a stable and predictable investment climate.
The Vice President will discuss her approach to public-private partnerships as exemplified by her work to address the root causes of migration in northern Central America. Through an innovative public-private partnership called Central America Forward, the Vice President has generated more than $4.2 billion in investments in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador to provide economic opportunity for people there. This initiative has also connected more than 4 million people to the internet and brought more than1 million people into the formal financial economy.
Relevant excerpts from speech at Black Star Gate in Accra, Ghana
As the Vice President said in her speech in Accra, "African ideas and innovations will shape the future of the world ??. And so we must invest in the African ingenuity and creativity, which will unlock incredible economic growth and opportunities, not only for the people of the 54 countries that make up this diverse continent, but for the American people and people around the world. So the Biden-Harris administration and the American people stand ready to partner with you, to help accelerate the innovation and entrepreneurship that is already underway."
Digital inclusion was a core element of her speech in Accra. She said, "The second area where we must together make progress is in the digital economy. Whether you are a student relying on virtual courses, a farmer relying on an app for an early warning about extreme weather, or a small-business owner looking to sell goods online, digital services are essential to 21st century economies. Expanding access to the Internet drives growth and creates opportunity for innovation. And once people are online, they have greater access then to education, greater access to information, and greater access to financial services -- which is why the United States will double down on our effort to mobilize billions of dollars in public and private capital from the United States, the continent of Africa, and around the world, in order to expand Internet access for the benefit of all people here on the continent."
The Vice President also signaled in her speech her desire to strengthen partnerships with the private sector, and this convening is in line with that approach. In Accra she said, "To this end, the partnership between the public and private sectors is essential. Partnerships that combine the experience and expertise of the private sector with the reach and capacity that only governments can provide. Together, we can unleash growth and opportunity that far exceeds what either the public or private sector can achieve on its own. And the United States is committed to build these types of partnerships to increase digital inclusion on the continent."
Expected attendees include:
Mr. Borge Brende, President, World Economic Forum Dean Michelle Williams, Dean of the Faculty, Harvard School of Public Health Mr. Tony Elumelu, Founder, The Tony Elumelu Foundation Ms. Florizelle Liser, President and CEO, Corporate Council on Africa Ms. Ashley Johnson, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Planet Mr. Thomas Njeru, CEO and Co-Founder , Pula Dr. Olu "Sam" Faleye, CEO, SAGLEV Mr. Simon Tiemtore, Group Chairman at Vista Bank Group, Vista Group Dr. Tim Schnabel, Founder and CEO, Switch Bioworks Mr. Jake Cusack, Co-Founder and Managing Partner, CrossBoundary Energy Ambassador Roya Rahmani, Chair, Delphos International, Ltd Mr. Jack Leslie, Former Chairman, Weber and Shandwick Ms. Joy Phumaphi, Executive Secretary of the African Leaders Malaria Alliance, Ms. Lillian Barnard, South Africa's Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Ms. Jessica Horn , Regional Director, Eastern Africa, Ford Foundation Mr. Siphosami Malunga, Director of Programs, Open Societies - Africa Ms. Chikwe Mbweeda, Zambia Country Director, CARE Dr. Kole Shettima , Africa Director, Macarthur Foundation Mr. Mark Elliott, Division President, Sub-Saharan Africa, Mastercard Ms. Ebru Pakcan, Head of Middle East and Africa, Citi Mr. Seun Salami, Chief Financial Officer, Nuveen Ms. Mary Wandia, Director, Programs Africa, Co-Impact Mr. Lacina Kone, CEO, Smart Africa Dr. Acha Leke, Senior Partner and Chairman of Africa Region, McKinsey Ms. Julie Jacobs, Executive Vice President, Chief Legal & Public Policy Officer and General Counsel, HP Ms. Reem Assad, Vice President for Middle East and Africa, Cisco Ms. Aida Diarra, Senior Vice President & Head for Sub Sahara Africa, Visa Ms. Samantha Pokroy, Founder and CEO, Sanari Capital Mr. Victor Williams, CEO, NBA Africa, National Basketball Association
U.S. government participants: Dr. Philip Gordon, Assistant to the President, National Security Advisor to the Vice President Ms. Reta Jo Lewis , President and Chair of the Board of Directors, Export-Import Bank of the United States Ms. Enoh Ebong, Director, U.S. Trade and Development Agency Mr. Amos Hochstein, Special Presidential Coordinator for Global Infrastructure and Energy Security Dr. Monde Muyangwa, Assistant Administrator for Africa, USAID Ms. Dorothy McAuliffe, Special Representative for Global Partnerships, U.S. Department of State Ambassador Johnnie Carson, Special Presidential Representative for U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit Implementation.


April 1, 2023 13:38 CAT

VP pool report 2 - Harris at Panuka Farm
Hello from Zambia - where Harris is on her final day in Afrcia.
11:37 am - Harris started a tour of Panuka Farm, which is about an hour outside of Lusaka, Zambia.
She spoke with some of the founders of it.
"So how has the fin tech been working?" She was overhead saying to one person.
"I've been seeing your billboards all around town" she said to some of the founders of the farm.
"I've been reading about your work," Harris said.
11:41 - pool was ushered into a netted / enclosed field where rows of various greens are being grown. Including peppers.
"My name is Kamala, nice to meet you," she said to a female farmer. "You're pruning it?" She asked. She leaned down and examined a green pepper. She also viewed rows of lettuce  "Oh look at this - these are beautiful," harris said. She leaned down and held one of the lettuce plants.
11;56 Harris toured an uncovered lettuce field. She stood near a water tower
"Is this at the point where you bring it in" Harris asked about the plants
The tour guide said they keep them outside.
12:01 Harris walked down a long pathway between several netted enclosures
12:04 Harris walked into an office.
12:13 am -podium set up in an area shaded by trees
Founder and CEO of the farm offered remarks. His name is Bruno Mweemba. Says the name of the farm means "clever."
He thanked the World Bank for help starting the farm, where all the power for irrigation and the buildings are run on solar.
He says that the he's "very proud" of Harris for her work in behalf of sustainable agriculture.
12:15 - Harris spoke
Harris spoke about the importance of innovation, a theme on the trip. She also noted that a high percentage of farmers in Zambia are women.
"I plan on talking about you all around the world" VP Harris said to the workers
Harris said climate change "threatens the entire plant"
"It is not only a model of innovation and inspired by, by, as you said ?? what we must do to be clever ?? but it is also an example of work that should happen around the country."
"And so the work here is an example of what we want to encourage more."
She said she was impressed by an app that the founder could use on his phone to track the health of his crops. He is able to take a photo of a leaf and via AI technology to determine if more or less water etc is needed. It also helps monitor the health of the crops.
Harris noted that she sought $7 billion in commitments in Afrcia, much of it focused on climate.
"This work is directly, of course, connected to the issue of food security, which is a big issue for the continent, and for the globe."
12:26 pm - VP Harris wrapped up her remarks. See otter below
https://otter.ai/u/D04DS-b8BinvTxqLqf7mM55C8SM
By 12:35 pm Pool has loaded in vans and waiting for Harris
1:36 pm motorcade rolling back to the RON in Lusaka.


April 1, 2023 16:59 CAT

VP pool report # 3 - Harris spray with business/ NGO leaders
Harris gave brief remarks at the top of her meeting with business and nonprofit leaders, many of whom have committed to invest in projects in Africa.
Harris spoke for about 10 minutes. Some quotes are below and i'm including an otter. She was at the Intercontinental Hotel in Lusaka, where she has been staying while here. She was seated at the end of tables arranged in a large U. The tables were covered in black tablecloths.
Several officials were seated next to Harris, including: Reta Jo Lewis; the President and Chair of the Export-Import Bank of the US; Amos HochsteinFormer United States Assistant Secretary of State for Energy Resources; Lorraine Voles, Chief of Staff to the Vice President of the United States and Vice President Harris's National Security Adviser Philip Gordon
Harris made some comments at the top, including thoughts that summed up her trip:
"We have also advanced our work to support democracy and good governance on the continent, which will invariably create greater stability, predictability, the type that businesses require and need to invest," said Harris.
Harris stressed the importance of the private commitments to invest
"I believe in the strength of public private partnerships, and in fact, this approach that we have taken and the occasion for this meeting, I probably more accurately would call it a private public partnership." Harris said.
"In other places on the continent we see that there is a lag and that there are many who lag behind. And we must be clear about the challenges presented to close these gaps and then commit to take action, because solutions are within sight and within reach," Harris said.
4:10 pm pool ushered out
Here is an OTTER:https://otter.ai/u/8Ig33NuqK7Xf1WHVnlVCxvZl-UU*
And, taking a step back:
Harris arrived at the RON in Lusaka, Zambia (from the farm) at 2:31 pm
Note from previous visit, the farm Harris toured was in Chibombo District, according to the VP office.
On background, attributed to a White House Official - On Saturday, April 1 in Lusaka, the Vice President will convene business and philanthropic leaders to build on the work of her trip and discuss next steps.
In particular, they will discuss public and private sector investments to promote digital inclusion across the continent of Africa. They will explore ways to expand access to digital services, which will drive development across sectors and across demographics.
At this convening in Lusaka, the Vice President will issue a call to action to business and philanthropic leaders to make direct investments and social impact commitments in support of the Digital Transformation with Africa Initiative (DTA).President Biden launched DTA at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit in December 2022, as part of the broader Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII). As we said at the time, "A signature initiative of the Biden-Harris Administration, DTA will expand digital access and literacy and strengthen digital enabling environments across the continent. Working with Congress, this initiative intends to invest over $350 million and facilitate over $450 million in financing for Africa in line with the African Union's Digital Transformation Strategy and the U.S. Strategy Toward Sub-Saharan Africa."


April 1, 2023 19:04 CAT

VP pool report #4 - VP makes surprise stop in press cabin, wheels up
Wheels up from Zambia. Heading to refuel and then US.
6:06 pm Harris motorcade left RON en route to airport in Zambia.
6:32 pm VP Harris arrived at the Lusaka, Zambia Airport
6:35 pm VP Harris walks down red carpet to plane. Traditional dancers preformed.
6:38 As she has at all stops, VP Harris takes a photo with embassy staff.
6:40 pm VP Harris and First Gentleman Emhoff walked up the stairs to AF2. Both turned and waved.
6:47 pm - VP Harris came back to press cabin to deliver a slice of chocolate cake to Dr Nii-Quartelai Quartey who covered the trip and is celebrating his 39th birthday aboard AF2.
She said this trip "meant a lot" to her in terms of "setting the next phase."
7:02 AF2 is wheels up from Zambia.
We will be stopping to refuel before landing Sunday morning at JBA.


April 2, 2023 06:00 CEST

VP pool report #5 - Refueling in Spain
AF2 landed in Rota Airbase in Spain at 4:20 am local time for refueling. The VP is on her way to DC from her trip to Africa.
AF2 was wheels up by 5:58 am.
Pool did not see VP Harris during the stop. AF2 is set to land in DC on Sunday morning.



  