
    Governors
Gov. Mike Dunleavy (R-AK): "State of Alaska is thankful for @realDonaldTrump EOs recognizing need for robust energy infrastructure, regulatory reform, and unleashing America's vast energy resources."
Gov. Brad Little (R-ID): "Thank you @realDonaldTrump for your leadership in promoting and streamlining efficient energy infrastructure development. #IDpol @WhiteHouse"
Gov. Doug Burgum (R-ND): "Grateful for action by @realDonaldTrump to streamline permitting of essential energy infrastructure and ensure market access, allowing export states like ND to support U.S. energy dominance while protecting our clean air, water and land."
Gov. Greg Abbott (R-TX): "@POTUS executive action announced today in Crosby, TX will speed up oil and gas production and bring more jobs to Texas."
Gov. Mark Gordon (R-WY): "I applaud @realDonaldTrump for his Executive Order directing the EPA to modernize guidance on the application of section 401 of the Clean Water Act. I stand with governors across the land in asserting states' rights to access markets, as well as to protect the environment."
Advocacy Organizations and Industry 
American Chemistry Council: "New energy #infrastructure can help get #natgas to U.S. manufacturers who will use it to create jobs."
American Council for Capital Formation Executive Vice President George David Banks: "Today, the President took an important step to strengthen the energy security of the United States and its allies and further economic prosperity."
American Energy Alliance President Tom Pyle: "For America to operate from a position of strength, we must have the critical energy infrastructure to deliver affordable energy to power our lives. Today's Executive Orders are an attempt to make necessary changes to ensure federal statute is properly interpreted and followed, and make certain that politically motivated delays blocking pipeline infrastructure come to an end."
American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers: "The American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) supports President Trump's Executive Orders that will create clear pathways for the permitting process and support energy infrastructure development."
American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers President and CEO Chet Thompson: "AFPM's members are committed to protecting our nation's water and air. By clarifying the roles of federal and state agencies in permitting decisions, today's order will help promote investment in critical energy infrastructure development and associated good-paying jobs, while maintaining important environmental protections."
American Gas Association: "The American Gas Association (AGA) applauds today's executive orders aimed at speeding up the approval, permitting and construction of pipelines and other energy infrastructure."
American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert: "Today's executive orders clear the way for development of new natural gas pipelines, enabling greater access to natural gas thereby benefitting American families and our environment."
American Petroleum Institute President and CEO Mike Sommers: "We applaud the Administration for their commitment to building America's pipeline infrastructure, enabling the safe delivery of energy and creating the jobs that working families and businesses rely on each and every day."
Associated Petroleum Industries of Minnesota Executive Director Erin Roth: "We're pleased that the Administration has made American infrastructure a priority, as pipelines are critical to ensuring that Minnesota's consumers have the reliable and affordable energy they need, as well as being one of the most environmentally friendly ways to transport energy."
Associated Petroleum Industries of New York Executive Director Karen Moreau: "We're pleased the Administration is taking steps to put an end to the blockade on infrastructure projects in our state, while maintaining a robust and necessary environmental review process."
Associated Petroleum Industries of Ohio Executive Director Chris Zeigler: "We're pleased the Administration has taken steps to ensure the benefits of our state's plentiful natural gas and oil resources can be enjoyed by Ohio's consumers due to the construction of new and necessary pipelines."
Associated Petroleum Industries of Pennsylvania Executive Director Catarino Wissman: "As pipelines are one of the most environmentally friendly ways to transport energy, this Executive Order will help the rest of the country enjoy the abundant, clean natural gas that has provided countless benefits, like more affordable electricity, to Pennsylvanians."
Association of American Railroads President and CEO Ian Jefferies: "The private freight rail industry welcomes efforts by the Trump administration to enhance U.S. energy security and reduce infrastructure inefficiencies."
Association of Oil Pipe Lines President and CEO Andy Black: "The President knows pipelines are good for the American economy, create good-paying jobs and help consumers."
Duke Energy: "Duke Energy is committed to addressing the important issue of climate change. Doing so requires us to make substantial investments in critical infrastructure – including natural gas pipelines and electricity transmission lines to connect renewable energy to consumers. We applaud the President's recognition of the need for change now."
Edison Electric Institute: "EEI and its member companies thank President Trump for his commitment to achieving meaningful progress with our nation's energy priorities."
Energy Equipment and Infrastructure Alliance President and CEO Toby Mack: "The President understands the importance of adequate energy infrastructure to American consumers and businesses who need affordable and reliable energy, and especially to the men and women who build energy projects and support their families and communities with the great jobs these projects sustain."
GPA Midstream Association President and CEO Mark Sutton: "I applaud this administration for taking a stand against this type of invalid action. Too often we see bureaucracies stopping growth; it's great to see an administration promoting a pro-growth and pro-jobs agenda for the midstream industry."
The Heartland Institute President Tim Huelskamp: "This executive order by President Donald Trump is just what is needed to create thousands more high-paying jobs in the energy industry, protect U.S. national security, and enhance the reliability and affordability of America's energy supply."
International Union of Operating Engineers: "[President Trump's] executive orders today provide a clear pathway to building more energy infrastructure and creating thousands of new jobs. This is welcome news to the Operating Engineers who train and represent the most highly skilled pipeline construction workers in the world."
Interstate Natural Gas Association of America: "We are pleased that the administration is building upon earlier actions to streamline the permitting and review process for critical energy infrastructure projects. Ensuring that our abundant domestic supply of natural gas can safely reach end users is critical if we are to fully realize the benefits of this clean-burning, job-creating resource and natural gas infrastructure is the foundation of that vision."
LNG Allies President and CEO Fred H. Hutchison: "The Trump Administration has been a strong partner with the U.S. LNG industry and today's order is further evidence that business, government, and labor can and will continue to work together to take advantage of America's abundant energy resources."
Marcellus Shale Coalition, President David Spigelmyer: "President Trump's executive order will help ensure the energy infrastructure that delivers clean, abundant American natural gas is there when consumers, small businesses, hospitals, and manufacturers need it. We thank the President for taking action directly aimed at lifting the Cuomo's administration's energy blockade that has left the northeast starved for natural gas."
National Association of Manufactures: "Together, these two executive orders will promote badly-needed development of infrastructure to meet U.S. energy demand, create and support jobs for U.S. manufacturing workers, and provide reliable and affordable energy to U.S. consumers."
National Association of Manufactures, President and CEO Jay Timmons: "The President's executive action to accelerate the energy infrastructure permitting process will boost job creation, energy security, the growth of U.S. exports and the expansion of manufacturing in America."
National Hydropower Association, CEO Linda Church Ciocci: "The National Hydropower Association (NHA) applauds and supports President Trump's executive order today… At its core, President Trump has sent a clear message today that it is no longer acceptable for our nation's vital hydropower projects to linger in uncertainty for years – at times, a decade or more – without resolution."
National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, CEO Jim Matheson: "Today's announcement paves the way for electric co-ops to enhance system reliability and reduce wildfire risk by improving access to maintain and upgrade electric systems located on federal lands.. By reducing bureaucratic red tape, today's announcement helps prevent permitting delays and promotes the safety and reliability of our power supply."
Natural Gas Supply Association, President and CEO Dena Wiggins: "We applaud this Executive Order, which takes important steps toward fixing broken parts of the state water certification process for pipelines without compromising on environmental standards…This order takes politics out of the process and allows states and federal authorities to do their jobs."
North America's Building Trades Union, President Sean McGarvey: "We appreciate this administration working to ease permitting delays on vitally important projects that create good jobs and ensure clean, safe and affordable energy for communities across this great nation."
U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Global Energy Institute, Acting President Christopher Guith: "Today's actions represent meaningful progress to address some of the most pressing issues that commonly result in permitting delays, and we applaud the Trump Administration for tackling this problem."
  