
    ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today released a new web ad. The ad, entitled "Tolerance," discusses the need to have leaders who will leave behind distracting attack politics, and will instead focus on solving big challenges and lead our nation on to a brighter future.
"Tolerance" will appear on national news and information websites. 
VIEW THE AD HERE . 
Script For "Tolerance" (1:40-Web) 
ANNCR: We have our disagreements, we Americans.
We contend regularly and enthusiastically over many questions:
over the size and purposes of our government;
over the social responsibilities we accept in accord with the dictates of our conscience;
over our role in the world and how to defend our security interests and values in places where they are threatened.
These are important questions; worth arguing about.
We should contend over them with one another.
It is more than appropriate, it is necessary that even in times of crisis, especially in times of crisis, we fight among ourselves for the things we believe in.
It is not just our right, but our civic and moral obligation.
But we deserve more than tolerance from one another, we deserve each other's respect, whether we think each other right or wrong in our views, as long as our character and sincerity merit respect, and as long as we share, for all our differences, for all the noisy debates that enliven our politics, a mutual devotion to the sublime idea that this nation was conceived in -- that freedom is the inalienable right of mankind, and in accord with the laws of nature and nature's Creator.
Let us exercise our responsibilities as free people.
But let us remember, we are not enemies.
We are compatriots defending ourselves from a real enemy.
We have nothing to fear from each other.
We are arguing over the means to better secure our freedom, promote the general welfare and defend our ideals.
It should remain an argument among friends;
each of us struggling to hear our conscience, and heed its demands;
each of us, despite our differences, united in our great cause, and respectful of the goodness in each other.
  