
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

For the last fifty-two years, the proclamation of an annual Pan American Day has brought to the attention of the world the unique harmony of ideals inspiring the nations of the western hemisphere. These common goals of peace, prosperity, and freedom serve as the foundation for the Organization of American States, which is charged with upholding and defending these principles.
The OAS has succeeded admirably in maintaining and strengthening the traditional bonds of friendship among the peoples of the Americas. At the same time, the peacekeeping mechanisms forged by the OAS member nations have proved effective in preventing the level of conflict that has afflicted other areas of the globe.
The commitment of the Pan American nations to work together to solve their problems has prompted the creation of several specialized inter-American agencies. These agencies, along with the major councils of the OAS, have been instrumental in promoting the economic, social, scientific, educational, and cultural development of the Pan American nations. The Inter-American Human Rights Commission also has made a significant contribution to strengthening respect for basic liberties throughout the hemisphere.
Cooperation among Pan American nations is predicated on mutual respect for the individual character and culture of each people. Pan American Day commemorates this high mutual regard and salutes the great progress that has been made within the OAS framework.
On this Pan American Day of 1983, the people of the United States extend warm greetings to their neighbors in the Americas, and reaffirm their commitment to the spirit of solidarity, the ideals and purposes of the inter-American system, and their active support of the Organization of American States.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Thursday, April 14, 1983, as Pan American Day, and the week beginning April 10, 1983, as Pan American Week; and I urge the Governors of the fifty States, and the Governor of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the officials of the other areas under the flag of the United States of America, to honor these observances with appropriate activities and ceremonies.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 4th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  