
    Diverse Group of Leaders to Provide Counsel and Outreach
NEVADA -- Clinton campaign co-chair and chair of Hispanic outreach Raul Yzaguirre today announced the formation of the Nevada Hispanic Leadership Council, a wide-ranging group of Hispanic leaders united in support of Hillary Clinton's bid for the presidency. The Council, which includes business owners, educators and activists from throughout the Silver State, will serve as a steering committee and key advisory panel for Hispanic outreach and issues during the campaign.
"Nevada is an increasingly diverse state which will play a critical role in selecting our next president," said Yzaguirre. "This extraordinary group of individuals recognizes, as I do, that Hillary Clinton has a proven record of advocating for those who have been invisible in our society -- and that she has both the experience and the ability to move our country forward as a nation united. Their support and expertise are very important for this campaign."
"Senator Clinton's Nevada Hispanic Leadership Council brings together an unparalleled range of experience and community knowledge that will be a tremendous resource throughout the campaign," said Clinton Nevada Chair Rory Reid. "We are thrilled to have the endorsement, support and leadership of this talented and dedicated group."
The members of Hillary Clinton's Nevada Hispanic Leadership Council, announced today, are:

Brian Ayala, Ayala's Inc., President.
Javier Barrajas, Lindo Michoacan, owner.
Manuel Bayona - Professor and Director, School of Public Health, University of Nevada, Reno.
Rene Cantu, education advocate. Latin Chamber of Commerce, Board of Directors.
Liz Carrasco, reproductive rights activist.
Maximiliano Couvillier, Associate at Lionel, Sawyer & Collins. Latin Chamber of Commerce, Board of Directors.
Elvira Diaz, Sierra Bakery, owner. Community activist.
Eddie Escobedo, El Mundo, editor and publisher.
Randy Garcia, Investment Counsel Company of Nevada.
Anita Laruy, community activist.
Adriana Martinez, past chair of the Nevada State Democratic Party.
Jacki Ramirez, community activist.
Margarita Rebollal, East Las Vegas Community Outreach Corporation.
Tom Rodriguez, Hispanic activist and author.
Carlos Romo, Director of Equity and Diversity Office, Truckee Meadows Community College. Education advocate.
Randy Soltero, community activist.
Daniel J. Tafoya, Latin Chamber of Commerce, Board of Directors. Community activist.

  