
    NH Support Continues to Grow with 37 House Endorsements
MANCHESTER, NH -- With Senator Hillary Clinton's fifth trip to the Granite State in just two months complete, her support from communities across the state continues to flourish including today's announcement that eight more New Hampshire State Representatives have endorsed Senator Clinton's Presidential campaign. This brings the total number of State Representatives supporting Senator Clinton to 37.
"There is so much energy and excitement in New Hampshire and I am enjoying meeting with and talking to voters about their hopes and my plans to bring real change in this country," said Senator Clinton. "I am grateful and thrilled to have such strong support from these important voices. Together, we will bring my campaign's message for change and my record of leadership to every corner of New Hampshire."
Today's State Representative endorsements include: Catriona Beck (Bennington); James Cyr (Strafford); Eleanor Kjellman (Henniker); Lori Movsesian (Nashua); Barbara Shaw (Manchester); Mary Sysyn (Manchester); Janet Wall (Madbury); and Deborah Wheeler (Northfield).
State Representative Deb Wheeler, who is serving her first term, is a retired tax auditor and has been fighting in the house to create a commission to study affordable and accessible health care for all New Hampshire citizens.
"I am thrilled to be a part of Senator Clinton's campaign in New Hampshire and looking forward getting to work. It is clear to me that Senator Clinton possesses the vision, experience and passion this country needs to get us back on track," said State Representative Wheeler. "In seeing her during her visits to New Hampshire, I am so impressed at how she can talk to people. When she talks to you, she looks at you right in the eye."
Barbara Shaw, a teacher from Manchester who is serving her fourth term, has been very active in fighting for New Hampshire National Guard issues including legislation to establish tuition vouchers for National Guard members to help them attend state colleges, to increase their pay and to allow them to receive workmen's comp if they are injured.
Eleanor Kjellman, who is serving her first term, serves on the State and Federal Relations Committee. As a Navy veteran whose son has served in Iraq, Eleanor has also been a strong advocate for National Guard and military family issues in New Hampshire. She is also the Vice Chair of the Merrimack County Democrats.
Catriona Beck, who is also serving her first term, was born in Scotland, is the mother of two, and Treasurer for the Bennington Democrats. James Cyr, who is also serving his first term, is a building contractor and carpenter, a former Treasurer of the Strafford Democratic Committee and a father of four. Lori Movsesian is a homemaker serving her fourth term. Mary Sysyn, who is also serving her first term, is a former Manchester Alderman, mother of three and self-employed Avon representative. Janet Wall, is serving in her 11th term. She is the Vice Chair of the House Judiciary Committee and a passion advocate for stem cell research.
The following 29 State Representatives have already announced their support for Senator Clinton: Peter H. Allen (Harrisville), Delmar Burridge (Keene), Jane Clemons (Nashua), David Cote (Nashua); Peter Cote (Nashua); John DeJoie (Concord); Carol Estes (Plymouth); Carol Friedrich (Wentworth); Raymond Gagnon (Claremont); Jill Shaffer Hammond (Peterborough); Doreen Howard (Newmarket); Jean Jeudy (Manchester); Steve Johnson (Manchester); Angeline Kopka (Nashua); Betty Lasky (Nashua); Gus Lerandeau, (Keene); Melanie Levesque (Brookline); Anthony Matarazzo (Nashua); Ricia McMahon (North Sutton); Martha McLeod (Franconia); Edgar Mears (Berlin); Michael Reuschel (Manchester); Deanna Rollo (Rollinsford); Michael Rollo (Rollinsford); Trinka Russell (Stratham); Jim Splaine (Portsmouth); Hector Velez (Manchester); Mary Jane Wallner (Concord) and Jane Wood (Laconia).
  