
    EFFECTIVE management of the Executive Branch requires adaptability to changing circumstances and problems.
The organizational structure of the Executive Branch should foster both efficiency and flexibility. A tool on which my predecessors relied to achieve these objectives is the reorganization plan authority. This mechanism will be very useful in our efforts to meet the challenges we now face. Therefore, I am transmitting to you a draft bill entitled "To reestablish the period within which the President may transmit to the Congress plans for the reorganization of agencies of the Executive Branch of the Government, and for other purposes."
The Reorganization Act of 1949 (5 U.S.C., Chapter 9) requires the President to "examine the organization of all agencies" and "determine what changes in such organization are necessary." However, specific authority under this act to submit Reorganization Plans which define such necessary changes expired on April 1, 1973. Thus, this bill seeks to restore the authority necessary to fulfill my statutory obligation to study and propose Executive reorganizations.
Historically, there has been bi-partisan support for extension of this authority. Since 1949, all Presidents have made use of this mechanism--93 Presidential plans have been submitted and 73 have been approved.
The original Reorganization Act of 1949 established the President's authority to submit plans for a four-year period. In view of the mutual interest of both Congress and the Executive Branch in efforts to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of Federal programs, I urge that this Reorganization Plan authority again be extended for a four-year period. Such an extension would facilitate the orderly development of a systematic plan of organization improvements.
We all recognize the benefits of sound organization of governmental agencies. All three branches of the Federal Government seek effective management, reduction of expenditures, increased efficiency, and elimination of overlapping and duplication of effort. The reorganization statute has been instrumental in Executive Branch efforts to achieve these goals. Therefore, I urge prompt action by the Congress to extend this authority and renew the usefulness of this statute as a tool of good government.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
  