
    Wyoming Lawmakers Voice Support at State GOP Convention
Mitt Romney today announced the support of Wyoming Senators Mike Enzi and John Barrasso.
"I am honored to have Mike and John's support," said Mitt Romney. "They share my vision for shrinking the federal government, putting an end to burdensome regulations that stifle job creation, and making our tax policies more competitive with countries around the world. With their assistance and hard work, we can win in November and change the direction of the country."
"Our country desperately needs someone who has been in business. We have to save America. We can't continue to allow a failure of leadership that just picks on business and wastes money. We need someone who will follow through, not just give empty speeches every day. We need someone who has actually done something in government," said Senator Enzi. "We need a problem solver. So I am wholeheartedly endorsing Mitt Romney for president and urging everyone to support him, to get out the vote for him and to vote for him."
Senator Barrasso, Chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee, said, "Ultimately, this election is about the failed policies of the Obama Administration. Mitt Romney will hold this administration accountable for its irresponsible energy agenda, the explosion of job-killing regulations and for the massive increase in wasteful spending. And we will work together to repeal and replace President Obama's unprecedented Washington take-over of our health care system. Wyoming, and our country, simply can't afford more of the same. I endorse Mitt Romney and will be actively working to help him win in November," Senator Barrasso concluded.
Background on Senators Enzi and Barrasso:
Senator Enzi Was Elected In 1996. Since his election, Senator Enzi has served as chairman and now ranking member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. He has been a leader to ensure that all Americans have access to quality health care and education. Prior to his election, Senator Enzi was a small businessman and he has been an advocate for legislation that aids the country's small businesses.
Senator Barrasso has served in the United States Senate Since 2007. He is a member of the Senate Republican leadership and is Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee. Senator Barrasso serves on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, the Environment and Public Works Committee, the Indian Affairs Committee and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. During 24 years as an orthopedic surgeon in Casper, Dr. Barrasso served as President of the Wyoming Medical Society and was named Wyoming Physician of the Year.
  