
    To highlight the Administration's work to invest in and protect American workers, yesterday in Philadelphia, Vice President Kamala Harris delivered remarks uplifting the work of the White House Labor Task Force, the Administration's efforts to create good-paying union jobs, and announced a new workplace extreme heat program through the Department of Labor.
Americans who work in unions have better retirement benefits, safer working conditions, and earn more. The Biden-Harris Administration believes that increasing worker organizing and empowerment is critical to growing the middle class and building an economy that puts workers first. President Biden's commitment to those goals is why he created the White House Labor Task Force, which the Vice President Chairs and the Secretary of Labor co-chairs.
Over the past year, Vice President Harris, Secretary Walsh, and Task Force staff have held more than two dozen meetings with stakeholders, including labor unions, small and large employers, grassroots worker advocates, academics, and others. The Vice President and Labor Secretary have met with workers in Columbus, OH, Pittsburgh, PA, Durham, NC, Upper Marlboro, MD, and in Washington, DC.
Read more about the trip and announcement below.
The Philadelphia Inquirer: 'Unions move our nation forward,' Vice President Kamala Harris tells workers in South Philly[Anna Orso, 4/12/22]
Vice President Kamala Harris told a South Philadelphia crowd Tuesday that economic prosperity for blue-collar workers depends on the strength of unions, which she said "move our nation forward."
Harris and a handful of local elected officials rallied several hundred supporters in a parking lot along the Delaware River waterfront — the seal of the Sheet Metal Workers Local 19 behind her. It was the latest stop on a tour Harris and Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh have undertaken to meet with labor leaders across the country, from Google contractors in Pittsburgh to plumbers in the Midwest.
During a 15-minute speech, Harris said she and President Joe Biden are "determined to lead the most pro-union administration in America's history."
6ABC (WPVI): VP Kamala Harris visits Philadelphia, goes one-on-one with Action News' Tamala Edwards[Tam Edwards, 4/12/22]
Reporter: "Technically [Vice President] Harris had good news talking about the work force. 430,000 new jobs were created in March and unemployment at a historic low but what many workers are most aware off is the daily pain. Inflation hit a 40 year high, 8.5 percent, goods are harder to find and cost more as gas prices sit in the stratus fear."Vice President Harris: "I acknowledge, one must acknowledge that the prices are going up. That people are working hard and, in many cases, they don't know if they can get through to the end of the month."
Reporter: "The White House is helping people stretch those dollars with child tax credits and lower drug prices, while releasing oil from the strategic reserve to put a break on gas costs."
3CBS (KYW-TV): Vice President Kamala Harris Visits Philadelphia With Pro-Union Message[Alicia Reid, 4/12/22]
Hundreds of people were at the Sheet Metal Workers Union Local 19 Training Center to listen to the Biden-Harris administration's dedication to building an economy where workers come first.
Harris talked about the work the White House Labor Task Force is doing and the effort to develop union jobs that will help advance the middle class. […]
Also announced Tuesday was the launch of the national emphasis program that deals with outdoor and indoor heat-related hazards.
The new workplace extreme heat program from the Department of Labor is meant to protect workers, including those working in extreme weather, as we look towards the summer months.
For the first time ever, OSHA will begin enforcement where inspectors will audit workplaces in order to prevent heat-related injuries.
"Every year, thousands of workers suffer heat-related injury and illness. The danger posed by extreme heat has been ignored and overlooked for far too long. And that danger is only increasing because as we know, climate change has become a climate crisis," Harris said.
NBC 10 (WCAU): Vice President Kamala Harris Speaks to Workers in South Philly[Lauren Mayk, 4/12/22]
Reporter: "Vice President Kamala Harris took the stage today at this union hall and she told the crowd here about the work ahead on new projects to improve schools using funds approved during the Biden Administration. She also announced a new way for OSHA to inspect workplaces for heat-related hazards and promised to fight to protect jobs and protect workers."
Vice President Harris: "President Joe Biden and I are determined to lead the most pro-union Administration in America's history. Because you see we are clear and we know each and every day in ways big and small, unions change lives."
PBS, NPR (WHYY): Vice President Kamala Harris offers union support in Philadelphia visit[Tom MacDonald, 4/12/22]
A sun-drenched crowd of union workers greeted Vice President Kamala Harris Tuesday afternoon as part of a Philadelphia rally calling for new regulations to help American workers.
Speaking in the parking lot of the Sheetmetal Workers Union Hall in South Philadelphia, Harris announced the Occupational Health, and Safety Administration will start inspecting workplaces for heat issues that could impact workers.
"We're going to make sure the workers out there receive all the protection they are entitled to receive," Harris said. "It comes down to the dignity of work."
United Press International (UPI): "Kamala Harris announces OSHA program to protect workers from heat-related injuries"[Daniel Uria, 4/12/22]
Harris said that she and President Joe Biden strive "to lead the most pro-union administration in America's history," citing their efforts to protect and expand workers' rights to organize.
"Unions create stronger communities. They bring people together. And they, of course, protect workers from things like harassment and discrimination. And they give workers a voice," she said. "Put simply, unions move our nation forward. And the American people know it."
Harris cited her work on the White House Labor Task Force, which she chairs with Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh, after it drafted a report in February including recommendations to make it easier for laborers to organize and bargain collectively, and called on about a dozen agencies to prioritize federal grants to create union jobs.
  