
    
  Releases statement reacting to President Obama's announcement of nuclear deal with Iran

HOUSTON, TX — U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas released the following statement in response to President Obama's agreement with Iran:
"President Obama's agreement with Iran, the details of which he has largely kept secret, is as he said 'historic' because of the catastrophic risk it poses to the security of the United States and our allies.
"The so-called deal, unilaterally arranged without any consultation with Congress, lifts sanctions and effectively puts Iran on the path to the bomb after a 10-year horizon. The likelihood of Iran using those weapons against Israel, which its leaders call 'little Satan' and have explicitly said they would like to 'erase off the map' and America, which it calls 'the Great Satan,' is unacceptably high.
"Under no circumstance should a U.S. President lift sanctions and grant nuclear capability to a nation that proudly chants 'Death to America.'
"It is unfortunate that throughout these negotiations the President continually reserved his harshest language not for the Iranian regime, but for the United States Congress and the Prime Minister of Israel.
"Finally, let us remember to lift those Americans who remain unjustly detained by the Iranian regime in our prayers. The President had an opportunity to speak out for their freedom yesterday and did not. We must continue to give them a voice. Saeed Abedini, Amir Hekmati, and Jason Rezaian, must be freed and Robert Levinson must be found.
"President Obama, Secretary of State John Kerry and other negotiators have publicly said the choice is between their bad deal and war. That was a false choice. America should not accept a bad deal, under any terms. The Obama Administration should have pursued a good deal that forces Iran to renounce its nuclear program, stop threatening Israel, and release our American brothers.
"This is a very bad deal and it is a grim day for America. President Obama is right to be concerned that it will likely face considerable opposition from the American people and their representatives in Congress. Because absent Congress' consent, it will not be binding when President Obama leaves office."
  