
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–486), section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and the Energy Conservation Reauthorization Act of 1998 (Public Law 105–388), it is hereby ordered as follows:
PART 1 PREAMBLE
Section 101. Federal Leadership. The purpose of this order is to ensure that the Federal Government exercises leadership in the reduction of petroleum consumption through improvements in fleet fuel efficiency and the use of alternative fuel vehicles (AFVs) and alternative fuels. Reduced petroleum use and the displacement of petroleum by alternative fuels will help promote markets for more alternative fuel and fuel efficient vehicles, encourage new technologies, enhance the United States’ energy self-sufficiency and security, and ensure a healthier environment through the reduction of greenhouse gases and other pollutants in the atmosphere.
PART 2 GOALS
Sec. 201. Reduced Petroleum Fuel Consumption. Each agency operating 20 or more motor vehicles within the United States shall reduce its entire vehicle fleet’s annual petroleum consumption by at least 20 percent by the end of FY 2005, compared with FY 1999 petroleum consumption levels.
Sec. 202. Performance Strategies. Agencies have numerous options for developing a strategy to meet the petroleum reduction levels established in section 201 of this order. Measures include: the use of alternative fuels in light, medium, and heavy-duty vehicles; the acquisition of vehicles with higher fuel economy, including hybrid vehicles; the substitution of cars for light trucks; an increase in vehicle load factors; a decrease in vehicle miles traveled; and a decrease in fleet size. Each agency will need a strategy that includes most, if not all, of these measures, but can develop a strategy that fits its unique fleet configuration and mission requirements. As part of the strategy, each agency should attempt to accelerate the introduction of vehicles meeting Tier 2 standards. Where feasible, agencies should also consider procurement of innovative vehicles, such as hybrid electric vehicles, capable of large improvements in fuel economy. The strategy should also attempt to minimize costs in achieving the objectives of this order. In developing its strategy, each agency shall include the following:

(a)
AFV Acquisition and Use of Alternative Fuels. Each agency shall fulfill the acquisition requirements for AFVs established by section 303 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. Agencies shall use alternative fuels to meet a majority of the fuel requirements of those motor vehicles by the end of FY 2005. Section 402 of this order addresses related issues of alternative fuel infrastructure availability and the ability to track alternative fuel usage data; and
(b)
Acquisition of Higher Fuel Economy Vehicles. Agencies shall increase the average EPA fuel economy rating of passenger cars and light trucks acquired by at least 1 mile per gallon (mpg) by the end of FY 2002 and at least 3 mpg by the end of FY 2005 compared to FY 1999 acquisitions.

PART 3 ORGANIZATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Sec. 301. Leadership Responsibilities. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Department of Energy (DOE), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the General Services Administration (GSA) shall be responsible for providing leadership to the other Federal agencies in implementing programs to meet the goals of this order. Therefore, they shall perform the following activities:

(a)
OMB shall:
(1)
designate a senior official to assume the responsibility for coordinating the collection of agency budget and data submissions pursuant to this order;
(2)
amend and issue budget guidance to the agencies that requires each agency to identify in its annual budget submission the funding necessary to meet the requirements of this order;
(3)
review annual agency budget submissions to determine adequacy in meeting the goal of this order and to balance requests for increased funding to support achievement of the goals against other mission priorities for the agency; and
(4)
review agency submissions for the annual report to the Congress, after budget decisions are made.
(b)
DOE shall:
(1)
issue guidance to agencies, within 90 days of the issuance of this order, on preparation and submission of agency strategies for complying with this order and the collection and annual reporting of data to demonstrate compliance with this order;
(2)
review and evaluate agency strategies prior to their submission to OMB;
(3)
provide OMB with copies of the agency strategy evaluations;
(4)
provide whatever other support OMB requires to facilitate performance of OMB’s role;
(5)
establish the data collection and reporting system outlined in the DOE guidance for collecting annual agency performance data on meeting the goals of this order and other applicable statutes and policies;
(6)
educate personnel from other agencies on the requirements of this order, the data collection and reporting system, best practices for improving fleet fuel efficiency, and methods for successfully acquiring and using AFVs;
(7)
review agencies’ annual data submissions for accuracy and produce a scorecard of agency and overall Federal compliance with this order and other applicable statutes and policies; and
(8)
report to the President annually on compliance with the order, including the scorecard and level of performance in meeting the goals of the agencies’ strategies.


(c)
EPA shall support DOE and GSA in their efforts to assist the agencies in the accelerated purchase of Tier 2 vehicles.


(d)
GSA shall develop and implement strategies that will ease agencies’ financial and administrative burdens associated with the acquisition of AFVs, including:


(1)
Agencies shall be allowed to replace their conventionally-fueled vehicles with AFVs by making an initial lump-sum payment for the additional acquisition cost of the AFV and shall be allowed to contribute to the higher replacement costs of the AFV incrementally over the term of the lease, and have the option of averaging AFV incremental costs across the agency fleet as provided by the Energy Policy Act of 1992.
(2)
Within 120 days of this order, the Administrator of GSA, in consultation with other agencies, shall:






(A)
provide a summary of agency AFV acquisition plans to potential AFV manufacturers to assist in their production planning. At least 4 months in advance of agency vehicle ordering cycles, GSA must provide to agencies the best available information on the production plans of AFV manufacturers;
(B)
develop, in coordination with DOE and EPA, methods that will help Federal fleet managers to select vehicles to improve fleet fuel efficiency and to meet Tier 2 vehicle standards; and
(C)
collaborate with its customer agencies and their procurement staff and officials to discuss and plan efforts to ensure that the GSA-leased fleet is making progress toward the goals of this order.

Sec. 302. Designation of Senior Agency Official. Within 90 days of the date of this order, the head of each agency shall designate a senior official to assume responsibility for the agency’s AFV and fleet fuel efficiency programs, and for meeting the requirements of this order. Each senior agency official designated by an agency shall be responsible for:

(a)
preparing an agency strategy for meeting the goals of this order, in accordance with guidance issued by DOE;
(b)
submitting the agency strategy to DOE within 180 days of the issuance of this order for evaluation and submission to OMB;
(c)
implementing the data collection and reporting system outlined in the DOE guidance for collecting annual agency performance data on meeting the goals of this order and reporting the data to DOE;
(d)
ensuring the agency’s strategy for meeting the goals of this order is incorporated in the annual budget submission to OMB; and

(e) assembling the appropriate team and resources in the agency necessary
to attain the goals of this order.
Sec. 303. Management and Government Performance. Agencies may use
the following management strategies to assist them in meeting the goals
of this order:

(a)
Awards. Agencies may use employee incentive programs to reward exceptional performance in implementing this order.
(b)
Performance Evaluations. Agencies shall, where appropriate, include successful implementation of the provisions of this order in the position descriptions and performance evaluations of agency heads, the senior official, fleet managers, their superiors, and other relevant employees.

Sec. 304. Applicability. This order applies to each agency operating 20 or more motor vehicles within the United States. Agency means an executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105. For the purpose of this order, military departments, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102, are covered under the auspices of the Department of Defense.
PART 4 IMPLEMENTATION
Sec. 401. Vehicle Reporting Credits. When preparing the annual report to DOE and OMB, each agency acquisition of an alternative fuel light-duty vehicle, regardless of geographic placement, shall count as one credit towards fulfilling the AFV acquisition requirements of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. Agencies shall receive one additional credit for each light-duty AFV that exclusively uses an alternative fuel and for each Zero Emission Vehicle of any size. Agencies shall receive three credits for dedicated mediumduty AFVs and four credits for dedicated heavy-duty AFVs. Agencies can also receive one credit for every 450 gallons of pure bio-diesel used in diesel vehicles.
Sec. 402. Infrastructure. To support the use of alternative fuel in AFVs, agencies should arrange for fueling at commercial facilities that offer alternative fuels for sale to the public.
(a) Agencies should team with State, local, and private entities to support the expansion and use of public access alternative fuel refueling stations;

(b)
Agencies should use the authority granted to them in section 304 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 to establish nonpublic access alternative fuel infrastructure for fueling Federal AFVs where public fueling is unavailable.
(c)
Agencies are encouraged to work with DOE and GSA to resolve alternative fuel usage tracking issues with alternative and petroleum fuel providers.

Sec. 403. Procurement of Environmentally Preferable Motor Vehicle Products.

(a)
Consistent with Executive Order 13101 and section 6002 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), 42 U.S.C. 6962, effective 6 months after the date of this order, no Federal agency shall purchase, sell, or arrange for the purchase of virgin petroleum motor vehicle lubricating oils when re-refined motor vehicle lubricating oils are reasonably available and meet the vehicle manufacturer’s recommended performance standards.
(b)
Consistent with Executive Order 13101 and RCRA section 6962, in acquiring and maintaining motor vehicles, agencies shall acquire and use United States EPA-designated Comprehensive Procurement Guideline items, including but not limited to retread tires, when such products are reasonably available and meet applicable performance standards. In addition, Federal agencies should consider acquiring other recycled content products, such as tires containing a minimum of 5–10 percent post-consumer recovered rubber.
(c)
Consistent with Executive Order 13101, Federal agencies are encouraged to use biobased motor vehicle products when such products are reasonably available and meet applicable performance standards.

PART 5 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 501. Revocation. Executive Order 13031 of December 13, 1996, is revoked.
Sec. 502. Statutory Authority. Agencies must carry out the provisions of this order to the extent consistent with their statutory authority.
Sec. 503. Limitations. This order is intended only to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to create any right, benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any other person.
Sec. 504. Independent Agencies. Independent agencies and agencies excepted from coverage by section 304 are encouraged to comply with the provisions of this order.
Sec. 505. Government-Owned Contractor-Operated Vehicles. Agencies must ensure that all Government-owned contractor-operated vehicles comply with all applicable goals and other requirements of this order and that these goals and requirements are incorporated into each contractor’s management contract.
Sec. 506. Exemptions for Military Tactical, Law Enforcement, and Emergency Vehicles. Department of Defense military tactical vehicles are exempt from this order. Law enforcement, emergency, and any other vehicle class or type determined by OMB, in consultation with DOE, are exempted from this order’s requirements for Federal fleet fuel efficiency and alternative fuel vehicle acquisition. Agencies claiming vehicle exemptions must provide information on the number of each class or type of vehicle claimed as exempt as well as an estimate of total fuel consumption of exempt vehicles on an annual basis. Agencies should examine options for increasing fuel efficiency in these exempt vehicles and should report actions taken to increase fuel efficiency in these vehicles or fleets. All information required by this section must be submitted annually under Part 3 of this order.
Sec. 507. Compliance. (a) If an agency fails to meet requirements of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 or this order, its report to the DOE and OMB
under section 302(c) must include an explanation for such failure and an updated strategy for achieving compliance using the agency’s current and requested budgets.
(b) OMB, in consultation with DOE, may modify the compliance requirements for an agency under Part 2 of this order, if the agency is unable to comply with the requirements of that part. An agency requesting modification must show that it has made substantial good faith efforts to comply with that part. The availability and costs of alternative fuels and AFVs can be a factor in OMB’s decision to modify the agency’s compliance with Part 2 of this order.
Sec. 508. Definitions. Terms used in this order shall have the same definitions as those in the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and Executive Order 13101, unless specifically changed in guidance to be issued by DOE under section 301(b) of this order.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 21, 2000.
  