
    Today, Colorado Congresswoman Diana DeGette, Attorney General Phil Weiser, Denver District Attorney Beth McCann, and 22 elected and community leaders from across Colorado announced their endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"We're living in extraordinarily challenging times that require our leaders to step up for the American people. It will require science-first, fact-driven, and fundamentally decent leadership to meet the challenges that the COVID-19 pandemic poses, which is the polar opposite of what we see coming out of the White House today. Working closely with Vice President Biden on the 21st Century CURES Act, I saw Joe's leadership style first-hand," said Congresswoman Diana DeGette. "He was a steady hand who refused to let partisanship get in the way of getting big things done for our working families. His ability to lead with science and put politics aside uniquely qualifies him to lead our country in this moment as we face dual economic and public health crises. Above all else, Joe believes in America, and what we can accomplish if we work together. Joe has what it takes to be our next President, and I will do my part to make that a reality."
"During this challenging time, we need authentic, compassionate, and trusted leadership at the very top," said Colorado Attorney General Phil Weiser. "Joe Biden is ready to lead from day one, with a commitment to serving hard-working Americans, fighting for justice, and defending the rule of law. I know firsthand that Joe will fight hard for what is best about America and am proud to endorse him."
"It's in some of our most difficult moments when true leadership is shown," said Denver District Attorney Beth McCann. "When I think about some of the toughest fights this country has faced -- getting guns off of our streets, helping our country recover from the Great Recession, expanding long-overdue access to health care for Americans, addressing sexual assault on our college campuses -- Joe Biden has been there, leading the way, the entire time. What we need right now is a strong and experienced leader who is also an honest decent person to bring us together and help us heal from the divisive and turbulent last four years. Joe is that leader and I enthusiastically endorse him for President of the United States."
Today's endorsements also include:

Howard Arnold, Former Business Manager for United Association of Pipefitters, Plumbers, and Fire Sprinkler Fitters Rocky Mountain District Council
Scott Baldermann, Denver Public School Board Member
Janet Buckner, Colorado State Representative
Terrance Carroll, Former Speaker of the Colorado House of Representatives
Mike Cerbo, Former Colorado State Representative and Executive Director of the Colorado AFL-CIO
Juanita Chacon, Community Leader
Nick Gradisar, Mayor of Pueblo
Rollie Heath, Former Majority Leader, Colorado State Senate
Josie Heath, Community Leader
Edie Hooton, Colorado State Representative
Jim Hooton, Environmental Community Leader
Brad Laurvick, Denver Public School Board Member
Dickey Lee Hullingorst, Former Speaker of the Colorado House of Representatives
Brandon Lloyd, Former NFL All-Pro Wide Receiver
Kyle Mullica, Colorado State Representative
Barbara O'Brien, Former Lt. Governor of Colorado, Denver Public School Board At-Large Member
Brittany Pettersen, Colorado State Senator
Ray Rivera, 2008 Obama for America Colorado State Director
Robert Rodriguez, Colorado State Senator
Dylan Roberts, Colorado State Representative
Kerry Tipper, Colorado State Representative
Debbie Willhite, Community Leader

Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  