
    Vilsack Holds Event With IA Legislators, Campaign Launches Equal Pay Tool Kit on Website
Former Iowa First Lady Christie Vilsack hosted 15 legislators at the state capitol today to discuss ways to close the wage gap, part of Hillary Clinton's national effort to raise awareness on Equal Pay Day.
"It is high time we insisted that women receive equal pay for equal work in this country," Clinton said. "We have dispelled any notion that women aren't up to the task, yet millions of capable women are still being underpaid solely because of their gender, and it's time to put a stop to it."
Clinton addressed a rally of equal pay supporters this afternoon and called for Congress to pass her Paycheck Fairness Act. Clinton's campaign also launched an Equal Pay "tool kit" on her website aimed at highlighting the wage discrepancy.
Women in Iowa make only 75 cents for every dollar a man makes for equal work, below the national average of 77 cents. And the Hawkeye State has lost ground, according to the Institute for Women's Policy Research, falling from 21st in progress in closing the wage gap in 2000 to 33rd in 2005.
"Senator Clinton's work to level out income discrepancies will undoubtedly make a difference in the lives of many in the long run," Christie Vilsack said. "It demonstrates why Senator Clinton's strength, experience and wisdom on these issues qualify her to be our next President. I'm happy to stand by Senator Clinton as she takes on one of the toughest challenges faced by working women and their families today."
Last month Hillary introduced the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would create a training program to help women strengthen their negotiation skills, enforce equal pay laws for federal contractors and require the Department of Labor to work with employers to eliminate pay disparities. The bill would also prohibit employers from retaliating against employees who share salary information with their co-workers and allow women to sue for punitive damages in addition to compensatory damages now available under the Equal Pay Act.
"The disparity in pay between the genders has gone on too long," said State Senator Staci Appel. "I am pleased Senator Clinton has taken the initiative to close this gap and provide fairness in the workplace."
The wage gap is even wider among women of color. African American women earn 72 cents on the dollar while Latinas earn just 59 cents. While the pay gap has remained virtually unchanged since 2001, the Institute for Women's Policy Research says the wage gap costs working women's families about $4,000 each per year. Studies show women are eight times less likely to negotiate their starting salaries than men, costing them hundreds of thousands of dollars over the course of their lifetime.
  