
    Mr. President, all of our distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, this is the fifth time that I have had the honor and pleasure of meeting with you, but for the first time I am honored to welcome you in my native land, in my native State, and here at my home.
As we welcome you today, we think back to the times we have met before. Particularly I think of the time that we first met as heads of state at Midway, 4 years ago. On that occasion, you said after our meeting that you looked forward to the time when we could meet not for the purpose of discussing the conduct of war, but for the purpose of discussing the building of peace, and now, today, that day has come.
There are, of course, difficulties in building a peace after 25 years of war have torn your country apart. But on the other hand, when we compare the situation today to what it was 4 years ago at Midway when we met, we see the progress that has been made toward that goal. On that day, when there were over half a million Americans fighting side by side with your people, we now find that all the American forces have returned, and the people of Vietnam have the strength to defend their own independence and their right to choose their government in the years ahead.
We know that this would not have been possible without the courage and also the leadership that you have displayed in providing an example for the people of your country, and the courage that they have exemplified, and the sacrifices they have made.
Now, as we meet today for e days of meetings, we meet to work toward the building of peace, a peace for your land which has suffered so much and your people who have suffered so much, and a peace, as it is built there, which can contribute to lasting peace in the world.
I would say simply, as we conclude, that the name of our house here is Casa Pacifica, which means House of the Pacific, and also House of Peace, and we hope from this day, as a result of our talks, will come great steps forward in building the lasting peace, the real peace that we have fought together for and that now we want all of our people to live for.
Thank you.
  