
    Today Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval endorsed Ohio Governor John Kasich and joined his campaign as a national co-chair. 
Said Sandoval, "Governor Kasich and I entered office at the same time with the same primary objective: to put people back to work. Under John Kasich's leadership, Ohio's economy has undergone an incredible transformation. Over 425,000 jobs have returned to the state and people have hope again. Now more than ever, America needs his leadership in the Oval Office. John Kasich is the only candidate in the race with a real plan to deliver results, and he is the only Republican who can defeat Hillary Clinton in the fall. I look forward to helping his team spread this message to voters in the months ahead."

In 2010, Sandoval defeated an incumbent governor to win the Republican nomination and become Nevada's 29th Governor. The longtime Reno resident became the nation's first Hispanic federal judge when President George W. Bush appointed him to serve as the United States District Judge for the District of Nevada in 2005. Prior to his tenure as a federal judge, Sandoval served as Nevada Attorney General, Chairman of the Nevada Gaming Commission and Member of the Nevada Assembly.
Said Kasich, "I'm grateful and honored to receive the endorsement of my fellow governor Brian Sandoval. Governor Sandoval has turned things around in Nevada just like we've done in Ohio. Under his leadership, Nevada's unemployment rate has fallen from over 14 percent to 5.8 percent. The number of state small businesses has grown to exceed pre-recession levels and Nevada is consistently ranked has having one of the top ten business climates in the nation. It's a true privilege to welcome him to our national organization as we move forward to the convention."

On the Kasich for America National Leadership Team, Governor Sandoval joins Idaho Governor C. L. "Butch" Otter, former New York Governor George Pataki, former Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge, former Majority Leader Trent Lott, Senator Rob Portman, Senator John E. Sununu, Larry Paul, Gay Gaines and Steve Poizner. 
  