
    Today, Wisconsin Senator Tammy Baldwin released the following video statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
See below for a transcript of Senator Baldwin's endorsement:
"Over the last three years, with Donald Trump in the White House, folks in Wisconsin have fallen further and further behind.
"From making it harder for people to afford their health care, to senseless trade wars that have hurt our dairy farmers and workers, Donald Trump's policies have not worked for Wisconsin families.
"That's why I am supporting Vice President Joe Biden for President.
"Now more than ever, our families are wondering where they're going to get their next paycheck or can they keep their small businesses afloat. They need a champion in the White House and that champion is Joe Biden.
"Joe has proven time and time again that he doesn't just empathize with the struggles that Americans face, he commits to fighting until he gets the results they need.
"I'm supporting Joe Biden for president not just because he's always fought for the bold, progressive change that working families in Wisconsin need – but because he understands that everyone deserves to be treated with dignity and respect – and afforded the opportunity to thrive.
"The road to the White House goes right through Wisconsin and I'm going to do everything I can to make sure Joe Biden wins here in November. And I hope you'll join me."
In Wisconsin, Biden for President has announced more than 50 endorsements from leaders across the state – including Congressman Ron Kind, former Governor Jim Doyle, former U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, Senate Democratic Leader Jennifer Shilling, Assembly Democratic Leader Gordon Hintz, and Milwaukee County Democrats Chair Chris Walton.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  