
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint three individuals to serve in his Administration: The President intends to nominate Frederick B. Cook, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Central African Republic. Mr. Cook currently serves as Foreign Policy Advisor of the Combined Joint Task Force in the Horn of Africa. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Florida Regional Center. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Caracas. Mr. Cook received his bachelor's degree from Tufts University.
The President intends to nominate Joseph A. Ereli, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Bahrain. Mr. Ereli, a career member of the Foreign Service, currently serves as Senior Advisor to the Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Spokesman in the Bureau of Public Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Doha. Mr. Ereli received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his master's degree from Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
The President intends to nominate Richard B. Norland, of Iowa, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uzbekistan. Mr. Norland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in Kabul. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Riga. Earlier in his career, he served as a Director of the National Security Council. Mr. Norland received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University and his master's degrees from Johns Hopkins University and the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Alan J. Patricof, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation (Recommended by then Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi), for a three-year term.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated:
Phillip Jackson Bell, of Georgia (Defense Representative)
Franklin G. Gale, of Colorado (Labor Representative)
Lee J. Lofthus, of Maryland (Justice Representative)
  