
    
  Nye, Douglas victories provide convention momentum despite establishment shenanigans, and affirm delegate-attainment strategy

HENDERSON, Nevada — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul swept all state delegates from Nye County and a strong majority of state delegates from Douglas County in these areas' respective GOP county conventions held Saturday. Yesterday's success story from Nye County is especially notable because the county party establishment leadership attempted to break the rules in order to win, and ironically this effort destroyed their ability to send any representation to the state convention.
Nye County Republican Party leadership attempted to fill empty precinct delegate slots with people who failed to be elected or even participate in the February 4th caucus precinct meetings. Ron Paul supporters, however, worked tirelessly to ensure that the Republican Party rules were upheld and that Nevada State statutes were complied with. The 12-term Congressman from Texas' supporters refused to allow the convening of a convention with unelected delegates.  This delay in starting the convention ultimately frustrated the less-dedicated establishment attendees who refused to play by the rules.
After a tiring circle of threats from the chair to shut down the convention unless attendees would turn a blind eye to the cheating, Paul supporters elected a chair determined to conduct the proceedings in a fair manner.  When this blow was dealt to the current Nye County Republican Party leadership, they all departed — forfeiting any intention to represent or lead their county to the state convention.  The end result in Nye County was a fair, compliant election of a slate of delegates and alternate delegates to the state convention, all backing Dr. Paul.
Farther west in Douglas County, Ron Paul supporters locked down more than half of the 108 state delegates and many alternate delegate positions.  Fortunately, Douglas County citizens were able to make their voice heard loud and clear without having to circumvent the obstacle of an establishment determined to override the people.
Reflecting on the powerful impact the Paul conservative movement has in Nevada, Ron Paul 2012 Nevada State Chairman Carl Bunce said, "Supporters of Dr. Paul are reshaping Republican politics in Nevada.  They have the stamina and determination to bring the party back to its limited government roots, county by county."
"Beltway insiders might dismiss it, some in the media may choose to overlook it, and establishment party hacks will at times cheat, but nothing can stop the Ron Paul-influenced reawakening of the conservative movement in America.  Voters are smarter than the representation they're getting and the empty rhetoric of fake conservatives and serial hypocrites," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"Republicans understand Ron Paul is the only candidate who can challenge status quo candidate Mitt Romney, defeat Obama, and Restore America Now. Proof of this is ordinary citizens including first-time political activists investing their time to become the delegates required to win Dr. Paul the GOP nomination," added Mr. Benton.
The Nye and Douglas successes add to a decisive victory in Clark County, the populous county encompassing Las Vegas. In Clark, Paul secured approximately 60 percent of the delegates heading to the state convention, and won a supermajority of the Clark County Republican Executive Board. Progress and momentum such as in these examples is hardly limited to Nevada. It has occurred in other states including Washington and Missouri.
  