
    Pool Reports by Natasha Korecki, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




April 1, 202110:02

In-Town Pool Report #1 [briefing changed to 1:30] 
Good morning everyone from the White House where it’s a pleasant 49 degrees out. I am your print pooler today.
As you may have heard, we have one schedule change, per the White House: The Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki will now be at 1:30 PM.
Feel free to reach out with any questions.



April 1, 202111:49

In-Town Pool Report #2 NEW sched add: Biden to join NOON call with faith leaders 
We have an addition to the schedule, according to the White House.
This is a Zoom call but the president is calling in, according to the White House. The call will be accessible only to pool reporters.
From the White House: At 12:00 PM, the President will join the Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships and Office of Public Engagement’s weekly faith and community engagement call. Attending the call will be a diverse, bipartisan group of 1,000+ faith and community leaders. This call with be covered virtually by the in-house pool.
Background provided by the White House 
Participants 
White House Participants:

Josh Dickson, Senior Advisor, Faith Engagement; Deputy Director, Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
Melissa Rogers, Senior Director for Faith and Public Policy; Executive Director, Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
Howard Ou, Associate Director, AAPI Engagement
Rashad Hussain, Policy Coordination Manager for Partnerships and Global Engagement, National Security Council
Sherice Perry, Senior Advisor to Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith, Department of Health and Human Services

Attendees: 

1,000+ faith and community leaders from around the country, representing all faith backgrounds, including leaders of religious and non-religious/secular organizations




April 1, 202112:24

In-Town Pool Report #3 Cabinet meeting attendees 
On background from the White House on today’s 1:15 Cabinet meeting.
1:15 p.m. President Biden holds his first Cabinet meeting in the East Room, with a pool spray at the top. On background from the White House: the meeting is being held in the East Room to allow for social distancing and other COVID-19 safety protocols.
Below are a list of those attending the Cabinet Meeting this afternoon.
Participants:
- Vice President Kamala Harris- Secretary of State Antony Blinken- Secretary of Treasury Janet Yellen- Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin- Attorney General Merrick Garland- Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland- Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack- Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo- Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh- Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra- Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge- Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg- Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm- Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona- Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough- Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas- Environmental Protection Administrator Michael Regan- U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai- Administrator of the Small Business Administration Isabel Guzman- Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines- Chair of the Council of Economic Advisors Cecilia Rouse- U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield- Acting Director Office of Management and Budget Shalanda Young- Chief of Staff Ron Klain
Backbench:
- Deputy Cabinet Secretary Cristóbal Alex- Director of the National Economic Council Brian Deese- Deputy Chief of Staff Jen O’Malley Dillon- Senior Advisor Anita Dunn- White House Counsel Dana Remus- Director of the Domestic Policy Council Susan Rice- Cabinet Secretary Evan Ryan- American Rescue Plan Coordinator Gene Sperling (virtual)- COVID-19 Coordinator Jeff Zients



April 1, 202112:37

In-Town Pool Report #4 Biden joins faith leader call 
President Joe Biden joined a call of faith leaders at 12:15 hanging up at 12:28. 
Quick overview: No big news here. Biden called into the Zoom meeting and a stock photo of the president appeared on the screen as he spoke.
The major thrust here is Biden acknowledges a resurgence of Covid and recognizes he needs faith leaders to urge skeptical communities to receive the vaccine and to not get too "cavalier" when traveling and abiding by Covid safety measures like mask-wearing.
"They're going to listen to your words, more than they are me, as president of the United States " Biden told the leaders they could talk to their congregations "about what we have to do, what's available and not to be fearful, not to be fearful of getting the vaccine."
Biden also noted that because he and family had been vaccinated he may be able to see family members on Easter.
More quotes TK



April 1, 202112:55

In-Town Pool Report #5 Biden remarks to faith leaders 
Pool is now being summoned to gather before 1:15 Cabinet meeting. 
Here are Biden remarks to faith leaders.
This is run through Otter and tried to go through and fix some. If anyone needs something specific, please let me know.
Some highlights of Biden remarks:
"The point I'm trying to make is for the faith community as faith community leaders, you've been critical partners to us in our COVID response.
We need you to spread the word, let people in our communities and your community know how important is to get everyone vaccinated when it's their turn, and soon they'll just be able to just line up and just get their name on a list.
And that's how we're going to defeat this virus and that's how we're going to come together again in our communities, in our houses of worship.
What I'm worried about now what the scientists are telling me, people are getting too cavalier with traveling a great deal, gathering in larger crowds and people aren't wearing their masks. Aren't on social distancing. Aren't washing their hands. And you've seen this spike.
"I think this is the Godly thing to do. Protect your brother and sister."



April 1, 202113:22

In-town pool report #6 holding 
Your pooler and other reporters are holding outside North Palm Room doors, awaiting entry to Cabinet meeting. Updates TK



April 1, 202113:35

Pool report #7 5 cabinet members to sell jobs plan 
In East Room Biden announced that he’s asking five cabinet members to explain his jobs plan to the American public.
ButtigiegGranholmFudgeWalshRaimondo
He also asked his Cabinet to look at agency spending and make sure it abides by Buy American.
Excuse typos more TK



April 1, 202113:42

Pool report #8 -- Press ushered out of Cabinet meeting/Biden takes no Qs 
Your pooler, et al were quickly ushered out of President Biden's first Cabinet meeting.
Biden spoke for less than 2 1/2 minutes and took no questions.
More TK



April 1, 202113:51

Pool report #9 Will tweet pics of Cabinet room 
Your pooler is now at Psaki’s press briefing.
More precise quotes from Biden TK. I will in meantime tweet pics (they’re not great) from Cabinet meeting.



April 1, 202115:02

In-Town Pool Report #10 Few deets on Cabinet meeting 
President Joe Biden's first Cabinet meeting was held in the East Room instead of the typical Cabinet meeting room to abide by Covid safety provisions. The Cabinet, as well as key staff members, sat at large tables arranged in a square formation.
Each person was seated with an empty chair separating them from the next. Cabinet members were each wearing a mask. Biden was not wearing a mask as he made opening remarks.
The president was seated with Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin to his left and Secretary of State Antony Blinken to his right. Vice President Kamala Harris was sitting opposite Biden, facing him.
(photos here)
Biden opened by referencing his American Jobs rollout in Pittsburgh then noted he was asking five Cabinet members to take "special responsibility" to "engage the public on selling the plan," working with senior White House officials and Congress.
He said that would be a subject of the meeting as well as a directive from him to Cabinet members on spending and his "commitment to Buy American to make sure that they're spending on American made goods, American corporations and American employees."
"Today I'm directing every member of the Cabinet, I mean specifically every one of them, to take a hard look at their agency spending and make sure it abides by my Buy American standards."
Biden added he'd ask each Cabinet member to report back to him at the next meeting.
He did not take questions despite a couple shouted out. "Mr. President, at the border!" Fox's Peter Doocy attempted, to no avail.



April 1, 202115:47

In-Town Pool Report #11 Cabinet meeting concludes 
The White House tells your pooler that the Cabinet meeting ended at about 3:40 p.m .. It was about two hours, per White House.



April 1, 202116:16

In-Town Pool #12 LID 
The White House called a lid at 4:10 p.m.
Thanks all!




  