
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today that 19 Illinois county chairmen and chairwomen will help lead the campaign's statewide organization. These Republican leaders join a growing Team Rudy in Illinois and follow on the heels of Illinois State Senators and State Representatives signing aboard.
"I look forward to working with these highly respected Republican leaders in Illinois to support and communicate Mayor Giuliani's optimistic message for the future," said House Republican Leader Tom Cross.
ILLINOIS GOP COUNTY CHAIRMEN SUPPORTING RUDY GIULIANI
Cass County
Hon. Jack Hamilton, Chairman
Champaign County
Hon. Jason Barickman, Chairman
DeWitt County
Hon. Joe Alexander, Chairman
Fulton County
Hon. Judy Dudek, Chairwoman
Jefferson County
Hon. Richard Stubblefield, Chairman
Jo Daviess County
Hon. Roger Marquardt, Chairman
Kankakee County
Hon. Darrell Smith, Chairman
Kendall County
Hon. Dallas Ingemunson, Chairman
Lake Countybr> Hon. Daniel Venturi, Chairman
Livingston County
Hon. Robert Foltz, Chairman
Macon County
Hon. James A. Gresham, Chairman
McHenry County
Hon. William W. LeFew, Chairman
Peoria County
Hon. Rudy Lewis, Chairman
Rock Island County
Hon. Susan Carpentier, Chairwoman
Sangamon County
Hon. Tony Libri, Chairman
Stephenson County
Hon. Brian W. Stewart, Chairman
Tazewell County
Hon. Demetra K. DeMonte, Chairwoman
Will County
Hon. Jack Partelow, Chairman
Williamson County
Hon. Robert L. "Dog" Connell, Chairman
ILLINOIS STATE LEADERS SUPPORTING RUDY GIULIANI
State Senator Christine Radogno: Christine Radogno has served in the Illinois Senate since 1997.
Deputy Republican House Leader Bill Black: Deputy Republican Leader Black has served as State Representative of the 104th District since 1986.
Assistant Republican House Leader Mark Beaubien: Elected to the legislature in 1996, Representative Beaubien serves as the Republican point person in the state budget negotiations.
Assistant Republican House Leader Patricia Linder: Patricia Linder has served in the General Assembly as Representative of the 50th District since 1993.
Assistant Republican House Leader Dave Winters: Representative Dave Winters has been a member of the General Assembly since 1995.
State Representative Suzie Bassi: Representative Bassi has served in the General Assembly as Representative of the 54th District since 1999.
State Representative Franco Coladipietro: Representative Coladipietro is currently serving his first term as Representative of the 45th District.
State Representative Roger Eddy: Roger Eddy serves in the General Assembly as the State Representative of the 109th District since 2003.
State Representative Bill Mitchell: Bill Mitchell has served in the General Assembly since 1999. Prior to joining the General Assembly, Rep. Mitchell served as the Republican County Chairman of Macon County and former Decatur City Council Member.
State Representative Ruth Munson: Ruth Munson is serving her third term in the General Assembly as the State Representative of the 43rd District.
State Representative Dennis Reboletti: Dennis Reboletti is serving his first-term in the Illinois General Assembly representing the 46th District.
State Representative Angelo "Skip" Saviano: Skip Saviano has served in the General Assembly since 1993 as the State Representative of the 77th District.
State Representative Aaron Schock: Aaron Schock of Peoria is currently the State Representative for the 92nd District in Illinois At age 23, Aaron Schock is both the youngest school board president in history and the youngest member of the Illinois Legislature.
State Representative Ed Sullivan: Ed Sullivan is currently serving his second term as State Representative of the 51st District.
State Representative Mike Tryon: Mike Tryon is serving his second term in the General Assembly as Representative of the 64th District.
  