
    DES MOINES, IA — Tulsi Gabbard, Hawaii congresswoman and presidential candidate, continued to share her message of service above self with voters in Iowa this past week. After participating in She the People's Presidential Forumat Texas Southern University, Tulsi made her way back to Iowa and on Thursday, met with Dallas County Democrats and spoke at their Spring Fundraiser in Adel.
Live from Des Moines on Friday morning, Tulsi was interviewed by MSNBC's Craig Melvin where she spoke in detail about why she is running for president.
She then visited with the Iowa State Legislators Democratic Caucus at the Iowa State Capitol, where she answered questions and heard about the critical issues affecting their communities across the state.
After the visit, Tulsi toured the Es-Selam Bosnian Mosque, the first of its kind being built in the Des Moines area, led by Imam Hafiz Nermin Spahic and met with the mosque's leaders and members.
At her Des Moines Town Hall on Friday night, Tulsi was introduced by Iowa State Representative Ako Abdul-Samad and engaged with the community on a number of issues, including the need for a peace dividend that ends costly regime change wars and instead invests in people, the planet, healthcare, education, infrastructure, and a living wage for all US workers.
On Saturday at the Reaching Rural Voters Forum in Stuart, Tulsi worked with local Democrats to help boost voter registration and participation in the state's rural communities. She also stopped by the College and Young Democrats of Iowa Organizing Conference in Ankeny to thank them for their work to engage more young people in Iowa's elections, educate them about the Iowa Caucuses, and encourage them to run for elected office.
That evening, Tulsi delivered remarks at the Boone County Democratic Party's Annual Ball, this year themed, The Real Deal 2020.
On Sunday in Atlantic, Tulsi visited Rolling Acres Farm, which has been committed to organic farming and feeding the communities of Southwest Iowa and Eastern Nebraska through the production of safe and nutritious food since 1976. She later visited with victims of Iowa flooding in Pacific Junction and Hamburg and helped volunteer with the recovery effort.
The video footage and b-roll from Tulsi Gabbard's Iowa visits are available here for download.
The photos from Tulsi Gabbard's meetings and events in Iowa are available here from Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday for download.
  