
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intention to nominate Maria Eitel to be Chief Executive Officer for the Corporation for National and Community Service.
President Obama said, "I am pleased to announce my intent to nominate Maria Eitel to be CEO for the Corporation for National and Community Service. Maria brings a unique blend of skills and management experience that will help her successfully lead the Corporation during our Administration's bold expansion of national service programs. Maria is genuinely passionate about the role of national and community service as a vehicle for engaging and mobilizing citizens in social change, and will bring new, creative thinking to the growth and mission of the Corporation."
"I am deeply honored to be nominated to become CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service. President Obama and all those who champion service have led us to this historic moment to redefine citizenship in this country. Should I be confirmed by the Senate, I look forward to helping make President Obama's vision a reality for everyone," said Maria Eitel.
Maria Eitel , Nominee for Chief Executive Officer for the Corporation for National and Community Service.
Maria Eitel is the President of the Nike Foundation and a Vice President of NIKE, Inc. As president of the Nike Foundation, she has lead the Foundation's work to increase opportunities for the world's most disadvantaged girls.
Prior to becoming the Foundation's first president, Ms. Eitel served as Nike Inc.'s first vice president for corporate responsibility, leading the development and implementation of the company's first corporate responsibility agenda.
Before Nike, Ms. Eitel served as European corporate affairs group manager for Microsoft Corporation where she managed corporate, public and community affairs for the company's European headquarters. Prior to Microsoft, she worked with the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and MCI Communications Corp.
From 1989 to 1992, Ms. Eitel served in the White House as deputy director of media relations and later as special assistant to the President for media affairs. Ms. Eitel graduated with a Bachelor of Arts from McGill University, a Master of Science in Foreign Service from Georgetown University, and is an alumnus of the Stanford University Business School Executive Program.
  