
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of National Republican Congressional Committee Chairman Congressman Pete Sessions, House Republican Conference Secretary Congressman John Carter and Congressman Mac Thornberry.
"These three men come from a long line of great conservative leaders from Texas and I am proud to have their support," said Mitt Romney. "They share my goals for a smaller government, less debt and more jobs for our country. They have been hard at work fighting against the failed policies of the Obama Administration. I look forward to working with them to defeat President Obama in November and putting conservative, pro-growth policies in place."
"The Republican Party must unite behind the one candidate who can lead our party, win in November, and put in place conservative pro-growth policies to restart our economy," said Congressman Pete Sessions. "Mitt Romney has proven himself to be a tremendous leader throughout his business career, as head of the Olympics, as governor, and in this long primary. His bold plan to get our economy back on track utilizes the same conservative principles that we have been fighting for in Congress. Texans can be sure that they will have a 'friend of job creators' with Mitt Romney in the White House."
Announcing his support, Congressman John Carter said, "It is rare that leaders come along with such a tremendous record in the private and public sectors. Mitt Romney knows how to create jobs — he did it in business and he did it as governor. Right now, we need a proven job creator to replace President Obama, who has failed in his number one priority of turning around our economy. Mitt Romney has the experience, the plan, and the vision to change the direction of our country. Texas and the rest of the country deserve a leader like him."
"I'm extraordinarily proud to stand with Mitt Romney," said Congressman Mac Thornberry. "Texans have had enough of President Obama's failed policies and big government intrusion into our lives. Conservatives need a candidate that will not only defeat Barack Obama, but implement pro-growth policies that will scale back the size of government and create jobs. For me, that candidate is Mitt Romney. He has unquestioned experience creating jobs and building businesses. It is that real world experience that we need in a president. That's why I'm proud to stand with Mitt and encourage my fellow Texas conservatives to join me."
Background on Congressmen Sessions, Carter and Thornberry:
Congressman Pete Sessions serves in elected house leadership as The Chairman Of National Republican Congressional Committee. Congressman Sessions represents Texas' 32nd District and is the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee. Before his election in 1996, Congressman Sessions worked for Southwestern Bell Telephone Company for 16 years.
Congressman John Carter serves as the House Republican Conference Secretary. Congressman Carter serves Texas' 31st District and sits on the House Appropriations Committee and Transportation, Homeland Security, and Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Subcommittees. Congressman Carter is co-chairman of the House Army Caucus.
Congressman Mac Thornberry represents Texas' 13th district. Congressman Thornberry sits on the House Armed Services Committee and Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He is one of Congress' leading experts on national security and helped create the legislation that would form the current Department of Homeland Security.
  