
    Pool Reports by Zachary Hansen, Atlanta Journal-Constitution 



Sent:
Reports:




April 6, 202312:45

VP pool #1 — initial background
Sending background from the White House:
On Background from a White House Official:
Today, the Vice President will travel to Dalton, Georgia to highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration's investments are creating a clean energy economy that works for all. In Dalton, the Vice President will tour a Qcells solar panel manufacturing facility and will deliver remarks at 1:45 PM ET, which will be streamedon www.whitehouse.gov/live. The visit is part of the Biden-Harris Administration's three-week Investing in America tour.
Catalyzed by the Biden-Harris Administration's Investing in America agenda, including the Inflation Reduction Act, Qcells announced in January 2023 that it is investing $2.5 billion to expand its solar manufacturing capacity in Georgia. Today, the Vice President will announce a historic commitment between Qcells and Summit Ridge Energy to deploy 1.2 gigawatts (GW) of community solar power, which will require the manufacturing of 2.5 million solar panels—the largest community solar order in American history.
These community solar projects will benefit hundreds of communities across the U.S., and will generate enough clean electricity to power 140,000 homes and businesses, including households in underserved communities. Community solar results in an average of 10% in annual savings for customers and is a way for renters and those without access to rooftop solar to receive the benefits of clean energy.
Today's announcement is just one of the many investments we are seeing across Georgia to build our clean energy economy and invest in industries of the future. And the announcement is happening because of the actions the Biden-Harris Administration took to pass the Inflation Reduction Act, Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and CHIPS and Science Act. This week, ABB and Kia made new clean energy and electric vehicle announcements in Georgia and partially attributed those investments to the Inflation Reduction Act.
The Investing in America Tour
The trip to Dalton comes as the President, Vice President, and Cabinet are fanning out across the country, as part of the Investing in America tour, to amplify how the Administration's actions are creating millions of good-paying jobs, rebuilding our infrastructure, paving the path for a clean energy future, strengthening supply chains, and lowering costs for working families.
At the Qcells facility, the Vice President will highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration's Investing in America agenda – such as the Inflation Reduction Act, the CHIPS and Science Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the American Rescue Plan – is building a clean energy economy and unleashing a manufacturing boom. Georgia has received $31 billion in private sector manufacturing investments since the start of the Administration, primarily in clean energy, electric vehicle, and battery manufacturing. For more information, please see the state and territory-specific fact sheets highlighting the impact that the Investing in America agenda is having on every state and territory across the country.
The Vice President's Leadership on Climate Action
Within the first 3 months of 2023, Vice President Harris has participated in moderated conversations on climate in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Arvada, Colorado, Atlanta, Georgia, and Miami Beach, Florida. Vice President Harris traveled to Tonopah, AZ to deliver remarks at a groundbreaking for the Ten West Link transmission line, which will help deliver clean power from wind and solar farms to customers, visited a drought resilience facility in California as the West deals with climate change-fueled drought and deluge, and visited a final assembly plant for electric buses in St. Cloud, MN. Additionally, Vice President Harris convened climate leaders from local, state, and national level organizations to discuss the Administration's climate investments, and hosted the Accelerating Lead Pipe Replacement Summit at the White House.
Highlights of the Vice President's past work on climate action includes:

As San Francisco District Attorney, Vice President Harris established one of the first environmental justice units in the country.
As California's Attorney General, Vice President Harris took action to hold polluters accountable and protect communities and the environment, including after the 2015 Santa Barbara oil spill.
As a U.S. Senator from California, Vice President Harris led comprehensive legislation centered on climate and environmental justice, including the Climate Equity Act, the Water Justice Act, and the Environmental Justice for All Act. Vice President Harris also authored multiple bills that informed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, including the Clean School Bus Act, the Wildfire Defense Act, and the Water for Tomorrow Act.




April 6, 202312:57

VP pool #2 — tour begins
At 12:57 p.m. ET, Vice President Kamala Harris began her tour of the Qcells facility in Dalton.



April 6, 202313:03

VP pool #3 — touring facility
Machinery was running while Vice President Kamala Harris toured the Qcells solar panel manufacturing facility in Dalton, Ga. While asking her tour guide questions, she held solar panel components and saw portions of the assembly process.



April 6, 202313:10

VP pool #4 — tour greetings
During her tour, Vice President Kamala Harris greeted and waved to multiple Qcells employees while asking questions about solar panel assembly.



April 6, 202313:27

VP pool #5 — remarks begin
Vice President Kamala Harris takes the stage to deliver remarks at 1:26p.m. ET, which will be streamed on www.whitehouse.gov/live.




  