
    Today, Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Joe Biden has dedicated his life to serving our country, and has never forgotten whom he fights for: the millions of Americans who are working hard, but feel like they can't earn their way to a better life, no matter how hard they work. Dignity of Work isn't a slogan — it's who we are, and how we govern; Joe Biden understands that. And as we face both a public health crisis and an economy in turmoil, we need a steady hand more than ever. Joe Biden has the experience, the tenacity, and the empathy to lead in a crisis, and the hope to bring us together, and steer us toward brighter days ahead."
Senator Brown's endorsement builds on the list of nearly 70 current and former elected officials and community leaders from across Ohio who have endorsed Joe Biden, including Congressman Tim Ryan, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, former CFPB Director Richard Cordray, former Congressman Edward Feighan, Columbus City Attorney Zach Klein, former Columbus City Councilmember Mary Jo Hudson, State Senator Herceal Craig, Columbus Mayor Andrew Ginther, Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley, and Youngstown Mayor Tito Brown.
Biden leads the field in congressional endorsements with support from more than 100 U.S. Representatives and 15 U.S. Senators, including the most endorsements from members of both the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
The health and safety of our staff, supporters, and the general public is Biden for President's number one priority. In Ohio, a request for a vote-by-mail ballot must be received by your County Board of Elections on or before April 25. To ensure that it is counted, a return vote-by-mail ballot must be postmarked by April 27 or dropped off at your County Board of Elections on April 28. Learn more at joebiden.com/voter-guide.
  