
    Pool Reports by Rob Crilly, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




April 9, 202111:03

Pool report #1: Checking in plus economic briefing attendees 
Good morning from the White House.
No changes to the overnight guidance so far.
White House passes along the following:
Attending the Weekly Economic Briefing with the President and the Vice President:
Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryCecilia Rouse, Chair of the Council of Economic AdvisersShalanda Young, Acting Director of the Office of Management and BudgetBrian Deese, Director of the National Economic CouncilMichael Pyle, Chief Economic Adviser to the Vice PresidentRon Klain, White House Chief of Staff



April 9, 202112:32

Pool report #2: Two-minute warning 
to briefing



April 9, 202112:33

Pool report #3: CEO Summit on Semiconductor and Supply Chain Resilience 
From White House
On Monday afternoon, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and NEC Director Brian Deese, joined by Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, will host a virtual CEO Summit on Semiconductor and Supply Chain Resilience. They will discuss the American Jobs Plan and steps to strengthen the resilience of American supply chains for semiconductors and other key areas. Participating in the summit:
Alphabet (Google)AT&TCummins, Inc.Dell TechnologiesFord Motor CompanyGeneral MotorsGlobal FoundriesHPIntel CorporationMedtronicMicronNorthrop GrummanNXPPACCARPiston GroupSamsungSkyWater TechnologyStellantisTaiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC)



April 9, 202112:35

Pool report #4: Briefing starts 
Jen Psaki entered with Secretary Buttigieg at 12:33
You can, as ever, watch in the usual places



April 9, 202113:40

Pool report #5: Briefing ends 
at 13:37 - after first appearance of regional press visa video link. This time from Alaska.



April 9, 202113:44

Pool report #6: Lunch lid until 14:20
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



April 9, 202114:28

Pool report #7: Pool gathering
for weekly economic briefing in Oval Office - have already sent list of attendees.



April 9, 202114:59

Pool report #8: Oval Office, Philip quotes
POTUS and VP sat in front of fireplace with guests on sofa.
POTUS first paid tribute to Prince Philip and said he sent condolences to Queen
"He was a heck of a guy. His lifetime of service... His bravery serving in World War 2 ... Charitable things he set up... Extraordinary life. He's going to be missed"99 years he never slowed down. I admired the devil out of him.
Outlined appropriations priorities
Two key public health initiative:
Darpa for health
50 increase to 4 billion for opioid crisis
On infrastructure:"I think we are going to get ... Bipartisan support." Says has already spoken to Republicans
Pool ushered out at 14:56 fuller quotes to come.
He did not take shouted questions.



April 9, 202115:05

Pool report #9: More Philip quotes
A few bits inaudible and do please check against video
"Jill and I and the entire administration send our condolences to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II on the loss of Prince Philip. He was a heck of a guy. His lifetime of service to the United Kingdom and the whole Commonwealth will be [inaudibl] For a long long time.
"His bravery, serving in World War Two, as well as his being champion of the environment as well as the charitable things he set up
"…express our condolences for an extraordinary life that was lived by the prince.
"I think he's going to be missed, particularly in the United Kingdom. 99 years old and never slowed down at all which I admire the devil out of."
More TK



April 9, 202115:06

Pool report #10: Travel photo lid
at 15:05



April 9, 202115:21

Pool report #11: POTUS on funding priorities
"I sent to Congress my funding priorities for the appropriations process including two key public health initiatives.
"First is like DARPA at the Defense Department which is designed to develop, and had developed, great tools to protect us and enhance our physical safety, I'm proposing a $6.5 billion appropriation for what we call ARPA H, which is focused on health issues.
"This is a primary breakthrough that we hope can detect, and treat and prevent diseases like Alzheimers and diabetes and give us a chance to end cancer as we know it, because it will focus exclusively on those items.
"And secondly I am proposing a historic funding increase of 50% of $4billion to end the opioid crisis which still ravages the country. It has taken so many lives over the last few years. Resources both for the states and the tribes for treatment as well as prevention.
"It also includes the largest ever funding increase for Title 1 schools – schools for disadvantaged … to lift up the millions of children in low-income families and it'll put them in a position where all the data – we talked a lot about this – the data shows that it puts a child from a household that is a lower income household in a position if they start school – not daycare – but school at 3 and 4 years old, there's overwhelming evidence that they will compete all the way through high school and beyond."



April 9, 202115:28

Pool report #12: More POTUS quotes, VAWA
"And so it doubles the funding as well for VAWA services, including resources to end the rape kit backlog. We've been working this for a long, long time, and we still have a backlog of rape kits.
"And the point is a significant number of women who have been raped and the person has not been found or convicted it's because they're sitting in jail. The average rapist rapes about six times. And so out there, we're .. we want to make sure we go through this backlog and find out to bring some some certitude for the woman who say, 'no, no it was true: That's the man he did it.' "And it changes the whole perspective. All the hearings we held on it.
"And also there makes major investments in the fight against climate change.
"And there's issues that are personal to millions of Americans in the area of VAWA, because I get that asked, and we get spoken to by everyone from mayors and governors, local officials of both parties.
"So I look forward to working with Congress to advance these and other priorities. I think we're going to be able to get ... I'm hoping it'll have some bipartisan support across the board. I have already spoken to some of my Republican colleagues about dealing with the infrastructure legislation we have up there as well as other budget items. So we're going to work on to see if we get some bipartisan support across the board here. But that's what we're about to do."
And pool ushered out shortly thereafter




  