
    Pool Reports by Mark Robison, Reno Gazette Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




April 18, 202310:49 PDT

VP Reno pool report #1
AF2 with the VP touched down at 10:48 a.m. on an unseasonably chilly morning at the Nevada Air National Guard runway in Reno.


April 18, 2023 11:14 PDT

VP Reno pool report #2
The VP greeted about 100 cheering students and other community members on the tarmac. Motorcade departed at 11:08 for a moderated discussion on "reproductive freedom" at the University of Nevada, Reno.


April 18, 2023 12:34 PDT

VP Reno pool report #3
VP took the stage and to a standing ovation and cheers at 12:32 p.m. at the University of Nevada, Reno's Nightingale Concert Hall for a conversation about "reproductive freedom" with actress Rosario Dawson, moderated by Reno Mayor Hillary Schieve. Those who offered introductory remarks were Samantha Glover, a student at the local Davidson Academy; UNR president and former Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval; Kacey Wulff, counselor to the secretary for reproductive rights at U.S. Department of Education; and Nasser Paydar, assistant secretary for postsecondary education at the U.S. Department of Education.


April 18, 2023 13:26 PDT

VP Reno pool report #4
Vice President Harris participated in a moderated conversation with Reno Mayor Hillary Schieve and actress Rosario Dawson on the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to protecting reproductive freedom today in Reno, Nevada.
During the conversation, the Vice President highlighted the Biden-Harris Administration actions to protect reproductive rights, why she is championing this cause, and the role of young leaders in this fight. VP spoke to her ongoing efforts to meet with state and local leaders around the country to share resources and hear how they are taking action.
Last week, the Vice President convened the Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare Access to discuss steps the Administration is taking to protect women's access to reproductive health care, particularly in the wake of the Texas district court's decision on medication abortion.
Overview of last week's Task Force convening announcements, from a White House official: 

HHS issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to strengthen privacy protections under HIPAA to strengthen patient-provider confidentiality and help health care providers give complete and accurate information to patients. HHS also issued guidance to better safeguard patients' electronic health information, including their information related to reproductive health care.
 The Dept. of Education issued guidance on student privacy under FERPA and a know-your-rights resource to help students understand their privacy rights for health records at school.
The FCC launched a new guide for consumers on best practices for protecting their data on mobile phones, including geolocation data, which can be especially important in the context of accessing reproductive health care.
Read more about the Administration's actions to protect patient privacy HERE and the Administration's record on protecting access to medication abortion HERE.




April 18, 2023 13:38 PDT

VP Reno pool report #5
VP spoke for 45 minutes with Reno Mayor Hillary Schieve and actress Rosario Dawson, ending at 1:17 p.m. Pacific time at the University of Nevada, Reno.
Topics covered included reproductive rights, the abortion pill mifepristone, gun violence and how young people - especially young women - can get involved and make their voices heard.
"This is not a time to throw up our hands. This is a good time to roll up our sleeves," she said.
(More quote highlights to follow.)


April 18, 2023 14:00 PDT

VP Reno pool report #6
VP motorcade departed University of Nevada, Reno at 1:58 p.m. for Reno-Tahoe International Airport.


April 18, 2023 14:25 PDT

VP Reno pool report #7
VP wheels up from Reno-Tahoe International Airport into mostly cloudy skies at 2:24 p.m. Pacific time.



  