
    "Vice President Biden today repeated his 2008 gaffe that higher taxes are patriotic. Only in Obama fantasy land are higher taxes patriotic — along with higher unemployment, higher deficits, higher government spending, and a higher national debt." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Vice President Biden Says Be Patriotic: Pay More Taxes
In New Hampshire Today, Vice President Biden Said That Higher Taxes Are A "Patriotic" Duty. "Wealthy people are just as patriotic as middle-class people, as poor people, and they know they should be doing more," Mr. Biden said." (Michael D. Shear, "Biden Says Republicans Want A ‘Romney Rule'," The New York Times, 4/12/12)


    FLASHBACK: In 2008, VP Candidate Biden Said That Higher Taxes Were "Patriotic." "Democratic vice presidential candidate U.S. Sen. Joe Biden said Thursday that people earning more than $250,000 should ‘be patriotic' and pay more taxes. ... ‘It's time to be patriotic,' said Biden. ‘Time to be part of the deal. Time to help get America out of the rut.'" ("Biden: Wealthy Paying Taxes 'Patriotic'," United Press International, 9/18/08)
  

Obama-Biden Are Planning On Even More Patriotism: Massive Tax Increases
President Obama "Is Setting Up The U.S. Economy For One Of The Biggest Tax Increases In History In 2013." "President Obama unveiled part two of his American Jobs Act on Monday, and it turns out to be another permanent increase in taxes to pay for more spending and another temporary tax cut. No surprise there. What might surprise Americans, however, is how the President is setting up the U.S. economy for one of the biggest tax increases in history in 2013." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," The Wall Street Journal, 9/14/11)
President Obama's 2013 Budget Included A $1.5 Trillion Tax Increase. "The plan calls for a tax reform package that would increase revenue by $1.5 trillion over the next decade. Obama did not offer a detailed plan for tax reform. Instead, he proposed a series of changes to the current tax system and several principles for what comprehensive tax reform would look like." ("Obama Budget Sets Stage For Battle Over Tax Hikes," The Associated Press, 2/13/12)
Obama White House Officials Have Signaled That President Obama Would Raise Taxes "Either As A Final Act In Office After Losing The November 2012 Election Or After Winning A Second Term." "A White House official argued Sunday that the president had another trump card to play: the scheduled expiration of the George W. Bush tax cuts at the end of 2012. Obama would block extension of the reductions, either as a final act in office after losing the November 2012 election or after winning a second term." (Peter Wallsten and David Nakamura, "Did Obama Capitulate — Or Is This A Cagey Move?" The Washington Post, 7/31/11)
  