
    Today Kasich for America announced the members of Governor John Kasich's leadership team in Oregon.
"In Oregon, we are proud to support Governor Kasich," said Ron Saxton. "He shares in our state's appreciation for commonsense and responsible solutions for a better economy and more jobs. Further, John Kasich is the only person who can bring those solutions to the White House because he is the only candidate who can defeat Hillary Clinton in the fall."

Saxton was the Republican nominee for governor in Oregon in 2006.
"From day one, Governor Kasich has focused on the issues that matter most related to jobs and the economy," said State Representative Knute Buehler. "We need his leadership in Washington to advance solutions for more robust, economic growth nationwide."

Buehler Represents the 54th district in Oregon's House of Representatives.
"We have a strong team for Governor Kasich in Oregon," said State Representative John Davis. "We look forward to helping him become the nominee because he has proven over and over that he is the leader we can trust to bring people together and get things done."

Davis represents the 26th district in Oregon's House of Representatives.
"I am honored to join Governor Kasich's leadership team in Oregon," said Joe Gonyea III, CEO & Partner of Timber Products Company. "Family-owned businesses like mine need relief from the burdensome and costly regulations that are hurting our ability to grow and hire more people. I am confident that if we elect John Kasich, we will see results for a more accountable government in the first 100 days of his presidency. He has the record of action and results we need in Washington."
Governor John Kasich said, "I am thankful for my team in Oregon and their work to support my campaign. With their help, my message to fight for a more responsible, less costly government in Washington, D.C., will be shared far and wide."

Kasich for America Oregon Leadership Team
Bill McCormick, Former United States Ambassador to New Zealand and Samoa
Charles J. Swindells, Former United States Ambassador to New Zealand and Samoa
Knute Buehler, State Representative
John Davis, State Representative
Jason Atkinson, Former State Senator
Bruce Starr, Former State Senator
Billy Dalto, Former State Representative
Derrick Kitts, Former State Representative
Ron Saxton, 2006 Republican Nominee for Governor
Mort Bishop III, President of Pendleton Woolen Mills
John Carter, Former Chair of Oregon Business Plan
Robert Gootee, President and CEO of Moda, Inc.
Joe Gonyea III, CEO & Partner of Timber Products Company
Pat Reiten, President & CEO PacifiCorp Transmission
John Von Schlegell, Managing Director, Endeavour Capital
Ron Stroble, Executive Vice President at Umpqua Bank
Malia Wasson, Board Member of Columbia Sportswear
Steve Wynne, Executive Vice President, Moda, Inc.
Stephen Babson, Managing Director, Endeavour Capital
  