
    
  Cruz: Evangelical and Catholic Support Surging Around the Nation

HOUSTON, Texas - Presidential Candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsements of 50 Wisconsin faith leaders, including clergy, educators, and activists representing thousands of people of faith in the Badger State. The influx of clergy support comes on the heels of an endorsement for Cruz from Catholic Vote, a political advocacy organization influencing the state's 1.4 million Catholic voters.
"There are enough pretenders in politics - we have been looking for a president who is one of us," said Pastor James Booker of Full Gospel Church in West Bend. "I appreciate the way Ted Cruz brings class and thoughtfulness to the political discourse. We are endorsing Ted as a man of character with a proven respect for the sanctity of life and an intelligent plan for our nation. Ted is the kind of candidate people of faith can rally around - and we don't have to guess what he'll do when he's in office. Ted has spent his life defending religious liberty, and he will continue to do so as president."
The campaign's outreach to clergy began with the public endorsement of over 150 pastors ahead of the Iowa Caucus, a list that has grown to more than 1,000 formal endorsements, with additions in every state along the primary calendar. Cruz has also hosted religious liberty rallies and held a private screening of the Christian movie War Room during the campaign. This Saturday, April 2nd, Cruz will host a showing of the new movie God's Not Dead 2 in Green Bay. Supporters reserved all available tickets for the event online shortly after they were made accessible.
"I am grateful to have the support of so many people of faith in Wisconsin," said Cruz. "The Obama administration and their extreme liberal allies continue unprecedented attacks on people of faith - from litigating against the Little Sisters of the Poor at the Supreme Court to fining bakers and florists. People of faith should not be forced to choose between relinquishing their deeply-held beliefs or facing punitive fines and the loss of their livelihood. As president, I will tirelessly defend our first freedom, and rather than stifling it, we will champion religious liberty as an indispensable pillar of civil society."
"Senator Cruz is a man of integrity who has kept the promises he made when he ran for Senate," said Julaine Appling, president of Wisconsin Family Action, the state's leading pro-family organization. "I'm excited that we are not being asked to choose between the lesser of two evils at the ballot box - in Ted Cruz, we have a champion to support!"
"Ted Cruz is a man of his word," said Kabeer Gbaja-Biamila, formerly a Green Bay Packers defensive and now a Deacon at Living Hope Church in Green Bay. "Everything Ted Cruz says he would do, he has done. He fears God, and he understands the fact that this country was founded through the inspiration of the Word of God."
The preliminary list of Wisconsin faith leader endorsements appears below. Titles and affiliations of all endorsers are provided for identification purposes only.
Julaine Appling, President, Wisconsin Family Action
Jeanette Bantamoi, Ministry Leader
Pastor James Booker, Full Gospel Church
Associate Pastor Joel Bosacki, Living Hope Church
C. Patrick Boyer, President, Leap of Faith Group
Reverend Corey A. Brookins, Berea Baptist Church
Tom Coulter, Ministry Leader
Pastor Andrew Doll, Bible Baptist Church
Elisabeth Dubois, VP, Laugh Your Way To a Better Marriage, Celebration Church
Pastor Lathan Duncan
Pastor Thomas Ebert, Shalom Baptist Church
Pastor Daniel J. Fiedler, Shawano Christian Center, Inc.
Deacon Kabeer Gbaja-Biamila, Living Hope Church
Pastor Stephen Gorton, Bible Baptist Church
Heather Grambsch, Life Group Leader, Celebration Church
Pastor Timothy Hallett, Birch St. Baptist Church
Tim Harmann, Ministry Leader
Lisa Harmann, Ministry Leader
Pastor Randall Hoffman, Harbor Lights Baptist Church
Senior Pastor Paul Hoover, Souls Harbor Baptist Church
Pastor Gordon Scott Jones, Southport Baptist Church
Ronald Jung, Headmaster, Providence Academy
Pastor Chris Juvinall, Wausau Bible Church
James Kocian, Associate Pastor and Worship Leader, Living Hope Church
Pastor Ken Kramer, Calvary Baptist Church
Senior Pastor Randall Lassila, Lighthouse Assembly of God
Senior Pastor Michael D. LeClaire, Living Hope Church
Michael LeMay, General Manager, Q90 FM Radio
David Lingle, Director of Church Relations, Wisconsin Family Council
Pastor Tom Loggans, Greendale Baptist Church
Pastor Robert Love, Waupun Baptist Church
Reverend Matthew Mallek, Refuge Church
Pastor Tim and Janice Mandich, Able Church
Pastor Curtis McMiller, Foundation Biblical Baptist Church
Pastor David Moore, Keystone Baptist Church
Elder Craig O Connor, Living Hope Church
Pastor Peter Ostrander
Gary Pusick, Life Group Leader, Celebration Church
Pastor Daniel Reehoff, Dayspring Baptist Church
Senior Pastor Brian Richard, Grace Baptist Church
Pastor Richard Rogers, Calvary Baptist Church
Senior Pastor Rodney Schuler, Calvary Baptist Church
Pastor James Schumacher, Apostolic Faith Church
Pastor Kelvin Swanson, Berean Baptist Church
Aaron Thiel, Christian Author
Amanda Thompson, Grassroots Leader for Salt and Light Committee, Celebration Church
Joseph Thompson, Life Group Leader, Celebration Church
Assistant Pastor Stephen Van Gelderen, Falls Baptist Church
Rebecca Wilkinson, Ministry Leader
Jennifer Zyzo, Homeschool Leader
  