
    President Donald J. Trump was pleased to host Chinese President Xi Jinping and Madam Peng Liyuan at Mar-a-Lago over the last two days. This visit was a great opportunity for both presidents and their wives to get to know one another, enjoy meals together, and work on important issues. Each side also brought a senior delegation that was also able to build relationships for the work ahead.
The two leaders had positive and productive meetings. President Trump and President Xi agreed to work in concert to expand areas of cooperation while managing differences based on mutual respect. The two presidents reviewed the state of the bilateral relationship and noted the importance of working together to generate positive outcomes that would benefit the citizens of both countries.
President Trump noted the challenges caused by Chinese government intervention in its economy and raised serious concerns about the impact of China's industrial, agricultural, technology, and cyber policies on United States jobs and exports. The President underscored the need for China to take concrete steps to level the playing field for American workers, stressing repeatedly the need for reciprocal market access.
The two sides noted the urgency of the threat of North Korea's weapons programs, reaffirmed their commitment to a denuclearized Korean peninsula?, and committed to fully implement UN Security Council resolutions. They agreed to increase cooperation and work with the international community to convince North Korea to peacefully resolve the issue and dismantle its illegal nuclear and missile programs.
The two sides had a candid discussion on regional and maritime security. President Trump noted the importance of adhering to international rules and norms in the East and South China Seas and to previous statements on non-militarization. He also noted the importance of protecting human rights and other values deeply held by Americans.
The two presidents agreed to elevate existing bilateral talks to reflect the importance of making progress on issues. They established a new and cabinet-level framework for negotiations. The United States-China Comprehensive Dialogue will be overseen by the two presidents and have four pillars: the Diplomatic and Security Dialogue; the Comprehensive Economic Dialogue; the Law Enforcement and Cybersecurity Dialogue; and the Social and Cultural Issues Dialogue. The two sides agreed to undertake an ambitious agenda and meeting schedule to show progress and demonstrate meaningful results.
President Trump welcomed President Xi's invitation to visit China for a state visit at a future date. They agreed to work together in the interim to ensure a successful and results-focused visit.
  