
    First Vision Filmmakers Forum" to explore cultural trends in film and television
Governor Bill Richardson today announced the First Vision Filmmakers Forum, a day-long symposium featuring a diverse group of emerging and established film and television industry experts from the U.S. and Canada, to explore cultural trends and diversity film initiatives.
"As our state continues to advance in the film industry, we have created 'First Vision' to offer home-based filmmakers, writers, producers and actors the opportunity to network beyond state borders, to exchange ideas and open a window into new film frontiers," said Governor Richardson.
The one-day event is free and will be held at the Indian Pueblo Cultural Center in Albuquerque on April 27, 2007, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. The University of New Mexico will broadcast the Forum from 8:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. on streaming digital video from a link at: www.nmfilm.com.
'First Vision' will offer emerging and veteran filmmakers from Native American, Latino/Latina, African-American and all diverse backgrounds an opportunity to examine and address obstacles and opportunities in today's world of film and television. The event will also include seminars hosted by the Screen Actor's Guild and IATSE Local 480, film screenings and a media maker's lounge for networking. Delivering the keynote address is award-winning filmmaker, producer, entertainment executive and entrepreneur, Moctesuma Esparza. Mr. Esparza is President and CEO of Maya Cinemas, Founder and past Chairman of the New America Alliance, Co-Founder and Board Member of the National Association of Latino Independent Producers, and producer of many notable films including WALKOUT, GODS AND GENERALS, PRICE OF GLORY, SELENA and THE MILAGRO BEANFIELD WAR.
"First Vision is the most diverse gathering of film industry experts ever assembled in the state," said Eric Witt, Director of Media Industries. "We want to highlight the many opportunities available for New Mexicans."  Lisa Strout, Director of the New Mexico Film Office stated, "Our office is always exploring ways to connect New Mexico's talent base with industry professionals, and with one another." 
Invited filmmakers include George Burdeau (SURVIVING COLUMBUS); Chris Eyre (IMPRINT, EDGE OF AMERICA); Gary Farmer (DEAD MAN, SMOKE SIGNALS); Vangie Griego (SIR! NO SIR!); David Hilliard (BLACK PANTHER PARTY IN NM, 1966-2006); and Barbara Martinez-Jitner (AMERICAN FAMILY). Represented networks include Aboriginal Peoples Television Network, Native American Public Telecommunications, the National Geographic All Roads Film Project, and Latino Public Broadcasting, along with many other veteran filmmakers, writers, producers and actors.
Space is limited; pre-registration is required. To register please visit: www.nmfilm.com or call the Film Office at: 505-827-9810.
  