
    Pool Reports by Alex Gangitano, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




April 18, 2023 10:04

In-town pool #1- brunch lid
Good Tuesday morning all, I'll be your print pooler today.
We have a brunch lid until 1:30pm.
The schedule is below and the briefing is at 2:45pm today. I will let you know any updates.
EDT
10:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
11:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing Oval Office  Closed Press
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on actions to help families access care, support care workers and family caregivers, and strengthen the economy  Rose Garden  Open Press (Preset 12:15PM, Gather 1:45 PM — Palm Room Doors)


April 18, 2023 13:49

In-town pool #2- gathering now
Pool is gathering now for President Biden's remarks in the Rose Garden.
The remarks are slated for 2pm and you can watch them here-  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D6woryjrAPA 


April 18, 2023 14:13

In-town pool #3
We are holding in the Rose Garden.
There are seven rows of guests and spotted in the front is HHS Sec Becerra. White House Infrastructure coordinator Mitch Landrieu is also here.
Ahead of the speech, along from the White House--
In attendance for the President's remarks on actions to help families access care, support care workers and family caregivers, and strengthen the economy:
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03)  Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-03)  Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-06)  Rep. Pramila Jayapal (WA-07)  Rep. Nikema Williams (GA-05)  Rep. Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick (FL-20) Rep. Jill Tokuda (HI-02)  Rep. Greg Landsman (OH-01)  Rep. Jasmine Crockett (TX-30)  Families, long-term care workers, early educators, family caregivers, veterans, older Americans, advocates, and people with disabilities
Speaking Program Kezia Rodriguez, Introducer, full-time nursing student, and mother of two The President
Background on Introducer Kezia Rodriguez is a Queens native first-generation American and the daughter of immigrant parents from Brazil. Kezia benefited from a tuition-free child care program while she was working to become a certified nursing assistant at Bergen Community College in New Jersey. The child care initiative was made possible through President Biden's American Rescue Plan. She is now seeking her bachelor's degree in nursing full-time at Felician University in New Jersey, which does not offer the same child care program. As a result, she now has to pay for her twin girls?Naomi and Navy (4) ?to go to preschool. They pay $1,000 a month, the most affordable care they could find. Even with that, Kezia's husband has to take days off when Kezia is in school. 


April 18, 2023 14:16

In-town pool #4- 2 mins
We have a 2 min warning until President Biden's remarks in the Rose Garden. 


April 18, 2023 14:20

In-town pool #5- event starting
President Biden, wearing his aviators, walked out at 2:18pm with Kezia Rodriguez. She is now speaking before the president.
Congresswoman Pelosi emerged from the White House just before Biden and the crowd clapped for her. 


April 18, 2023 14:48

In-town pool #6- event ends
President Biden started speaking at 2:21pm. After 17 minutes of remarks, he signed his executive order.
Some people joined him for the signing at the desk set up next to the podium. The crowd cheered and someone yelled "thank you!"
He mingled for 5 minutes and did not answer shouted questions from the press.
A ground of lawmakers, including Reps. Pelosi, Dingell, and Jayapal, lined up outside the Oval Office and waited for the president. They greeted him with cheers when he walked up and he spoke with them for a minute or so and took a photo.
The president and the lawmakers went into the Oval Office at 2:46pm.
Check transcript but some quotes from the remarks--
He said the executive order recognizes "the labor of love to make sure family caregivers are involved and informed when the hospital discharges the one they love."
"Folks, there's a lot we can do. We're doing all of this. Why? Because right now, the cost of care is too high."
"Too many folks lie awake at night, wondering, mom can't take care of herself at home... how do I do it all?"
"Some of you have had to spend your own retirement savings to pay for elderly parents."
"It's overwhelming, I get it. I was a single parent for five years with two young children after my wife and daughter were killed in an accident."
He said that his family chipped in and his sister moved in.
"Folks, you know, I couldn't have done it without their help."
"I had a big family, I had help. I often ask myself what in god's name I would have done."
"We know there's more to do and yet yesterday, the Speaker of the House of Representatives Kevin McCarthy went to Wall Street."
"...he proposed huge cuts to important programs that millions of Americans rely on... he threatened to be the first speaker to default on our national debt."
"We got to ask ourselves, what are MAGA Republicans in Congress doing?"
"I urge Congress to take the threat of default off the table."
"In the meanwhile, we're not waiting around. That's what today's all about." 


April 18, 2023 14:50

In-town pool #7- participants
Passing along from the White House-
The President is signing an Executive Order on Increasing Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting Caregivers.
Participants Jocelyn Frye, President of National Partnership for Women & Families Ai-Jen Poo, President of National Domestic Workers Alliance Michelle Kang, CEO of National Association for the Education of Young Children Kristin Rowe-Finkbeiner, CEO of Moms Rising Mary Kay Henry, President of Service Employees International Union Charles Brown, President of Paralyzed Veterans of America and Marine Corps veteran Lee Saunders, President of American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFL-CIO) Theo Braddy, Member of the National Council on Disability Sherry Beach, unionized Head Start teacher from Oregon Melissa Laratte, home care worker, certified nursing assistant, and a leader with the Miami Worker Center and National Domestic Works Alliance from Miami Paul Kohl, family caregiver to his veteran son Jonathan Kohl, wounded veteran Micha Kohl, family caregiver Oladayo Solanke, home care worker to people with intellectual disabilities Kezia Rodriguez, student-parent and introducer to the President 


April 18, 2023 15:07

In-town pool #8- 2 mins to briefing
2 minute warning until the briefing. 


April 18, 2023 16:06

In-town pool #9- briefing ends
The briefing began at 3:11pm and ended at 4:03pm. 


April 18, 2023 16:23

In-town pool #10- lid
At 4:22pm, we have a lid.
Have a good evening! 



  