
    
  Holds fundraisers, media availabilities, and town hall meetings at the Universities of Rhode Island and Cornell — Ithaca and in Pittsburgh

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will campaign in Rhode Island, New York, and Pennsylvania by holding fundraisers, media availabilities, and large town hall meetings ahead of the three states' nominating contests.
Ron Paul's town hall meetings in Rhode Island, New York, and Pennsylvania are being organized by 'Youth for Ron Paul' (YFP). YFP, an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign, launched in September 2011, and since its inception, students nationwide have organized 607 chapters and recruited more than 76,000 people. To learn more about 'Youth for Ron Paul,' including how to sign-up and establish a local chapter, visit the YFP website by clicking here.
"Supporters in Rhode Island, New York, and Pennsylvania are working tirelessly to organize these upcoming events so Ron Paul can speak directly to students and the broader community about his 'Plan to Restore America,' an economic blueprint that includes cutting $1 trillion in his first year in office, balancing the budget within three years, and eliminating five unconstitutional federal departments," said Edward King, National Youth Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
"Ron Paul is the only authentic conservative running for the Republican nomination and the only candidate who will solve our debt crisis, a liability future generations will inherit. That's why he attracts so many young people, and that's why Dr. Paul is the best candidate to defeat President Obama in November," added Mr. King.
An open press opportunity will follow each of Ron Paul's town hall meetings. Members of the local and major print, broadcast, and online media with particular needs such as the desire to arrange a candidate interview should contact Assistant Press Secretary Arick Stall at aricks@ronpaul2012.com. Please, no exceptions.
Ron Paul's fundraisers are closed to all media.
Details of the events are as follows. All times Eastern.
Wednesday, April 18, 2012
7:00 p.m.
University of Rhode Island — Keaney Gymnasium
Tootell Road
South Kingstown, RI 02881
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
Thursday, April 19, 2012
7:00 p.m.
Cornell University — Lynah Rink
536 Campus Road
Ithaca, NY 14853
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
Friday, April 20, 2012
7:00 p.m.
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall — Auditorium
4141 Fifth Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
  