
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105–178), section 1911 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–486), section 531(a)(1) of the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 (26 U.S.C. 132), and the Federal Employees Clean Air Incentives Act (Public Law 103–172), and in order to reduce Federal employees’ contribution to traffic congestion and air pollution and to expand their commuting alternatives, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Mass Transportation and Vanpool Transportation Fringe Benefit Program. (a) By no later than October 1, 2000, Federal agencies shall implement a transportation fringe benefit program that offers qualified Federal employees the option to exclude from taxable wages and compensation, consistent with section 132 of title 26, United States Code, employee commuting costs incurred through the use of mass transportation and vanpools, not to exceed the maximum level allowed by law (26 U.S.C. 132 (f)(2)). These agency programs shall comply with the requirements of Internal Revenue Service regulations for qualified transportation fringe benefits under section 1.132–9 of title 26, Code of Federal Regulations, and other guidance.
(b) Federal agencies are encouraged to use any nonmonetary incentive that the agencies may otherwise offer under any other provision of law or other authority to encourage mass transportation and vanpool use, as provided for in section 7905(b)(2)(C) of title 5, United States Code. Sec. 2. Federal Agencies in the National Capital Region. Federal agencies in the National Capital Region shall implement a "transit pass" transportation fringe benefit program for their qualified Federal employees by no later than October 1, 2000. Under this program, agencies shall provide their qualified Federal employees, in addition to current compensation, transit passes as defined in section 132(f)(5) of title 26, United States Code, in amounts approximately equal to employee commuting costs, not to exceed the maximum level allowed by law (26 U.S.C. 132(f)(2)). The National Capital Region is defined as the District of Columbia; Montgomery, Prince George’s, and Frederick Counties in Maryland; Arlington, Fairfax, Loudon, and Prince William Counties in Virginia; and all cities now or hereafter existing in Maryland or Virginia within the geographic area bounded by the outer boundaries of the combined area of said counties.
Sec. 3. Nationwide Pilot Program. The Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Department of Energy shall implement a "transit pass" transportation fringe benefit program, as described in section 2 of this order, for all of their qualified Federal employees as a 3 year pilot program by no later than October 1, 2000. Before determining whether the program should be extended to other Federal employees nationwide, it shall be analyzed by an entity determined by the agencies identified in section 4 of this order to ascertain, among other things, if it is effective in reducing single occupancy vehicle travel and local area traffic congestion.
Sec. 4. Guidance. Federal agencies shall develop plans to implement this order in consultation with the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of Personnel Management, the General Services Administration, and the Office of Management and Budget. Federal agencies that currently have more generous programs or benefits in place may continue to offer those programs
or benefits. Agencies shall absorb the costs of implementing this order within the sums received pursuant to the President’s FY 2001 budget request to the Congress.
Sec. 5. Judicial Review. This order is not intended to and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by any party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 21, 2000.
  