
    Trav Robertson, James Dukes, and Jeanie Brown-Burrows join the Richardson for President Campaign
Today, New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson announced the addition of several South Carolina political veterans to his Presidential campaign. Trav Robertson, James Dukes, and Jeanie Brown-Burrows join Lachlan McIntosh and Crawford Cook on Richardson's South Carolina team.
"I believe that South Carolina is crucial to winning the Democratic nomination," stated Governor Richardson. "Hiring Trav, James and Jeanie shows that my campaign values the experience of people who have worked hard to get Democrats elected in South Carolina, and I believe it will help build a solid foundation for my campaign."
Robertson will serve as state Field Director. Most recently he ran the campaign of State Treasurer Grady Patterson. Robertson also directed Patterson's successful 2002 and 1998 re-election campaigns. In 2000, Robertson guided Congressman John Spratt to his largest victory in the midst of a GOP Presidential landslide in that district. Additionally, Robertson is the former chairman of the Anderson County Democratic Party.
"Governor Richardson is the most qualified candidate on both sides of the aisle and I am honored that he has given me the chance to help him become the next President of the United States," Robertson said. "His experience and vision make him the only choice for president – and we need his abilities now more than ever before."
James Dukes, a seasoned South Carolina political director and field director, recently was the Interim Executive Director of the South Carolina Democratic Party. During the 2004 cycle, Dukes served as the Statewide Director for the John Kerry for President Campaign. Dukes also served as a longtime aide to Senator Fritz Hollings. Dukes will serve as state Political Director.
"Bill Richardson has the proven executive experience to get our country back on track and repair the damage of the past 6 years," stated Dukes "And I am looking forward to helping spread his message of moving our country forward to the voters of South Carolina."
Jeanie Brown-Burrows will serve as Pee Dee Field Director. Brown-Burrows is a veteran of Pee Dee politics. Most recently she directed State Senator Tommy Moore's successful primary campaign for Governor in the Pee Dee. In 2004 she held a similar position in Inez Tenenbaum's campaign for the Unites States Senate.
"As an organizer I understand the importance of grassroots campaigning and I am proud to be working for Governor Richardson," stated Brown-Burrows. "No other Presidential candidate understands the importance of reaching out one voter at a time like Governor Richardson. He cares about the issues that matter most to the people of this country and has a true vision for a better America."
  