
    "What the government isn't doing is making difficult choices and prioritizing our nation's needs. That's the rub. That's what makes writing that check for taxpayers today so difficult and so painful. When they see the waste, fraud, and abuse that happens at the GSA and other parts of government, it's just so frustrating to the American people. And it should be." — Rep. Jason Chaffetz
Congressman Jason Chaffetz, Congressman John Campbell, Congressman Jeff Flake
"President Obama's Tax-and-Spend Policies Have Failed" Press Conference Call
April 17, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "President Obama's Tax-and-Spend Policies Have Failed" Press Conference Call:
REP. JASON CHAFFETZ: "If you spent a million dollars a day, every day, it would take you almost 3,000 years to get to $1 trillion. And yet this federal government for four years in a row under Barack Obama will achieve a trillion dollar deficit. It's totally unacceptable. We spend more than $600 million a day in interest on our national debt. We deficit spend about $4 billion a day. It's just untenable. And what's so difficult is that the President has no plan....What the government isn't doing is making difficult choices and prioritizing our nation's needs. That's the rub. That's what makes writing that check for taxpayers today so difficult and so painful. When they see the waste, fraud, and abuse that happens at the GSA and other parts of government, it's just so frustrating to the American people. And it should be."
...
REP. JOHN CAMPBELL: "[The President's budget] has the largest tax increase in American history in it, but it increases spending so much, and adds no entitlement reform whatsoever, which everyone left, right and center in the economic world understands we need to do, it has no entitlement reform. So therefore it increases taxes, increases spending and actually increases the deficit over the baseline. No Democrat voted for that because everyone knows you just can't do that. We will have a debt collapse, as Paul Ryan says, the most predictable collapse in American history if we did that."
...
REP. JEFF FLAKE: "The President just wants to divert attention by talking about the Buffett Rule and the rest of the country's wasting away in higher taxes....We in the House have passed a budget; the President and Senate Democrats can carp on it all they want, but until they offer an alternative, then it's not going to help us at all. That's the frustration in particular we have here in the House. We put a budget out there. They complained about it, but don't put one up themselves. The last thing we need is just higher taxes at this point to grow government even more."
  