
    
  'Vote Texas' affirms Paul's distinction as sole Texan seeking nomination and scoffs at notion that Texas voters will view his rivals as conservative

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today the release of a new ad that positions the 12-term Texas Congressman as the only authentic conservative seeking the Republican nomination, and the presidential aspirant most appealing to Republican voters in the Lone Star State.
To help kick off Ron Paul's three-day campaign swing in Texas, the 30-second ad 'Vote Texas' will begin airing today on cable television. In addition, the campaign is promoting the ad on websites where conservative activists, opinion leaders, and voters congregate.
The energetic, lighthearted 'Vote Texas' contrasts Ron Paul with his Republican rivals Rick Santorum, Newt Gingrich, and Mitt Romney, characterizing them as a "big spending, debt ceiling raising, fiscal liberal," a "moon colony guy," and "a moderate from Massachusetts," respectively. It follows by affirming Ron Paul's status as the only Texan and the only authentic conservative seeking the nomination. 'Vote Texas' then outlines provisions of Dr. Paul's path-breaking 'Plan to Restore America' such as cutting $1 trillion in Washington spending in year one, balancing the federal budget in three years, and eliminating five unconstitutional federal departments.
"Texas has 152 delegates up for grabs on May 29th, keeping the race for the Republican nomination open," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"Ron Paul is competing hard in his home state of Texas, and we expect that Texas conservatives will reject flip-flopping Massachusetts moderate Mitt Romney and the debt ceiling raising fiscal liberal Rick Santorum. Through 'Vote Texas' and the campaign's other efforts, Texas voters will be reminded that Ron Paul is the only Texan in the race, the only veteran in the race, and the only real conservative in the race," added Mr. Benton.
To view 'Vote Texas' online, please click here.
  