
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Within recent years, older Americans have achieved economic parity with the rest of our Nation's population. This welcome development has meant a true sense of independence for most older Americans.
The tremendous strides that we as a Nation have made in our standard of living and health care have also meant that each succeeding generation of older Americans is proving to be more vigorous and self-sufficient than were its forebears at comparable ages. This translates into a real increase in independence for our Nation's older people.
In the years ahead, we can enhance our personal independence even further by pursuing lifestyles designed to protect our health; by thoughtful planning for our retirement years; and by maintaining strong and close ties with our families, neighbors, and friends.
Our rich heritage of neighbor assisting neighbor continues to thrive not only in its original form, but also as manifested in the emergence of a variety of private helping organizations at the community level. For those older Americans who need outside support to maintain the independence we cherish, it is reassuring to know that assistance is available through a nationwide network of State and area agencies and also private agencies who devote services to the elderly.
Each of us can enrich the lives of others—and ennoble our own lives—by volunteering in whatever way we can to help older Americans in need of assistance. Age is no barrier to this effort, which should involve families, neighbors, and friends, as we help others continue to realize the dream of independence.
When we—each in our own way—strive to maintain our independence and help others to do the same, we will be fulfilling the theme of this year's Older Americans Month, "Help Yourself to Independence."
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1985 as Older Americans Month. I ask public officials at all levels, community agencies, educators, the communications media, and the American people to take this opportunity to honor older Americans and to encourage them to do everything they can to make their health last a lifetime.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  