
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Services officers.
Submitted April 20
Frank Almaguer, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Honduras.
John R. Hamilton, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Peru.
Donald W. Keyser, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Negotiator for Nagorno-Karabakh and New Independent States Regional Conflicts.
Submitted April 21
Gwen C. Clare, of South Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Services class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador.
Oliver P. Garza, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua.
Richard L. Morningstar, of Massachusetts, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the European Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
Submitted April 22
Anna J. Brown, of Oregon, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Malcolm F. Marsh, retired.
Kermit Bye, of North Dakota, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, vice John D. Kelly, deceased.
Faith S. Hochberg, of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Joseph H. Rodriguez, retired.
H. Alston Johnson III, of Louisiana, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice John M. Duhe, Jr., retired.
Ikram U. Khan, of Nevada, to be a member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for a term expiring May 1, 1999, vice Alan Marshall Elkins, term expired.
Ikram U. Khan, of Nevada, to be a member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for a term expiring May 1, 2005. (reappointment)
  