
    To: Interested Parties
From: Clinton Campaign in Pennsylvania
Date: April 12, 2008
Re: 10K in PA: Women Turn Out Strong in Pennsylvania
Today in a show of momentum and strength, the Clinton campaign in Pennsylvania announced over 10,000 female supporters. These dedicated and talented women are committing thousands of hours to the Clinton campaign. They are out in the community to spread the message about Hillary's record of accomplishment, her ability to lead on day one in the White House and her record of fighting for women, children and families.
Women for Hillary members are canvassing, phone banking in the office and at Bring Your Own Phone parties in supporters' homes, doing visibility, handing out yard signs, bumper stickers and buttons - and telling anyone and everyone about Hillary's unique qualifications and her readiness to serve on day one. They are active in their communities, talking to friends and neighbors, knocking on doors, making phone calls, and holding house parties.
In Blair County, for example, hundreds of women turned out Friday evening to call their friends and neighbors. Despite a power outage that left three Women for Hillary house parties without electricity, the women stayed energized and had tremendous success in reaching out to their community.
Since the kickoff of Pennsylvania Women for Hillary on March 24, the thousands of women who have signed on have logged over thousands of volunteer hours. So far, they have held hundreds of "Bring Your Own Phone" parties, made thousands of phone calls and knocked on thousands of doors to reach out to Pennsylvania voters. The women are actively engaging their friends and neighbors in an ongoing conversation about Hillary's plans to get America back on track, as well as recruiting others for the program, hosting house parties, giving friends lawn signs and buttons, and serving as Ambassadors for the Hillary for President campaign.
Over the next 10 days, Pennsylvania Women for Hillary will continue to talk to their friends and neighbors about Hillary's message of change and how she is ready to lead on day one in the White House. They will continue phone banking and door knocking and doing everything they can to let their friends and neighbors know why they support Hillary.
Whether the issue is working to keep our community safe, improving our nation's economy, or fighting to make sure kids have health insurance, Women for Hillary will continue telling Pennsylvanians why they think Hillary is the candidate Pennsylvania families need in the White House.
  