
    98 Percent of Contributions Were Less Than $100 And 99 Percent of Donors Can Contribute Again
Digital Raised More Than $6 Million, Average Online Contribution of $28
More Than 11,000 Contributions from Educators
Senator Kamala Harris's presidential campaign has raised $12 million from more than 218,000 individual contributions in the first quarter of 2019. 98 percent of Harris's contributions were under $100, and 99.45 percent of her donors can contribute again. Harris raised more than $6 million through her digital program, including more than $1.1 million in the final week of March alone. The average online contribution was $28. Harris launched her campaign on January 21 with a promise to reject money from corporate PACs and federal lobbyists. She is only soliciting funds for the primary election.
Harris also received more than 11,000 individual contributions from educators, highlighting the depth of support her campaign is earning among teachers. She recently unveiled a plan to give every teacher in America a raise and to end the 11 percent pay gap between teachers and comparable professionals nationwide. This would be the largest federal investment in teacher pay in history, and on average, teachers would receive a $13,500 pay increase by the end of her first term.
"A nationwide network of hundreds of thousands of grassroots supporters has stepped up to lay the foundation for a winning campaign," said Harris campaign manager Juan Rodriguez. "This is a campaign powered by the people, focused on making health care a right, putting $500 a month in the pockets of working Americans, and giving every public school teacher in America a raise. We're excited by the support we're already seeing."
In the 70 days since launching in January, Harris has campaigned in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, South Carolina, California, Texas, Georgia, and Louisiana. 22,000 people helped her launch her campaign at a rally in Oakland, and across the other states, more than 15,000 people have attended her events. She has taken more than 100 questions from voters at town hall meetings in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. She has done more than two dozen interviews, including the highest-rated CNN town hall of any candidate so far, and taken questions from reporters at seven media gaggles on the campaign trail.
  