
    Today, former Wisconsin Senator Herb Kohl released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"I am proud to endorse Joe Biden for President of the United States. While working together in the Senate, I saw up close his sheer honesty, uncompromising integrity, and unwavering dedication to public service. As Vice President, Joe always worked intelligently and compassionately to bring people together around common goals and values. Our country needs those qualities now more than ever. During my time in the Senate, I believed I had a special responsibility to look out for working families. As President, Joe will bring a deep commitment to those same values. He is our strongest candidate to win in Wisconsin, take back the White House and restore the soul of our country."
In Wisconsin, Biden for President has announced more than 40 endorsements from leaders across the state – including former Governor Jim Doyle, Senate Democratic Leader Jennifer Shilling, Assembly Democratic Leader Gordon Hintz, and Milwaukee County Democrats Chair Chris Walton.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals. National unions representing a range of other workers and professions have also endorsed Biden, including the International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), National Education Association (NEA), United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), American Federation of Teachers (AFT), American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (IW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), Operative Plasterers' & Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA), and International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), and the International Longshoremen's Association (ILA).
The health and safety of our staff, supporters, and the general public is Biden for President's number one priority. During this pandemic, we are calling on all voters to follow social distancing guidelines to slow the spread of COVID-19. Officials in Wisconsin have issued precautions to ensure you can exercise your right to vote while following social distancing guidelines. Any registered Wisconsin voter may request a vote-by-mail ballot online. A request for a vote-by-mail ballot must be made by Thursday, April 2 at 5 PM. Learn more at joebiden.com/voter-guide.
  