
    Mikulski will serve as Campaign Chair
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Maryland Senator Barbara Mikulski, the first Democratic woman elected to the Senate in her own right. Mikulski will serve as a chair of Hillary's campaign.
"I have only the greatest respect for our field of Democratic candidates, but today I am proud to endorse Senator Clinton for President," Mikulski said. "Hillary is the leader who will put this nation back on track, whether it's ending the war in Iraq, providing educational opportunities for our children, restoring our standing in the world or addressing our increasing deficit. She works every day to advance women's rights, by standing up for the women's basketball team at Rutgers and leading the legislative effort for equal pay to become a reality for women. As the first Democratic woman elected to the Senate in my own right, I am honored to join Senator Clinton in this historic effort to break the last barrier for women in public life."
On the same day Clinton was to address a rally of equal pay supporters at the U.S. Capitol, Clinton welcomed the support of a fellow trailblazer who has co-sponsored her Paycheck Fairness Act and fought side-by-side with her in their efforts to expand opportunity for women and all Americans.
"I am truly honored to have the support of Barbara Mikulski," Clinton said. "She has literally paved the way for me and countless other women who now serve in the Congress, and she's never forgotten who she represents. She's been a tireless fighter for improving our schools, caring for our Seniors and ensuring that our veterans get the equipment and health care they need."
As the Dean of Women Senators, Mikulski serves as a mentor to other women Senators when they first take office and builds coalitions across party lines to advance legislation supporting women's issues. Elected to the Senate in 1986, Mikulski previously served 10 years a Congresswoman from the Baltimore area. She first won elected office in 1971 as Baltimore City Councilmember, after establishing a career as a social worker and community activist.
  