
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Victor Henderson Ashe, of Tennessee, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Poland.
James B. Cunningham, of Pennsylvania, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
James B. Cunningham, of Pennsylvania, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Representative of the United States of America to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador.
Raquel Egusquiza, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 2005, vice Lynda Hare Scribante, term expired.
Jeffrey D. Feltman, of Ohio, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lebanon.
Patricia M. Haslach, of Oregon, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lao People's Democratic Republic.
Suedeen G. Kelly, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2009. (Reappointment)
Richard LeBaron, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Kuwait.
Jon D. Leibowitz, of Maryland, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for a term of seven years from September 26, 2003, vice Mozelle Willmont Thompson, term expired.
Stuart Levey, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement, vice Jimmy Gurule, resigned.
Patrick P. O'Carroll, Jr., of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Social Security Administration, vice James G. Huse, Jr., retired.
Barbara J. Sapin, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2007, vice Benjamin Leader Erdreich, resigned.
David M. Stone, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security. (New Position)
Allen Weinstein, of Maryland, to be Archivist of the United States, vice John W. Carlin.
Benjamin H. Wu, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Technology Policy, vice Bruce P. Mehlman, resigned.
Julia L. Wu, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring February 4, 2008, vice James Roger Angel, term expired.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
James G. Roche, of Maryland, to be Secretary of the Army, vice Thomas E. White, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on July 7, 2003.
  