
    "If President Obama is assigning blame for the country's debt and deficits, he should look no further than his own budget blueprints. After piling on trillions of dollars in new debt in his first three years in office, the last thing President Obama is qualified to lecture on is responsible federal spending." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today, President Obama Will Tout His Spending Plan And Try To Deflect Blame For The Country's Debt And Deficits:
In His Speech To The AP Luncheon, President Obama Will Again Blame Others For Allowing The Debt To Grow. "By next year, ‘a debt that has grown over the last decade, primarily as a result of two wars, two massive tax cuts and an unprecedented financial crisis, will have to be paid down,' Obama says in the prepared remarks." (Ken Thomas, "Obama Denounces 'Radical' Republican Budget Plan," The Associated Press, 4/3/12)
But If President Obama Is Assigning Blame For The Country's Debt, He Should Examine His Own Spending Record Again:
Under President Obama, The Country Has Experienced Four Consecutive "Trillion Dollar-Plus Deficits." "For the current budget year, CBO says Obama's policies, if enacted, would generate a $1.25 trillion deficit. That's $74 billion better than the White House forecast but still represents the fourth consecutive year of trillion dollar-plus deficits." ("CBO: Obama Budget Produces 2013 Deficit Of $977B," The Associated Press, 3/16/12)
In 2013, President Obama's Budget Will Produce A Deficit Of Nearly $1 Trillion. "A new analysis of President Barack Obama's budget for next year says the deficit scenario for next year isn't as rosy as the White House figured last month. Friday's Congressional Budget Office report said Obama's budget would produce a $977 billion deficit next year — $75 billion more than predicted by the White House." ("CBO: Obama Budget Produces 2013 Deficit Of $977B," The Associated Press, 3/16/12)
"Over The Coming Decade, CBO Says Obama's Policies Would Result In Deficits Totaling $6.4 Trillion." ("CBO: Obama Budget Produces 2013 Deficit Of $977B," The Associated Press, 3/16/12)
In Just Over Three Years, President Obama Added Nearly $5 Trillion To The National Debt—More Than What Was Added In All Eight Years Of The Bush Administration. "The National Debt has now increased more during President Obama's three years and two months in office than it did during 8 years of the George W. Bush presidency. The Debt rose $4.899 trillion during the two terms of the Bush presidency. It has now gone up $4.939 trillion since President Obama took office." (Mark Knoller, "National Debt Has Increased More Under Obama Than Under Bush," CBS News, 3/19/12)
And President Obama Has His Work Cut Out For Him To Convince Others His Budget Plan Is One The Country Should Adopt:
The Wall Street Journal: "[President Obama's] Fiscal Record Is The Worst In Modern American History." "The political reality of budgeting is that voters should only believe what they can see, which is what politicians are proposing now. Promises of future spending cuts are a mirage. Mr. Obama needs to point to the mirage because his fiscal record is the worst in modern American history." (Editorial, "The Amazing Obama Budget," The Wall Street Journal, 2/14/12)
President Obama's 2013 Budget Was Rejected Unanimously In The U.S. House Of Representatives By A Margin Of 414-0. "Minutes earlier, the House also defeated Mr. Obama's own budget, submitted last month, on a 414-0 vote arranged by Republicans to embarrass the president and officially shelve his plan." (Stephen Dinan, "House Rejects Bowles-Simpson, Obama Budgets," The Washington Times, 3/28/12)
Last Year, President Obama's Budget Was Rejected Unanimously In The U.S. Senate By A Margin Of 97-0. "In 2011, Ryan's budget passed the House 235-193, and was then put to a vote in the Democratic-controlled Senate, where 40 members voted to support it. That same year, Republicans in the Senate forced a vote on the president budget resolution. It was defeated 97-0." (Andrew Stiles, "503—0," The Washington Free Beacon, 3/29/12)
  