
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Our country's Founding Fathers were dedicated not only to securing America's independence, but also to establishing a free and democratic system of government for the new nation. Thanks to the faith and fortitude of our ancestors, freedom has flowered on our shores and has brought us a legacy of liberty and opportunity.
Some of our ancestors faced hardships that we shall never know in order to win and preserve our precious freedom. From the battles of Lexington and Concord to the Saratoga and Yorktown campagains, soldiers in Revolutionary War faced the dangers of enemy attacks, as well as threats of hunger, disease, and exposure to servere weather. We can never forget how George Washington's troops suffered from lack of food and warm clothing during the long winter at Valley forge. The selfless spirit and great love of country that carried out the hearts of the American people.
The National Society of the Sons of the American Revolution was established on April 30, 1989, to perpetuate the spirit and memory of the brave individuals who won our Nation's independence and defended the cause of liberty and self-government during the Revolutionary War. Activitites in support of this goal help us to remember the tremendous debt we owe to them.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 84, has designated April 30, 1989, as "National Society of the Sons of the American Revolution Centennial Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of Anmerica, do hereby proclaim April 30, 1989, as National Society of the Sons of the American Revolution Centennial Day, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eight day of April, in this year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  