
    
  By the President of the United States Of America
  A Proclamation

A quarter-century ago, on April 4, 1949, in Washington, twelve nations, united in a determination to preserve their freedoms, integrity, and common heritage, signed the North Atlantic Treaty. In succeeding years Greece, Turkey, and the Federal Republic of Germany became parties to that accord and members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization—which was established to fulfill the Treaty's commitment to a joint defense.
In those early years the military threat to the West was clear. Today, while collective defense remains the first task of the alliance, opportunities have arisen—resulting from more than two decades of Western cohesion—which have allowed the allies to engage in a broad new enterprise aimed at reducing tensions between East and West.
The Atlantic alliance remains the cornerstone of United States foreign policy. In addition to advancing the cause of peace, members can enlarge the purposes of our historic alliance by reinvigorating our association to meet the interrelated security, political, economic, and environmental problems that confront us in the complex world of this decade and beyond. Understanding, cooperation, and consultation must be the hallmark of our ongoing relationship. The achievements of the past must not be sacrificed to the pursuit of national interests narrowly conceived. I rededicate the United States today to that course, for it is only in this way that the Atlantic nations can truly serve the cause of peace and prosperity for succeeding generations.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard M. Nixon, President of the United States of America, do hereby direct the attention of the Nation to this the twenty-fifth anniversary of the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty; and I call upon all agencies and officials of the Federal Government, upon the Governors of the States, and upon the officers of local governments to encourage and facilitate the suitable observance of this event throughout this 25th anniversary year with particular attention to April, the month which marks the historic signing of the treaty.
I also urge all citizens to participate in appropriate activities and ceremonies in recognition of the achievement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and its contribution to America's security and well-being.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-eighth.

RICHARD NIXON
  