
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 14
The White House announced that the President yesterday declared a major disaster for the State of Oklahoma as a result of severe storms and tornadoes, beginning on April 10, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The White House announced that the President yesterday amended his April 11 declaration of a major disaster for the State of Arkansas to provide Federal assistance also for damage inflicted by severe storms and tornadoes occurring after April 8, but a part of the same weather system.
The President declared an emergency for the State of Mississippi because of the impact of severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding, beginning on or about April 11. The President's action will permit the donation of Government-owned mobile homes to the State to provide temporary housing for those families who lost their homes.
April 16
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Mississippi as a result of severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding, beginning on or about April 8, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
April 18
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1977 reports of the National Cancer Advisory Board and the Director on the National Cancer Program.
April 19
The White House announced that the President yesterday declared a major disaster for the State of Alabama as a result of severe storms, high wind, and flooding, beginning on or about April 11, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President has accepted the invitation of President Park Chung Hee to visit the Republic of Korea immediately following the conclusion of the economic summit conference in Tokyo. The details of the visit are being worked out by the two governments. April 20
The President left Sapelo Island and went to Plains, Ga.
  