
    We met today in Quebec City for the first time as leaders of the three countries making up North America. We have come together as leaders of Canada, Mexico, and the United States, North American neighbors who share common values and interests. The ties that link us—human, social, cultural, and economic—are becoming stronger. Fully realizing the tremendous potential of North America is a goal we all share.
Increased trade and investment are cornerstones of a vibrant, expanding and more comprehensive North American Trade Agreement (NAFTA) since 1994 in bringing about a truly remarkable expansion of trade and investment among our countries. NAFTA has eliminated many barriers to trade, led to the elaboration of clear rules of commerce, and established effective procedures for the resolution of disputes. We will build on this progress by completing NAFTA implementation and by identifying ways in which NAFTA can ensure a more predictable framework for the further development of trade and investment within North America. We will work to deepen a sense of community, promote our mutual economic interest, and ensure that NAFTA's benefits extend to all regions and social sectors. Our governments will develop ideas on how we can work together to develop and expand hemispheric and global trade and promote broader international cooperation.
We consulted on the development of a North American approach to the important issue of energy markets. Towards this end, our Energy Ministers have created a North American Energy Working Group. This technical-level forum will be a valuable means of fostering communication and coordinating efforts in support of efficient North American energy markets that help our governments meet the energy needs of our peoples. We stressed the importance of energy conservation, development of alternative energy sources, and our common commitment to addressing environmental impacts of energy use.
Migration is one of the major ties that bind our societies, with migrants making significant cultural and economic contributions. It is important that our policies reflect our values and needs, and that we achieve progress in dealing with this phenomenon. We are committed to ensuring dignified, humane treatment with appropriate legal protections, and defense of human rights for migrants. We will strengthen mechanisms for trilateral cooperation to address the legitimate needs of migrants and take effective measures against trafficking in human beings and migrant smuggling.
We reviewed the extensive cooperation underway among our three governments in areas as diverse as transportation, communications, health, justice, agriculture, and border issues. We discussed the growing links among citizens in our three countries and new partnerships in business, employment, education, travel, culture, and joint research.
These patterns of cooperation—by governments, business, and other members of civil society—are building a new sense of community among us. Our governments will review the trends, challenges, and opportunities facing North America at the dawn of a new century, and examine options to further strengthen our North American partnership. Conscious of the challenges we face but convinced of the need to seize the unprecedented opportunities before us, we encourage broad reflection in our societies on ways to advance the trilateral relationship.
  