
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Marked by a sense of hope and renewal, Spring is a fitting time to honor the millions of Americans who engage in voluntary service to others. Across the United States, people of every age, race, and walk of life are taking direct and consequential action to help solve serious social problems such as drug abuse, illiteracy, and homelessness. These Americans are planting the seeds of positive change in their communities and sowing a rich crop for the future.
Voluntary service in America takes a variety of forms. Countless Americans give of their time individually. In addition, millions of Americans now volunteer through innovative corporate programs and special school-based projects. And there are those generous individuals who work on behalf of major nonprofit organizations and local charities. During this National Celebration of Community Service, we salute all of these caring citizens.
This nationwide observance underscores the fact that everyone has a gift to give -- that every act of kindness counts. For example, in Polk, Nebraska, a group of third grade students telephones homebound senior citizens each day, offering a bright source of companionship and cheer. The founders of the "Midnight Basketball" program in Hyattsville, Maryland, countribute to the struggle against crime and delinquency by offering late-night sports activities and tutorial sessions for disadvantaged youngsters. Through the "Let's Help" program in Topeka, Kansas, volunteers provide needy families with literacy training, job counseling, and advice on parenting, as well as food and financial support. All of these volunteers and others, the brilliant "Points of Light" that reflect our national conscience and illuminate our contry's social landscape, are making a profound difference.
Every American has something to contribute, and none should be content until we have found a way to serve. To be of service is not only to meet someone else's needs, it is not only to fulfill one of our primary responsibilities as citizens and neighbors -- it is to find the joy and meaning in life that come only from selflessness and giving.
Today more and more Americans have come to see that any definition of a successful life must include serving others. So many of our citizens are beginning to recognize the talents, resources, and interests they have to share. Let us salute all those Americans who carry on the time-honored tradition of voluntary service, and let us strengthen our own commitment to enriching the lives of others -- and our own -- through service.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the period of April 15 through April 26, 1991, as Points of Light National Celebration of Community Service. This special tribute to the spirit of service in America and to the millions of Americans who embody that spirit encompasses traditional National Volunteer Week events and numerous other activities in which all Americans -- young and old alike -- are encouraged to engage. I ask all Americans to join in saluting and thanking our Nation's volunteers, as well as the organizations -- religious, governmental, business, and private nonprofit -- that support and participate in community service. I also encourage every American to observe this week with appropriate events and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 12 day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  