
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Throughout our history, Americans have recognized that education is vital to our Nation's future. Our educational system has always done far more than simply train people for a given job or profession; it has equipped generation upon generation of young men and women for lives of responsible citizenship, by helping to teach them the basic ethical values and principles that are both our heritage as a free people and the foundation of civilized life.
As the beneficiaries of that heritage, we bear a corresponding responsibility to ensure that the moral values on which freedom rests continue to be transmitted to each successive generation of Americans. If our educational efforts are rooted in first principles—that human life is sacred; that men and women should be treated as individuals, with certain fundamental rights and responsibilities; that respect for law is crucial to the survival of freedom—then our children and our children's children will share, as we have, in the blessings of liberty.
The Lubavitch movement, headed by Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, has provided people of all faiths a shining example of the true value of education. The Lubavitcher Rebbe's work is a living reminder that knowledge is worthy only when accompanied by moral and spiritual wisdom and understanding. In fostering and promoting a tradition of ethical values that can trace its roots to the Seven Noahide Laws, which have often been cited as universal norms of ethical conduct and a guarantee of fundamental human rights, the Lubavitch movement and its greatly respected leader have shown Americans of every faith that true education involves not simply what one knows, but how one lives.
In recognition of Rabbi Schneerson's contributions and in honor of his 82nd birthday on the 11th day of the Jewish month Nisan, which falls this year on April 13, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 520, has designated April 13, 1984, as "Education Day, U.S.A.," and has authorized and requested the President to issue an appropriate proclamation.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim April 13, 1984, as Education Day, U.S.A., and I call upon the people of the United States, and in particular our teachers and other educational leaders, to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 13th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyfour and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.

RONALD REAGAN
  