
    
  Congressman and top-tier presidential candidate to share platform of constitutionally-limited government at birthplace of our modern Republic

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will hold a major campaign rally on Independence Mall in Philadelphia, sharing his platform of constitutionally-limited government at the birthplace of the modern Republic.
The event, which is free and open to the public, will be held on Sunday, April 22nd beginning at 1:00 p.m. and Dr. Paul is scheduled to speak at 2:30 p.m. At the event, the 12-term Congressman from Texas will discuss his path-breaking 'Plan to Restore America' and his agenda as President. Former CIA officer and Bin Laden Unit leader Michael Scheuer, who last December endorsed Ron Paul for the presidency, also will address the crowd.
"Ron Paul's rally on Independence Mall promises to be an exciting opportunity to hear him discuss his vision for constitutionally-limited government, including the urgent need to restore our economic and civil liberties. The location is highly symbolic, as Philadelphia is the city where our founders conceptualized and established a modest federal government of the kind Dr. Paul has consistently promoted for more than 30 years," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
Ron Paul's Philadelphia rally will be followed by an open press avail. Members of the local and major print, broadcast, and online media with particular needs such as the desire to arrange a candidate interview should contact Assistant Press Secretary Arick Stall by emailing him at aricks@ronpaul2012.com. Please, no exceptions.
Later that night, also in the city often termed the Cradle of Liberty, Ron Paul will host a private fundraising dinner that is closed to all media.
Event details are as follows. Time is Eastern.
Sunday, April 22, 2012
2:30 p.m.*
Ron Paul Major Campaign Rally
Lawn at the Independence Mall Visitors Center
1 N Independence Mall West (b/t Market and Arch Streets)
Philadelphia, PA 19106
[*The rally start time is 1:00 p.m. and Dr. Paul will speak at 2:30 p.m.]
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
  