
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 6
In the early afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Dover Air Force Base, DE, where they met with the families of those who died in the aircraft tragedy in Croatia. In the evening, they returned to Washington, DC.
April 9
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia.
April 10
In the afternoon, following the funeral of Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown at the National Cathedral, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the burial ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery, VA. They then returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD, where he attended a Democratic National Committee reception at the home of Mayor Kurt Schmoke and a committee dinner at Cave Valley Golf Club. In the late evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Margaret A. Coil and Geri Marullo to the Federal Salary Council.
April 11
The White House announced that the President has directed the Department of Health and Human Services to release $180 million in emergency Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funds for States, territories, and Indian tribes to help families affected by unusually cold winter weather.
April 12
In the afternoon, the President announced the recess appointment of Mickey Kantor as Secretary of Commerce at a meeting with auto executives, workers, and trade representatives on the Japan-U.S. agreement on autos and auto parts. Later, the President participated in a swearing-in ceremony for Mr. Kantor.
The President announced the recess appointment of Yolanda Townsend Wheat of Missouri to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board.
The President announced the appointment of Martin A. Kamarck of New York to serve as President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
The President announced the recess appointment of Robert Clarke Brown of Ohio as a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.
The President announced the recess appointment of Lowell Junkins of Iowa to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.
The President announced the recess appointment of Daniel Guttman of the District of Columbia to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
The President sent to the Congress a request for $250 million in supplemental appropriations for drug law enforcement, treatment, and prevention.
  