
    "President Obama's chief strategist believes the American people will judge the President based on his record in office. We agree. With nearly 23 million Americans still struggling to find work, skyrocketing gas prices, and debt and deficits piling higher every year, Americans can't afford another four years of President Obama's record." -Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
This Morning, Obama Chief Strategist David Axelrod Claimed The American People Will Judge President Obama "On His Record":
Obama Chief Strategist David Axelrod: "People Will Judge [President Obama] Based On His Record." CROWLEY: "So if you take this, is it fair to say, listen, the president is the guy in charge?" AXELROD: "People will judge him based on his record." (CNN's "State Of The Union," 4/22/12)
What Is President Obama's Record On Jobs? 38 Months Of Unemployment Above 8% And Nearly 23 Million Americans Struggling For Work:
Thirty-Eight Straight Months Of Unemployment Above 8%: The jobless rate has been above 8% since February 2009, a thirty-eight month span unequaled in recorded history. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/17/12)


    "The Congressional Budget Office Is Projecting Unemployment Of More Than 8% Throughout This Election Year And Into 2014." (David Jackson, "CBO Projects 8%-Plus Unemployment Into 2014," USA Today, 2/16/12)
  

Nearly Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Unemployed, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking For Work. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/17/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, The Total Unemployment Rate For Hispanic Or Latino Workers Has Increased From 10.0% To 10.3%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/19/12)
Employment Among Young Adults Is At The Lowest Level "Since The Government Started Keeping Records In 1948." "How hard has the Great Recession hit young adults in the U.S.? According to a report released Thursday by the Pew Research Center, only 54.3% of young adults aged 18 to 24 have a job. It's the lowest rate since the government started keeping records in 1948." (Josh Sanburn, "Fewest Young Adults In 60 Years Have Jobs," Time, 2/9/12)
"Young Americans Graduating From High School And College Over The Last Several Years Have Been Confronting One Of The Worst Job Markets In Decades." (Josh Sanburn, "Fewest Young Adults In 60 Years Have Jobs," Time, 2/9/12)
And What About The President's Record On Gas Prices And Health Care? He's Made Health Care Less Affordable And Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled On His Watch:
Under President Obama, Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled From The Nationwide Average Of $1.85 Per Gallon When He Was Sworn Into Office To $3.92 Per Gallon Today. (U.S. Energy Information Administration, www.eia.gov, Accessed 4/19/12)
Obamacare Has Made Health Care "Less Affordable" And Has Caused "Insurance Premiums To Rise." "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made - that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," Factcheck.org, 1/4/12)
According To The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Obamacare Could Cause As Many As 20 Million Americans To Lose Their Employer-Provided Coverage. "A Congressional Budget Office report issued this week says that 3 million to 5 million people could move from employer-based health care plans to government-based programs as the Affordable Care Act takes effect. And in the worst-case scenario, it could be as many as 20 million." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," Politico, 3/16/12)
  