
    Pool Reports by Joey Garrison, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




April 13, 202310:12 IST

WH travel pool report #1
Good morning from Dublin. I'm your out-of-town travel pool reporter today. It's a sunny day here and 45 degrees.
The pool is gathered in a board room at the hotel. We will soon be departing for President Biden's first event: a tree planting and Peace Bill ringing ceremony with Irish President Michael Higgins.
As a reminder, here's the schedule today:
IST
10:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
11:15 AM THE PRESIDENT meets with President Michael Higgins of Ireland and participates in a tree planting ceremony and ringing of the Peace BellÁras an Uachtaráin, Dublin, IrelandOut-of-Town Pool
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT meets with Taoiseach Leo Varadkar of IrelandFarmleigh House, Dublin, IrelandOut-of-Town Pool Spray
1:40 PM THE PRESIDENT attends a youth Gaelic sports demonstration Farmleigh House, Dublin, IrelandOut-of-Town Pool
3:45 PM THE PRESIDENT addresses the Houses of the OireachtasLeinster House, Dublin, IrelandOut-of-Town Pool
7:00 PM THE PRESIDENT attends a Banquet DinnerDublin Castle, Dublin, IrelandOut-of-Town Pool



April 13, 202311:43 IST

WH travel report #2 rolling
The pool is rolling out of the Conrad Hotel, where President Biden spent the night, to the Áras an Uachtaráin, the official residence of Irish President Michael Higgins.
We rolled out at 11:37 a.m. IST.
Your pooler did not lay eyes on the president of the beast when we departed.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Áras an Uachtaráin, Dublin, Ireland:
Claire D. Cronin, Ambassador of the United States to IrelandAntony Blinken, Secretary of StateBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentJon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsRufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the United StatesRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryJohn Kirby, NSC Coordinator for Strategic CommunicationsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesAmanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for EuropeKatie Fricchione, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Deputy Chief of StaffCharlie Fromstein, NSC Director for Visits & Diplomatic AffairsBen Canavan, NSC Director for European Affairs



April 13, 202312:04 IST

WH travel report #3
The pool pulled up at the Irish president's residence at 11:58 am IST.
The president's motorcade drove through the heart of downtown Dublin to get there. Citizens flanked both sides of the street for most of the drive, taking videos and photos with their cameras and waving at the president.
Some spectators held American flags, several homemade, including a group of young preschool age children. Many cheered as POTUS drove by, appearing excited by his visit.
As we got near the residence, one man was holding a piece of paper that said "Arrest Biden." I didn't spot other signs along the journey, but there were many spectators, so I'm sure I missed someone.
The residence includes massive grounds that we drove up filled with trees and open grass. It appeared there were animals, perhaps deer, in the distance.
It's an absolute gorgeous day here after yesterday's rain and wind.



April 13, 202312:16 IST

WH travel pool report #4
President Biden pulled up to the Irish president's residence at 12:07 pm.
Biden exchanged pleasantries and handshakes with President Higgins. Biden appeared to thank Higgins but remarks were inaudible. They turned to reported to pose for photos. They walked inside at 12:08 pm.
Biden wore a blue suit with a green horizontally striped tie.
The pool later entered the residence through a side door. We are waiting in a room that has a desk facing us with an open book — perhaps a guestbook.
From the WH:
The President previously visited Áras an Uachtaráin in 2017 and as Vice President in 2016.
Greeting the President upon arrival:
H.E. Michael D. Higgins, President of IrelandMrs. Sabina Higgins, Spouse of President HigginsH.E. Micheál Martin, Tánaiste of IrelandMs. Orla O'Hanrahan, Secretary General to the President of IrelandUniformed Honor Guar



April 13, 202312:29 IST

WH travel pool report #5 Biden signs guestbook and takes some questions
President Biden signed the guestbook inside the Irish president's residence at 12:16 pm IST.
He took a few minutes to write a lengthy note.
Biden finished, turned to Higgins and quoted his grandfather, saying "Your feet will bring you to where your heart is."
Biden took a few questions from reporters.
He was asked, what's your most Irish characteristic?
Biden responded: "I'm not going to presume. I'll let others make that judgment."
Biden did not answer a question shouted by a reporter for an update about the leaked Pentagon documents.
"As the Irish saying goes, your feet will bring you to where your heart is … and it's an honor to return and to come home to the home of my ancestors."
Biden said: "I think the most Irish word used in my family is dignity."
He joked that "I'm not going home."
Biden also turned to the press: "All you American reporters, it's just like the White House, right?"



April 13, 202312:53 IST

WH travel pool report #6 state arrival ceremony
After singing the guestbook, Biden took part in an Irish welcome ceremony in front of the residence as the Irish military band played music from the side.
The pool was rushed off at 12:38 pm after about a 10-minute ceremony.
During the ceremony, Biden stood across members of the Irish military as the band played and he later shook hands and spoke briefly to others outside the front door. They appeared to be a combination of US and Irish dignitaries.
Hunter Biden and Valerie Biden were off to the side and also greeted many of the same individuals.
The pool is now waiting at the Peace Bell in the side/back of the president's residence.
From the WH:
Participating in a State Arrival Ceremony at Áras an Uachtaráin:
H.E. Michael D. Higgins, President of IrelandMrs. Sabina Higgins, Spouse of President HigginsLieutenant General Sean Clancy, Chief of Staff, Irish Defense ForcesBrigadier General Tony Cudmore, General Office CommandingCaptain Michael Crawley, 27th Infantry Battalion, Officer in Charge of the Guard of Honor
Irish DelegationH.E. Micheál Martin, Tánaiste of IrelandMr. Charlie McConologue T.D., Minister for Agriculture, Food and the MarineMs. Orla O'Hanrahan, Secretary General to the PresidentH.E. Geraldine Byrne-Nason, Ambassador of Ireland to the United States of AmericaMr. Dermot Woods, Government Secretariat, Department of the TaoiseachMr. George Burke, Deputy Secretary General to the PresidentMs. Claire Power, Adviser to the PresidentLieutenant General Seán Clancy, Chief of Staff, Irish Defense ForcesBrigadier General Tony Cudmore, General Officer CommandingCommissioner Drew Harris, An Garda Síochána
U.S. DelegationT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Tom Vilsack, Secretary of AgricultureT.H. Claire Cronin, Ambassador of the United States to IrelandT.H. Jon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of StaffT.H. Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the PresidentT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilMr. Ben Canavan, Director for European Affairs, National Security Council
Additional Members of the US delegation that are attending:
Senator Edward J. Markey (MA)Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-5)Rep. Richard Neal (MA-1)Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26)Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-5)Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-6)Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-5)Rep. Pat Ryan (NY-18)Senator Chris Dodd, Special PresidentialAdvisor to the AmericasSenator Gary Hart, Former Special Envoy to Northern IrelandMayor Paige Cognetti, Scranton, PAT.H. Kevin O'Malley, Former Ambassador of the United States to IrelandT.H. Nancy Soderberg, Former Alternate Representative to the United Nations and Former Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. Mark Shriver, Former Member of the Maryland House of Delegates and President of Don Bosco Cristo Rey High SchoolMs. Stella O'Leary, United States Observer to the International Fund for Ireland



April 13, 202312:55 IST

WH travel pool report #7 meeting begins
The WH said the following at 12:49 pm IST:
The President is meeting with President Michael Higgins of Ireland.



April 13, 202313:52 IST

WH travel pool report #8 bell and tree ceremony
President Biden walked outside the Irish president's residence at 1:08 pm.
He walked alongside Irish President Higgins and Higgens' wife.
During the walk, Higgens whistled for his dogs and Biden leaned down toward a garden, where the dogs were. The dogs didn't initially come out but later one Bernese mountain dog appeared as the walk continued.
The two presidents were talking to each other the whole walk. Higgins had a cane and Biden wore his trademark aviator sunglasses.
Biden grabbed a shovel and placed dirt in an already-planted Irish oak tree.
Biden asked whether his "great-great grandchildren can come back and climb this tree."
The two then walked to the peace bell.
Biden said "for Ireland" as he rang the bell the first time
He rang it again: "This is for all my Irish ancestors"
He dedicated the next ring "for peace"
Biden then spoke briefly to reporters.
Question: How are you feeling?
Biden: "I'm feeling great and learned a lot hanging out with the president."
Question: what's it like to be home?
Biden: "It feels great. You know, I know it sounds silly but there's so many Irish Americans, like my relatives who got here — got to America in 1844, 45 and 46, who've never been back here, and they talked about it."
Biden said "you hear all these stories about what it was like back in Ireland." He said during his first trip to Ireland he took his boys down and recounted how his grandfather, Owen Finnegan, compared Ireland's Boyne Valley to Scranton, Pa.
"In Scranton, there's a river that runs through it called the Lackawanna River, and a mountain on either side and the valley. And where he lived you can look down and … how 100 years earlier, it would look like the Boyne."
"It's just so great to always have an excuse to be back."
Biden was asked whether he can provide an update if the leaked Pentagon docs investigation.
Biden: "can't right now. There's a full-blown investigation going on, as you know, with the intelligence community and the Justice Department, and they're getting close."
Biden said: "I'm not concerned about the leak. I'm concerned that it happened. But there's nothing contemporaneous that I'm aware of that's of great consequence."
Biden later addressed a question about Northern Ireland and Biden took a selfie with an Irish reporter at the reporter's request.
Biden's full remarks can be found on the WH livestream. The pool pulled out of the president's residence at 1:45 pm. Your pooler did not see Biden leave in the beast.



April 13, 202314:06 IST

WH travel pool report #9
President Biden, riding in the Beast, pulled up to the Farmleigh House, home of Taoiseach Leo Varadkar at 1:55 pm after a short drive across the executive estate.
The two leaders greeted each other and turned to the media to pose for a picture. They went inside after about a minute.
The pool entered the back of the Farmleigh House at 2:02 pm.



April 13, 202314:43 IST

WH travel pool report #10 /bilateral meeting begins
President Biden and the Taoiseach began their bilateral meeting inside the Farmleigh House at 2:08 pm IST. They were sitting in chairs placed between two couches.
Biden spoke first, telling Varadkar it was great to see him on Saint Patrick's Day at the White House.
Biden: "You know, I think there really is an opportunity to make serious progress, not just because of the accords we signed 25 years ago, but I mean just in terms of the way you're leading Ireland"
Biden also thanked Varadkar for welcoming Ukrainians to Ireland. "I know it's not easy."
Biden: "It feels so good to be able to have this emerging and stronger and stronger relationship between the United States and Ireland. I think our values are the same and I think our concerns are the same."
Varadkar then spoke saying he looks forward to hearing about Biden's visit to Belfast and meeting with party leaders. Varadkar said: "We're very keen to having the Good Friday agreement institutions functioning again."
Varadkar thanked Biden for US leadership in Ukraine.
Varadkar said: "I never thought, in my lifetime, that we would see a war of this nature happen in Europe again."
"Democracies and liberty and the things that we believe in are in retreat in large parts of the world. And if it wasn't for American leadership, and if it wasn't for American and Europe working together, I don't know what kind of world we would live in."
Biden said he looks forward to talking about a lot of this in detail. He did not take any questions.
The pool was rushed out after a couple of minutes.



April 13, 202314:50 IST

WH travel pool report #11
From the WH:
The President is participating in a meeting with Taoiseach Leo Varadkar of Ireland.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Tom Vilsack, Secretary of AgricultureT.H. Claire Cronin, Ambassador of the United States to IrelandT.H. Jon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of StaffT.H. Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the PresidentT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilMr. Ben Canavan, Director for European Affairs, National Security Council
Irish ManifestH.E. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of IrelandMr. John Callinan, Secretary General, Department of the TaoiseachMr. Brian Murphy, Chief of Staff to the TaoiseachH.E. Geraldine Byrne Nason, Ambassador of Ireland to the USMs. Helen Blake, Assistant Secretary, Department of the TaoiseachMs. Émer Deane, Counsellor Department of the TaoiseachMr. Philip O' Callaghan Deputy Chief of Staff to the Taoiseach



April 13, 202314:56 IST

WH travel pool report #12
As Biden and Varadkar met, the pool waited outside on a grass lawn where young boys were boys were playing Gaelic football and girls were playing camogie, which looked like a form of lacrosse.
It started raining. So much for the earlier sunshine.
From the WH, previewing the next activity:
The President and Taoiseach are attending a youth Gaelic sports demonstration at Farmleigh's back lawn. Children from local Gaelic athletic association teams are demonstrating their skills with hurling/camogie and Gaelic football. The 10-to-12-year-old boys and girls participating in the demonstration hail from the Taoiseach's constituency, West Dublin, which includes Phoenix Park and the Farmleigh estate.



April 13, 202315:09 IST

WH travel pool report #13 ball nearly hits Biden
Biden and Varadkar came out a backdoor of the Farmleigh House at 3:02 pm.
They watched the kids play their ball games from the corner of the field. At one point, Biden put his arm around the prime minister as he spoke. They were too far away to pick up sound.
A sliotar (camogie ball) wizzed right by Biden's left shoulder, nearly striking the president. Biden started going after the ball, but a young girl ran by him and POTUS stopped chasing.
The pool was rushed away at 3:05 pm while Biden and Varadkar were still outside



April 13, 202315:28 IST

WH travel pool report #14 rolling again
The president's motorcade pulled out of the Farmleigh House at 3:23 pm. We are now rolling.
Your pooler did not see POTUS as he left in the beast.



April 13, 202315:41 IST

WH travel pool report #15
Biden and the pool pulled up to The Chief of Mission residence at 3:33 pm after a short drive across the estate.
Your pooler did not see Biden step out of the beast.
The pool is holding in a building in the back of the residence where we are getting served lunch.



April 13, 202316:39 IST

WH travel press pool report #16 rolling to parliament
The pool and the president's motorcade pulled out of the Chief of Mission Residence at 4:46 pm IST.
We are headed to the Leinster House where Biden will address the Irish parliament — the Houses of the Oireachtas.
Your pooler did not see President Biden step into the beast.



April 13, 202317:13 IST

WH travel pool report #17 parliament arrival
Spectators stood on both sides of the blocked off streets during the drive to the Leinster House.
The crowds were very large, but I can't guess a number. Some rows of people were eight or 10 people deep.
Many people waved, cheered and took videos of the passing motorcade. We drove alongside a canal and past homes and business in the core of Dublin.
An entire class of preschool kids sat on the steps of one row home, holding little American flags and waving.
As the motorcade pulled out, one man was seen holding a large flag of the Irish Republican Socialist Party.
One young teenager boy held a homemade sign that read, "Love you Joe." A young child, probably 7 or 8, was draped in a large American flag.
There were a few protesters holding signs near the parliament building. One read, "Acts of War … US blows up pipleline."
We pulled up to the building at 5:10 pm.



April 13, 202317:20 IST

WH travel pool report #18
President Biden, riding the beast, pulled up outside the Leinster House at 5:12 pm and walked inside the building at 5:15 pm.
Biden was met by parliament speakers. Names are below. They shook hands and exchanged pleasantries.
Before turning inside, Biden stood outside on the front steps with the leaders and posed for photographers.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Leinster House, Dublin, Ireland:
Ceann Comhairle Seán Ó Fearghaíl, Speaker of Dáil Éireann (Lower Chamber)Cathaoirleach Jerry Buttimer, Speaker of Seanad Éireann (Upper Chamber)Ms. Sheila Ryan, Head of Protocol, Houses of the OireachtasMr. Alan Ruane, Head Usher, Houses of the Oireachtas



April 13, 202317:23 IST

WH travel pool report #19
From the WH:
The President is participating in a receiving line of the Dáil Éireann (Lower Chamber) and Seanad Éireann (Upper Chamber), a guest book signing ceremony, and an exchange of gifts.
Dáil Éireann (Lower Chamber) ParticipantsCatherine Connolly T.D., Leas-Cheann ComhairleH.E. Leo Varadkar T.D., Taoiseach of IrelandH.E. Micheál Martin, Tánaiste of IrelandÉamon Ryan T.D, Minister for Environment, Climate and Communications, and TransportMary Lou McDonald, T.D., Sinn Féin leaderIvana Bacik T.D., Labour Party leaderHolly Cairns T.D., Social Democrats leaderDenis Naughten, T.D., Regional Group representativeMattie McGrath, T.D., Rural Independent Group representativeMarian Harkin, T.D., Independent Group representative
Seanad Éireann (Upper Chamber) ParticipantsSenator Mark Daly, Leas-ChathaoirleachSenator Lisa Chambers, Leader of the House, Fianna Fáil Group LeaderSenator Regina Doherty, Fine Gael Group LeaderSenator Róisín Garvey, Green Party Group LeaderSenator Victor Boyhan, Independent Group LeaderSenator Niall Ó Donnghaile, Sinn Féin Group LeaderSenator Marie Sherlock, Labour Party Group WhipSenator Lynn Ruane, Civil Engagement Group WhipNoel Murphy, Superintendent of the Dáil
Guest Book Signing ParticipantsCatherine Connolly, Deputy Ceann ComhairleMark Daly, Deputy Cathaoirleach
Exchange of Gifts The President presents a Tiffany & Co. Round Pewter Tray with the Seal of the President of the United States to Ceann Comhairle Seán Ó Fearghaíl. Ceann Comhairle Seán Ó Fearghaílpresents a signed book of poetry from Seamus Haney to the President on behalf of the Oreachtus.



April 13, 202317:45 IST

WH travel pool report #20 Biden enters chamber
President Biden stepped into the lower house, called Dail Eireann, at 5:42 pm.
He was introduced, then given a long standing ovation. Many people in the chamber cheered.
Biden shook hands with lawmakers on the way to his seat next to the speaker.
The speech is being livestreamed at the usual places so I will not be sending full quotes.
From the WH:
The President will be addressing the Houses of Oireachtas. Three previous American Presidents (John F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan, and Bill Clinton) addressed a joint sitting of the Oireachtas in Leinster House (Parliament's location and metonym).
AttendeesCeann Comhairle Seán Ó Fearghaíl, Speaker of Dáil Éireann (Lower Chamber)Cathaoirleach Jerry Buttimer, Speaker of Seanad Éireann (Upper Chamber)Noel Murphy, Superintendent of the DáilJohn Bruton, Former TaoiseachBertie Ahern, Former TaoiseachBrian Cowen, Former TaoiseachEnda Kenny, Former TaoiseachCurrent and former Members of Dáil, Ministers, and Government Officials
U.S. DelegationT.H. Thomas J. Vilsack, Secretary of AgricultureSenator Edward J. Markey (MA)Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-5)Rep. Richard Neal (MA-1)Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26)Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-5)Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-6)Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-5)Rep. Pat Ryan (NY-18)Senator Chris Dodd, Special Presidential Advisor to the AmericasSenator Gary Hart, Former Special Envoy to Northern IrelandMayor Paige Cognetti, Scranton, PAT.H. Kevin O'Malley, Former Ambassador of the United States to IrelandT.H. Nancy Soderberg, Former Alternate Representative to the United Nations and Former Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. Mark Shriver, Former Member of the Maryland House of Delegates and President of Don Bosco Cristo Rey High SchoolMs. Stella O'Leary, United States Observer to the International Fund for Ireland
Speaking ProgramCeann Comhairle Seán Ó Fearghaíl, Speaker of Dáil Éireann (Lower Chamber)The PresidentCathaoirleach Jerry Buttimer, Speaker of Seanad Éireann (Upper Chamber)



April 13, 202318:05 IST

WH travel pool report #21 Biden starts speech
President Biden began remarks before the Houses of Oireachtas at 5:56 pm
"Well mom, you said it would happen," Biden began.
He recognized his son Hunter Biden and his sister Valerie.
Biden recognized the 2016 rugby team of his cousin, Rob Kearney, for beating the "All Blacks" team from New Zealand. This time, unlike yesterday, he said the correct name.
"Mr. President, today you are amongst friends because you are one of us," Ceann Comhairle Seán Ó Fearghaíl told the president before POTUS began.
While Biden waited to speak, he pulled out a pen from his inside jacket a few times and wrote something down.
Many of the legislators in the crowd are wearing green. The pool is situated on the balcony directly facing the president.
I won't transcribe the whole speech. You can watch at the usual spots.



April 13, 202318:31 IST

WH travel pool report #22
President Biden finished his remarks at 6:27 pm after a 30-minute speech.
Biden spoke of the "enduring strength" of the US-Ireland partnership and focused much of his speech on thanking Ireland for its support of Ukraine.
"Ireland remembers the terrible cost of war." Biden said.
Biden brought up the Good Friday Agreement: "Political violence must never again be allowed to take hold on this island."
"Here, here," several legislators responded.
"For too long, Ireland's story has been told in the past tense," Biden said, before touting economic growth in Ireland with support of the U.S.
Biden's support for a global minimum corporate tax received applause from legislators.
Biden brought up climate. "The single biggest existential threat to the world is climate change, and we don't have a lot of time, and that's a fact."
"Ireland's famous 40 shades of green are being supplemented by green energy and green jobs," Biden said, calling Ireland a "hotbed for cutting-edge science."
"In this moment, the world needs Ireland and it needs the United States," Biden said, saying the world is at "an inflection point" between democracies and autocracies.
He ended his speech on a familiar theme of "possibilities" but adding Ireland to his usual description of the U.S.
"We believe anything is possible if we set our mind to it and we do it together. This is the United States of America and Ireland. There's nothing beyond our capacity, if we do it together."
He then finished his speech with "hope and history rhyming together," the poem he often cites from Irish poet Seamus Heaney.
Biden went on after citing the poem, but I couldn't make out much of what he said.



April 13, 202318:50 IST

WH travel pool report #23 rolling again
President Biden started leaving the parliament's lower chamber at 6:33 pm.
At the bottom of the stairs outside the chamber, Biden held the baby he mentioned in the speech. The baby girl is the daughter of Rebecca Moynihan, an Irish Labour Party senator.
The pool is rolling at 6:45 pm. Next up on the schedule is a state banquet.



April 13, 202319:07 IST

WH travel pool report #24 pit stop at hotel
The pool and the motorcade took a very short ride back to the Conrad Hotel, arriving at 6:55 pm.
Citizens, again, were packed on downtown streets to watch the president drive by. One teenage boy held an Ireland license plate that read, "Biden."
President Biden entered the hotel and the pool stayed in vans. We are waiting outside while he's on the hotel. Then, we are going to the banquet.
Your pooler didn't lay eyes on Biden entering the hotel.



April 13, 202320:33 IST

WH travel pool report #25
The pool and presidential motorcade started rolling from the Conrad Hotel at 8:31 pm.
Biden was inside the hotel for about 1 hour and 35 minutes.
We are heading to Dublin Castle, where the state banquet is being held.



April 13, 202320:38 IST

WH travel pool report #26 castle arrival
President Biden's motorcade arrived at Dublin Castle at 8:37 pm.
Again, the streets were lined with large crowds of people along the drive.
From the WH:
The President will be attending a Banquet Dinner at Dublin Castle. The President previously visited Dublin Castle on his visit to Ireland as Vice President in 2016.
Greeting the President upon arrival:
H.E. Leo Varadkar T.D., Taoiseach of Ireland
Performers
Music Generation:Hugh KavanaghAislinn JoyceSonny CahillÁine DonohoeDuo Chagal and Guests String Quartet:Gillian WilliamsArun RaoCecil HenriquezCatriona Atkinson



April 13, 202320:45 IST

WH travel pool report #27
President Biden stepped out of the beast in front of Dublin Castle at 8:42 pm and entered the building immediately after he was greeted.



April 13, 202321:00 IST

WH travel pool report #28
The pool is waiting on a balcony of St. Patrick's Hall, where the banquet will be held in the castle.
About 15 circular tables seating 10 people are in the room. There's a podium where Biden will speak.
Biden's son Hunter Biden was talking to someone next to his table as we await for the president to arrive.
There's an American and Irish flags hanging from one end of the room — which has blue walls and gold trim around large mirrors and pillars.
The WH sends along the following.
The President is taking a group photo with the Cabinet of the Taoiseach:
H.E. Micheál Martin, Tánaiste of IrelandEamon Ryan, Minister of Environment, Climate and, Communications and Minister of TransportMichael McGrath, Minister of FinanceSimon Coveney, Minister of Enterprise, Trade and EmploymentNorma Foley, Minister of EducationCatherine Martin, Minister of Tourism, Culture, Arts, Gaeltacht, Sport and MediaDarragh O'Brien, Minister of Housing, Local Government and HeritageCharlie McConalogue, Minister of Agriculture, Food and the MarineRoderic O'Gorman, Minister of Children, Equality, Disability, Integration and YouthStephen Donnelly, Minister of HealthSimon Harris, Minister of Further and Higher Education, Research, Innovation and Science and Minister of JusticeHelen McEntee, MinisterHildegarde Naughton, Government Chief Whip and Minister of State at Defence / HealthJack Chambers, Minister of State at Transport and Environment Climate & CommunicationsPippa Hackett, Minister of State at Agriculture, Food and the MarineRossa Fanning S.C., Attorney GeneralJohn Callinan, Secretary General of Defense and the Taoiseach



April 13, 202321:05 IST

WH travel pool report #29 Biden enters banquet hall
President Biden entered the banquet hall at 9:01 pm to a standing ovation, whistles from attendees and horns playing.
He took a seat at the head table in the front of the room next to where he will speak.



April 13, 202321:28 IST

WH travel pool report #30 Biden speaks at banquet
President Biden began speaking at 9:09 pm after being introduced by Leo Varadkar, the Taoiseach.
He stopped talking at 9:23 pm and sat down for dinner.
The dinner guests gave Biden a standing ovation as he started talking.
It was a little hard to hear from the balcony where the pool was stationed.
Biden began by having former and current members of Congress stand up. "They're all so strong, strong, strong supporters of Ireland."
Biden talked about growing up and hearing what his Grandpa Finnegan used to say: "If you're lucky enough to be Irish, you're lucky enough."
He talked about his "lifelong love of Irish poets," citing Yeats and talking about finding 114 poems from an ancestor, Edward Blewitt, in the 1920s. One was called, "Workers."
Biden talked about the "dignity" instilled in the Irish.
Biden's voice appeared raspy at some points toward the end as he coughed several times.
"She was constantly telling me you can do anything," Biden said of his mother.
Biden ended saying, "the decisions we make now are going to determine how the next three or four decades are going to go,"
"Let's remember: no barrier is to thick or too strong for Ireland and the United States of America," Biden said.
You can see his full remarks at Whitehouse.gov/live



April 13, 202321:28 IST

WH travel report #31
From the WH:
The President is attending a Banquet Dinner at Dublin Castle. Sitting at the Head Table with the President:
H.E. Leo Varadkar T.D., Taoiseach of IrelandMr. Brian Murphy, Chief of Staff to the TaoiseachH.E. Geraldine Byrne Nason, Ambassador of Ireland to the United StatesMr. John Callinan, Secretary General, Department of the TaoiseachT.H. Claire D. Cronin, Ambassador of the United States to IrelandMr. Ray Cronin, Spouse of Ambassador CroninMs. Marie Devlin Heaney, Spouse of the late Seamus Heaney
U.S. DelegationT.H. Thomas J. Vilsack, Secretary of AgricultureSenator Edward J. Markey (MA)Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-5)Rep. Richard Neal (MA-1)Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26)Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-5)Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-6)Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-5)Rep. Pat Ryan (NY-18)Senator Chris Dodd, Special Presidential Advisor to the AmericasSenator Gary Hart, Former Special Envoy to Northern IrelandMayor Paige Cognetti, Scranton, PAT.H. Kevin O'Malley, Former Ambassador of the United States to IrelandT.H. Nancy Soderberg, Former Alternate Representative to the United Nations and Former Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. Mark Shriver, Former Member of the Maryland House of Delegates and President of Don Bosco Cristo Rey High SchoolMs. Stella O'Leary, United States Observer to the International Fund for IrelandMembers of the Irish government and their guestsMembers of the Biden-Harris administration
PerformersColm Mac Con Iomaire, Composer, Musician and Fiddle PlayerLisa Hannigan, Musican, Singer, and ComposerLoah, Singer-Songwriter and multi-instrumentalistCormac Begley, Concertina Player
Speaking ProgramH.E. Leo Varadkar T.D., Taoiseach of IrelandThe President



April 13, 202322:20 IST

WH travel pool report #32
From the WH:
Menu at the Banquet Dinner at Dublin Castle:
StarterLambay Island crab cake, asparagus and chervil salad, pickled cucumber, horseradish cream, wasabi sesame
Main CourseRoast saddle of lamb, confit lamb shoulder, duck fat fondant potato, rainbow carrots,pea and mint puree, sherry vinegar lamb jus
DessertTonka bean, pear and maple syrup mousse tart, pear cream, matcha tea crumb, ginger caramel and compress pearFreshly brewed Tea & Coffee



April 13, 202323:25 IST

WH travel report #33 rolling back to hotel
The pool and president's motorcade rolled out of Dublin Castle at 11:22 pm after a 2-hour plus banquet dinner.
We are rolling back to the hotel.



April 13, 202323:33 IST

WH travel pool report #34
The pool and motorcade arrived back at Biden's hotel at 11:30 pm.
Your pooler did not see Biden leave the beast and enter the hotel.
Even at this late hour, there were sizable groups of people lined up on the Dublin streets to watch the president drive by.



April 13, 202323:34 IST

WH travel pool report #35 — lid
White House lid called at 11:33 pm.
Thanks for joining me for this Dublin journey today!




  