
    Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Andreotti, Mr. Vice President and Mrs. Agnew, and all of our distinguished guests:
Mr. Prime Minister, it is my privilege to tell you something about this audience here in the State Dining Room and their presence in honoring you. It is only coincidental that included in the audience are people like Mayor Rizzo from the city of Philadelphia, Mr. Peter Fosco, a major labor leader of this country, a United States Congressman, Silvio Conte, a Senator by the name of Pastore, and another by the name of Domenici, and an Ambassador to the United Nations by the name of Scali--only coincidental--and that the red wine we had tonight is Louis Martini from California.
I am simply trying to say, Mr. Prime Minister, that in America, as you know so well, we are very grateful for the contribution that has been made to this Nation by the sons and daughters of Italian background. We would like to have all of them here tonight to honor you, but the room will not seat x o million.
And now to those who are here, I would like to present the Prime Minister. When I was a freshman Congressman in 1947, I took my first trip to Europe. I spent 3 weeks in Italy, studying the needs of Italy for reconstruction, which eventually ended in the Marshall Plan. I met many outstanding leaders on that trip, but I was fortunate to meet and know one of the giants.
We think back to that period, 27 years ago: Churchill, Eisenhower, Adenauer, de Gaulle. But a name not forgotten by any who knew him, but perhaps not well remembered by people who did not live through that period, one of the true giants of the post-war period, one of the men who helped to build the free Atlantic community that we presently enjoy, was Alcide De Gasperi.1
I remember how I, as a freshman Congressman, was impressed by this eloquent, sincere, intelligent, and very strong man. And it is interesting to me that the man whom we honor tonight has written a book about De Gasperi and that many in his country and in the world say that Prime Minister Andreotti is in the tradition of De Gasperi.
I have talked to him today. I know his background. I can only say that our honored guest is in that great tradition. He leads a strong nation and a strong people, and like De Gasperi, he is a strong man, the kind of a man that his nation, his people, and the free world needs at this time.
And for that reason, and many others, I know all of you will want to join me in a toast to Prime Minister Andreotti and Mrs. Andreotti.
To the Prime Minister. Salute.
1 Prime Minister of Italy (1945-53 ).
  