
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Romney for President today announced its Story County Leadership Team, which includes current and former elected officials and long-time Republican Party activists. Story County is the home of Ames, Iowa.
Romney for President makes the announcement the day before Governor Romney visits central Iowa, where he will address the Republican Party of Iowa's Lincoln Day Dinner in Des Moines.
"We have put together a strong team in Story County, one that is motivated to help Governor Romney share his vision for America," said Iowa Campaign Manager Gentry Collins. "This is a talented, experienced group of individuals, and they will be a tremendous help to our Ames efforts."
Kevin Kimle will chair the campaign's efforts in Story County. He has been involved in a number of campaigns at the local, state and national level.
"Governor Romney has a positive, optimistic vision for this country's future, and he will lead with steadfast conviction," said Kimle. "He is a great candidate with a growing grassroots team here and across Iowa, and I look forward to working with his campaign in the coming months."
Also serving on the Story County Leadership Team will be former Senator Stewart Iverson, the former Senate Majority Leader who previously represented the eastern half of the county, Representative Dave Deyoe, Gannon Hendrick as Co-Chair, Mary Mosiman and Rick and Sandy Hoenig.
Romney For President Story County Leadership Team:
Kevin Kimle Has Been Involved In A Number Of Local, State And Federal Campaigns. He is currently President of Decision Commodities, a company that provides agricultural commodity sellers and buyers integrated risk management products. He earned a Master's degree in Economics from Iowa State University, and a B.S. in Agricultural Economics from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
Former State Senator Stewart Iverson Serves In An Advisory Role To The Romney For President Campaign Team. Iverson served in the Iowa House from 1989-1994, and the Iowa Senate from 1994 to 2006. He was instrumental in securing Republican control of the Senate in the 1996 elections. From 1997-2006, Iverson served as the top-ranking Republican in the Senate. From Dows, in north-central Iowa, Iverson is a leader in the agricultural community, where he managed his own farm and worked with seed companies to market their products to buyers. He has been active in a number of agricultural and civic boards, and was a Sergeant in the United States Marine Corps. Most recently, Iverson served as a top adviser to Governor George Pataki's 21st Century Freedom PAC.
Representative Dave Deyoe Was Elected To The House In 2006. He runs his family farm, and has previously been actively involved in the Iowa Farm Bureau organization. He represents eastern Story County and portions of nearby Hamilton County.
Gannon Hendrick Recently Served In Iraq For One Year, Where He Was In Charge Of Intelligence Operations For His Battalion. Upon his return from the service, he enrolled at Iowa State University, while also working on his family's farm operation. He now serves as a Warren Township Trustee, following a recent attempt at Story County Supervisor.
Mary Mosiman Is Serving Her Second Term As Story County Auditor And Commissioner Of Elections. She is a graduate of Iowa State University and has CPA certification. Prior to becoming Auditor, she owned and operated a daycare business for five years. Since becoming Auditor, she has won two Innovation Awards from the Iowa State Association of Counties. She participates in the Land Use and Rural Affairs Steering Committee, and the National Association of Counties Finance and Intergovernmental Affairs Steering Committee. Mosiman also serves as the fiscal agent for Iowa's Region One Homeland Security Board.
Rick And Sandy Hoenig Have Been Active In Republican Party Politics For Years. They have been active on a number of campaigns, including U.S. Senator Charles Grassley's campaigns, and Bob Vander Plaats' gubernatorial campaign. Rick is currently the assistant director for Facilities and Management with the Ames Community School District. Sandy is a retired school counselor and currently facilitates classes and retreats on the subject of The Joy of Forgiveness.
  