
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to sections 123 b. and 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(b), (d)), the text of a proposed Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic on Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy with accompanying annex and agreed minute. I am also pleased to transmit copies of my written approval, authorization, and determination concerning the agreement; the memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the agreement; and the joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy, which includes a summary of the provisions of the agreement and various other attachments, including agency views.
The proposed agreement with the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic (CSFR) has been negotiated in accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended by the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978 and as otherwise amended. In my judgment, the proposed agreement meets all statutory requirements and will advance the non-proliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States. It provides a comprehensive framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between the United States and the CSFR under appropriate conditions and controls reflecting our strong common commitment to nuclear non-proliferation goals.
The CSFR has consistently supported international efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. It was an original signatory of the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and has strongly supported the treaty. It is committed to implementing a responsible nuclear export policy, including a full-scope safeguards export requirement. It has actively supported the work of the NPT Exporters ("Zangger") Committee and adheres to the London Nuclear Supplier Guidelines. It has participated in efforts to establish a multilateral system of nuclear-related dual-use export controls. The CSFR has been a member from the outset of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and has played a positive role in the Agency's safeguards and technical cooperation activities. It has also cooperated with the United States and other like-minded members in working to prevent the politicization of the Agency. The CSFR has ratified the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material.
I believe that peaceful nuclear cooperation with the CSFR under the proposed agreement will be fully consistent with, and supportive of, our policy of responding positively and constructively to the process of democratization and economic reform in Eastern Europe. Cooperation under the agreement will also provide opportunities for U.S. business on terms that fully protect vital U.S. national security interests.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed agreement and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
Because this agreement meets all applicable requirements of the Atomic Energy Act, as amended, for agreements for peaceful nuclear cooperation, I am transmitting it to the Congress without exempting it from any requirement contained in section 123 a. of that Act. This transmission shall constitute a submittal for purposes of both sections 123 b. and 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act. The Administration is prepared to begin immediately the consultations with the Senate Foreign Relations and House Foreign Affairs Committees as provided in section 123 b. Upon completion of the 30-day continuous session period provided for in section 123 b., the 60-day continuous session period provided for in section 123 d. shall commence.
George Bush
The White House,
April 16, 1991.
  