
    "Billions and billions of dollars are being wasted on activities that are not delivering results for hardworking American taxpayers." – President Donald J. Trump
ACTION TO REFORM THE GOVERNMENT: Following President Donald J. Trump's lead, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is taking action to reorganize the Federal agencies and reduce wasteful or duplicative functions.

Today, OMB issued a reform plan, "Comprehensive Plan for Reforming the Federal Government and Reducing the Federal Civilian Workforce," to chart the course for a restrained, effective, and accountable Government to better serve the American people.
Federal agencies will immediately act to streamline the Government while developing their longer-term plans to:

Take immediate action to save taxpayer money and reduce their workforces.
Develop a plan to maximize the performance of Government workers by the end of June.
Submit an Agency Reform Plan in 180 days to modernize and streamline their operations.


OMB will work with all agencies to identify areas that should be eliminated, restructured, or consolidated across departments.
The American people are encouraged to provide their input on how Washington, D.C., can best work for them.
Feedback can be provided HERE.
The final plan from OMB will incorporate input from the American people and each agency in a comprehensive reorganization as part of the President's Fiscal Year 2019 Budget.

BUILDING A RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT: Today's comprehensive reform plan builds upon President Trump's work to bring real reform to the Federal Government.

Today's guidance answers President Trump's March 13, 2017, Executive Order directing OMB to submit a comprehensive plan to reorganize the Federal Government.
The comprehensive plan builds upon President Trump's January 23, 2017, hiring freeze for Federal civilian employees that helped to stop the growth of Government.
All Federal agencies will follow President Trump's March 16, 2017, Budget Blueprint to Congress to build their reform plans, ensuring taxpayer money isn't wasted.

KEEPING HIS PROMISE TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: President Trump promised that he would put in place common sense reforms to eliminate waste so that the Government better serves all Americans.

President Trump: "There is duplication and redundancy everywhere. Billions and billions of dollars are being wasted on activities that are not delivering results for hardworking American taxpayers."
President Trump: "Our moral duty to the taxpayer requires us to make our Government leaner and more accountable. We must do a lot more with less."
Candidate Trump: "I will ask that savings be accomplished through common sense reforms that eliminate Government waste and budget gimmicks—and that protect, absolutely protect, hard-earned benefits for Americans."

  