
    Today, California Congressman Adam Schiff released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"As we face a global pandemic with increasingly severe economic and public health implications, it is more important than ever that we have a President who places the interests of the American people first and knows how to lead. Someone with experience, great competence and compassion. Someone who will bring together the best minds and apply the best science. Someone like Joe Biden.
"I've known Joe for over two decades. He knows how to tackle big problems, how to unite people and inspire the best in all of us. He is ethical and compassionate, hard working and methodical. And he has exactly the right experience to help America and the rest of the world overcome this pandemic and lead us to prosperity.
"At this moment in time, when so much depends upon the vision and judgment of our nation's leadership, Joe Biden is uniquely qualified to step into the Presidency and lead us out of this crisis and to a promising future. We need Joe in the White House and I will be doing all I can to make sure he is successful."
Schiff has served in the U.S. House of Representatives since 2001 and is currently the Chair of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Schiff also served as a House Manager for the Senate impeachment trial of President Trump. Prior to serving in Congress he served in the California State Senate.
Schiff's endorsement builds on the wide support for Joe Biden in California, which includes prominent leaders like Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg, San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo, Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia, Los Angeles County Supervisor and former Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard, Congressman Tony Cárdenas, Congressman Ami Bera, Congressman John Garamendi, Congressman Lou Correa, Congressman Jerry McNerney, Congressman Harley Rouda, Congressman Brad Sherman, Congresswoman Jackie Speier, Congressman Jared Huffman, and numerous others.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  