
    The President today announced the appointment of 11 persons as members of the President's Commission on the Accident at Three Mile Island. They are: John G. Kemeny, president of Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H., who will serve as Chairman of the Commission. Kemeny, 52, is a mathematician and philosopher who has done extensive work in the analysis of complex systems. He is a pioneer in the fields of mathematical models and computer programing.
Kemeny is a native of Hungary who became a naturalized citizen in 1945. His early career included work as a researcher on the Manhattan Project at Los Alamos, N.M., teaching and research in mathematics and philosophy at Princeton University, and 2 years as a research assistant to Dr. Albert Einstein. He became a professor of mathematics at Dartmouth in 1954 and served as chairman of the mathematics department from 1955 to 1967. He has been president of the college since 1970.
Kemeny is the author of numerous books and articles on philosophy, mathematics, and computer science. He is the coinventor of the computer language "BASIC."
Bruce E. Babbitt, Governor of Arizona. Babbitt, 40, holds a master's degree in geophysics and a law degree. He was elected State attorney general of Arizona in 1974 and was sworn in as Governor on March 4, 1978, following the death of Gov. Wesley Bolin. He was elected Governor in November 1978.
Patrick E. Haggerty, of Dallas, Tex., who was president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board of Texas Instruments, Inc., until his retirement in 1976. Haggerty, 65, has a B.S. in electrical engineering and a law degree. He is chairman of the board of trustees of Rockefeller University and a trustee and member of the executive committee of the University of Dallas.
Paul A. Marks, of New York City, vice president for health sciences at Columbia University. Marks, 52, is a physician (hematologist) and biochemist. He has been associated with the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University throughout his career. He serves as professor of human genetics and director of the Cancer Center. He is a current member of the President's Cancer Panel and served on the President's Biomedical Research Panel in 1975-76. He is a founding member of the Radiation Effects Research Foundation of Japan and served on the science council advisory to the board of directors of that foundation.
Cora B. Marrett, associate professor of sociology at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. Marrett, 36, has served as a consultant to the Army Scientific Advisory Panel and chairs the Panel on Personnel Research in the Navy as a member of the National Research Advisory Committee. Her research and publications are primarily in the areas of organizational structure and communication and of opportunities for women and minorities in science and engineering. She has served previously. on the faculties of the University of North Carolina and Western Michigan University. She has served on numerous panels for the National Research Council and the National Science Foundation.
Lloyd McBride, international president of the United Steelworkers of America, and a vice president of the AFL-CIO. McBride, 63, has been active in labor affairs for more than four decades and has held a number of union positions nationally and in his home State of Missouri. He is a member of the National Commission on Air Quality and the President's Advisory Committee for Trade Negotiations.
Harry C. McPherson, Jr., a Washington, D.C., attorney. McPherson, 49, is a former Deputy Under Secretary of the Department of the Army and has also served as Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs. He was Special Counsel to President Johnson. He is presently a partner in the firm of Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard & McPherson.
Russell Peterson, former Governor of Delaware and Chairman of the President's Council on Environmental Quality, now president of the National Audubon Society. Peterson, 62, is a chemist by training and was associated with E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. from 1942 to 1969, when he became Governor of Delaware. He served as Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality from 1973 until 1978, when he became Director of the Office of Technology Assessment of the United States Congress. He resigned in 1979 to become president of the National Audubon Society. He is the recipient of many civic and conservation awards.
Thomas Pigford, a professor and chairman of the department of nuclear engineering at the University of California at Berkeley. Pigford, 56, has also served on the faculty at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Among his areas of special expertise are nuclear reactor design and reactor safety. He has received the Arthur H. Compton Award of the American Nuclear Society and served as a member and chairman of several Government review committees and advisory committees. He was a member of the American Physical Society's study group on nuclear fuel cycles and waste management. He received his training in nuclear and chemical engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Theodore B. Taylor, professor of aerospace and mechanical science at Princeton University. Taylor, 53, is a physic[st and reactor specialist. He designed the TRIGA nuclear research reactor, the design most in use around the world today. He has been associated with Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory and has served as Deputy Director of the Defense Atomic Support Agency. He has received the Lawrence Memorial Award and the Secretary of Defense's Meritorious Civilian Service Medal.
Ann Trunk, a Middletown, Pa., housewife. Trunk, 44, is the mother of six children. She is the former president of the Middletown Civic Club and has been active in other local civic organizations. Her husband is a professor at Pennsylvania State University. He participated in the community effort after the nuclear Power plant accident in Middletown by taking radiation checks in the area.
  