
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.), the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–486), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Federal Leadership and Goals. The use of alternative fueled motor vehicles can, in some applications, substantially reduce pollutants in the atmosphere, create significant domestic economic activity and stimulate jobs creation, utilize domestic fuel sources as defined by the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and reduce vehicle maintenance costs.
Moreover, Federal action can provide a significant market impetus for the development and manufacture of alternative fueled vehicles, and for the expansion of the fueling infrastructure necessary to support large numbers of privately owned alternative fueled vehicles.
The Federal Government can exercise leadership in the use of alternative fueled vehicles. To that end, each agency shall adopt aggressive plans to substantially exceed the alternative fueled vehicle purchase requirements established by the Energy Policy Act of 1992.
Sec. 2. Alternative Fueled Vehicle Requirements. The Federal Government shall acquire, subject to the availability of funds and considering life cycle costs, alternative fueled vehicles in numbers that exceed by 50 percent the requirements for 1993 through 1995 set forth in the Energy Policy Act of 1992. The Federal fleet vehicle acquisition program shall be structured with the objectives of: (a) continued reduction in the incremental cost associated with specific vehicle and fuel combinations; (b) long-term movement toward increasing availability of alternative fueled vehicles produced as standard manufacturers’ models; and (c) minimizing life cycle costs in the acquisition of alternative fueled vehicles. In addition, there is established, for a period not to exceed 1 year, the Federal Fleet Conversion Task Force, a Federal interagency implementation committee to be constituted by the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with a Task Force Chairman to be named by the President. The Task Force will advise on the implementation of this Executive order. The Task Force will issue a public report within 90 days, setting forth a recommended plan and schedule of implementation and, no later than 1 year from the date of this order, in cooperation with the Secretary of Energy, file a report on the status of the conversion effort.
Sec. 3. Alternative Fueled Vehicle Acquisition Assistance. Within available appropriations, and as required by the Energy Policy Act of 1992, the Secretary of Energy shall provide assistance to other agencies that acquire alternative fueled vehicles. This assistance includes payment of incremental costs of alternative fueled vehicles, including any incremental costs associated with acquisition and disposal. All vehicles, whether conversions or purchases as original equipment manufacturer models, shall comply with all applicable Federal and State emissions and safety standards, consistent with those requirements placed on original equipment manufacturers, including years and mileage.
Sec. 4. Alternative Fueled Vehicle Purchase and Use Incentives. The Administrator of the General Services Administration, to the extent allowed by
law, may provide incentives to purchase alternative fueled vehicles, including priority processing of procurement requests, and, with the Secretary of Energy, provide any other technical or administrative assistance aimed at accelerating the purchase and use of Federal alternative fueled vehicles.
Sec. 5. Cooperation with Industry and State and Local Authorities on Alternative Fueled Vehicle Refueling Capabilities. The Secretary of Energy shall coordinate Federal planning and siting efforts with private industry fuel suppliers, and with State and local governments, to ensure that adequate private sector refueling capabilities exist or will exist wherever Federal fleet alternative fueled vehicles are sited. Each agency’s fleet managers are expected to work with appropriate organizations at their respective locations on initiatives to promote alternative fueled vehicle use.
Sec. 6. Reporting. The head of each agency shall report annually to the Secretary of Energy on actions and progress under this order, consistent with guidance provided by the Secretary. The Secretary shall prepare a consolidated annual report to the President and to the Congress on the implementation of this order. As part of the report, the Secretary and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall complete a thorough, objective evaluation of alternative fueled vehicles. The evaluation shall consider operating and acquisition costs, fuel economy, maintenance, and other factors as appropriate.
Sec. 7. Definitions. For the purpose of this order, the terms "agency" and "alternative fueled vehicle" have the same meanings given such terms in sections 151 and 301 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, respectively.
Sec. 8. Exceptions. The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Attorney General, consistent with the national security and protective and law enforcement activities of their respective agencies, shall determine the extent to which the requirements of this order apply to the national security and protective and law enforcement activities of their respective agencies.
Sec. 9. Judicial Review. This order is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a non-Federal party against the United States, its officers or employees, or any other person.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 21, 1993.
  