
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Michael J. Garcia to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Enforcement. Garcia has served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York since 1992. He was a law clerk for the Honorable Judith S. Kaye on the New York State Court of Appeals from 1990 to 1992 and was with the law firm of Cahill Gordon & Reindel in New York, New York, from 1989 to 1990. A New York native, he is a graduate of the State University of New York at Binghamton, received his Master's from the College of William and Mary and his law degree from Albany Law School of Union University.
The President intends to nominate Mary Sheila Gall to be the Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. She is currently serving her second term as a Member of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, appointed once by former President Bush and once by former President Clinton and has served as Vice Chairman of the Commission for five years. From 1989 to 1991, she headed the Human Development Services Agency while holding the position of Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services and was Counselor to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management from 1986 to 1989. She served as Deputy Policy Advisor to Vice President Bush from 1981 to 1986. She is a graduate of Rosary Hill College in Buffalo, New York, and received her Master's degree from Old Dominion University.
The President intends to nominate Anne O. Krueger to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisors. She is currently a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institute, the Herald and Caroline Ritch Professor of Humanities and Science in the Department of Economics at Stanford University and Director of the Center for Research and Economic Development and Policy Reform. Krueger served as a Professor of Economics at Duke University from 1987 to 1993 and was the Vice President of economics and research at the World Bank from 1982 1o 1986. She holds her Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin.
The President intends to nominate Jack Dyer Crouch, II, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy. He is presently an Associate Professor at Southwest Missouri State University in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies. Crouch was Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy from 1990 to 1992 where he was awarded the Department's Distinguished Public Service Award, and he served former Senator Malcolm Wallop from 1986 to 1990. From 1985 to 1986, he served at the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency as an advisor for the U.S. Delegation to the Nuclear and Space Arms Talks.
The President intends to nominate Russ Whitehurst to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Educational Research and Improvement. He serves as the lead professor and Chair of the Department of Psychology at the State University of New York at Stony Brook where he has taught since 1970. He is a graduate of East Carolina University and received a Master's and Ph.D. from the University of Illinois.
The President intends to nominate David Garman to be Assistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. He is currently Chief of Staff to Senator Frank Murkowski and served as a Professional Staff Member on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee from 1995 to 1998. He is a graduate of Duke University and received a Master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate Neal A. McCaleb to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs. He presently serves as Secretary of Transportation for the State of Oklahoma after being appointed by Governor Frank Keating in 1995 and held the same post from 1987 to 1990 under Governor Henry Bellmon. He served four terms in the Oklahoma House of Representatives and was Republican Floor Leader for four years. He was appointed by President Richard Nixon to sit on the National Council on Indian Opportunity and was named a Commissioner on the President's Commission on Indian Reservation Economics by President Reagan. He is a graduate of Oklahoma State University.
The President intends to nominate Rosario Marin to be Treasurer of the United States. She currently holds a seat on the City Council of Huntington Park, California, and is a Public Relations Manager for AT&T. Marin served Governor Pete Wilson in several positions including Deputy Director of the Governor's Office of Community Relations and Assistant Deputy Director of the California State Department of Social Services. She is a graduate of California State University in Los Angeles.
  