
    Lillian R. BeVier, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2004, vice Hulett Hall Askew, term expired.
Walter Robert Bradley, of Kansas, to be United States Marshal for the District of Kansas for the term of four years, vice Richard Rand Rock II, term expired.
Sharon Brown-Hruska, of Virginia, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of the term expiring April 13, 2004, vice William J. Rainer, resigned.
Ray Elmer Carnahan, of Arkansas, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Arkansas for the term of four years, vice Conrad S. Pattillo, term expired.
Jack C. Chow, of Pennsylvania, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Representative of the Secretary of State for HIV/AIDS.
Robert J. Dieter, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2002, vice F. William McCalpin, term expired.
Robert J. Dieter, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2005. (Reappointment)
Thomas A. Fuentes, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2002, vice Thomas F. Smegal, Jr., term expired.
Thomas A. Fuentes, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2005. (Reappointment)
Michael McKay, of Washington, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2004, vice Nancy Hardin Rogers, term expired.
Theresa A. Merrow, of Kentucky, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice Lawson Cary Bittick, term expired.
Stuart D. Rick, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2007, vice Barbara J. Sapin.
Ned L. Siegel, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2003, vice Miguel D. Lausell.
Steven J. Simmons, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the remainder of the term expiring August 13, 2003, vice Alberto J. Mora.
Frank B. Strickland, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2004, vice John N. Erlenborn, term expired.
John Peter Suarez, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Steven Alan Herman, resigned.
  