
    Pool Reports by Brian Bennett, Time Magazine



Sent:
Reports:




April 21, 202009:39 

In-town Pool Report #1 - statement on immigration
Judd Deere passes on this statement:
“President Trump is committed to protecting the health and economic well-being of American citizens as we face unprecedented times. As President Trump has said, ‘Decades of record immigration have produced lower wages and higher unemployment for our citizens, especially for African-American and Latino workers.' At a time when Americans are looking to get back to work, action is necessary.” -- Kayleigh McEnany, White House Press Secretary



April 21, 202012:27 

In-town Pool Report #2 - Readout of call with UK prime minister
Passing along this message from Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom. The Prime Minister shared that he is feeling better and on the road to recovery. President Trump and Prime Minister Johnson reaffirmed their close cooperation through the G7 and G20 to reopen global economies and ensure medical care and supplies reach all those in need. President Trump and Prime Minister Johnson also discussed bilateral and global issues, including our shared commitment to reaching a United States-United Kingdom Free Trade Agreement.



April 21, 202013:01 

In-town Pool Report #3 - Lunch lid until 2:30 pm
The White House press office has called a lunch lid until 2:30 pm.
President Trump is scheduled to meet at 4 pm with New York Governor Andrew Cuomo in the Oval Office. As of now, that meeting is closed press.
The coronavirus task force is scheduled to brief the press at 5 pm.
So far, there are no signs the President will hold an event today to unveil the immigration executive order he tweeted about last night. Your pooler will let you know if that changes.It started as an overcast day with temperatures hovering around 60 degrees. Now the sun has come out. I had my temperature checked as I walked in the gate around 11 am this morning. The person taking my temperature wouldn't tell me what it was but allowed me to enter the White House grounds.



April 21, 202019:47 

In-town Pool Report #4 - lid
A lid was called around 7:15 pm. Good night everyone!




  