
    At the invitation of President Jimmy Carter and Mrs. Carter, the President of the Socialist Republic of Romania, Nicolae Ceausescu, accompanied by Mrs. Elena Ceausescu, paid a state visit to the United States of America between April 12-17, 1978.
President Carter and President Ceausescu conducted official talks on the current state of relations between the United States and Romania as well as on the possibilities for their further development. They also had a broad exchange of views on a series of major world problems of common concern. The talks were held in a cordial atmosphere of openness, esteem, and mutual respect which reflects the positive evolution in United States-Romanian relations.
President Ceausescu met with members of the House of Representatives and the Senate. The talks showed that both sides desire to contribute to the deepening of understanding and to the growth of contacts between the American and Romanian peoples.
President Ceausescu also met with leading personalities in the business, financial, scientific, engineering and cultural life of the United States.
The two Presidents noted with satisfaction that the relations between the two countries have further developed and broadened in the spirit of the principles embodied in the Joint Declaration signed in Washington, D.C., on December 5, 1973. They expressed their common determination and interest to encourage and promote the continuing expansion of ties of cooperation and friendship between the two countries and peoples.
In order to further develop and diversify the relations between the two countries as well as to contribute to the strengthening of international peace and security, President Carter and President Ceausescu signed a Joint Declaration.
The two Presidents expressed their satisfaction at the results of their talks and agreed to continue the bilateral dialogue at the highest level as well as at other levels and through diplomatic channels.
President Ceausescu and Mrs. Elena Ceausescu also visited, in addition to Washington, D.C., Chattanooga, Dallas, Houston, New Orleans and New York.
President Ceausescu and Mrs. Elena Ceausescu expressed their cordial thanks to President and Mrs. Carter for the friendly and hospitable reception extended to them during their visit which is a natural expression of the traditional; friendship and mutual respect between: the American and Romanian peoples.
President Nicolae Ceausescu and Mrs. Elena Ceausescu invited President Jimmy Carter and Mrs. Rosalynn Carter to an official visit to the Socialist Republic Romania. The invitation was accepted with pleasure.
  