
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals to serve in his administration and announced his intention to appoint twenty-four individuals.
The President intends to nominate C. David Welch to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Egypt. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Welch has served as Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of International Organization Affairs since October 1998. From 1995 to 1998, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs and served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Riyadh from 1992 to 1995. He has held a variety of other posts both abroad and in Washington, D.C., and has earned numerous awards including the Department Superior Honor Award and Meritorious Honor Award. He is a graduate of Georgetown University and earned a Masters from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
The President intends to nominate Michael K. Powell to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission for a five year term commencing on July 2, 2002 and expiring on June 30, 2007. Powell is currently serving as Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.
The President intends to appoint the following 24 individuals to serve as Members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. The Commission selects, recognizes and honors high achieving, high school seniors from across the country. The President has designated Brunno V. Manno to serve as Chairman of the Commission.
Bruno V. Manno (Chairman)
Robert Lewis King of New York
Jennifer Sandra Carroll of Florida
Lynne Ann Munson of Massachusetts
Lawrence Richard Bearden of Arkansas
Modesto A. Maidique of Florida
Mary Katherine Turner of Wyoming
Paul Gust Vallas of Illinois
Father Theodore Martin Hesburgh of Indiana
Flo N. Traywick of Virginia
Michele M. Ridge of Pennsylvania
Virginia Sue Hoffa of Michigan
Marcia Jackson of Texas
Manuel Lujan, Jr. of New Mexico
Elizabeth K. Johnson of Virginia
Mary Kramer of Iowa
Linda Richey Graves of Kansas
Louis Wade Sullivan of Georgia
Jean Loretta Becker of Texas
Nancy Ann Hunt of Texas
Stanley E. Taylor of Virginia
Shirley Miller of Georgia
Glen Thomas Becerra of California
Williamson Evers of California
  