
    Chairman McCabe, President Keim, members of the Cabinet, members of the Advertising Council:
At the outset, let me, on behalf of Betty as well as myself, extend to all of you a very warm welcome here to the East Room. I know from past experience, when I was up on Capitol Hill, that when the Advertising Council came to Washington, you had an impact, an impact on me and all the other Members of the Congress with whom you would meet.
I know there are some people here from Michigan. I don't recognize them without my glasses on--[laughter]--but I do think that your coming down here on an annual basis is a very important function, and I look forward to seeing you, as Mrs. Ford does, in the State Dining Room when we get through.
I do hope that you have had a productive and enjoyable time as a part of your 31st annual conference in the Nation's Capital, and I would like to take this opportunity, as other Presidents have done, to express my very deep gratitude and appreciation for what the Advertising Council has done over the years in the service of our country.
All of you know how much has been contributed by the Advertising Council in one project or many projects over the years, both in times of economic prosperity, economic adversity, and in other crises involving our Nation's best.
Just to cite a couple that I am familiar with: the Savings Bond drive, the forest fire prevention effort, the drug abuse information program, the ACTION volunteer service program--these are the best illustrations, I think, of what you have done and the contributions that you have made. But by no means are they the limit of what the Advertising Council has done in the best interests of our country.
As I said in my State of the Union Message in January, it is an urgent need for the country to mobilize, and I quote here, "the most powerful and creative industrial nation that ever existed on this Earth" if we are to meet the problems that are bothering us as people and as a country. We had, at that time--and we have today--the problem of inflation, the problem of unemployment. We have 'a distressed economy. But we are beginning to see some sun coming through some of the dark clouds, and the contributions that the Advertising Council has made are helpful in convincing the American people that we are a great country, that we can meet adversity, that we will be successful.
So, I hope that despite the difficulties we face, the difficulties at home, that through a positive program, which the Advertising Council is so skillful in projecting, that the American people will regain the confidence that is needed, the confidence that is essential.
I know some of the news media--and I am not being critical--but we do see in the newspapers, we do see on television, we do hear on radio some bad news. But I think there is a need also for us as leaders in this country, those in government and those in the private sector, to talk about the good things. There are many, many good things for us to project. This kind of an affirmative effort will be very helpful in restoring the confidence that is essential as we move ahead.
I can only say that we in government are deeply grateful and very appreciative of what has been done, and I thank you for what I understand you are planning.
I don't want to get into any other subjects--I made three speeches in New Orleans yesterday and got back about 1 a.m. But I do want you to know that we are going to move forward, we are taking a fresh start, and we are going to be successful both at home and abroad. With your help and the confidence of the American people, we can look forward to brighter days and better days.
As I said at the outset, Betty and I would be delighted to have you join us in the State Dining Room for some refreshments, and it would be my hope that both of us would have an opportunity to meet most of you.
Thank you very much.
  