
    Today, Indiana Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"I am honored to endorse Joe Biden to be President of the United States.
"The Vice President possesses a selfless dedication to serving others and an understanding of the struggles that so many of our fellow citizens face. Our nation today desperately needs these qualities, his temperament, and his leadership. I look forward to supporting Joe as we work to revitalize our economy and recognize the dignity of the work of every American.
"I appreciate the dedication and advocacy of all of the other Democratic Presidential candidates, including Indiana's own Mayor Pete Buttigieg. They truly showed how the Democratic Party is focused on inclusiveness and compassion for the economic security and safety of all individuals throughout our nation."
Biden for President has previously announced support from prominent Indiana leaders including Mayor Pete Buttigieg and former Senator Joe Donnelly. Biden for President has also announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
National unions representing a range of other workers and professions have also endorsed Biden, including the International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), National Education Association (NEA), United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), American Federation of Teachers (AFT), American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (IW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), Operative Plasterers' & Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA), and International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), and the International Longshoremen's Association (ILA).
The health and safety of our staff, supporters, and the general public is Biden for President's number one priority. During this pandemic, we are calling on all voters to follow social distancing guidelines to slow the spread of COVID-19. For this primary election, all Indiana voters have the option to vote by mail if they choose – a request for a mail ballot must be completed by 11:59 PM local time on May 21. Learn more and request a ballot by clicking here.
  