
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      William S. Jasien – Member, Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
•      Brent F. Nelsen – Member, Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
William S. Jasien, Nominee for Member, Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
William S. Jasien is currently the CEO and Managing Director of StoneHedge Global Partners, Inc., a position he has held since 2012. From 1993 to 2012, Mr. Jasien held a number of executive positions at ING, including President of the Government Business Division, Senior Vice President of the Individual Business Group, Senior Vice President for Institutional Business Development, and Vice President of the Customer Service Division. Prior to this, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Finance and Management at the Department of the Treasury from 1991 to 1993. From 1989 to 1991, he was Director for Congressional and Public Affairs at Resolution Trust Corporation. Mr. Jasien worked in the Office of the Vice President from 1987 to 1989, and started his career as a Legislative Assistant to Senator Paula Hawkins in 1985. He has served as a Director on the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation since 2007. Mr. Jasien received a B.S. from James Madison University.
Dr. Brent F. Nelsen, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
Dr. Brent F. Nelsen is a Professor of Political Science at Furman University, a position he has held since 2002. He has served as Chair of the South Carolina Educational Television Commission since 2011. From 2003 to 2009, he served as Chair of the Department of Political Science at Furman University, and has held various teaching positions there since 1990. He was President of the South Carolina Political Science Association from 2009 to 2010, and is a member of the American Political Science Association. Dr. Nelsen received a B.A. from Wheaton College, and an M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
  