
    [As Prepared for Delivery]
Good afternoon and welcome to the Vice President's Residence. I can't tell you how happy I am to host and celebrate you all today.
I also want to pass on congratulations from Secretary Duncan, who unfortunately could not make it here tonight – but we are happy that his Undersecretary Thelma Melendez and Arne's Chief of Staff Margot Rogers are here to represent the Department of Education. It's great to have them here.
I was honored to welcome your colleagues and fellow winners last year and, it was one of my absolute favorite events of the year. I always feel right at home surrounded by teachers and Joe and I are truly honored to welcome this special group to the Vice President's Residence.
For those who don't know me, I've been an educator for the past 29 years and have spent the last 16 years teaching English as a community college instructor. I've taught as a reading specialist in public high schools, at a psychiatric hospital --and I continue to teach English classes at a community college in nearby Northern Virginia.
In fact, I will be there tomorrow bright and early. and when I leave you all tonight I will be upstairs grading a large stack of papers. An activity I am sure you all know well.
There was never a doubt when Joe and I moved to Washington on Inauguration Day last year that I would continue to teach: I know you all understand - teaching is my passion.
Just like each of you – I see day in and day out in my classroom the critical importance of education to the lives of Americans and the success of our nation.
I love being a teacher because I see that I can make a difference in the lives of my students. Regardless of the subject I'm teaching, my goal is to impart a sense of confidence in my students that will give them the strength to move in a positive direction.
I know each of you here tonight could share similar stories about your students who have been inspired by something you have taught them – and have, in turn, inspired you.
You stand here as the best of the best – each being honored this week for going above and beyond for your students, and our country.
So – on behalf of myself, my husband the Vice President, and President and Mrs. Obama – I want to say Thank You.
I also hope that you will always work to recruit and welcome a new generation of teachers to join us in this profession that we love.
I am so happy to be with you and hope to congratulate each of you individually for the great work you are doing in your home states and regions.
Thank you again for all you do for our students and our country.
  