
    President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden will host President Yoon Suk Yeol and Mrs. Kim Keon Hee for a State Visit to the United States, which will include a state dinner on April 26, 2023. This will be the second State Visit of the Biden-Harris Administration and the first State Visit by an Indo-Pacific leader. It will underscore the ironclad Alliance between the United States and the Republic of Korea, one that has grown far beyond the Korean Peninsula, and is now a force for good in the Indo-Pacific and around the world. The leaders will discuss a shared vision of a strong and deeply integrated U.S.-ROK Alliance that maintains peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and beyond.
The President and the First Lady will participate in a visit with President Yoon and Mrs. Kim to the Korean War Memorial on Tuesday evening. This event will be covered by the in-town travel pool.
The President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman will greet President Yoon and Mrs. Kim of the Republic of Korea for the Official Arrival Ceremony on Wednesday morning. This event on the South Lawn will be open press. [RSVP here by Monday, April 24th at 12:00 PM ET]
The President will hold a bilateral meeting with President Yoon of the Republic of Korea. This event in the Oval Office will have an in-house pool spray at the top.
The President will host a joint press conference with President Yoon of the Republic of Korea. This event in the Rose Garden will be open press. [RSVP here by Monday, April 24th at 12:00 PM ET]
The President and the First Lady will greet President Yoon and Mrs. Kim of the Republic of Korea on arrival for the State Dinner. This event at the North Portico will be pooled press.
The President and the First Lady will participate in a photo opportunity with President Yoon and Mrs. Kim of the Republic of Korea at the Grand Staircase on the occasion of the State Dinner. This event will be pooled press.
The President and the First Lady will host President Yoon and Mrs. Kim of the Republic of Korea for a State Dinner. The Vice President and the Second Gentleman will attend. This event in the East Room will be pooled press.
  