
    
  The Wall Street Journal reports on "hefty donations" since launching presidential campaign

HOUSTON, Texas – In the eight days following the launch of his campaign for the Republican nomination for President, Sen. Cruz raised $4 million, with 95% of the contributions totaling $100 or less. The Wall Street Journal reported on Sen. Cruz's remarkable fundraising success, saying:
Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas raised about $4 million in the eight days after he formally announced his candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination, his campaign staff said, indicating donations are coming at a faster clip than for some GOP candidates in past years.
The fundraising tally comes as Mr. Cruz tries to answer questions about whether he can raise enough money to compete with big-donor magnets such as former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.
...
"Often you have an establishment candidate, usually the moderate, who will be well funded," said Cruz spokesman Rick Tyler. "Here we have a candidate who is conservative and can raise money."

Below is partial text of the article, the entire version may be viewed here.
Ted Cruz Campaign Points to Hefty Donations
Wall Street Journal
Janet Hook & Rebecca Ballhaus
04/01/2015
Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas raised about $4 million in the eight days after he formally announced his candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination, his campaign staff said, indicating donations are coming at a faster clip than for some GOP candidates in past years.
The fundraising tally comes as Mr. Cruz tries to answer questions about whether he can raise enough money to compete with big-donor magnets such as former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.
The donations show Mr. Cruz outraising in one week the $2.1 million garnered in two months by Newt Gingrich, a former House speaker, after formally launching his campaign in 2011.
Sen. John McCain (R., Ariz.) raised $1.7 million in the 1 1/2 months after he started a presidential exploratory committee in 2006. He went on to win the party's nomination that cycle.
"Often you have an establishment candidate, usually the moderate, who will be well funded," said Cruz spokesman Rick Tyler. "Here we have a candidate who is conservative and can raise money."
The full text of this article may be viewed here.
  