
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Terrence G. Berg, Jesus G. Bernal, Shelly Deckert Dick and Lorna G. Schofield to serve on the United States District Court.
"I am honored to put forward these highly qualified candidates for the federal bench," President Obama said. "They will be distinguished public servants and valuable additions to the United States District Court."
Terrence G. Berg: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan
Terrence G. Berg has been an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Michigan since 1989, apart from a four-year stint from 1999 to 2003 when he served as Chief of the High Tech Crime Unit at the Michigan Department of the Attorney General. From 2008 until 2010, Berg served as interim United States Attorney and in 2010 he was detailed to be Acting First Assistant United States Attorney in the Middle District of Georgia. Since 2011, Berg has been detailed to the Professional Misconduct Review Unit, which is part of the Office of the Deputy Attorney General at the United States Department of Justice. Berg began his legal career as an associate at the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, from 1987 to 1989, and as a law clerk to the Honorable Anthony A. Alaimo of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Georgia, from 1986 to 1987. He received his J.D. cum laude in 1986 from the Georgetown University Law Center and his B.S. magna cum laude from Georgetown University in 1981.
Jesus G. Bernal: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Central District of California
Jesus G. Bernal has been a Deputy Federal Public Defender in the Central District of California since 1996. From 1996 to 2006, he worked in the Los Angeles office and, since 2006, he has served as the Directing Attorney of the Riverside office. Previously, Bernal worked for almost five years as a litigation associate at the law firm of Heller, Ehrman, White & McAuliffe LLP in Los Angeles, focusing primarily on complex civil litigation. He began his legal career as a law clerk to the Honorable David V. Kenyon of the Central District of California from 1989 to 1991. Bernal received his J.D. in 1989 from Stanford Law School and his B.A. cum laude in 1986 from Yale University.
Shelly Deckert Dick: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana
Shelly Deckert Dick is a partner in the law firm of Forrester, Dick & Clark in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. She has been a litigator in private practice for nearly all of her 24-year legal career, handling a wide array of cases in both state and federal courts as well as before administrative tribunals. Since 2008, Dick has also served as an Ad Hoc Hearing Officer appointed by the Louisiana Workforce Commission to hear worker's compensation cases and other administrative matters. From 1988 to 1994, she worked at the law firm of Gary, Field, Landry and Dornier. Dick received her J.D. in 1988 from the Louisiana State University Paul M. Hebert Law Center and her B.S.  cum laude in 1981 from the University of Texas.
Lorna G. Schofield: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
Lorna G. Schofield has been affiliated with the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in New York City since 1988, focusing her practice on complex civil litigation and white collar criminal defense. She joined the firm as an associate in 1988, was promoted to partner in 1991, and became of counsel earlier this year. Prior to joining the firm, Schofield served for four years as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York, where her significant cases involved prosecuting domestic terrorism, arms smuggling, and tax fraud. From 1981 to 1984, she was an associate at the law firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton. Throughout her legal career, Schofield has been heavily involved with the American Bar Association, holding many leadership positions including Chair of the Section of Litigation. Schofield received her J.D. in 1981 from the New York University School of Law and her B.A. in 1977 from Indiana University.
  