
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint four individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Eric M. Bost, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Africa. Mr. Bost currently serves as Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services at the United States Department of Agriculture. Prior to this, he served as Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer of the Texas Department of Human Services. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director at the Arizona Department of Economic Security. Mr. Bost received his bachelor's degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and his master's degree from the University of South Florida.
The President intends to nominate Lisa Bobbie Schreiber Hughes, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Suriname. Miss Schreiber Hughes, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Senior Advisor for Regionalization and Rightsizing in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, she served as Director of the Office of Andean Affairs in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, she was Deputy Chief of Mission in Paramaribo, Suriname. Miss Schreiber Hughes received her bachelor's degree and JD from Rutgers University. She went on to receive her master's degree from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate David M. Robinson, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Co-Operative Republic of Guyana. Mr. Robinson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in La Paz, Bolivia. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Asuncion, Paraguay. Earlier in his career, he was detailed to the United States Senate as Foreign Affairs Advisor to Senator Joseph Lieberman. Mr. Robinson received his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and his master's degree from Christ the King Seminary. He went on to receive his second master's degree from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Earl Anthony Wayne, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Argentina. Mr. Wayne, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of European Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Mission to the European Union. Mr. Wayne received his bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkley. He went on to receive master's degrees from Stanford University, Princeton University and Harvard University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development:
Catherine Ann Bertini, of New York, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 28, 2009.
Allen C. Christensen, of Utah, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 28, 2008.
Robert A. Easter, of Illinois, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 28, 2009.
Timothy A. Rabon, of New Mexico, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 28, 2009.
  