
    Hillary to Address California State Convention Tomorrow
Hillary Clinton received the endorsements of two dozen prominent California officials and community leaders today, on the eve of California's Democratic state convention in San Diego.
"I'm endorsing Hillary Clinton for President because I know her and admire her," said California Treasurer Bill Lockyer. "She's been my good friend and our state's great ally for more than a decade. Nobody understands Californians, the California Dream, and the vital importance of California to our nation's success better than Hillary Clinton. And Hillary Clinton is -- far and away -- the only candidate who is ready to lead the country now, without any on-the-job training."
State Assemblywoman Fiona Ma said, "Hillary is the most qualified candidate and is ready to lead this country from day one. Hillary knows the White House, Congress, and has the respect of world leaders. Most importantly, Hillary has been long-time advocate for the Asian American and Pacific Islander community, and I know that she will continue her commitment when she becomes President."
Clinton will address the convention at 10:15 a.m. tomorrow at the San Diego Convention Center.
Leading Californians Endorsing Hillary Today:

Bill Lockyer, California Treasurer
Gray Davis, Former Governor
Christine Kehoe, State Senator
Sheila Kuehl, State Senator
Fiona Ma, State Assemblywoman
Clarence Avant, Music Executive
Berry Gordy, Music Producer and Founder of Motown Records
Quincy Jones, Musician
Rev. Amos Brown
Rosalind Wyman, Democratic National Committee Member and CEO of 1984 Democratic National Convention
Maria Echaveste, Democratic National Committee Member
Alice Huffman, Democratic National Committee Member
Mirian Saez, Democratic National Committee Member
Dennis Herrera, San Francisco City Attorney
Michela Alioto-Pier, San Francisco City Supervisor
Joe Nation, Former Assemblyman
Jackie Speier, Former State Senator
Otto Lee, Mayor of Sunnyvale
Henry Manayan, Former Mayor of Milpitas
Rajen Anand, Chairman of the National Federation of Indian-American Associations
Alice Bulos - Chair Emeritus of the Filipino American Democratic Caucus
Charmaine Manansala, former Advisor to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the White House Initiative on Asian American and Pacific Islanders
Dang Pham, Vietnamese Activist
Rose Ochi, Attorney
Jim Park, Businessman

  