
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama nominated Arthur Baylor, Michael R. Bladel, Kevin Carr, Kevin C. Harrison, Darryl K. McPherson and Henry L. Whitehorn Sr. to serve as U.S. Marshals.
"I am proud to nominate these outstanding public servants to serve as U.S. Marshals," said President Obama. "Throughout their careers, they have demonstrated an unwavering commitment to justice, and I appreciate their continued willingness to serve and protect the American people."
Arthur Baylor: Nominee for United States Marshal, Middle District of Alabama
Arthur Baylor is the Chief of Police of the Montgomery Police Department in Alabama. From 1998-2004, Mr. Baylor also worked for the Unified Judicial System as a Judicial Security Coordinator where he was the Deputy Marshal. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice in 1977 and a Master of Science degree in Criminal Justice in 1990 from Troy State University.
Michael R. Bladel: Nominee for United States Marshal, Southern District of Iowa
Michael Bladel is the Law Enforcement Coordinator for the U.S. Attorney's Office in the Southern District of Iowa. He served as the Chief of Police in Davenport, Iowa, from 2000-2007, and was a Police Officer there from 1971-1993. From 1993-2000, Mr. Bladel was the Sheriff of Scott County, Iowa. He served in the U.S. Army from 1968-1971 and earned a Bronze Star. Mr. Bladel received a Bachelor of Arts degree in criminal justice from St. Ambrose University in 1991. He earned an Associate's degree from the Muscatine Community College in 1974.
Kevin Carr: Nominee for United States Marshal, Eastern District of Wisconsin
Kevin Carr currently works for the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office. Mr. Carr joined the Sheriff's office in 1980, rising through the ranks from Deputy Sheriff to his current position as Inspector. He received his bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice Management from Concordia University, Wisconsin in 1997.
Kevin C. Harrison: Nominee for United States Marshal, Middle District of Louisiana
Kevin Harrison is currently working for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration as the Assistant Special Agent in Charge. Prior to his employment with the DEA, Mr. Harrison worked as a trooper for the Louisiana State Police, from 1979-1986. In 1984, he was the Chief Deputy at Assumption Parish Sheriff's Office in Louisiana. Mr. Harrison received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Nicholls State University in 1976.
Darryl K. McPherson: Nominee for United States Marshal, Northern District of Illinois
Darryl McPherson is currently employed by the Department of Justice working for the U.S. Marshals Service in Chicago as Judicial Security Inspector. He has been with the Marshals Service since 1997. Mr. McPherson started as Deputy U.S. Marshal out of the Mobile, Alabama office until 1999 when he was promoted to his current position in Chicago. Mr. McPherson received his Bachelor of Science in Political Science from Spring Hill College in 1997.
Henry L. Whitehorn, Sr.: Nominee for United States Marshal, Western District of Louisiana
Henry Whitehorn, Sr., is the Chief of Police in Shreveport, Louisiana, a position he has held since 2007. He joined the Louisiana State Police in 1978, rising through the ranks to serve as Deputy Secretary for Public Safety Services and Louisiana State Police Superintendent. Mr. Whitehorn was a Patrolman with the St. Louis, Missouri, Police Department from 1977 to 1978. He also served as a sergeant with the U.S. Air Force from 1973 to 1977. In addition to professional training, Mr. Whitehorn earned a master's degree in criminal justice from Grambling State University in 1989, and a bachelor's degree from Louisiana State University - Shreveport in 1986.
  