
    "President Obama is the first president in history to openly campaign for re-election on a platform of higher taxes. He has already raised taxes on millions of Americans, but he won't stop there. He wants to raise taxes on millions more by taxing small businesses and job creators. We appreciate the Obama campaign reinforcing Mitt Romney's platform of lowering tax rates across the board in order to jumpstart this bad Obama economy." —Gail Gitcho, Romney Campaign Communications Director
This Week, President Obama's Allies Will Be Campaigning On Their Favorite Subject — Raising Taxes:
Today, The Obama Campaign Will Hold A Conference Call On President Obama's Plans To Raise Taxes. "In advance of the Senate vote on the Buffett Rule, Senator Dick Durbin, Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin, and Campaign Manager Jim Messina will hold a conference call today highlighting the President's call for tax fairness and Governor Romney's opposition to it." (Mike Allen, Politico's "Playbook," 4/9/12)
President Obama Must Not Be Satisfied With His Existing Plans For "One Of The Biggest Tax Increases In History" On Both Individuals And Job Creators:
President Obama "Is Setting Up The U.S. Economy For One Of The Biggest Tax Increases In History In 2013." "President Obama unveiled part two of his American Jobs Act on Monday, and it turns out to be another permanent increase in taxes to pay for more spending and another temporary tax cut. No surprise there. What might surprise Americans, however, is how the President is setting up the U.S. economy for one of the biggest tax increases in history in 2013." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," The Wall Street Journal, 9/14/11)
Obama White House Officials Have Signaled That President Obama Would Raise Taxes "Either As A Final Act In Office After Losing The November 2012 Election Or After Winning A Second Term." "A White House official argued Sunday that the president had another trump card to play: the scheduled expiration of the George W. Bush tax cuts at the end of 2012. Obama would block extension of the reductions, either as a final act in office after losing the November 2012 election or after winning a second term." (Peter Wallsten and David Nakamura, "Did Obama Capitulate — Or Is This A Cagey Move?" The Washington Post, 7/31/11)
President Obama's 2013 Budget Included A $1.5 Trillion Tax Increase. "The plan calls for a tax reform package that would increase revenue by $1.5 trillion over the next decade. Obama did not offer a detailed plan for tax reform. Instead, he proposed a series of changes to the current tax system and several principles for what comprehensive tax reform would look like." ("Obama Budget Sets Stage For Battle Over Tax Hikes," The Associated Press, 2/13/12)
President Obama's Massive Tax Hike Would Impact Nearly $500 Billion Of Business Income. "January 2013 is also the same month that Mr. Obama wants the Bush-era tax rates to expire on Americans earning more than $200,000. That would raise the highest individual income tax rate to about 42%, including deduction phaseouts, from 35% today. Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation found in 2009 that $437 billion of business income would be taxed at higher tax rates under the Obama plan. And since some 4.5 million small-business owners file their annual tax returns as subchapter S firms under the individual tax code, this tax increase would often apply to the same people who Mr. Obama is targeting with his new tax credits." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," The Wall Street Journal, 9/14/11)
And President Obama Must Not Be Satisfied With "The Largest Tax Increase Since 1993" That He Already Passed In Obamacare:
Obamacare Contains "The Largest Tax Increase Since 1993." "Keep in mind that Mr. Obama has already signed the largest tax increase since 1993. While everyone focuses on the Bush tax rates that expire after 2012, other tax increases are already set to hit the economy thanks to the 2010 Affordable Care Act." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon...," The Wall Street Journal, 7/11/11)
The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office Estimated That Obamacare Will Raise Taxes By $525 Billion Over Its First 10 Years. (CBO Director Douglas W. Elmendorf, Testimony, U.S. House Of Representatives, 3/30/11)
  