
    (New York, NY) April 6th, 2016 – Today Donald J. Trump announced his New York State campaign organization, including Republican Party leaders in all 27 Congressional District across the state. The committee - comprised of GOP elected leaders, Republican county chairmen and other key party officials - represents the most powerful presidential campaign organization in the state.
Mr. Trump stated, "New York is my home and I am so proud to have been able to assemble such an incredible team. I have watched and known these people for so many years. They love New York and our country. Together we will Make America Great Again."
U.S. Congressman Chris Collins (R-NY), Honorary Co-chairman of the campaign in New York, said,"Donald Trump will bring back American jobs stolen by China, take on our enemies and help our children and grandchildren achieve the American Dream. If we want to deal with the grave issues threatening America's future, New York Republicans must reject the professional politicians. The American people want a Chief Executive in the White House, not a Chief Politician."
As Honorary Co-chairman, Carl P. Paladino, the 2010 Republican candidate for governor of New York and a Buffalo developer, has led organization of the state's Donald J. Trump for President campaign. Paladino said, "I'm very pleased with the courage and commitment our leadership team has shown for Donald Trump is bringing people to the Republican Party like no other candidate in a generation."
Dutchess County Sheriff Adrian "Butch" Anderson, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump, joins Paladino and Collins as Honorary Co-chairman. Sheriff Anderson said, "I've known Donald Trump for a decade; I know his handshake is a solemn pledge. Here in Dutchess County, he has done great things, always keeping his word and delivering even more than he promises. What he has done for Dutchess, I know he can do for America, so I proudly stand with him as he works to Make America Great Again."
Mr. Trump was honored to be joined by many of the 33 Republican County Chairs at his event in Bethpage on Wednesday night. Mr. Trump continues to lead in all state polls with significant margins and leading in the delegate count for the Republican National Convention.
To view the list of chairmen, visit: https://www.donaldjtrump.com/press-releases/new-york-state-county-chairmen
  