
    Pool Reports by Peter Baker, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




April 26, 202309:19

Pool Report #1
Good morning from the White House where your pool has been gathered on the South Lawn for the official arrival of President Yoon.
A large crowd of perhaps a couple thousand
people (just a guess) is waiting behind barriers on a crisp but sunny morning as parade music plays over speakers, some holding mini US and South Korean flags. The presidential lectern with seal is set on a red-covered stage with the White House in the background.
The Rose Garden is set up with white chairs and glass-enclosed translation booths for the joint news conference later in the day.
The arrival is scheduled for 10 am and is open press.



April 26, 202310:15

Pool Report #2
Two minute warning has been given. The arrival ceremony is open press and being live-streamed on the White House web site.
Before the presidents arrived, the Korean-American Children's Choir from the Korean School of New Jersey performed, with the singers dressed in white blouses and pink skirts.
The White House provides this list of attendees:
The President and the First Lady are greeting President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea and Mrs. Kim Keon Hee, First Lady of the Republic of Korea, for the Official Arrival Ceremony.
AttendeesThe Vice PresidentThe Second GentlemanAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the United StatesDignitaries, Officials, invited guests, school children, and veterans of the Korean War
U.S. Official DelegationThe Vice PresidentThe Second GentlemanT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Evan Ryan, Assistant to the President and Cabinet Secretary and Spouse of the Secretary of StateT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryT.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of DefenseT.H. Katherine Tai, United States Trade RepresentativeT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Philip Goldberg, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of KoreaT.H. Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the PresidentT.H. Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President and Press SecretaryT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific AffairsT.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and OceaniaMr. Drew Arveseth, Director for Korean Peninsula and Mongolia, National Security Council
United States Welcoming CommitteeMajor General Allan Pepin, Commanding General, Military District of WashingtonBrigadier General Garrett Hoffman, Director, White House Military OfficeAmbassador Hersey Kyota, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps
Korean Delegation:H.E. Choo Kyungho, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and FinanceH.E. Lee Jong Ho, Minister of Science and ICTH.E. Park Jin, Minister of Foreign AffairsH.E. Lee Chang Yang, Minister of Trade, Industry, and EnergyT.H. Cho Taeyong, Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentH.E. Cho Hyundong, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to the United StatesMs. Kim Soyeon, Spouse of the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to the United StatesDr. Kim Tae Hyo, First Deputy Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentT.H. Kim Eun Hye, Senior Secretary to the President for Public Relations, Office of the PresidentDr. Choi Sang Mok, Senior Secretary to the President for Economic Affairs, Office of the PresidentT.H. Lee Choongmyon, Secretary to the President for Foreign Affairs, Office of the PresidentMr. Kim Junpyo, Director-General for North American Affairs, Ministry of Foreign AffairsRepublic of Korea Welcoming CommitteeH.E. Park Bo Gyoon, Minister of Culture, Sports, and TourismMs. Lee Young, Ministry of SMEs and StartupsT.H. Kim Tae Ho, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs and Unification Committee, National AssemblyT.H. Joo Ho Young, Member of the National AssemblyT.H. Jeong Jeomsig, Member of the National AssemblyT.H. Park Sung Min, Member of the National Assembly
Speaking ProgramThe PresidentPresident Yoon Suk Yeol



April 26, 202310:53

Pool Report #3
The White House reports that it hosted 6,848 guests for the arrival ceremony.
The pool is now awaiting the bilat.



April 26, 202311:44

Pool Report #4
POTUS escorted President Yoon along the Colonnade, entering the Oval at 11:06 am. Your pool was escorted in at 11:15 am. Both leaders, sitting in the traditional wingback chairs, read from notecards exchanging tributes to the enduring strength of the alliance but took no questions.
POTUS, going first, hailed the 70 years of friendship between the United States and South Korea, calling it the "linchpin of regional security and prosperity."
"Today I'm proud of say, Mr. President, that I think our partnership is ready to take on any challenges," POTUS said.
He mentioned their "shared commitment to stand with Ukraine and defend its democracy against Russia's assault" without saying anything concrete about any further help he would ask from Yoon.
Likewise, he said, "We're doubling down on our cooperation as allies even as the DPRK ramps up it's challenges," without adding anything specific about the nuclear commitments previewed by administration officials.
"Our alliance is an alliance of values based on our shared universal values of freedom and democracy," Yoon said in response. "It is not a contractural alliance" but an "everlasting partnership." He added, "Together we can resolve any issues between us" and emphasized several times that it extends beyond the peninsula but is a "true global alliance."
After they finished speaking, POTUS stuck out his hand to shake with Yoon, who stood and drew POTUS to his feet to do the handshake on their feet for the photographers.



April 26, 202311:48

Pool Report #5
From the White House, the participants for the restricted bilat and (below) the expanded one:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea.
U.S. Restricted DelegationT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council
Korean Restricted DelegationH.E. Park Jin, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Republic of KoreaT.H. Cho Taeyong, Director of National Security, Office of the President, Republic of KoreaDr. Kim Tae Hyo, First Deputy Director of National Security, Office of the President
The President is participating in an expanded bilateral meeting with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea.
U.S. DelegationThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryT.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of DefenseT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Katherine Tai, United States Trade RepresentativeT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Philip Goldberg, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of KoreaT.H. Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific AffairsT.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security CouncilMr. Drew Arveseth, Director for Korean Peninsula and Mongolia, National Security Council
Korean DelegationH.E. Yoon Suk Yeol, President of the Republic of KoreaH.E. Choo Kyungho, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and FinanceH.E. Lee Jong Ho, Minister of Science and ICTH.E. Park Jin, Minister of Foreign AffairsH.E. Lee Chang Yang, Minister of Trade, Industry, and EnergyT.H. Cho Taeyong, Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentH.E. Cho Hyundong, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to the United StatesDr. Kim Tae Hyo, First Deputy Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentT.H. Kim Eun Hye, Senior Secretary to the President for Public Relations, Office of the PresidentDr. Choi Sang Mok, Senior Secretary to the President for Economic Affairs, Office of the PresidentT.H. Lee Choongmyon, Secretary to the President for Foreign Affairs, Office of the PresidentMr. Kim Junpyo, Director-General for North American Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs



April 26, 202312:49

Pool Report #6
Obviously, the leaders are running late and the news conference is delayed. No official word on when it might start but it does not look to be imminent. Will update when we get firmer word.



April 26, 202312:52

Pool Report #7
White House now says news conference is expected to start at 1:30 p.m.



April 26, 202313:41

Pool Report #8
Two minute warning.



April 26, 202314:48

Pool Report #9
The news conference was open press and live streamed. We now have a lid until 6:15 p.m.



April 26, 202317:33

Pool Report #10
The White House has put out the guest list for tonight's State Dinner:
This evening, the President and the First Lady of the United States will host President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea and Mrs. Kim Keon Hee, First Lady of the Republic of Korea, for a State Dinner. 
The following is a complete list of expected guests: 
THE PRESIDENT AND DR. BIDEN
HIS EXCELLENCY YOON SUK YEOL, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND MRS. KIM KEON HEE
Mr. Michael ArdenThe Honorable Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense, U.S. Department of Defense & Mrs. Charlene AustinMr. Joe Bae & Mrs. Janice BaeThe Honorable Charlie Baker, Former Governor of MassachusettsThe Honorable Stephen K. Benjamin, Senior Advisor to the President for Public Engagement & The Honorable DeAndrea BenjaminThe Honorable Ami Bera, U.S. Representative & Dr. Janine BeraThe Honorable Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the First LadyThe Honorable Andy Beshear, Governor of Kentucky & Mrs. Britainy BeshearMr. Frank Biden & Ms. Mindy WardMr. Dong-Bin ShinMr. Arthur Blank & Ms. Jennifer HaleThe Honorable Antony J. Blinken, Secretary of State, U.S. Department of State & The Honorable Evan Ryan, Assistant to the President and Cabinet SecretaryHis Excellency Park Bo Gyoon, Minister of Culture, Sports and TourismThe Honorable Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council & The Honorable Dr. Lael Brainard, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic CouncilDr. Victor Cha, Former National Foreign Policy Advisor & Mrs. Hyun ChaHis Excellency Lee Chang Yang, Minister of Trade, Industry and EnergyMr. Taewon CheyMr. David J. ChoMr. Walter ChoThe Honorable Judy Chu, U.S. Representative & Mr. Dean ChuMr. Euisun ChungMr. Kisun ChungThe Honorable Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff & Mr. Patrick DillonThe Honorable Michael C. Donilon, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the President & Mrs. Patricia DonilonThe Honorable Tammy Duckworth, U.S. Senator & Mr. Bryan BowlsbeyMr. Andrew Emhoff & Dr. Judy LeeThe Honorable Kim Eun Hye, Senior Secretary to the President for Public Relations, Office of the PresidentThe Honorable Jon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security Advisor & The Honorable Kate Berner, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Communications DirectorMr. Byong Joon KimMr. Hyun Joon ChoMr. Marcus Freeman & Mrs. Chong FreemanMrs. Joanna Gaines & Mr. Chip GainesThe Honorable Suzy George, Chief of Staff, U.S. Department of State & Mr. Nate TibbitsThe Honorable Ralph James Gessner Jr., Chairman, Mohegan Tribe & Mr. Charles F. BunnellThe Honorable Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the United States, U.S. Department of StateThe Honorable Philip S. Goldberg, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of KoreaThe Honorable Dr. Philip Gordon, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President & Mrs. Rachel GordonThe Honorable Avril Haines, Director of National Intelligence & Mr. David DavighiThe Honorable Kamala Harris, Vice President of the United States & Mr. Douglas EmhoffMs. Meena Harris & Mr. Nikolas AjaguThe Honorable Mazie Hirono, U.S. Senator & Mr. John YangThe Honorable Joo Ho Young, Floor Leader of the People Power PartyMrs. Chrisette Hudlin & Mr. Reginald HudlinHis Excellency Cho Hyundong, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to the United States & Ms. Kim SoyeonThe Honorable Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President and Press SecretaryThe Honorable Jeong Jeomsig, Member of the National AssemblyHis Excellency Park Jin, Minister of Foreign AffairsMs. Min Jin Lee & Mr. Christopher A. DuffyMs. Angelina Jolie & Mr. Maddox Jolie-PittHis Excellency Lee Jong Ho, Minister of Science and ICTMr. Kim Junpyo, Director-General for North American Affairs, Ministry of Foreign AffairsThe Honorable Edgard Kagan, Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council & Ms. Cynthia L. GireMs. Yongmee Michele KangThe Honorable Andrew Kim, U.S. Representative & Mrs. Jae KimMs. Chloe Kim & Ms. Jeanne YangMr. Dongkwan KimThe Honorable Young Kim, U.S. Representative & Mr. Charles KimMr. Christopher KooThe Honorable Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Department of State & Mrs. Nami KritenbrinkHis Excellency Choo Kyungho, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and FinanceMr. Sohn Kyung-ShikThe Honorable Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President and Director of CommunicationsThe Honorable Mitchell Landrieu, Senior Advisor and Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator & Ms. Grace LandrieuMr. Jay-Hyun LeeMs. Jung LeeMr. Norm LewisThe Honorable Ted Lieu, U.S. Representative & Mrs. Betty LieuMr. George Marcus & Mrs. Judy MarcusGeneral Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff & Mrs. Hollyanne MilleyMs. Sarah Min & Mr. Matt PincusMs. Seung Min Kim & Ms. Mi Ryung ChangHis Excellency Park Min Shik, Minister of Patriots and Veterans AffairsMr. Kwang Mo KooMrs. Janet Murguia & Mr. Mauro A. MoralesThe Honorable Phil Murphy, Governor of New Jersey & Mrs. Tammy MurphyMr. Ki Mun KimThe Honorable Ron Nirenberg, Mayor of San Antonio, Texas & Ms. Erika ProsperThe Honorable Victoria Nuland, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, U.S. Department of State & Dr. Robert KaganMr. Carl Page & Mrs. Barbara Kay PageMr. Chan Ho Park & Mrs. Rie ParkThe Honorable Penny Pritzker, Former Secretary of Commerce, & Ms. Vivian RiefbergThe Honorable Michael S. Purzycki, Mayor of Wilmington, Delaware & Mrs. Elizabeth J. PurzyckiThe Honorable Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff & Mr. Ryan QuillianThe Honorable Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Commerce, U.S. Department of Commerce & Mr. Andy MoffitThe Honorable Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff & Ms. Bonnie LePardThe Honorable Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President and Counselor to the President & Mrs. Amy RicchettiThe Honorable Susan Rice, Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council & Mr. Ian CameronThe Honorable Julie Chávez Rodríguez, Assistant to the President, Senior Advisor to the President and Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs & Mr. Aqeela SherrillsThe Honorable Mitt Romney, U.S. Senator & Mrs. Ann RomneyMr. Jin Roy RyuDr. Choi Sang Mok, Senior Secretary to the President for Economic Affairs, Office of the PresidentMs. Lea SalongaThe Honorable Chuck Schumer, U.S. SenatorThe Honorable Phil Scott, Governor of Vermont & Mrs. Marian DuBoisMrs. Beth Shaw & Dr. David E. ShawThe Honorable Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President and Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security AdvisorMr. Jin Shik ChoiMr. William Singer & Ms. JoAnna CicchelliMr. Jacob Snow & Ms. Samantha CohenThe Honorable Gene Sperling, White House American Rescue Plan Coordinator and Senior Advisor to the PresidentThe Honorable Michelle Steel, U.S. Representative & Ms. Siobhan SteelThe Honorable Marilyn Strickland, U.S. Representative & Mr. Patrick J. ErwinThe Honorable Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Ms. Maggie GoodlanderThe Honorable Park Sung Min, Member of the National AssemblyThe Honorable Kim Tae Ho, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs and Unification Committee, National AssemblyDr. Kim Tae Hyo, First Deputy Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentThe Honorable Lee Choongmyon, Secretary to the President for Foreign Affairs, Office of the PresidentThe Honorable Kim Taejin, Chief of Protocol, Ministry of Foreign AffairsThe Honorable Cho Taeyong, Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentThe Honorable Katherine Tai, U.S. Trade Representative & Mr. Robert SkidmoreThe Honorable Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Representative of the United States to the United NationsThe Honorable Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President and Director of Oval Office OperationsThe Honorable Richard Verma, Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources, U.S. Department of State & Mrs. Melineh VermaThe Honorable Lorraine Voles, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President & Mr. Dan SmithMs. Jessica VoskThe Honorable Victoria Woodards, Mayor of Tacoma, Washington & Mr. Scott BreckenridgeMs. Eun Yang & Mr. Robert KangMr. Jae Yong LeeMr. Gideon Yu & Mrs. Susie Min YuThe Honorable Jeff Zients, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the President & Mrs. Deborah Zients



April 26, 202319:17

Pool Report #11
Your pool was stationed on a riser outside the north entrance. A red carpet with gold trim was laid from the door down the stairs and large US and South Korean flags hung over windows on either side. Flanking the entrance was a military honor guard with members from various services, each with a rifle or flag.
The Chevy Suburban with President Yoon and his wife arrived at 7:05 pm. POTUS and FLOTUS were waiting to greet them. Yoon got out of car and went straight to POTUS and FLOTUS without waiting for his First Lady, who got out the other side of the car and made her way around.
The presidents were wearing black-tie tuxedoes. FLOTUS wore a long mauve colored gown with beading at the neck and long dangling earrings. The South Korean First Lady Kim Keon Hee wore a white, floor-length dress with double vested waist length matching jacket and white gloves.
The two couples chatted for a few moments and shared a comment that drew a laugh, then posed for pictures, with POTUS flashing a thumbs up, before the two couples disappeared inside at 7:06 pm.



April 26, 202319:57

Pool Report #12
Cross Hall was festooned with at least eight massive arrangements of cherry blossoms mounted on top of white columns and illuminated from below by multiple lamps on the floor.
The Marine Band in their red uniforms played "Hail America" as a five-member honor guard led the way down the Grand Staircase at 7:32 p.m. followed by the two presidents and first ladies. The Barack Obama portrait watched from over the couples' left shoulders; the George W. Bush portrait watched from the opposite wall across the hall.
The two couples stopped and posed briefly for photos, the two presidents in the middle flanked by their spouses. POTUS and FLOTUS, holding hands, then led the way to the Blue Room. President Yoon started to follow, then seemed to notice the Americans were holding hands and reached for his wife's hand. The door to the Blue Room closed at 7:34 p.m.
PS -- Your fashion-challenged pooler is deeply grateful to the indispensable Darlene Superville for assistance in describing the first ladies' attire and notes that she nailed it.
Here is the official description from FLOTUS:
"The First Lady is wearing a mauve, long sheath evening gown by Reem Acra."
Mauve!



April 26, 202320:28

Pool Report #13
POTUS, Preodent Yoon and their wives enters the East Room at 8:24 to Rufffles and Florishes as guests applauded. Will send remarks from toasts after they speak.
From White House:
The President and the First Lady are hosting President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea and Mrs. Kim Keon Hee, First Lady of the Republic of Korea, for a State Dinner.
Speaking ProgramThe PresidentPresident Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea




April 26, 202321:10

Pool Report #14
The East Room was similarly filled with massive cherry blossom arrangements as the guests gathered at tables to listen to the toasts by the presidents. POTUS welcomed President Youn with a four-minute toast that largely repeated what he said earlier in the day as he praised South Korea and the alliance.
"The way the Korean people have transformed your country, Mr. President, through courage and hard work, as one of the most prosperous — as one of the most prosperous and respected nations in the world is testament to the boundless possibilities our people can achieve when we do it together," he said. "And we know that our work is not yet done.
"Today," he continued, "it's our duty to answer the call, that call, to make the world better for those who will come after us. You know, this visit is about reaffirming all that unites our two nations. It's about a commitment to bear one another's concern and listen to each other's dreams. It allows us to overcome every difficulty and with great determination."
After looking around for a glass of wine, he gave his final toast: "To our partnership, to our people, to the possibilities, to the future the Republic of Korea and the United States will create together. May we do it together for another 170 years."
President Youn thanked him and went directly for POTUS's weak point — quoting the Irish poet Seamus Heaney: "Behavior that's admired is the path to power among people everywhere."
Youn likewise offered praise for the friendship between the two nations. "We reaffirm that our trust in the alliance and our willingness to closely work together going forward remain ironclad," he said.
"We will together embrace the future of the alliance undergirded by our shared core values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights," he added.
He wrapped up with an old saying that he said was also Irish: "A good friend is like a four-leaf clover — hard to find and lucky to have." That produced "awwws" and applause from the crowd.
The two leaders then sat down at the head table. To POTUS's right was the South Korean First Lady Kim Keon-hee and to his left was Senator Tammy Duckworth. Sitting on the other side of the Korean First Lady was Angelina Jolie.
Just prior to the arrival of the presidents, while guests milled about the room, Jolie spent several minutes with VPOTUS, who was chatting her up but your pool could not hear about what.
From the White House:
Joining the President and the First Lady at the Head Table:
His Excellency Yoon Suk Yeol, President of the Republic of Korea & Mrs. Kim Keon HeeMr. Taewon CheyThe Honorable Tammy Duckworth, U.S. Senator & Mr. Bryan BowlsbeyMrs. Joanna Gaines & Mr. Chip GainesMs. Angelina Jolie & Mr. Maddox Jolie-PittMs. Chloe Kim & Ms. Jeanne YangMs. Min Jin Lee & Mr. Christopher A. DuffyMr. Chan Ho Park & Mrs. Rie ParkAmbassador Susan Rice, Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council & Mr. Ian CameronThe Honorable Chuck Schumer, U.S. SenatorMr. Gideon Yu & Mrs. Susie Min Yu



April 26, 202322:26

Pool Report #15
Apologies for misspelling President Yoon's name in last pool report.
The meal is now over and the guests have moved to the State Dining Room for the entertainment, which began just after 10:20 pm. Here's info from the White House:
This evening, guests will enjoy musical selections by Broadway stars Norm Lewis, Lea Salonga and Jessica Vosk, bringing a quintessentially American art form to the world stage. Additionally, guests will experience performances from "The President's Own" United States Marine Band Chamber Orchestra and the United States Army Band Herald Trumpets.
Background on the performers:
Norm LewisNorm Lewis is an Emmy, Grammy, Tony, and SAG-nominated performer with a career spanning film, television, and theater. He?can currently be seen onstage starring in the national tour of the Tony Award-winning production of A Soldier's Play. Lewis' Broadway credits include The Phantom of the Opera, making history in 2014 as Broadway's first African American Phantom); the Tony Award-winning revival of Once On This Island; Chicken & Biscuits; The Gershwins' Porgy and Bess; Sondheim on Sondheim; The Little Mermaid; and Les Misérables. He also starred in the 2017 Off-Broadway production of Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street, receiving the AUDELCO Award for his performance. Lewis' screen credits include Spike Lee's critically acclaimed film, Da 5 Bloods (Netflix); Pose (FX); Mrs. America (Hulu); Law & Order (NBC); Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert (ABC); Scandal (ABC); Women of the Movement (ABC); Christmas in Tune (Lifetime), Up Here (Hulu), and seven PBS specials. Lewis is also a proud founding member of Black Theatre United.
Lea SalongaMultiple award-winning actress and singer Lea Salonga is renowned across the world for her powerful voice and perfect pitch. She is best known for her Tony, Olivier, Drama Desk and Outer Critics Circle Award-winning role of Kim in Miss Saigon. She has appeared as both Eponine and Fantine in Les Misérables on Broadway in additional to starring in the 10th and 25th anniversary concert productions. Lea has also starred on Broadway in Flower Drum Song and Once On This Island. Many fans of all ages recognize Lea as the singing voice of Princess Jasmine from Disney's motion picture Aladdin and Fa Mulan for Mulan and Mulan II. For her portrayal of the beloved princesses, the Walt Disney Company bestowed her with the honor of "Disney Legend." Lea stars in the first season of the HBO Max television show Pretty Little Liars: Original Sin (a reboot of the popular series), after starring in the critically acclaimed musical drama Yellow Rose (Sony). Lea has toured all over the world, performing sold-out concerts at some of the world's most iconic venues including the Royal Albert Hall, Sydney Opera House, 02 Arena, Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, Singapore's Esplanade, Kuala Lumpur Convention Center, Hong Kong Cultural Center, Queen Sirikit Convention Center in Bangkok and Carnegie Hall in New York.
Jessica VoskJessica Vosk is a celebrated singer and actress known for stirring roles on the musical theater and concert stage. Vosk made her Carnegie Hall debut in November 2021 in a sold-out solo show titled "My Golden Age." Other upcoming concert debuts include London's Cadogan Hall in 2022. Prior, she starred as the Narrator in the 50th anniversary of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat at Lincoln Center. She also created the role of Aunt Val in the world premiere of Becoming Nancy, directed and choreographed by Jerry Mitchell. Before that, Vosk finished an acclaimed run as Elphaba in Wicked on Broadway, having played the role for two years. Vosk starred in New York City Ballet's Jerome Robbins tribute Something to Dance About, directed by Warren Carlyle, and re-created the role of Fruma Sarah in the most recent Broadway revival of Fiddler on the Roof. Other Broadway credits include Finding Neverland and The Bridges of Madison County. She starred as Anita in West Side Story with the San Francisco Symphony; the recording of the concert was nominated for a Grammy. Her debut, Billboard-charting solo album Wild and Free was released in 2018 and was followed by 2020's A Very Coco Christmas.
Michael Arden - DirectorMichael Arden is a Tony-nominated director for his revivals of Spring Awakening and Once On This Island, and his new production of PARADE is currently playing on Broadway after a sellout run at New York City Center. Other work includes the Los Angeles premiere of The Pride by Alexi Kaye Campbell, My Fair Lady at the Bay Street Theater, and Annie at the Hollywood Bowl. Michael won an NAACP Award for his production of Merrily We Roll Along at the Wallis Annenberg, where he served as Artist in Residence. His new adaptation of Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol starring Tony winner Jefferson Mays garnered eight Ovation Awards and recently played Broadway this past holiday season. Michael most recently directed the new musical Maybe Happy Ending at the Alliance Theater in Atlanta. He is a Presidential Scholar in the Arts and alumni of the Interlochen Arts Academy and The Juilliard School.
Ted Arthur - Musical DirectorTed Arthur is a New York-based musical director and pianist. He is the International Associate Music Supervisor for Moulin Rouge! and worked on the North American tour and Germany and Korea productions this past year. Most recently, he was the Music Director of the premiere production of Disney's Hercules at Paper Mill Playhouse. He was the Music Director for Diana on Broadway and the Associate Music Director for The Prom. Ted has also worked on Mean Girls, Once On This Island, Dear Evan Hansen and Wicked. Ted is a proud member of MUSE (Musicians United For Social Equity) and on the Board of Trustees for Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS. Ted will be the Music Director of Back To The Future when it comes to Broadway in summer 2023. Additionally, Ted has worked on a number of benefit concerts including Sondheim's 90th Birthday Celebration.
Song List:
Song 1: "This is The Moment" from the Broadway musical Jekyll & HydePerformed by Norm Lewis (vocals) with accompaniment by "The President's Own" United States Military Orchestra
Song 2: "Happy Days Are Here Again" Performed by Lea Salonga and Jessica Vosk (vocals) with accompaniment by "The President's Own" United States Military Orchestra
Song 3: "On My Own" from the Broadway musical Les MiserablesPerformed by Lea Salonga with accompaniment by "The President's Own" United States Military Orchestra 
Song 4: "Don't Rain On My Parade" from the Broadway musical Funny GirlPerformed by Jessica Vosk (vocals) with accompaniment by "The President's Own" United States Military Orchestra
Song 5: "Somewhere" from the Broadway musical West Side StoryPerformed by Norm Lewis, Lea Salonga, and Jessica Vosk with accompaniment by "The President's Own" United States Military Orchestra and Military Choirs



April 26, 202323:25

Pool Report #16
The Broadway singers seemed particularly pumped up during their performances. Lea Salonga and Jessica Vosk almost shook with excitement and gave each other an exuberant high five at the end of their first number, "Happy Days Are Here Again," which had Coalition of the Willing veteran band member Tony Blinken, known as ABliken on Spotify, bopping his head to the beat.
But the big moment of the evening came at the end, when the singers added an encore song, a rendition of Don McLean's iconic "American Pie," saying they had heard it was a favorite of President Yoon's. Yoon clapped along and then afterward, FLOTUS pushed him up on stage, at which point POTUS said that it was a favorite of his sons when they were young too, although they sang one of the famous verses as "drinking whisky and dry" rather than "drinking whiskey and rye" (or alternatively "drinking whiskey in rye," as sometimes interpreted).
"We know this is one of your favorite songs, 'American Pie,'" POTUS said to Yoon.
"Yes, that's true," Yoon said through a Korean translator. "When I was going to school, it was one of my favorite songs."
"We want to hear you sing it," POTUS said.
"It's been a while but…" Yoon replied, not truly resisting.
And then the South Korean president belted out the first few stanzas of the song as the crowd went wild.
POTUS and FLOTUS seemed delighted. "Don't expect me to sing it!" POTUS said.
POTUS said that Don McLean could not be at the White House tonight but sent a signed guitar which he presented to Yoon.
"The next state dinner we're going to have you're looking at the entertainment," POTUS told the audience, meaning Yoon. Then to Yoon, he said, "I had no damn idea you could sing."
We have a lid at 11 p.m.




 
Pool Reports below by Nico Pandi, Jiji Press 



Sent:
Reports:




April 26, 202308:41

Foreign Pool Report #1: Background info ahead of President Yoon's arrival
Good morning,
Yoon Suk Yeol, President of the Republic of Korea (ROK), visits the White House today for a bilateral meeting with President Biden in the morning and State Dinner in the evening. This is the second state visit for the Biden administration following President Macron's trip last December, and it comes as the United States and South Korea celebrate the 70th anniversary of the alliance which was formed in October 1953 following the end of Korean War hostilities.
This visit is the first by a South Korean leader since 2019, and it has been 12 years since the last state visit when President Obama hosted President Lee Myung-bak in October 2011.
Prior to today, the two leaders have had four official engagements since President Yoon took office last year:
- May in South Korea, about 10 days after President Yoon's inauguration
- June in Spain on the sidelines of the NATO Summit; this was a trilateral meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Kishida
- September in New York on the margins of the UNGA
- November in Cambodia on the sidelines of the ASEAN Summit; included a bilateral meeting and trilateral with PM Kishida
(side note: The two also reportedly had a brief chat when they were in London for the funeral of Queen Elizabeth II, but the White House did not provide a readout of that interaction.)
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs declared the theme of this six-day trip as "Alliance in action, toward the future." Some of the major issues the South Korean side will look to address in today's meetings:
- expanding the strategic partnership and strengthening the extended deterrence commitment in light of North Korea's growing nuclear capabilities
- economic security; Korean businesses hurt by certain US policies, especially the auto sector under the Inflation Reduction Act
- trade, particularly supply chain resilience for semiconductors
Expect the war in Ukraine to be discussed; while South Korea has imposed sanctions and export controls on Russia and provided more than $200 million in humanitarian and non-lethal assistance to Ukraine, it has a policy to not deliver weapons to countries engaged in active conflicts. South Korea is the world's ninth largest arms exporter according to the SIPRI Arms Transfers Database.
A brief summary of President Yoon's schedule while in the US is as follows:
Monday: arrived in Washington
Tuesday: meeting with tech and business leaders, visits to the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center and Korean War Veterans Memorial
Wednesday: White House meeting and State Dinner
Thursday: addresses joint session of Congress, luncheon with VP Harris and Sec. Blinken at the Department of State, departs for Boston
Friday: academic events at MIT and Harvard
Saturday: departs for Seoul
Fun fact linking the two leaders: President Yoon and his wife have six dogs and five cats, mostly rescues; President Biden's dog Major was famously the first shelter dog to live at the White House.
Arrival ceremony is scheduled for 10am on the South Lawn.



April 26, 202310:44

Foreign pool report #2: arrival ceremony remarks
Following President Biden's remarks, President Yoon took the podium at 10:36.
I visited the Korean War Memorial last night with President Biden and the saw the epitaph.
Why did they sacrifice their lives? For the noble cause of defending freedom.
Our alliance is forged in blood as a fight for freedom. It's not a transactional alliance. It's an alliance of values for safeguarding freedom
It's a global alliance for freedom, peace, prosperity. I came here to look back at the 70 years of the alliance and look ahead.
Please check transcript for exact quotes as translated.



April 26, 202311:43

Foreign pool report #3: Oval Office remarks
President Yoon spoke for a little over four minutes with translation. As usual, please check against the transcript. The leaders took no questions.
Mr. President, thank you very much for your warm welcome once again. It is indeed meaningful for me to talk to you here at the Oval Office. This is the very place where the presidents of the United States strive to realize a nation that embodies the spirit of the Constitution written by the Founding Fathers.
I suppose that many important decisions regarding the Republic of Korea were also made at this office. I believe that I was only able to be here today as a consequence of all those moments of history.
The journey of the ROK-US alliance over the past 70 years proves that our predecessors' decisions were right and wise.
Korea rose from the ashes of war and has become one of the leading countries of the international community. Now, the ROK-US alliance is not only the linchpin of peace and stability on the Korean peninsula, but also across the globe.
Mr. President, our alliance is an alliance of values based on our shared universal values of freedom and democracy. It is not a contractual relationship of convenience. Guided by our shared values, our alliance is an everlasting partnership. The ROK-US alliance is also resilient. Together we can resolve any issues between us through close consultations.
This is the reason the ROK-US alliance is now transforming into a true, global alliance.
Mr. President, attempts to alter the status quo by force, supply chain fragmentation and disruption, challenges in food and energy security are threatening global peace and stability.
As a values alliance, we can together play a critical role in navigating through all these challenges.
Mr. President, our talks today will set a historic milestone for the alliance, marking a new accord with peace and prosperity of the world as a global alliance.



April 26, 202315:00

Foreign pool report #4: press conference comments
President Yoon described the key outcomes from today's meeting. Please check against transcript, as always.
- Extended deterrence "significantly strengthened" against North Korea's nuclear and missile threats. Announced the Washington Declaration, which calls for immediate bilateral presidential consultations in the event of North Korea's nuclear attack and promises to respond swiftly, overwhelmingly, and decisively using the full force of the alliance including US nuclear weapons.
Established Nuclear Consultative Group to map out the plan to operate the new extended deterrence system, and share information on nuclear and strategic weapons plans in response to North Korean provocations, and consult on ways to plan and execute joint operations.
US will deploy strategic assets to the Korean peninsula constantly and routinely.
- Further strengthen economic security, especially mutual investment in advanced technology including semiconductors, EVs, and batteries. Consulting so that the Inflation Reduction Act and CHIPS Act strengthen supply chain cooperation in advanced technology.
Establishing a dialogue for next generation emerging technologies with the aim of promoting joint R&D and experts exchange.
- Launching the Strategic Cybersecurity Cooperation Framework which serves as foundation on which to address cyberthreats together and boost information sharing.
- Special Exchange Initiatives for Youths
- Strengthen cooperation in addressing regional and global challenges; have agreed to continue efforts to strengthen trilateral cooperation with Japan.
- Agreed to continue supporting Ukraine.
- Discussed plans to take a leadership role in addressing global challenges like climate change, international development, energy and food security
Q. How do you seek to manage the North Korean risk amid obligations to Ukraine and NATO?
A. Korea and the US, based on the Washington Declaration, agreed to strengthen deterrence. The implementation level is different now than in the past. Now we have the Nuclear Consultative Group that will implement discussions and actions. We will have regular consultations under NCG and jointly plan responses, exercises, and implementation plans. These will be strengthened under the NCG.
If nuclear weapons are used, our two countries will strengthen our response in a swift manner.
Q. How does Korea function under the NCG? Any kind of nuclear equipped assets will be in function?
A. In the NCG, we will share information and act jointly. No specifics now, but under the nuclear umbrella our extended deterrence was a lot lower. This is an unprecedented expansion and strengthening of the extended deterrence strategy.
I can say with confidence this is a much stronger level of extended deterrence.
Q. Did recent leaks on the US spying on Korea come up? And did President Biden provide you any assurances?
A. We're communicating and sharing necessary information. I believe an investigation is underway in the US. We need time for the investigation results, and we'll continue to communicate on the matter.
Q. What will be the direct impacts felt by individuals of the general public as a result of the new tech and investment outcomes?
A. Technology cooperation and partnerships in cutting edge science and technology is about strengthening the competitiveness of our two countries and will enhance the productivity and create high added value. For individuals, they will reap benefits wide and comprehensive that stem from these industries, including job creation. Above all, future generations will be given the determination and will to take on new challenges and embrace opportunities in our industries.
The conference ended at 2:19 and the Yoon delegation departed the White House grounds at 2:24.



April 26, 202321:03

Foreign pool report #5: President Yoon toast
President Yoon began speaking at 8:29 following President Biden's remarks. He spoke in Korean, so here are some highlights as translated (please check against the transcript, as always):
Allow me to quote an Irish poet of yours, Seamus Heaney, who once wrote "behavior that's admired is the path to power among people everywhere." (the audience laughed following the Irish poet part, while President Biden laughed and patted President Yoon on the back)
The seeds of the ROK-US alliance, sown in the ruins of the Korean War, have steadfastly grown over the past 70 years to form a rich and dense forest.
The alliance will last another seven decades and beyond, and it will open endless opportunities to future generations of our two countries. And going forward, the ROK-US alliance will take on more roles and responsibilities in order to tackle the complex crises of our times. We will together embrace the future of the alliance undergirded by our shared core values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
There's an old saying and, Mr. President, this one is also Irish. It goes "a good friend is like a four leaf clover: hard to find and lucky to have." (this line was followed by applause from the audience)
Today will be remembered as a historic day where the ROK-US alliance, like a four leaf clover, spreads its new roots, wide beyond the glory of the past seventy years.
Pool was ushered out at 8:36.




 
Pool Reports below by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




April 26, 202319:09

Booksellers pool #1 - dinner guests arrival
Guests began arriving for tonight's state dinner at 6:13 pm.
They come in through a room in the East Wing know as booksellers.
Guests are coming in via the Jacquline Kennedy Rose Garden on this beautiful evening. The door from garden is open with American and South Korean flags on either side of it.
There is a beautiful screen with trees and clouds - along with eagles, tigers and buffalos - decorating the backdrop as they walk through the booksellers and into the bottom floor of White House.
Pool can hear the orchestra music playing at in the reception.
First guest in was Dr. Victor Cha and Mrs. Hyun Cha.
Early guest arrivals include Seung Min Kim and her mom Mi Ryung Chang
Rep. Ami Bera in a purple velvet evening jacket
Frank Biden and Mindy Ward - he did not answer questions on how he will be involved in POTUS' reelection campaign.
Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear and Britainy Beshear.
Gov. Beshear: "This is our first state dinner. Very excited."
Asked if he'll campaign with POTUS: "But this next year, I'm up for election in 2023. And that race is certainly not going to be over what's going on in the White House but going on in the houses around Kentucky."
More: "Our race is going to be very personal. It's going to be about a three year record that we have with Kentuckians."
Wilmington Mayor Michael Purzycki on how he'll be involved in POTUS re-elect: "Anyway he wants me to."
Former Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker, on if the Chicago Dem convention will go well: "Of course it will."
More tk...



April 26, 202319:38

Booksellers pool report #2 - Chloe Kim, Angelina Jolie, Meena Harris and the nuclear football
More quotes from guests:
Snowboarder Chloe Kim, in a beautiful gray gown, said she has lost her Olympic gold medal.
"I am very nervous," Kim said of being at the White House. "The food's gonna be really good."
She said she was last here with the Olympic athletes. Asked if she brought her medal: "I didn't wear my metal. I don't know where it is."
Angelina Jolie arrived in a white dress with her son Maddox. She didn't answer any questions. Maddox was asked about his visit to Seoul and said it was "great."
Lea Salonga said she couldn't say what song she'd be performing at the dinner but is "nervous and excited."
About being at the White House: "It feels wonderful. It feels like being in a fairytale."
Meena Harris, niece of VP Harris, asked how she'll help the re-elect: "Just supporting when I can."
Sen. Tammy Duckworth said POTUS called her Saturday and asked her to serve as a co-chair of his reelection campaign.
Asked what POTUS needs to do to combat questions on his age: "Continue to deliver for American people as he has done all along."
New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy, on how the POTUS re-election will go: "A lot of hard work but he's going to win."
Mitch Landrieu, asked how infrastructure will help the POTUS reelection: "We're building a lot of stuff fast."
Senator Mazie Hironi arrived wearing a blue and pink hanbok: "The whole goal is not to trip on it."
Senator Mitt Romney said he supports Speaker McCarthy's debt bill: "Absolutely. He's now laid out a reasonable proposal it's time for the White House to negotiate that's the way a two-party system works. Which is they both have to come together and work out a compromise. That's what's gotta be done now."
General Mark Milley arrived with an aide behind him carrying his nuclear football.



April 26, 202319:40

Booksellers pool report #3 - Chip and Joanna Gaines, Schumer on feeling "tux-ey"
Chip and Joanna Gaines arrived at 7:01 pm in the last tranche of guests.
Chip Gaines on their trip to Seoul: "Trip of a lifetime for sure."
Asked if she had any design tips for White House, Joanna Gaines: "Oh gosh no."
Chip Gaines: "White interiors and exteriors is just her thing."
Senator Chuck Schumer came in wearing a navy blue suit: "This is as tux-ey as I get."
Samantha Cohen, the daughter of Michael Cohen, came through with Jacob Snow.
Karine Jean-Pierre did a little twirl for the photographers when she came through.
Many many many thanks to co-Poolers Nikki Schwab, Jeff Mason, Francesca Chambers, Roxanne Roberts, Kayla Gardner, and Betsy Klein.
Please let me know if you have any questions or need more quotes/details.
At 7:25 pm that's a wrap from booksellers.



April 28, 202318:39

Booksellers pool report #3 - correction
The Samantha Cohen who attended the State Dinner on Wednesday night was not the Samantha Cohen who is Michael Cohen's daughter.
Pooler regrets the error.




  