
    On Earth Day, President Biden signed an Executive Order to expand his Administration's bold efforts to tackle the climate crisis, make our nation more resilient to extreme weather, and support local economies. America's forests are a key climate solution, absorbing huge amounts of carbon dioxide—much of which is stored in mature and old-growth forests on federal lands.
But with climate change making wildfires more frequent and ferocious, these forests are at risk. Building on the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law's directive to prioritize restoration of these forests, President Biden's Executive Order will safeguard mature and old-growth forests on federal lands, as part of a science-based approach to reduce wildfire risk. The Executive Order will also strengthen reforestation partnerships across the country, combat global deforestation, and advance nature-based solutions that reduce emissions and build resilience—all while creating good-paying jobs.
Ahead of the Executive Order signing in Seattle, Washington, 135 natural resource and climate scientists and 155 advocacy organizations issued letters in support of safeguarding mature and old-growth forests on federal lands. The President's announcement received widespread praise from Members of Congress; state, Tribal, and local leaders; scientists and forest management experts; environmental, conservation, and outdoor recreation advocates; philanthropic institutions; and more.
Members of Congress:
Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chair, Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: "Today's #EarthDay announcement from @POTUS is a win-win that helps protect our forests so they can continue to trap and hold planet-warming CO2, and at the same time ensures local economies that count on our forests and forest products can thrive." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Oregon Senator Ron Wyden, Chair, Senate Finance Committee: "This is welcome news for our entire state heading into wildfire season with Oregonians counting on the Forest Service to marshal all its fire-reduction efforts ASAP as the needed complement to the fire reduction investments I got into the American Rescue Plan. Simply put, President Biden's Earth Day announcement takes on the climate crisis increasingly threatening Oregon's mature forests. This inventory and assessment will provide concrete, science-based data and give solid information for where to focus fire reduction efforts in the urgent need for more active management to restore forest health and resilience before we lose these treasures entirely." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley, Chair, Interior Appropriations Subcommittee: "Combating international deforestation, protecting old-growth forests, and expanding nature-based solutions are all important parts of addressing climate chaos and supporting rural economies. I am glad the Biden Administration is giving these complex issues the attention they deserve and look forward to working with them on what comes next." [Statement, 4/22/22]
California Senator Dianne Feinstein: "To address the wildfire problem in the West, we must combat climate change. I applaud President Biden for this executive order protecting one of the best tools we have in the fight against climate change, our forests, which absorb more than 10% of U.S. greenhouse gases. #EarthDay" [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Hawaii Senator Brian Schatz: "Old-growth forests are critical for carbon sequestration, and protecting them is vital for our planet. This executive order is a welcome step from the Biden Administration to curb deforestation and combat the climate crisis." [Statement, 4/21/22]
New Jersey Senator Cory Booker: "Protecting old-growth forests is essential to combat climate change & protect biodiversity. I commend @POTUS and his administration for recognizing the need to catalogue and protect these forests, and look forward to supporting this effort." [Tweet, 4/21/22]
Washington Senator Patty Murray: "Today I stood by @POTUS as he signed an executive order to help protect old-growth forests—a straightforward but important strategy in the fight against climate change. But we need more. I remain focused on sending landmark climate legislation to his desk to protect our earth." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Arizona Congressman Raúl Grijalva, Chair, House Committee on Natural Resources: "President Biden's Executive Order on nature-based climate solutions comes at a critical juncture. The protection and conservation of nature is a proven, cost-effective climate solution that provides clean water, wildlife, and recreation benefits for millions of people nationwide. The U.S. Department of the Interior, the U.S. Forest Service, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration have tremendous opportunity to better account for climate change in everything from wildfire management to ecosystem restoration. Today's announcement is an important reminder of the many opportunities that still exist for Congress and this administration to enact lasting protection for old-growth forests and other high-value climate and conservation areas." [Statement, 4/21/22]
Florida Congresswoman Kathy Castor, Chair, House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis:"Protecting old-growth forests has the incredible potential to store heat-trapping carbon, keep down temperatures, and help us solve the climate crisis. I applaud President Biden for taking this crucial step to safeguard our natural climate solutions and conserve the biodiversity within them. This announcement also makes progress on our Climate Crisis Action Plan, which calls for creating an inventory of mature and old-growth forests, full of trees that are able to store significantly more carbon than young ones." [Statement, 4/21/22]
Oregon Congressman Peter DeFazio, Chair, House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee: "One of the best tools we have in the fight against climate change is protecting our natural world, particularly our old growth forests which are a leading source of carbon sequestration. Millions of acres of old growth thrive in Oregon, and it should remain that way. I'm glad to see the Biden Administration take a step today to strengthen protections for the old growth and mature forests as part of their carbon reduction plan." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Washington Congressman Adam Smith, Chair, House Armed Services Committee: "I have said time and again that climate change is the greatest existential threat we face as a country. We simply have no time to waste, and the President's action today represents an important step in our fight against climate change by leveraging the benefits of old-growth forests. The EO will help put us on a path to promote forest resiliency and enhance our ability to prevent and fight wildfires, which have had devastating consequences in the Pacific Northwest. But keeping forests in the United States healthy isn't enough alone – this EO reflects the need for the U.S. government to coordinate with our partners around the world to put an end to global deforestation. As we make the transition to a truly green economy, it is critical that we utilize every tool available to combat climate change – today's executive order does just that by enlisting the help of nature in our fight to preserve the planet." [Statement, 4/21/22]
California Congressman Jared Huffman: "As the climate crisis worsens, it's critical for us to protect and restore natural climate solutions. Old-growth forests are vital for natural carbon storage and preserving biodiversity, but they're under threat. I applaud this move by President Biden to lay the groundwork for safeguarding these trees so they can continue to serve as climate strongholds for generations to come." [Statement, 4/21/22]
California Congresswoman Sara Jacobs: "Grateful to @POTUS for taking executive action today to boost our wildfire resilience and starting to address our climate crisis with the urgency it deserves. In California, we know climate change is a matter of life and death, and it's time we start acting like it." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
California Congressman Mike Levin: "Thank you @POTUS for taking action today on #EarthDay to conserve our mature and old-growth forests as a central pillar of U.S. climate action! These forests store carbon, protect wildlife, provide clean drinking water, and are #WorthMoreStanding." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Nevada Congressman Steven Horsford: "Today, on #EarthDay, I'm reminded of why we need to invest in our nation's clean energy future. Our nation is overdue for the key mitigation measures in the bipartisan infrastructure law to ensure clean air and safe drinking water. I applaud President Biden's initiative of protecting our nation's trees and planting new ones as a key, long-term solution to help alleviate the summer heat, protect against forest fires, and purify the air we breathe." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Oregon Congressman Earl Blumenauer: "Protecting old growth and carbon-rich mature forests is critical to our nation's climate mitigation strategy. These forests are our most efficient and effective carbon sinks. They also provide critical habitat for wildlife, protect water quality and quantity, and increase wildfire resiliency. I am pleased the Administration recognizes this and is advancing protections for old growth and mature forests." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Oregon Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici: "Today I am glad to see @POTUS take an important step in safeguarding America's oldest forests. Old-growth forests are an important way to capture carbon and are #WorthMoreStanding." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Virginia Congressman Don Beyer: "President Biden's reforestation initiatives will help ensure we have more old growth forest to absorb carbon dioxide, a key protection from climate change." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Washington Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal: "This is great news. Thank you @POTUS for taking major steps to protect our environment." [Tweet, 4/21/22]
Washington Congressman Derek Kilmer: "As someone who grew up on the Olympic Peninsula, I learned first-hand that economic growth and environmental protection must go hand-in-hand. Today's Executive Order by President Biden is a step forward in protecting our most ecologically diverse and environmentally sensitive areas, while also supporting the health of our working forests and growing the jobs that depend on them. This Executive Order aims to help reduce wildfire risk, combat global deforestation, enhance opportunities for outdoor recreation, and grow sustainable jobs in timber communities. As this is implemented, I'll keep working to ensure we embrace the important role our forests can play in combating the climate crisis – while ensuring that we provide opportunity and predictability for the timber industry and for communities on the Peninsula." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Washington Congressman Rick Larsen: "Headed to Seward Park today to attend the @POTUS event where he will sign this Executive Order to strengthen our forests, boost wildfire resilience and combat global deforestation." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
State, Tribal, and Local Leaders:
Oregon Governor Kate Brown: "Thank you, @POTUS for your partnership in building resilience against hotter, more intense wildfire seasons. Oregon is on the front lines of climate impacts, and creating resilient ecosystems is critical. By taking climate action now, we can, in how we protect our communities, grow our rural economies at the same time––as we work towards a sustainable, equitable future for everyone." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Washington Governor Jay Inslee: "Thank you @POTUS for celebrating Earth Day in WA. This is our moment. It's time for Congress to send clean energy investments to your desk for signature and take historic action on behalf of American workers and families." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Rich Holschuh, Cultural Resource Officer and Citizen of Elnu Abenaki Tribe, Vermont: "The gift of being able to maintain community relationships with mature forest is invaluable to tribal cultural vitality and recovery. These are the places from which Indigenous culture arose, and we need those connections to continue, with respect and responsibility hand-in-hand." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Seattle Mayor Bruce Harrell: We are proud to call Seward Park a City of Seattle park -- located in one of the country's most diverse neighborhoods. @POTUS Biden's executive action to protect forests and take on climate change are critical for our health and future." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Democratic Mayors Association: "Today @POTUS is signing an Executive Order to strengthen America's forests, make our communities more resilient to wildfires and extreme weather, and reduce climate pollution." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Western Leaders Network: "On this #EarthDay, the White House has announced 3 science-based initiatives to #SaveMoreNature. Thank you @POTUS @WHOSTP @WHCEQ @Interior @NOAA for your leadership and working to protect our climate, public health and economies." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Scientists and Forest Management Experts:
Susan Prichard, Research Scientist, University of Washington, School of Environmental and Forest Sciences: "Climate change and wildfires are rapidly changing western landscapes and literally erasing some old forests off the map. Fortunately, there are science-based strategies to better prepare our nation's forests for future fires. In fire-prone landscapes, combinations of thinning, prescribed burning and revitalization of cultural burning practices with Tribal partners can foster greater resilience of old and mature forests to future drought and wildfires. I am pleased to see the Administration pursuing a science-based approach to restore our forests, particularly old and mature forests." [Statement, 4/21/22]
Michael Dombeck, Chief Emeritus U.S. Forest Service and Former Director of the Bureau of Land Management: "This is an essential call to our forest management agencies to become America's boots on the ground and leaders in fighting climate change. The President's action rightly recognizes the important values of mature and old-growth forests—clean water, recreation, carbon, wildlife habitat—and the critical role federal forests have to play in their protection." [Statement, 4/21/22]
Al Sample, Professor of Environmental Science and Policy, George Mason University: "This comprehensive inventory of old-growth and late-successional forests, across all of America's different forest types, will greatly advance our scientific understanding of these complex communities, and how best to ensure that they continue to provide their array of social, economic, cultural, and ecological services to communities across the country. Conserving and sustainably managing America's forests of all kinds is critical in their continuing absorb more than 10% of the nation's carbon emissions, whether it is protecting our temperate rainforests and their deep carbon-rich soils, or proactively restoring fire-prone forests so that they don't themselves become net sources of carbon emissions. This executive order reflects our latest scientific understanding of forests, and the importance of the entire spectrum of forest management--from intensively managed planted forests to forests managed especially for their ability to absorb and secure carbon--to enhancing the resilience of both natural and human communities." [Statement, 4/21/22]
Scott Stephens, Professor of Fire Science and Henry Vaux Professor of Forest Policy, University of California, Berkeley: "US forests adapted to frequent-fire have become increasingly vulnerable to the effects of past fire suppression/exclusion and climate change. Our old-growth forests are some of the most susceptible ecosystems because most of them have been profoundly changed in the last century. Identifying where old-growth forests exist is important but simply drawing a line around them and saying they are protected is not possible in the 21st century. I am happy that the Administration is pursuing a science-based approach that includes Indigenous knowledge to restore and conserve our forests. Treatments such as prescribed fire and restoration thinning can be designed to incorporate local ecologies and in areas previously burned by large high-severity fire, novel reforestation techniques will be considered. There is a massive amount of work to do and it is time to get going." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Environmental, Conservation, and Outdoor Recreation Advocates:
Jad Daley, CEO, American Forests: "America's forests are already a climate action powerhouse, but they have potential to do even more. Our public lands can lead the way by showing how to conserve old growth and other high carbon forests in the face of climate change. This includes science-based management to increase the resilience of these forests to climate-fueled drought, pests and wildfire, and rapid reforestation of areas that have been lost using a climate-resilient mix of tree species planted with innovative approaches. This strong Executive Order directs exactly the science, planning, partnerships, and goal setting we need to maximize climate benefits from our national forests and other federal lands, and takes valuable steps to help facilitate climate-smart forestry across all of America's forests. This will benefit our economy right along with our environment, because caring for our forests generates 27 jobs for each million dollars invested. This Executive Order is especially notable for leaving no nature-based climate solution behind. This includes the direction to use urban trees as a natural defense for escalating extreme heat and air pollution driven by climate change. Treeless neighborhoods can be as much as 20 degrees hotter, putting lives at risk while increasing household energy bills and greenhouse gas emissions alike. Expanding urban tree cover to naturally cool and cleanse the air in lower income neighborhoods and communities of color that systemically lack trees across America's cities is a great step forward on the administration's Justice40 Initiative, and will help create green jobs in neighborhoods where needed most." [Statement, 4/21/22]
Christy Goldfuss, Senior Vice President for Energy and Environment Policy, Center for American Progress: "Old and mature forests are powerhouse carbon stores and a key natural solution to the climate crisis. They protect wildlife and are a source for the clean air and water we all rely on. This order is critical for better understanding the extent of our carbon-absorbing resources and ensuring that nature continues to serve as a foundational climate solution. The results of this inventory and other steps will help secure a future for these valuable places as part of the America the Beautiful initiative and its goal to conserve 30 percent of our lands and waters. Pairing this action with other essential climate investments will help to set the United States on a clear path to achieving our climate goals." [Statement, 4/21/22]
Randi Spivak, Public Lands Program Director, Center for Biological Diversity: "This smart move by President Biden signals to the world that he's serious about protecting forests here at home and abroad. There's no carbon capture technology better than older forests and trees. For the sake of our climate and nature, it's time to stop logging these carbon storing champions on federal forests now. We don't have a moment to lose to secure permanent protection for mature and old growth forests and trees." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Monica Goldberg, Vice President of Landscape Conservation, Defenders of Wildlife: "America's mature and old-growth forests are critical carbon sinks and biodiversity strongholds that provide essential habitat for hundreds of imperiled species across the country. We are encouraged by the President's executive order and hope it leads to vital habitat protections for recovering federally threatened and endangered species from the red-cockaded woodpecker of the Southeast to the marbled murrelet of the Pacific Northwest." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Abigail Dillen, President, Earthjustice: "We applaud President Biden's commitment to protecting and restoring mature and old-growth forests and recognizing the value of forests as a climate solution. We urge this administration to move forward promptly with a simple rule to safeguard federal forests nationwide from logging and other threats as a central pillar of our national climate strategy. The United States can and should be an international leader in implementing forest protections as a remedy against the dual crises of climate change and biodiversity loss, and this is a major step toward safeguarding our federal forests here at home." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Ellen Montgomery, Director, Public Lands Campaign, Environment America: "We welcome the president's Earth Day announcement. We have no time to lose when it comes to protecting our forests both in the United States and across the globe. Our global forests help mitigate climate change by absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and storing it for decades or even centuries. And forests provide habitat for our wildlife and are a critical source of drinking water for our communities. This announcement is a critical step forward not only for the United States but for our role as an international leader in the fight against climate change." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Alex Taurel, Conservation Program Director, LCV: "We welcome President Biden's recognition of the critical role that old forests can play in addressing the climate and biodiversity crises and his commitment to protect these areas. Mature and old-growth forests store large amounts of carbon, provide clean drinking water for communities, and serve as essential habitat for many at-risk species. We are out of time to address the climate crisis, which is why we are counting on the Biden administration to move forward swiftly with a rule to safeguard these old forests from logging and other threats." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Collin O'Mara, President and CEO, National Wildlife Federation: "Nature is one of our most potent allies in the fight against climate change and old growth trees can play an outsized role because of immense amounts of carbon they store. The president's executive order shows that the Biden Administration sees the forests for the trees — recognizing the crucial role that healthy forests play in bolstering resilience, naturally sequestering carbon, providing critical wildlife habitat, and purifying clean water. This inventory of old-growth trees and forest ecosystems will provide a strong foundation for the Biden Administration, forest managers, and communities to identify priorities for forest restoration and conservation, while reducing risks of massive megafires." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Manish Bapna, President and CEO, Natural Resources Defense Council: "The country's mature forests and big trees need to stay put, and President Biden is recognizing that. They've accumulated enormous amounts of carbon and can store it for decades and centuries. We need to respect these 'elders' for their critical role in fighting the climate and biodiversity crises. This ultimately will mean keeping them in the forest. The day has long since passed when Americans relied on federal forests for wood, rural communities have largely transitioned away from using big trees, and the government should help with any remaining transition. President Biden's move to shift federal forest management is an essential step in fighting climate change. And we will be working to make sure federal agencies follow the President's lead to set a global gold standard on forest protection." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Darci Vetter, Global Head of Policy and Government Relations, The Nature Conservancy: "Our forests are both heroes and victims in the story of climate change. The carbon-storing power of trees makes them some of our best solutions for avoiding the worst impacts of climate change, but they are also in danger from the change that's already happening. Today's Executive Order is a clear recognition of the critical role forests play for our climate and our communities. This science-based, cooperative approach to forest conservation and restoration is a smart strategy we should accelerate and amplify." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Anna-Maria Laura, Director of Climate Policy, Ocean Conservancy: "'When nature is lost, so is our opportunity to live in a better world.'" Thank you @POTUS and @BrendaMallory46 @WHCEQ for #EarthDay announcements to better account for the true value of #nature Our future depends on saving what matters most!" [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Steve Pedery, Conservation Director, Oregon Wild: "Protecting America's old-growth forests, and letting new giants grow, is one of the biggest single steps we can take to combat climate change. We thank President Biden for taking this important first step, and we look forward to working with the White House to enact strong, permanent protections for mature and old-growth forests on America's public lands." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Adam Cramer, CEO, Outdoor Alliance: "Land conservation is a crucial tool in the effort to fight climate change. We are grateful to see President Biden taking action to protect old growth forests and address the climate crisis with today's Executive Order. We are pleased that the Executive Order recognizes the important relationship between people and place, as well, foremost in in its inclusion of tribal perspectives but also in its recognition of outdoor recreation opportunities on old growth forests." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Kirin Kennedy, Director, People and Nature Policy, Sierra Club: "Our federal forest lands sequester 35 million metric tons of carbon, making them a natural solution in the toolbox to tackle the climate crisis. Conserving and protecting our remaining old and mature growth trees and forests has been the missing link of U.S. climate policy for decades. We are encouraged by President Biden's leadership today in the hopes forests can be part of the climate solution." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Sam Evans, Senior Attorney and Leader of National Forests and Parks Program, Southern Environmental Law Center: "Most Americans would be surprised to learn that the agencies who manage our federal public lands do not yet have a policy for protecting and restoring old growth forests or for ensuring that our forests are storing carbon to mitigate the climate and biodiversity crises. We applaud the administration for taking an important step today toward recognizing and protecting old growth and mature forests as climate assets. Forests are the original carbon capture technology–protecting old forests that have been sequestering and storing carbon for decades or centuries is a critical step to fight the climate crisis and reestablish U.S. leadership on climate issues. Federally owned forests, especially in the Southeast, have high potential to store more carbon while restoring majestic old growth, protecting biodiversity, and boosting local economies that rely on forest visitation. Taking stock of existing old growth and mature forests is an essential first step, but it's already obvious that we must end logging in our oldest, most carbon-dense, and most resilient publicly owned forests. We look forward to working with the administration to quickly develop policies to protect and restore old-growth forests on federal lands." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Zack Porter, Executive Director, Standing Trees: "Mature and old forests are workhorses, providing essential habitat, clean water, and resilience to droughts and floods. And yet, only 3% of New England forests are allowed to grow old. We can do justice for the climate, biodiversity, and our communities by recovering old-growth forests on federal public lands." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Susan Jane Brown, Wildlands Program Director, Western Environmental Law Center: "Protecting the old growth cathedral forests of the Pacific Northwest has been my passion and profession for decades. These ancient forests provide us with clean water to drink, charismatic wildlife to enjoy, recreational opportunities to experience, and are fundamental to our way of life, particularly for the Indigenous people who have stewarded them for millennia. Protection for these forests is long overdue, and WELC looks forward to working with the Forest Service and BLM to finally accomplish this most worthy goal." [Statement, 4/21/22]
Jamie Williams, President, The Wilderness Society: "The climate science is clear: we must drastically reduce fossil fuel emissions and preserve the power of forests to naturally sequester carbon. President Biden's executive order on conserving and restoring our forests is an important step towards ensuring that national forests continue to be carbon-storing champions. We applaud the administration's commitment to inventory and conserve our remaining old and mature forests. It's imperative that the administration move quickly and engage with Tribes and the broader public to turn today's commitment into a durable policy that protects these forests and the habitat, clean water and climate values they provide in a way that benefits communities. We are eager to help ensure that conservation of our oldest forests is one corner of a comprehensive climate plan for public lands. One that also includes an aggressive wind down of fossil energy production that supports transitioning communities and a rapid ramp up of responsibly-sited renewable energy." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Alaska Wilderness League: "It's time for the U.S. to be an international leader showing the world how important forest conservation is for fighting climate change. Protecting mature forests on federal lands is a critical first step. #ClimateForests @POTUS #ProtectTheTongass" [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Cascadia Wildlands: "It's time for the US to show the rest of the world how important forest conservation is for fighting climate change! Protecting our mature forests and big trees on federal lands is a critical first step! #ClimateForests @POTUS" [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Coalition to Protect America's National Parks: "'When nature is lost, so is our opportunity to live in a better world.' Thank you @POTUS and @BrendaMallory46 @WHCEQ for your #EarthDay announcements to better account for the true value of #nature to communities - all of us - who depend on it!" [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Corazón Latino: "BREAKING: Thank you @POTUS for leading the way to enhance nature's ability to support the health, wellbeing and economic security of all Americans. The new National Nature Assessment will help us better understand how #nature helps everyday Americans." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Earth Island Institute: "Today @POTUS will sign an executive order to safeguard mature and old-growth forests.  "The nation's older forests hold the keys to our climate future as natural climate solutions," said @DDellasala with Earth Island's Wild Heritage." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Environmental Protection Network: "@POTUS is celebrating #EarthDay with an executive order to safeguard mature and old-growth forests on federal lands, as part of a science-based approach to reduce wildfire risk. #EarthDay2022" [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Healthy Ocean Coalition: "Thank you @POTUS for your commitment to fighting climate change by conserving mature and old growth forests. #ClimateForests are #WorthMoreStanding! @forestservice @USDA @BLMNational #LetTreesGrow" [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Inland Ocean Coalition: "Thank you @POTUS @WHOSTP @WHCEQ @Interior @NOAA for your science-based leadership on #EarthDay to #SaveMoreNature! The new National Nature Assessment will help achieve our climate, health, environmental justice & economic goals." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Moms Clean Air Force: "#EarthDay, @POTUS will sign a new EO to protect our forests and boost wildfire resilience. We need @POTUS' proposed investments in climate, justice & jobs. #ClimateFriday" [Tweet, 4/22/22]
The Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership: "A new executive order aims to strengthen America's forests, boost wildfire resilience, and combat deforestation. We agree with the administration that our forests are critically important in preventing the worst effects of climate change. Responsible forest stewardship includes both active management and the conservation of mature forests. We look forward to the hunting and fishing community being involved in this process." [Tweet, 4/22/22]
Philanthropic Institutions
Fred Ackerman-Munson, Executive Director, 444S Foundation: "You can't protect our mature and old growth forests if we don't know where they are. This inventory is such an important step towards protecting the values these forests provide all Americans - carbon storage, clean water, and wildlife habitat. We are proud to be supporting the Administration's efforts to catalogue and ultimately protect these critical resources!" [Statement, 4/22/22]
Shoren Brown, Interim Executive Director, Conservation Alliance: "Old growth and mature forests aren't just good for storing carbon, they provide jobs. Outdoor recreation on national public lands supports 4.6 million jobs in the outdoor industry. The Conservation Alliance and our member companies are thankful to the Biden Administration for starting the process to catalogue and ultimately protect our vital national forests." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Al Jubitz, Jubitz Family Foundation: "I am personally excited that President Biden is moving forward with cataloging and preserving old growth and mature forests on our public lands. Forest Service lands supply drinking water for one in five Americans. Where they remain, old forests protect the headwaters of many streams and rivers. These places provide vital spawning habitat for species like salmon and benefit biodiversity overall. Thank you President Biden for moving toward protecting these irreplaceable assets." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Bill Lazar, Lazar Foundation: "We have dedicated our family Foundation's assets for decades to protect our prized forests here in the Pacific Northwest. Mature forests are tomorrow's old growth. To meet our climate goals and to enhance biological diversity, we need to protect these forests so they can benefit humanity in the years to come. I look forward to working with the Administration to catalogue and protect our mature and old growth forests across the U.S." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Eric Artz, President and CEO, REI Co-op: "REI Co-op has advocated for the stewardship of our public lands for over eight decades. Protecting our national forests allows our natural spaces to sequester carbon, improves nearby watersheds and strengthens local economies. We thank the Biden Administration for preserving these spaces, which will keep our forests and communities healthy for generations to come." [Statement 4/22/22]
Avi Garbow, President, Resources Legacy Fund: "Resources Legacy Fund applauds President Biden's executive order advancing 'climate smart' protection of America's forests. It strategically expands the nation's arsenal in the ongoing battle against climate change and biodiversity loss by conserving mature and old growth trees on US federal lands in California and across the country, to ensure lasting carbon sequestration and protection of wildlife, watersheds, and communities. In California, where catastrophic wildfire has become the 'new normal,' we must pursue this effort though a robust collaboration that includes the state, Tribes, and other stakeholders, to develop science-based forest conservation and restoration strategies that address the risks that climate-driven wildfires pose to our forests. RLF looks forward to working with the Biden administration—including the Interior and Agricultural departments, the US Forest Service, and the Bureau of Land Management—to bring this historic presidential action to fruition." [Statement, 4/22/22]
Paul Beaudet, Executive Director, Wilburforce Foundation: "We applaud President Biden's recognition of the irreplaceable value of mature and old growth forests to both wild and human communities: clean water, clean air, carbon storage, biodiversity, and essential fish and wildlife habitat, as well as healthy and robust local economies. Starting with an inventory and analysis of our federal forests across agencies nationwide is an excellent step towards protecting these values, and we look forward to working with the administration to advance science-based forest protections and restoration throughout the West." [Statement, 4/22/22]
  