
    
  National Taxpayers Union awards Dr. Paul its top grade for defending overtaxed Americans

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — Congressman and 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was recently awarded an 'A' rating for a yearlong voting record of defending American taxpayers. Specifically, the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) conferred its 2011 Taxpayers' Friend Award on the 12-term Congressman from Texas for "consistently voting to reduce the burden on America's taxpayers." Of the 15 times since 1997 that the NTU has graded Ron Paul on taxpayer friendliness, Dr. Paul received 15 'A' awards.
In its announcement, the NTU notes that it performs a comprehensive analysis of every vote on tax and fiscal policy each year to determine a Member's voting record on issues of importance to taxpayers. This year the NTU compiled an exhaustive 337 votes in the House of Representatives and 234 in the Senate, and just 53 Members of Congress including Dr. Paul received an 'A' rating. In the House, Dr. Paul scored in the top four with his colleagues Rep. John Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), Ed Royce (R-CA), and John Campbell (R-CA). For the full NTU 33rd annual Rating of Congress announcement, please click here.
"We're pleased yet unsurprised that Ron Paul earned the NTU's top rating for the year 2011. In principle and in practice, Dr. Paul is the nation's number-one advocate for constitutionally-limited government, which necessarily means an end to federal taxes that burden American workers, households, and enterprises," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"Dr. Paul stands out from the crowd of elected officials and presidential candidates of both parties with a frequently-articulated, refreshingly-candid antipathy toward taxing the fruits of one's labor. He will continue to fight for the rights of taxpayers as President and as an involved citizen, as NTU members do," added Mr. Benton.
Founded in 1969, and with 362,000 members, the NTU is one of the nation's premier independent, non-partisan taxpayer advocacy groups. The organization operates at all levels of government, mobilizing elected officials and the general public on behalf of tax relief and reform, lower and less wasteful spending, individual liberty, and free enterprise. For more on the NTU, please click here.
  