
    Today, New Mexico Senator Tom Udall announced his endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States. Senator Udall joins Congresswoman and former Warren for President National Co-Chair Deb Haaland who also endorsed Biden yesterday. Udall is the 18th Senator to endorse Biden.
Udall issued the following statement announcing his endorsement of Biden:
"Joe Biden will defeat Donald Trump and he will be an outstanding president for all Americans. Vice President Biden will stand up for working people who have been left behind by this president, and he will restore the soul of this nation that has come under attack from President Trump. I am enormously proud to endorse Vice President Biden, and I will do everything I can to make sure he wins New Mexico in the fall and puts an end to the disastrous nightmare of the Trump presidency once and for all.
"I want to thank Senator Sanders for the incredible race he has run, and all that he has done to put the concerns and priorities of working families first. Bernie has been an incredible partner in the Senate, and I have been deeply proud to work with him to advance our shared values of universal health care, protecting our environment, and stopping endless war. I know that Bernie will never stop fighting for working people and for the progressive values that must define our path forward, and that he will continue to be a leading voice in our coalition. I am confident that we will have a unified Democratic Party in November that is ready to beat Donald Trump.
"This is the most consequential election in a generation. We cannot afford four more years of Donald Trump. President Trump's incompetent, slow, and utterly dysfunctional response to the coronavirus pandemic -- which will hit working families the hardest -- shows why we urgently need a leader like Vice President Biden to steer us through these challenging times. In my state of New Mexico, Latinos, Native American communities and other communities of color are disproportionately impacted by this crisis. They are the essential workers who have been called to serve during this pandemic- as health care workers, doctors, nurses, grocery store employees, emergency responders, our police and law enforcement and other essential positions. They are the exposed heroes that Vice President Biden will put first.
"We need a President Biden because he will put working people first -- instead of giving massive tax breaks and favors to the rich and special interests and paying for it by trying to cut Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, as President Trump has done. We need Joe's leadership to protect the Affordable Care Act and New Mexicans' health care -- instead of trying to repeal the ACA, as President Trump has done. We need a president like Joe who will reverse the catastrophic damage done to our planet, environment, clean air and water -- instead of letting big polluters write the rules, as President Trump has done.
"We need a president who will honor and uphold our obligations to Native Americans, not allow the desecration of their lands and show continued disregard for the rights and welfare of Indian Country, as President Trump has done.
"And we need a president like Joe who will repair our badly broken democracy and institutions -- instead of ushering in unprecedented corruption and self-dealing, as President Trump has done.
"I have been proud to stand with Joe Biden for decades, through nearly every chapter of his devoted public service. I have seen firsthand the kind of president he will be. I could not be more honored to support him today.
"After four years of President Trump putting himself and his rich and powerful friends ahead of everyone else — and four years of President Trump's disastrous cruelty and dysfunction, which have had devastating consequences — we need clear-eyed, principled, and steadfast leadership for the working families of New Mexico and this nation. The leader we need is Joe Biden."
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  