
    
  Sen. Cruz raises $4 million, campaigns in Iowa and South Carolina

HOUSTON, Texas – Last week the Cruz campaign announced it raised $4 million in only 8 days, showing a tremendous amount of support from grassroots activists and large-dollar donors alike. In addition, Cruz drew overflow crowds at campaign stops across Iowa and South Carolina. A roundup of some of the coverage is below:
Washington Post: In a Swing Across Iowa, Ted Cruz Packs in the Crowds with a Conservative Call
"On a two-day, five-stop swing that took him from Sioux City to Dubuque County, Cruz was greeted by enthusiastic crowds packed into stuffy auditoriums and large ballrooms. ...Cruz is the first major presidential contender to announce his candidacy, and he is having a moment. He has broken into the top tier of candidates, according to recent polls — including a Washington Post-ABC News survey this week showing him trailing only Jeb Bush among Republicans and GOP-leaning independents."
Quad City Times: Ted Cruz Makes Iowa Stop
"Texas Senator Ted Cruz walked in to a standing ovation, at a town hall meeting at Morningside College Wednesday."
Radio Iowa: Cruz Draws Overflow Crowd in Sioux City
"An overflow crowd of more than 300 gathered at Morningside College in Sioux City Wednesday afternoon to hear Texas Senator Ted Cruz, the first Republican candidate to formally enter the 2016 presidential race... Cruz got extended applause from the crowd when he said marriage is a 'holy sacrament' that is 'the union of one man and one woman'....Every one of the 160 seats in the Morningside College Auditorium was filled and organizers set up three other rooms to accommodate the overflow crowd of students and GOP activists who showed up to see Cruz."
Washington Post: Ted Cruz Raises $4 Million in Just Over a Week
"Sen. Ted Cruz has raised $4 million in the eight days since officially launching his White House bid, his campaign confirmed Wednesday night... He raised $1 million within a day of his formal announcement, and $2 million within the first three days, according to his campaign. Cruz's campaign said bundlers accounted for one-third of the money raised and that 300 donors maxed out on their contributions to Cruz."
Iowa Republican: Cruz Control – Ted Cruz Impresses on First Trip as Official Candidate
"Cruz's brand of politics has not made him a lot of friends inside the beltway, but it has made him a hero to many conservative Republican activists. As Cruz traveled across Iowa on Wednesday and Thursday, large enthusiastic crowds greeted him. And Cruz didn't disappoint those who came out to see him. He was on top of his game...The rollout of Cruz's presidential campaign couldn't have gone any better."
Des Moines Register: Sen. Ted Cruz Gets Warm Welcome in First Iowa Visit as Candidate
"Cruz on Wednesday began to make a case for why he's capable of being commander in chief — and started the hard work campaigning Iowa-style, which requires not only provocative speeches but also the one-on-one work of answering activists' questions over and over in cafes and back rooms."
Breitbart: Sen. Ted Cruz Surging in Polls Since Announcement
"The early bird is getting the worm when it comes to the 2016 Presidential race, as Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) is reaping the benefits of being the first to officially enter the race. Recent public polling shows a surge of support for Cruz among Republican primary voters."
KVUE (TX): Cruz Rockets Upward Following 2016 Campaign Launch
"It's a significant jump for Cruz, who was polling in the single digits before becoming the first to formally announce his presidential campaign during a March 23 speech at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Virginia. Surveys by Fox News and Public Policy Polling during the same time period show similar numbers, moving Cruz into the top tier of GOP candidates."
WCSC (SC): Presidential Candidate, Senator Ted Cruz Visits the CSRA
"Senator Cruz's decision to get a head start in this campaign has already pushed the 2016 elections in gear sending him across the state, reaching many in just a week. 'I think people are hungry,' said Cruz. 'They are hungry for a leader that'll tell them the truth. They are hungry for someone to do what he says he'll do.' Close to three-hundred people joined the Aiken Republican Party in support of Senator Cruz's run."
Greenville Online: Cruz Gets Bump in New SC poll
"For Cruz, it was a jump of 11 percentage points since Feb. 24/25, when Townhall/Gravis surveyed 792 South Carolina Republicans and found just 2 percent favoring the conservative firebrand as the GOP presidential nominee."
  