
    Today, Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters released the following statements endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Joe Biden has always had our backs in Michigan," said Senator Stabenow. "Time after time, he has been there for us when it really counted. Whether it's standing with our auto industry during the 2009 crisis, protecting our Great Lakes or making sure people have health care, Joe Biden understands our Michigan way of life. I'm honored to call Joe my friend. I've worked with him as a colleague in the U.S. Senate and as Vice President and have seen first-hand how he puts workers and their families first every day. For these reasons and so many more, I enthusiastically support Joe Biden to be our next President of the United States. And, I am committed to working hard to achieve his victory. I am confident the people of Michigan will be there for him in November just as he has always been there for us."
"Now more than ever we need a steady leader that can bring our country together to find common ground and solve the tough challenges ahead of us," said Senator Peters. "Throughout this primary, I've said that the Democratic nominee must put Michigan and the issues that matter to our state first – like lowering the cost of prescription drugs, protecting our Great Lakes, and increasing skills training to create more opportunities for good-paying jobs. And I'm supporting Joe Biden because I believe he's the person that will do just that. I am proud to endorse Joe Biden because he's always been there for Michigan. From standing with our state in rescuing the auto industry to providing economic stimulus to guide our communities out of the financial crisis – Joe has shown that he'll continue to be a champion for Michigan's middle-class families and workers."
Senators Stabenow and Peters join more than 100 prominent Michigan leaders supporting Biden, including Governor Gretchen Whitmer – a Biden for President National Co-Chair; Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II; former Governor Jennifer Granholm; former Michigan Senator Carl Levin; Congresswomen Brenda Lawrence, Elissa Slotkin, and Haley Stevens; the Michigan Democratic Party Black Caucus; Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan; and additional state legislators, mayors, and leaders from across Michigan.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  