
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate key additions to his Administration.
Marshall Billingslea of Virginia to be Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing, Department of the Treasury. Mr. Billingslea of Virginia will serve as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Terrorist Financing. Billingslea currently serves as Managing Director, Business Intelligence Services for Deloitte Advisory, with a focus illicit finance. Billngslea has over a decade of Federal Government experience. He previously served in the U.S. Department of Defense as: Deputy Under Secretary of the Navy; Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict; Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Negotiation Policy. Billingslea's international experience includes serving as NATO Assistant Secretary General for Defense Investment. He has also worked on Capitol Hill on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Billingslea has been awarded the Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service by the Secretary of Defense. He earned his master's degree from the Fletcher School of Tufts University and a Bachelor of Arts from Dartmouth College.
Gilbert B. Kaplan of Washington, District of Columbia to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade. Mr. Kaplan is a partner at King & Spalding, in the International Trade Group. While at the firm, he filed and won the first ever successful United States anti-subsidy cases against China (on coated paper and standard pipe). He is the co-founder of the Manufacturing Policy Initiative at Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs, the first and only university program in the country focusing on what public policy actions should be taken to revitalize United States manufacturing. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary and the First Acting Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Import Administration, where he supervised over 500 trade remedy cases. He was a key negotiator of the United States-Japan Semiconductor Agreement. Previously, he was the Director of the Office of Investigations at the Department of Commerce, in charge of day-to-day trade remedy law administration. He is a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School.
John Marshall Mitnick of Virginia to be General Counsel at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Mitnick currently serves as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, D.C. After arriving there in 2014, he organized the first Office of General Counsel and reports directly to the President and Chief Executive Officer while leading the Foundation's legal, compliance, and corporate secretary functions. Before arriving at Heritage, Mr. Mitnick served as Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary at Raytheon Technical Services Company in Dulles, Virginia. There, he led the legal, compliance, corporate governance, ethics, and environmental, health, and safety functions. He also previously served in the White House as Associate Counsel to President George W. Bush from 2005 to 2007 and Deputy Counsel of the Homeland Security Council from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Mitnick's previous experience at DHS includes serving in the Transition Planning Office (2002-2003) and then as Associate General Counsel for Science and Technology until 2004. He received law degrees from the University of Virginia School of Law and Oxford University, and he holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in History and Political Science from Emory University.
John J. Sullivan of Maryland to be Deputy Secretary of State and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources. Mr. Sullivan is a partner in the Washington D.C. office of Mayer Brown LLP, and co-chair of the firm's national security practice. He served from 2010 to 2016 as the Chair of the United States-Iraq Business Dialogue, a governmental advisory committee on United States economic relations with Iraq. In addition to his decades of experience in private practice, Mr. Sullivan has held senior positions at the Justice, Defense, and Commerce Departments. He served until 2009 as the Deputy Secretary of Commerce, following his service from 2005 to 2007 as General Counsel. Previously, he was Deputy General Counsel of the Defense Department, and served as Counselor to Assistant Attorney General J. Michael Luttig at the Justice Department. A native of Boston, MA, Mr. Sullivan received his bachelor's degree from Brown University and his law degree from the Columbia University School of Law. Mr. Sullivan was a law clerk for Associate Justice David H. Souter of the Supreme Court of the United States, and for Judge John Minor Wisdom of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
  