
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House)(Brown (D) California)
H.R. 4364, as ordered reported by the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, authorizes a total of $15,253 million for NASA in FY 1993. This is an increase of $260 million above the President's budget request. The Administration is pleased that this bill fully funds Space Station Freedom, with its important international participation, at a level of $2,250 million. This funding level will support the launch and assembly of the first elements of Space Station Freedom by early 1996. If the Congress were to adopt an amendment to reduce substantially or terminate funding for Space Station Freedom, the President's senior advisors would recommend that he veto this bill.
The Administration is pleased that H.R. 4364 strongly supports important NASA programs in space science, space transportation, aeronautics, space technology, and transatmospheric research.
The Administration would support H.R. 4364 if it were modified to provide greater flexibility to craft a balanced civil space program irrespective of the total NASA appropriation level. Dividing the NASA budget into "core" programs in Title I and "special initiatives" in Title II is not objectionable in principle. However, the Administration objects to provisions that would not authorize any appropriations for important programs in Title II if NASA's total appropriation does not exceed $14.3 billion (roughly the FY 1992 level).
In addition, the Administration strongly urges the Congress to amend H.R. 4364 as follows.

—   Provide increased funding for the New Launch System to support additional technology development for the Space Transportation Main Engine.
—   Delete language that would authorize partial funding for the Advanced Solid Rocket Motor (ASRM) program if the total NASA FY 1993 appropriation is less than requested. The Administration did not request funding for the ASRM program, and is prepared to work with the Congress toward the possibility of continuing support for the ASRM only if NASA's total FY 1993 allocation exceeds the President's budget request.
—   Delete funding earmarked for other programs not in the President's budget request, such as the Shuttle Test of Relativity Experiment and the Consortium for International Earth Science Network (CIESIN). The President has proposed to rescind FY 1992 appropriations that were earmarked for the construction of CIESIN.
—   Eliminate language in Section 309 that prohibits the Department of Transportation from collecting user fees for activities authorized under the Commercial Space Launch Act unless such fees are specifically authorized in that act.
—   Amend Section 316, regarding the use of domestic products, by adding the following language: "This section shall not apply to the extent to which the President determines that its application would be inconsistent with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or any other international agreement to which the United States is a party." 
  