
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Within the last few years, we have witnessed remarkable changes around the globe. The defeat of oppression and the ascendancy of democracy and free market systems have brought a new world full of opportunities and challenges. Nowhere has the march toward positive change—political, economic, and social—been more dramatic or more complete than in our own hemisphere.
From North to South, more citizens of the Americas are enjoying the fruits of liberty than ever before. Principles fundamental to democracy, such as acceptance of the rule of law and respect for human rights, continue to gain ground. There is no question that this hemisphere is well on its way to becoming a beacon of liberty and democracy for the whole world.
The interdependence of nations is greater than ever because democracy, human rights, market economics, and good governance are ideas that are rapidly maturing throughout the Americas. They form an enduring foundation for sustainable and mutually beneficial economic growth and development. A renewed partnership between nations of this hemisphere will further these ideas, thus ensuring lasting security for future generations.
The approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement was an historic achievement and one that is crucial in this process. Beginning with Canada and Mexico, it will build a bridge of greater economic and political cooperation. It will serve as the model for our future relationships with the region. It will advance the vision of a community of nations committed to democracy, bound together by open markets and rising standards of living and dedicated to the peaceful resolution of disputes.
Over a century ago, representatives of the nations of this hemisphere met in Washington to establish the International Union of the American Republics. Accepting the tenets of democracy, peace, security, and prosperity, these member nations made a firm commitment to mutual cooperation. The Union's successor, the Organization of American States (OAS), has furthered this commitment. I applaud and encourage the activity of the OAS in this pursuit to ensure that worldwide changes create a hemisphere of peace and prosperity.
We can take great pride in accomplishments already achieved in the Americas. But there is much work to be done. Later this year, I will host a summit of the democratically elected leaders of our hemisphere. The Summit of the Americas will have two broad themes: democracy and good governance; and trade expansion, investment, and sustainable development. The Summit will be an historic opportunity for our nations to recognize explicitly this convergence of democratic and free market values and to chart a course for the future.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim Thursday, April 14, 1994, as "Pan American Day" and the week of April 10 through April 16, 1994, as "Pan American Week." I urge the Governors of the 50 States, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and officials of other areas under the flag of the United States of America to honor these observances with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  