
    To the Senate of the United States:
In accordance with the obligations of the Government of the United States of America as a member of the International Labor Organization, I transmit herewith authentic texts of three conventions and two recommendations formulated at the twenty-ninth session of the International Labor Conference, held at Montreal from September 19 to October 9, 1946.
Those conventions and recommendations are as follows:
Convention (No. 77) concerning medical examination for fitness for employment in industry of children and young persons;
Convention (No. 78) concerning medical examination of children and young persons for fitness for employment in nonindustrial occupations;
Convention (No. 79) concerning the restriction of night work of children and young persons in nonindustrial occupations;
Recommendation (No. 79) concerning the medical examination for fitness for employment of children and young persons; and
Recommendation (No. 80) concerning the restriction of night work of children and young persons in nonindustrial occupations.
I transmit also the report of the Acting Secretary of State regarding those conventions and recommendations, together with a copy of a letter addressed by the Secretary of Labor to the Secretary of State with respect to those conventions and recommendations.
In view of the opinions expressed by the Acting Secretary of State and the Secretary of Labor in the enclosed report and letter, I do not request at this time advice and consent to ratification of the three conventions or legislation to implement the three conventions and two recommendations transmitted herewith. Upon the entry into force of the Constitution of the International Labor Organization instrument of amendment, which is expected to occur soon, it is planned that further referral of the enclosed conventions and recommendations be made under the provisions of article 19 of the revised constitution. The request that no action be taken at present with respect to approval or implementation of the enclosed instruments should not be construed in any sense, therefore, as a rejection on the part of the United States of America of those instruments or of the principles set forth therein.
I am also referring the texts of the conventions and recommendations to the House of Representatives.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
  