
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to sections 123 b. and 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(b), (d)), the text of a proposed Agreement for Cooperation Between the United States of America and the Republic of Hungary Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy with accompanying annex and agreed minute. I am also pleased to transmit copies of my written approval, authorization, and determination concerning the agreement; the memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the agreement; and the joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy, which includes a summary of the provisions of the agreement and various other attachments, including agency views.
The proposed agreement with the Republic of Hungary has been negotiated in accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended by the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978 and as otherwise amended. In my judgment, the proposed agreement meets all statutory requirements and will advance the non-proliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States. It provides a comprehensive framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between the United States and Hungary under appropriate conditions and controls reflecting our strong common commitment to nuclear non-proliferation goals.
Hungary has always been a strong supporter of nuclear non-proliferation. It was an original signatory of the 1968 Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and has consistently and actively supported the Treaty in subsequent years. Hungary has been a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) since the Agency's inception and has given firm and consistent support to the Agency's program of nuclear safeguards. It has also cooperated with the United States in efforts to prevent the politicization of the Agency. In the field of physical security, Hungary has implemented responsible measures governing its own nuclear program, and has ratified the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials. Hungary is also committed to implementing a responsible nuclear export policy and to establishing a multilateral system of nuclear-related dual-use export controls. It adheres to the NPT Exporters Committee ("Zangger Committee") Guidelines and to the London Nuclear Supplier Guidelines, and its nuclear exports are also guided by a requirement for full-scope safeguards from recipients.
I believe that peaceful nuclear cooperation with Hungary under the proposed agreement will be fully consistent with, and supportive of, our policy of responding positively and constructively to the process of democratization and economic reform in Eastern Europe. Cooperation under the agreement will also provide opportunities for U.S. business on terms that fully protect vital U.S. national security interests.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed agreement and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
Because this agreement meets all applicable requirements of the Atomic Energy Act, as amended, for agreements for peaceful nuclear cooperation, I am transmitting it to the Congress without exempting it from any requirement contained in section 123 a. of that Act. This transmission shall constitute a submittal for purposes of both sections 123 b. and 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act. The Administration is prepared to begin immediately the consultations with the Senate Foreign Relations and House Foreign Affairs Committees as provided in section 123 b. Upon completion of the 30-day continuous session period provided for in section 123 b., the 60-day continuous session period provided for in section 123 d. shall commence.
George Bush
The White House,
April 16, 1991.
  