
    The President today announced his intention to nominate Lois H. Herrington to be an Assistant Attorney General (Office of Justice Assistance, Research, and Statistics), Department of Justice.
Mrs. Herrington is an attorney at law and served as Chairman of the President's Task Force on Victims of Crime, which issued its final report in January 1983.
Mrs. Herrington was born in Seattle, Wash., on December 6, 1939, and graduated from San Mateo High School, San Mateo, Calif., in 1957. She is a graduate of the University of California, Davis, where she received her A.B. degree with honors in political science in 1961. Mrs. Herrington received her LL.B. and J.D. degrees at the University of California, Hastings College of the Law, San Francisco, Calif., in 1965. Mrs. Herrington practiced law for 10 years as a private attorney before joining the Alameda County district attorney's office in Oakland, Calif., as a deputy district attorney in 1976. During her time as a deputy district attorney, her responsibilities included work on misdemeanor and felony trial staffs, handling a broad cross section of eases from petty theft to murder. In addition, she supervised arraignment departments, law and motion case readiness calendars, felony preliminary hearings, and superior court juvenile division actions. Mrs. Herrington was a member of the office of felony task force, with primary responsibility for case evaluation and charging and supervision and training of newer deputies. In addition to her general duties, she screened all sexual assault and child abuse cases.
Mrs. Herrington has served as a member of the Alameda County Women's Coalition on Domestic Violence; a member of the California Sexual Assault Investigators and District Attorney's Conference; a coordinator for probation and courts for domestic violence diversion programs; a participant in the National Juvenile Conference of Juvenile Justice and Judge's Seminars; a coordinator of the drug diversion and education program, where she received the outstanding Community Service Commendation awarded by the Concord Policy Department; and was a member of the Contra Costa County Child Development Council. In addition, Mrs. Herrington has had advanced studies in psychology at the University of California; has served as a senior vocational counselor at Pacifica High School in Pittsburg, Calif.; has been a member of the Citizens Coordinating Committee for the city of Walnut Creek; a member of the drug education training program in the Orinda School District; a representative to the American Field Service Selection Committee; and a senior adviser to the Bay Area Chapter of the U.S.O. In addition, Mrs. Herrington has been employed as a senior girls counselor at the city and county of San Francisco Juvenile Hall and has worked as a probation officer in San Joaquin County, Calif.
Mrs. Herrington's professional associations include the American Bar Association, the California Bar Association, the Alameda County Bar Association, the California District Attorney's Association, the Queen's Bench Association, and the Hastings Law School Alumni Association.
Mrs. Herrington is married and resides in McLean, Va. She and her husband have two daughters, Lisa Marie (age 17) and Victoria Jean (age 16), currently enrolled in a local public high school.
  