
    Pool Reports by Cassie Semyon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




April 28, 2023 18:42

VP Supplemental Pool #1
It's a soggy and damp Friday evening here at the White House. We are heading to the Salamander Hotel, where the Vice President will deliver remarks at a DNC Finance Dinner.
Pool was loaded into a van on West Executive Avenue around 6:20pm. Pool did not see the VP.
Rolling to the Salamander Hotel at 6:41pm.


April 28, 2023 19:02

VP Supplemental Pool #2
After a quick drive, the motorcade pulled up to the Salamander Hotel at 6:46pm. Pool did not see the VP exit the vehicle. Pool was brought through the front entrance of the hotel, then taken down to the lower level. Spotted mingling with the crowd was Congresswoman Lauren Underwood and Senator Bob Casey before your pooler was ushered away to the room where press is holding. More tk.


April 28, 2023 20:45

VP Supplemental Pool #3
Pool was taken into the ballroom at 8:17pm while dinner was being served. Pool was seated to the side of the stage. Jamie Harrison, DNC Chairman, introduced the Second Gentleman, who gave brief remarks about "finishing the job" and that he would "continue spreading the word" of the work being done by "two amazing leaders," referencing Biden and Harris. He then introduced the VP.
VP entered at 8:22pm to Bill Withers "Lovely Day" and a standing ovation by the crowd. She took the mic and walked around the stage during her speech.
Some quotes:
"We want leadership in our country that understands that the true strength of leadership is not measured based on who you beat down. It is measured based on who you lift up."
"There are supposedly leaders who have been passing or proposing laws to make it more difficult for the people to vote. This is a national agenda that is at play. But I think part of it a backlash because of the progress we have in 2020 during a pandemic, where more people turned out to vote than ever before because of the work that you're doing."
"The stakes are very high. And you know, sometimes, during the course of the work we've all been doing over the years, we've referred to a year such as 2023 as an off year. Well, I will say to the friends here that is dated language. Every year is an election year in terms of why there's so much at stake and each one of these days leading up to the election will matter."
VP hit the administration's greatest hits, including insulin caps and lead pipe infrastructure, expanding broadband access, climate change ("I'm looking at you Tom Steyer," said the VP, though your pooler did not spot him).
No mention of Trump of MAGA as Biden mentioned in his speech (h/t to Susan on the Presidential pool today).
VP wrapped at 8:37pm after speaking for about 15 minutes, exiting to "Lovely Day."
Otter of full remarks: https://otter.ai/u/lZ_xIWG2zVugKAiqPYtH4ilvUes
VP exited the building and motorcade rolled at 8:40pm. Pooler did not see the VP exit or get in the vehicle.
That's it for me! Have a good night!



  