
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual and appoint 19 individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Susan C. Schwab of Maryland, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 20, 2005. Dr. Schwab is Dean of the University of Maryland School of Public Affairs. Earlier in her career, she was Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General for the United States and Foreign Commercial Service division. Prior to that position, Dr. Schwab served as Legislative Director for Senator John C. Danforth. She earned her B.A. from Williams College, and went on to earn her M.A. from Stanford University and her Ph.D. from George Washington University.
The President intends to appoint Hattie Daniels-Rush of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
The President intends to appoint Michael Sade of Virginia, to be a Member of the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations for two-year terms:
The President intends to appoint Charles Edward Kruse of Missouri.
The President intends to appoint Steven James McCormick of Virginia.
The President intends to appoint Kevin Barney Rollins of Texas.
The President intends to appoint Robert Lee Wright of Georgia.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Commissioners of the Ohio River Valley Water Sanitation Commission:
The President intends to appoint Stuart Fred Bruny of Ohio.
The President intends to appoint Kenneth Stanley Komoroski of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to appoint Donald Stephen Welsh of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to reappoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation for two-year terms expiring May 11, 2005:
The President intends to reappoint Nancy Blanchard of Minnesota.
The President intends to reappoint Mary Christine Bruene of Iowa.
The President intends to reappoint Zoraida Fonalledas of Puerto Rico.
The President intends to reappoint Brenda Leath of the District of Columbia.
The President intends to reappoint Alvaro Marin of California.
The President intends to reappoint Kim Porter-Hoppe of Michigan.
The President intends to reappoint Michael Rogers of Washington.
The President intends to reappoint Windy Smith of Tennessee.
The President intends to reappoint Gene Stallings, Jr. of Texas.
  