
    Yesterday, the Biden Harris-Administration honored Trans Day of Visibility. President Biden issued the first-ever presidential proclamation to honor and celebrate the achievements and resiliency of transgender individuals and communities. The proclamation underscored the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to fulfilling the promise of freedom and equality for all Americans and protecting the civil rights of transgender Americans. Members across the Biden-Harris Administration marked the day and demonstrated their unwavering support for transgender Americans.
Additionally, the Department of Defense announced the publication of revised policies consisted with President Biden's executive orders around preventing and combatting discrimination and enabling all qualified Americans, including transgender Americans, to serve their country in uniform. The revised policies allow transgender Americans to serve, prohibits discrimination, and provide a means to access into the military in one's self-identified gender.
Lastly, President Biden delivered a pre-recorded video message to the National Center on Transgender Equality's "Trans Equality Now Awards" ceremony, reiterating his support to pass the Equality Act and provide long overdue protections to transgender Americans. He also said, "I want every trans person — especially every trans young person out there — to know that I see you, I hear you, and I will continue fighting for an America where transgender people, like anyone else, can thrive and succeed."
Biden-Harris Administration Shows Support for Trans Americans
President Biden: "Transgender rights are human rights — and I'm calling on every American to join me in uplifting the worth and dignity of transgender Americans. Together, we can stamp out discrimination and deliver on our nation's promise of freedom and equality for all. #TransDayofVisibility" [Tweet, 3/31/21]
Vice President Harris: "Transgender rights are human rights. Today, in honor of transgender Americans everywhere, @POTUS signed a proclamation to recognize March 31st as #TransgenderDayofVisibility. We see you, and we will always stand up for you." [Tweet, 3/31/21]
HHS Assistant Secretary for Health Rachel Levine: "Today, and every day, let us continue to celebrate the resilience and success of transgender and gender non-binary people while raising awareness of transgender rights. Transgender rights are human rights. #TransDayOfVisibility" [Tweet, 3/31/21]
Transportation Secretary Buttigieg: "We stand with transgender fellow Americans this #TransDayOfVisibility and every day ... It's a chance to celebrate our Trans family members, friends, peers, and loved ones across the country. The Trans folks making our nation better, safer, and more vibrant. As we celebrate, this is also a moment to stand in solidarity with Trans people against the discrimination and danger they face … This Administration will not accept that. Every person should be able to live, and travel, without fear … I'd like to say to the Trans folks who rely on public transportation or work across the transportation system to keep our country running: We see you. We're looking out for you. And we celebrate the successes and accomplishments you achieve even in the face of injustice." [Tweet and Video, 3/31/21]
Ambassador Susan Rice: "Today, on #TransDayofVisibility, the Biden-Harris Administration is celebrating the resiliency and courage of trans people across this country. We're making history too, with the first ever White House proclamation on #TDOV. There is much to celebrate. Transgender servicemembers can serve openly again. Public servants like @SecretaryLevine are making our nation stronger as openly transgender leaders, & the whole of government is fighting discrimination against trans Americans. But on #TDOV, we also acknowledge that full equality for trans Americans has been deferred for too long. From health equity to housing security, from employment opportunity to inclusion on the sports field, we're committed to advancing justice and safety for all trans Americans." [Tweet Thread, 3/31/21]
Education Secretary Miguel Cardona: "Let's make this abundantly clear. Trans right are human rights. To our transgender students across the country - we see you, and we have your back." [Tweet, 3/31/21]
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin: "Trans rights are human rights, and on this #TransDayOfVisibility, I'm pleased to announce we've updated DoD policy on the open service of transgender individuals. The update reinforces our prior decision to allow recruitment, retention, and care of qualified trans individuals." [Tweet, 3/31/21]
Secretary of State Antony Blinken: "Today is International #TransDayofVisibility. Every day trans and non-binary people inspire us all to live our lives authentically. We celebrate this resilient community, which boldly pushes for equality, inclusion, and an end to discrimination and abuse." [Tweet, 3/31/21]
Interior Secretary Deb Haaland: "There is nothing more powerful in this world than the act of living openly, authentically, and safely. On this Trans Day of Visibility, we recognize the hard-fought victories won by and for the transgender community, honor the transgender loved ones we've lost along the way, and recommit to the struggle for full equality. Transgender people continue to face an unacceptable epidemic of violence and harmful discrimination in access to health care, employment, and housing. Trans people are our neighbors, our family, our friends, and our colleagues, and they deserve to live with dignity and to be treated fairly in every part of life. Today, and every day, we stand in solidarity with the transgender community as we both celebrate our progress and continue our long march toward liberation, peace, and equality." [Statement, 3/31/21]
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Fudge: "Today I join Americans and people around the world in honoring International #TransDayofVisibility. On this occasion, we celebrate the worth and dignity of every person. And we reaffirm that transgender and non-binary rights are human rights." [Tweet and Videov, 3/31/21]
HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra: "Transgender rights are human rights. That is why on this #TransDayofVisibility we must promise not just recognition, but representation. At@HHSGov, we are working to make our country a more inclusive space for everyone." [Tweet, 3/31/21]
Energy Secretary Jen Granholm: "On this #TransDayOfVisibility, we at the Department of@ENERGY stand in solidarity and support with transgender and gender nonconforming people across the world. We must acknowledge that more work needs to be done to achieve true justice for these individuals and communities." [Tweet, 3/31/21]
EPA Administrator Michael Regan: "Trans rights are human rights. Proud to support #TransDayofVisibility today and every day." [Tweet, 3/31/21]
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack: "Every person should be treated with respect and dignity and should be able to live without fear, violence, and discrimination. #TransDayOfVisibility" [Tweet, 3/31/21]
President Biden's Proclamation
Washington Blade: In first, Biden issues presidential proclamation for Transgender Day of Visibility
"President Biden, in a first for any U.S. president, issued on Wednesday a formal presidential proclamation recognizing the Transgender Day of Visibility, according to an advance copy of the White House document obtained by the Washington Blade. At a time when states are advancing and enacting into law measures that would essentially bar transgender girls from participating in school sports and restrict access to transition-related care for transgender youth, Biden signals support for transgender people by commending their "struggle, activism and courage" and including fellow athletes and students in a list of allies."
Advocate: Joe Biden Makes History With Trans Day of Visibility Proclamation
"Here's another first from President Joe Biden: a White House proclamation recognizing Transgender Day Of Visibility. The proclamation, released Wednesday, honored the 'trailblazing work' of trans and nonbinary folks in fighting for equality in the arenas of education, sports, and the workplace. However, it also drew attention to the 'high rates of violence, harassment, and discrimination' faced by this community … The document, signed by Biden, outlined the steps the administration has taken to uplift transgender Americans, including the day-one executive order fighting discrimination on the basis of gender identity and sexual orientation and the reversal of the Trump administration's ban on transgender troops. Additionally, the proclamation urged the passage of the Equality Act, which would protect LGBTQ+ Americans from discrimination in housing, education, and other areas.
HuffPost: Joe Biden Honors Transgender Day Of Visibility With Historic Proclamation
"President Joe Biden honored International Transgender Day of Visibility on Wednesday by issuing a presidential proclamation, the first of its kind to commemorate the occasion. Since 2009, Transgender Day of Visibility has been observed on March 31 to celebrate the accomplishments of trans and gender-nonconforming people. Though intended to be festive, it has taken on a somber tone for the past two years amid both the COVID-19 pandemic and a spike in transphobic violence. In his proclamation, Biden said that he and Vice President Kamala Harris 'affirm that transgender Americans make our nation more prosperous, vibrant and strong.'"
NBC News: Biden issues first presidential proclamation on Trans Day of Visibility
"President Joe Biden on Wednesday issued the first presidential proclamation recognizing Transgender Day of Visibility. The day is dedicated to celebrating transgender people and bringing awareness to the discrimination and violence they face everyday. In his proclamation, Biden said Trans Day of Visibility recognizes the generations of activism by transgender and nonbinary people."
CNN: Biden marks International Transgender Day of Visibility with first-ever presidential proclamation of its kind
"President Joe Biden marked International Transgender Day of Visibility on Wednesday by issuing the first-ever presidential proclamation of its kind in recognition of the day, which aims to celebrate the achievements of trans rights activists and increase awareness about ongoing challenges transgender and gender-nonconforming people ?face … The President noted in the proclamation that transgender Americans "of all ages face high rates of violence, harassment, and discrimination," among other issues, and called on the Senate to pass the Equality Act, a bill recently passed by the House that would amend the 1964 Civil Rights Act to protect people from being discriminated against based on sexual orientation and gender identity."
Pentagon Announcement
Department of Defense: DOD Revises Transgender Policies to Align With White House
"The revised policies in these instructions restore the DOD's original 2016 policies regarding transgender service. Specifically, they prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender identity or an individual's identification as transgender. They also provide a means to access into the military in one's self-identify gender, provided all appropriate standards are met. The editions provide a path for those in service for medical treatment, gender transition and recognition in one's self-identify gender, and they seek to protect the privacy of all service members and to treat them with dignity and respect at all times."
Associated Press: Reversing Trump, Pentagon releases new transgender policies
"The Pentagon on Wednesday swept away Trump-era policies that largely banned transgender people from serving in the military, issuing new rules that offer them wider access to medical care and assistance with gender transition. The new department regulations allow transgender people who meet military standards to enlist and serve openly in their self-identified gender, and they will be able to get medically necessary transition-related care authorized by law, chief Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters during a briefing."
Advocate: Pentagon Issues Policies for Open Service by Transgender Troops"The Department of Defense on Wednesday — Transgender Day of Visibility — announced formal policy updates allowing open service by transgender members of the armed forces, implementing President Joe Biden's executive order that lifted Donald Trump's ban. The policies, which go into effect April 30, ban discrimination based on gender identity or transgender status, provide a means to join the military in one's self-identified gender once all appropriate standards are met, and make medically necessary treatment and gender recognition available to all service members, according to a Defense Department press release. The 30-day window is designed to give each branch of the armed forces time to update its own policies and provide guidance to commanders, troops, medical professionals, and others."
President Biden's Video Message on Transgender Day of Visibility
President Biden shared a pre-recorded message during the National Center on Transgender Equality's "Trans Equality Now Awards" ceremony.
Watch HERE.
  