
    On Equal Pay Day, Nevadans Urge Congress to Support Clinton-Sponsored Paycheck Fairness Act
In recognition of Equal Pay Day, Nevadans for Hillary today announced the first 81 Nevada women to sign on in support of Senator Hillary Clinton's efforts to end pay discrimination -- symbolizing the 81 cents Nevada women make for every dollar earned by a male counterpart. Hundreds more are anticipated to send letters to the Nevada congressional delegation urging support of Clinton's Paycheck Fairness Act.
The average American woman will need to work through April 24th, 2007 to earn the same amount a man doing the same job earned during 2006. Because of the disparity, April 24 has been dubbed "Equal Pay Day."
Nationally, working women earn just 77 cents for every $1.00 earned by a male counterpart. Women of color fare even worse, with African-American women earning only 67 cents and Latinas only 56 cents for every $1.00 earned by white men."
"Nevadans can count on Hillary Clinton to stand up for fair treatment in the workplace -- and her leadership on this legislation proves it once again," said Frankie Sue Del Papa, Northern Nevada Chair, Nevadans for Hillary. "The response to this letter campaign shows that women are stepping up to support Senator Clinton because of her experience and her advocacy on real issues that affect real people here in Nevada."
The Paycheck Fairness Act, re-introduced by Senator Clinton in March, will take critical steps to empower women to negotiate for equal pay, to create strong incentives for employers to obey the laws that are in place, and to strengthen federal outreach and enforcement efforts. The Act is designed to prevent pay discrimination and help to close the wage gap nationwide.
The first 81 Nevada women to sign letters urging the Nevada congressional delegation to support the Paycheck Fairness Act are:
Ivet Aldaba
Nedra Armstrong
Margie Bowman
Christiane Brown
Willia Chaney
Jennifer DiMarzio
Vilma Gorre
Nicole Lawson
Adriana Martinez
Phyllis Matsuda
Toni Mims
Rebecca Pamais-Sellers
Jennifer Roberts
Alicia Shipp
Janice Valdez
Cindy Reid
Nancy Alf
Roxana Ayakawa
Gwen Braimoh
Susan Bunyan
Samantha Charles
Pam Egan
Carol Harter
Rozita Lee
Susie Martinez
Peggy Maze Johnson
Kathleen Montes
Felicia Pellegalle
Kathleen Robins
Carol Lee Skervin
Betty Valdez
Katie Wolken
Carmen James Ancher
Amie Belmonte
Jennifer Braster
Gail Burks
Rosemary Congero
Kathy England
Jessica Hoffman
Esther Lee
Gina Martinez
Aquonetta McCollough
Dana Myers
Loganayagie Provost
Emma Rodriguez
Gloria Sturman
Yolanda Villanueva
Anna Winman
Veronica Arana
Katherine Bennett
Elizabeth Brickfield
Virginia Cain
Liz Carrasco
Ann Fields
Verlia Hoggard-Davis
Patty Liemel
Consuelo Martinez
Roxanne McCoy
Dedee Nave
Jacki Ramirez
Ramona Sanchez
Tiffany Thompson
Donna Watson
Sherri Rice
Jesica Arana
Chelsea Bibb
Joy Brittingham
Brenda Chaney
Frankie Sue Del Papa
Danica Daneshforouz
Jesse Danen
Sherril Jaske
Cecelia Maldonado
Evelyn Mastumoto
Nelida McKellar
Carmen Oliveras
Margarita Rebollal
Sharon Scroggins
Mai Tieu
Vicki Orozco
Elvira Diaz
Nevadans for Hillary is asking residents to join these 81 women by writing letters asking members of the state's congressional delegation to support the Paycheck Fairness Act. A sample letter may be downloaded at www.hillaryclinton.com or obtained, along with a list of Nevada congressional delegation addresses, by emailing nvvolunteers@hillaryclinton.com.
According to the National Committee on Pay Equity, working women stand to lose $250,000 over the course of a career because of unequal pay practices -- a difference in pay that cannot be explained by experience, education, or other qualifications. At the current rate of change, working women in Nevada will not achieve equal pay until 2020. Nationally, women will not achieve equal pay until after 2050.
The wage gap hurts women in all aspects of their lives. For example, more than 21 percent of Nevada women are without health insurance, and nearly 12 percent of women live below the poverty line.
The Paycheck Fairness Act was originally introduced during the 109th Congress, with 18 co-sponsors -- including Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada. Senator Clinton re-introduced the Act this March, during Women's History Month.
  