
    "Ever since General Lafayette joined the American fight for independence, our fates and fortunes have been tied unequivocally together." – President Donald J. Trump
A LONG AND ENDURING FRIENDSHIP: President Trump is continuing the legacy of French-American cooperation that stretches back to America's independence and working with President Macron to build the already strong ties between the United States and France.

President Trump has made clear that the bond between the United States and France is unbreakable.

The relationship between the two countries dates back to the days of the American Revolution, when thousands of French soldiers fought alongside American troops and provided crucial support in our fight for freedom and liberty. 


Presidents Trump and Macron have reaffirmed and strengthened the U.S.-France relationship. They have met in person and spoken on the phone numerous times.

In September 2017, Presidents Trump and Macron met on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York City. 
In July 2017, President Trump spent two days visiting with President Macron to commemorate Bastille Day and the entry of the United States into World War I. 
In May 2017, President Trump hosted President Macron at the official residence of the U.S. Ambassador to Belgium for a meeting before the NATO summit. 



A VALUED TRADE AND INVESTMENT PARTNER: France was the first trade partner of our Republic and remains a major destination for U.S. exports and source of foreign investment in the United States.

In 1778, the United States signed its first trade agreement after the Declaration of Independence with France, the U.S.-France Treaty of Amity and Commerce.
Today, France is the third largest European trading partner of the United States and, including American and French affiliates, averages over $1 billion in commercial transactions with the United States every day.

In 2017, the U.S. exported $19.3 billion in services to France, resulting in a $1.6 billion trade in services surplus.
In 2017, the U.S. exported $33.6 billion in goods to France, and exported more than $5 billion in goods in just the first two months of 2018.
In 2017, France was the 11th largest market for U.S. goods exports. 


The United States is the top destination for French foreign investment and, in 2016, more than $24.3 billion in French investment flowed into the United States.
The United States is the largest foreign investor in France and, in 2016, total U.S. investment in the country stood at $78 billion.
French investment supported 677,500 jobs in the United States in 2015.

A STRONG AND RELIABLE ALLY: The United States has worked closely with France to combat terror around the world and, most recently, confront Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad's heinous chemical weapons attack.

On April 13, 2018, President Trump joined with President Macron and United Kingdom Prime Minister Theresa May to launch punishing missile strikes against Assad's chemical weapons infrastructure in response to the his use of chemical weapons against his own people.
In 2018, the United States and France strengthened their partnership against WMDs, including efforts to prevent nuclear terrorism and enhance biodefense cooperation to combat biological threats.
During the July 2017 press conference with President Trump in France, President Macron said that "when it comes to fighting terrorism, from day one I can say that we've seen eye to eye."
President Trump will strengthen coordination with President Macron on countering jihadist propaganda and continue to work with France on the fight against ISIS.
France has been a key partner of the United States in the global campaign against ISIS:

Carrying out air operations against the terrorist group in Iraq since September 2014 and in Syria since September 2015; and
Committing tens of millions of dollars in humanitarian assistance to help rebuild Iraq and Syria after the defeat of ISIS.


Following the President's calls, French President Emmanuel Macron has committed to increasing French defense spending by 35 percent over the next eight years and meeting the 2 percent NATO defense spending commitment.

  