
    Edwards backers call North Carolina primary clear choice between real change and more of the same
Raleigh, NC -- The Obama campaign today announced the endorsement of 49 prominent supporters of John Edwards - including Ed Turlington, Edwards' former National General Chairman. These North Carolina leaders - ranging from Members of Congress to a former Chief Justice of the North Carolina Supreme Court to former law partners and longtime friends of John Edwards - cite Barack Obama's commitment to fighting for change on behalf of working Americans and taking on the special interests in Washington.
"Barack Obama and John Edwards share a commitment to taking on special interests and standing up for regular Americans. Along with Edwards supporters from across the state, I am honored to join Senator Obama's movement for change," said Turlington. "As president, he will bring together Democrats, Republicans and Independents behind an agenda of change. From ending the war in Iraq to confronting the scourge of poverty to making health care affordable for every single American, Barack Obama will bring our country the change we need."
The diverse group said they are voting for Obama because he is the only candidate with a proven ability to unite America around a common vision and win the votes of Republicans and Independents whose support is critical to carrying the state in the fall.
Like Edwards, Obama refused donations from PACs and Washington lobbyists and vowed to stand up to the special interests that have blocked so much progress for working Americans in Washington, DC.
"John Edwards has dedicated his life and career to fighting poverty in America. Barack Obama demonstrated that same commitment when he turned down a high-paying job on Wall Street to work in Chicago communities decimated by steel mill closings," said Louise Coggins, a social worker from Wilmington who has known John and Elizabeth Edwards for 30 years. "Senator Obama is now the only candidate in the race who doesn't take money from PACs and federal lobbyists. We can count on him to stand up to special interests in Washington, DC on behalf of working men and women in America."
Listed below are local leaders who had previously backed John Edwards' campaign for president, but today are throwing their support behind Obama:
David Price, U.S. Congressman (4th Dist)
Mel Watt, U.S. Congressman (12th Dist)
G.K. Butterfield, U.S. Congressman (1st Dist)
Peggy Abrams, Attorney
Doug Abrams, Attorney
Phil Baddour, Attorney & Former NC House Majority Leader
Steven Bernholz, Attorney
Clifford Britt, Attorney
Wade Byrd, Attorney
Stephen D. Coggins, Attorney
Louise Coggins, Social Worker/Therapist
W. Thompson Comerford, Jr., Attorney
Michael Cucchiara, Business leader
Lisbeth Evans, Secretary of NC Department of Cultural Resources
Anthony Foxx, Charlotte City Councilman
Henry Frye, Former Chief Justice of North Carolina Supreme Court
Shirley Frye, Former Educator, Community Leader
Harvey B. Gantt, Former Edwards National Co-Chair, Former Charlotte mayor
Richard Gusler, Attorney
Pricey Harrison, North Carolina State Representative
Marty Hayes, Activist
James Heavner, Business leader
C. Mark Holt, Attorney
Leonard Jernigan, Attorney
Adelaide Key, Philanthropist
Eleanor Kinniard, North Carolina State Senator
Henry McKoy, Business leader
Brownie Newman, Asheville City Council member
Spencer Parris, Attorney
Roger Perry, UNC-Chapel Hill Board of Trustees--Chairman
Jim Phillips Jr., Attorney and Chair, UNC Board of Governors
Wade Smith, Attorney & Former State Democratic Party Chair
Sallie Shuping Russell, Business leader and UNC-Chapel Hill Board of Trustees
Roger Smith, Attorney
Bob Spearman, Attorney & Former Wake County Democratic Party Chair
Pat Spearman, Activist
Adam Stein, Attorney
Nina Szlosberg, Conservationist & Department of Transportation Board Member
Amy Tiemann, Writer
Michael Tiemann, Red Hat Executive
Kevin Trapani, President & CEO, The Redwoods Group
Tim Toben, Business leader
Ed Turlington, Attorney & Former Edwards National Chairman
Marla Turlington, Activist
Howard Twiggs, Attorney & Former State legislator
Steve Warren, Attorney
Willis P. Wichard, Author, Dean, and Former State Supreme Court Justice
Carter Worthy, Realtor
Todd Zapolski, Business leader
  