
    Your Highness:
I want again to extend to you my personal feeling, my strong conviction that you and your country represent, in this situation, the finest in what we have to do in the area of peace in the Middle East.
You have been here many, many times over the years, and on each and every occasion, your contribution to a solution has been all to the good from the point of view of all parties concerned. We are deeply grateful now as well as in the past for this contribution.
We had a very, I think, constructive meeting this morning, and I know you are going to be meeting with the Secretary of State tomorrow. Your personal contribution to this very difficult problem that the world faces in the Middle East is a very significant one.
We have had some disappointments with the efforts that the Secretary of State and that I made in the Middle East. But I for one do not believe that we can tolerate stagnation or stalemate, and we do not intend to do so.
The precise key, the precise answer is still being analyzed here in our country and, I am sure, in other parts of the world. But momentum for progress has to be continued. And one of the benefits of my meeting with you this morning was that we discussed the need and necessity not to look back and condemn one party or another or to have any adverse comments about one party or another.
The important point is that we have to look forward. We have to be optimistic about what is good in the Middle East, but what, more importantly, is good for the world as a whole.
The situation in the Middle East is totally related to the improvement of world conditions on a global basis. We are thankful and very appreciative of your continuous statesmanship. It has been evident to everybody over a long period of time, but I have personally had the opportunity to observe it, and I thank you.
We are most grateful, and in the months ahead we will be very mindful of your observations, your recommendations, as we try to find an answer to the problems not only in the Middle East but elsewhere.
So, it is my great honor and privilege, Your Majesty, to offer a toast to you for all that you have done and all that you will do for the benefit of all of the people in the Middle East and the people in the world.
Your Majesty.
  