
    Let ne say how pleased I am to have an opportunity to participate in making this award to Bill Kiser of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, who has been picked as the Handicapped American of the Year.
Bill, we congratulate you. I have looked over your record, and it is a record that any American would be very, very proud of. For a person to have achieved the great success that you have in the field of the news media--you have your own column, you have your own radio setup--this is a great achievement, and all of us are very, very proud of you.
But I think as we look over your record and see the problems that you had from literally birth to the present time, it just is an inspiration to each and every one of us. I know that we have made a great many strides in this country in providing incentives, in providing programs for the handicapped, but it is my impression that Bill Kiser would have made it on his own, regardless. And I think that's what is exemplified in your character, in your tremendous effort, so you just deserve this award. And it is an award that should be an inspiration for all others who are handicapped to do as well as you have done and to set the example that you have set not only for this generation but for those to come.
I congratulate you. I am looking forward to reading your book and, in the meantime, we are very, very proud of you.
I will give this on behalf of me, as President, to Governor Holshouser, and he will see to it that it is properly returned to you so you can have it among your many collections of rewards and achievements.
MR. KISER. Thank you.
GOVERNOR HOLSHOUSER. Mr. President, on behalf of those of us who are here from North Carolina, this is a very special moment. You and I, by the nature of our offices, have a lot of ceremonial kind of occasions, and yet this is one that comes very close to the heart. Watching a man who has a brilliant mind and at the same time whose body is giving him some problems, and watching the achievements that he has made has simply been remarkable.
I am very proud and honored that he has asked me to respond for him today in this regard.
[At this point, Gov. James E. Holshouser, Jr., of North Carolina, read Mr. Kiser's response as follows:]
"Mr. President, thank you so very much for inviting me and my friends here today. You will readily see that I could have accomplished nothing without the help and support of countless individuals and organizations. Claude Myer, John Dalrymple, and the North Carolina Division of Vocational Rehabilitation have not only aided in every way they could but have coordinated the efforts of others. The Federal-State Vocational Rehabilitation Program is working. Mrs. Ruth Ann Thompson, my administrative assistant, deserves a lion's share of the credit.
As a token of my deep appreciation, I would like to share a copy of my book with you. Should you have a chance to read it, you will understand better what this award means to me.
In order to prevent my excommunication, please accept greetings from my church, Knollwood Baptist, in Winston-Salem, with which I believe you are familiar.
Gratefully, Bill Kiser."
  