
    Today, 10 South Dakota leaders endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States, citing his character, experience, and ability to unite our country.
"During my time in the Senate, Barb and I got to know Jill and Joe Biden both personally and professionally," said former Senator Tim Johnson. "We saw up close that Joe has always been a man of sincere honesty, empathy, and integrity – he keeps his word and tirelessly goes to bat for American families. He took on big fights in the Senate – from the Violence Against Women Act to climate change – and he got results. We're confident that in the White House, Joe can unite America and restore the soul of this country."
"As we navigate a global pandemic and constant chaos from the Trump Administration, we desperately need a candidate who can bring strong, steady leadership to the White House – that's Joe Biden," said Rep. Jamie Smith, South Dakota House Minority Leader from Sioux Falls. "Joe represents the best of America – resilience, empathy, and integrity. He can be a president our children can look up to and learn from his example. I know Joe will restore honor to the White House, and I look forward to voting for him in the South Dakota primary."
"I've long believed that Joe Biden is the best Democratic candidate to beat Donald Trump and unite our country again," said Ann Tornberg, a retired educator and former Chair of the South Dakota Democratic Party from Beresford. "In this time of national emergency, we've never needed a leader like Joe more than we do today. Joe has the experience, empathy, and strength to lead us through challenging times – and I'm looking forward to casting my ballot for Joe Biden on June 2."
South Dakota leaders announcing their support for Vice President Biden include:

Tim Johnson, former Senator from Sioux Falls
Barb Johnson, Democratic activist from Sioux Falls
Jamie Smith, South Dakota House Minority Leader from Sioux Falls
Linda Duba, South Dakota State Representative from Sioux Falls
Ryan Cwach, South Dakota State Representative from Yankton
Steve McCleerey, South Dakota State Representative from Sisseton
Ray Ring, South Dakota State Representative from Vermillion
Susan Wismer, South Dakota State Senator from Britton
Ann Tornberg, former Chair of the South Dakota Democratic Party
Mark Anderson, former President of the South Dakota AFL-CIO

Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  