
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
April 1
While in Lagos, Nigeria, the President attended a cultural program at Tafawa Balewa Square.
April 2
Following his meetings with General Obasanjo, the President went to the Nigerian Port Authority, where he boarded Maris III for a cruise to Tin Can Island, in Lagos Harbor, for a tour of the new port facility.
April 3
The President met on the East Patio of the State House Marina with employees of the American Embassy in Nigeria and members of their families. He then proceeded to Murtala Muhammed Airport, where he was joined by General Obasanjo for the departure ceremony, and then left Nigeria for his visit to Liberia.
Following his luncheon with President Tolbert, the President visited the Peace Corps headquarters in Monrovia. He then proceeded to Roberts International Airport, where he was joined by President Tolbert for the departure ceremony before his return trip to the United States.
April 4
The President met at the White House with Hans-Dietrich Genscher, Foreign Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany. They discussed enhanced radiation weapons, among other topics. April 5
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—G. William Miller, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and Ruben Mettier, chairman of the board, TRW Systems Groups, TRW, Inc.;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Mr. Miller.
April 6
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
—a group of business, labor, and political leaders to discuss tax reform;
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., Senator Edward M. Kennedy, George Meany, president of the AFL-CIO, and Douglas A. Fraser, president of the United Auto Workers, to discuss national health insurance;
—Maj. Gen. Earl O. Anderson, chairman, and Col. James C. Craig, membership chairman, of the Reserve Officers' Association;
—Prince and Princess Hitachi of Japan;
—Michael Bakalis, Democratic candidate for Governor of Illinois, and Richard Durkin, Democratic candidate for Lieutenant Governor of Illinois;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
In connection with the American Cancer Society's April Crusade, the President met in the Oval Office with representatives of the Society and other guests, and presented the Cancer Courage Award to Tom Harper, a midshipman at the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis.
April 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Mr. Jordan, and Dr. Brezezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan;
—Dr. Schultze;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week);
—Senator Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Alex Quaison-Sackey of Ghana, Romuald Spasowski of Poland, Carlos Iturralde Ballivian of Bolivia, Paolo Pansa Cedronio of Italy, and Merwyn Norrish of New Zealand.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  