
    YESTERDAY'S decision by the House Appropriations Committee to eliminate funds for the accelerated public works program is, I believe, most unfortunate and one that I am confident will be reversed by the entire House when the facts are presented to it.
It seems inconceivable to me that people can make speeches against unemployment and then vote to destroy a program the objective of which is to attack the unemployment problem by providing jobs, especially in those areas with chronic and persistent unemployment.
When the Congress enacted the program I recommended, authorizing the $900 million program last year and appropriated $400 million to initiate the program, it was widely understood that the additional amount authorized would be considered early in 1963 and that the early experiences under the program would guide the Congress in determining how much money should be made available of the remaining $500 million authorization. The response to the program has been truly remarkable. Since its enactment thousands of projects have already been approved and there are now in hand applications for over 6,200 projects from more than 3,000 communities throughout the United States which are eligible under the standards of the program.
It will be recalled that the basic objective of the program is to speed up those projects which would otherwise be undertaken at a later date in order to provide immediate employment-hospitals, streets, sewers, and other essential facilities.
On the basis of experience thus far under the program it is dear that with the full $900 million authorized by the Congress last year 500,000 of our Nation's unemployed will be on the job, on project sites and in supporting activities. That the projects undertaken by the funds are worthwhile is evidenced by the fact that local communities across the country have raised matching funds to participate in the 'programs even to the extent of passing local bond issues. The combination of local and Federal money flowing into the economy has proved to be a healthy and substantial stimulant.
This program must not be permitted to lapse and I am confident that the Congress will not permit it to do so. I hope that partisan activity will not be allowed to destroy or weaken a program aimed at our unemployment problem.
  