
    Pool Reports by Orion Donovan-Smith, The Spokesman-Review 



Sent:
Reports:




April 29, 2023 19:19

In-town pool report #1: Departing for WHCD
Hey everybody,
Orion with The Spokesman-Review here. I'll be your in-town pooler today.
The president's motorcade left the White House grounds at 7:18 en route to the White House Correspondents' Dinner at the Washington Hilton.
It's turned into a beautiful evening in D.C. as the clouds have cleared and the weather is in the upper sixties, but the forecast calls for more rain tonight.
The following people are traveling with POTUS and FLOTUS:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady
Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Josh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Aviva Aron-Dine, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the National Economic Council
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady 


April 29, 2023 19:44

In-town pool report #2: Arrived at Hilton
The motorcade arrived at the Washington Hilton at 7:23 pm.
In the ballroom, which is noticeably chillier than it is outside, Anthony Fauci is here (without a mask), after he skipped last year's dinner due to COVID concerns.
Sharing from WH:
Participating in a photoline with the President and the First Lady at the Washington Hilton:
2023 White House Correspondents' Association Scholarship Awardees
Members of the White House Correspondents' Association Board 


April 29, 2023 19:49

In-town pool report #3: Meeting with Griners
The President and the First Lady are participating in a pull-aside meeting with Brittney and Cherelle Griner.
In attendance:
Brittney Griner Cherelle Griner Lindsay Colas 


April 29, 2023 20:00

In-town pool report#4: Meeting w/ Gershkovich family
The President and the First Lady are participating in a pull-aside meeting with the family of Evan Gershkovich.
In attendance:
Ella Milman Mikhail Gershkovich  Danielle Gershkovich Anthony Huczek 


April 29, 2023 20:19

In-town pool report #5: WHCD attendance & some color
POTUS and FLOTUS entered the ballroom, just after VP and SGOTUS, at 8:06 to a standing ovation.
When WHCA President Tamara Keith started speaking, the crowd's chatter got unusually loud. A faint chorus of cutlery tapping on glasses didn't quiet the noise, nor did it seem to help when Keith joked, "Don't make me shout out, 'Decorum!'"
Here are the evening's speakers, per the WH:
The President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman are attending the 2023 White House Correspondents Dinner.
In attendance:
Approximately 2600 attendees, including members of the press and media organizations, administration officials, Members of Congress, celebrities, dignitaries and other invited guests.
Pre-Dinner Speaking Program Tamara Keith, NPR White House Correspondent & President of the White House Correspondents' Association
Post-Dinner Speaking Program Tamara Keith, NPR White House Correspondent & President of the White House Correspondents' Association Eugene Daniels, Politico White House Correspondent & White House Correspondents' Association Treasurer Kelly O'Donnell, NBC News Senior White House Correspondent & Vice President of the White House Correspondents' Association Karen Travers, ABC News White House Correspondent & White House Correspondents' Association Board Member Tamara Keith, NPR White House Correspondent & President of the White House Correspondents' Association The President  Roy Wood, Jr. Tamara Keith, NPR White House Correspondent & President of the White House Correspondents' Association 


April 29, 2023 22:02

In-town pool report #6: Biden speaking in 2 minutes
Biden will speak in two minutes. 


April 29, 2023 22:39

In-town pool report #7: Biden's remarks
Biden started his remarks at 10:14, speaking for just over 20 minutes. I won't quote him here, since the dinner is being live-streamed.
He dedicated the first five minutes to Americans currently and formerly detained abroad: Evan Gershkovich, Austin Tice, Paul Whelan and Brittney Griner.
Then Biden pivoted to the jokes. His first laugh line — that he loves the 1st Amendment "because my friend Jimmy Madison wrote it" — poked fun at his own age.
The Don Lemon joke drew the loudest laughs from the crowd.
Biden donned his trademark aviator shades and introduced Roy Wood Jr. as "Dark Brandon." 


April 29, 2023 23:19

In-town pool report #8: Return to WH and lid
The motorcade left the Washington Hilton at 11:09 and arrived back at the White House at 11:15. We have a lid.
Good night, everybody.
ODS 



  