
    Today a group of Montana leaders released a letter decrying comments made last Friday by Sen. Barack Obama widely seen as offensive towards rural America.
BACKGROUND: At a fundraiser in San Francisco last week, Senator Obama shared his views of Americans from small towns: "it's not surprising then they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations."
Text of the letter from Montana leaders follows:
We wish to express our sincere disappointment with comments made by Sen. Barack Obama at a private San Francisco fundraiser last week - comments which demean the heritage and values of working Montanans.
Sen. Obama's views are offensive to rural Montanans who work everyday to provide for our families, lift up our communities and strengthen our state and country.
We embrace our faith not out of frustration but as a foundation of the values that guide us - the values we have inherited and the values we pass on.
Montanans are hunters. Many Montanans feel the Second Amendment is a part of our heritage as sportsmen and recreationists. It is not something we '˜cling to' out of bitterness.
We have faced difficult times, but Montanans are resilient, optimistic and unwavering in our commitment to our families and country.
After seven years of a president who refused to talk to us, the last thing we need is a presidential candidate who talks down to us.
Sen. Obama's remarks also serve to drive us further apart instead of uniting us around the great challenges we face together. We need good-paying jobs. We need an end to this war. We need health care for every American. But to meet these challenges, we need a president who respects and honors our values.
We are intelligent, optimistic people who believe in a better America. We need a president who stands up and fights for us, and shares our can-do spirit. That is what Montanans will be looking for when we go to the polls on June 3rd.
Sincerely,
Former Representative Pat Williams
State Senate Majority Leader Carol Williams
State Senator Carol Juneau
Representative Bill Wilson
Representative Diane Sands
Representative Shannon Augare
Senate Pro Tempore Dan Harrington
Former State Senator Dorothy Eck
  