
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
I hereby transmit a bill "to authorize supplemental economic support for the fiscal year 1979 for Turkey, and for other purposes", and urge its prompt enactment. The bill authorizes appropriations of $100,000,000 in assistance for Turkey under the Economic Support Fund.
Turkey's economic situation continues to deteriorate, and its foreign exchange shortage is critical. The Government of Turkey has begun taking steps necessary to restore economic equilibrium, and is considering others. Even with a major stabilization effort, however, significant improvement in the Turkish balance of payments will take time. Without substantial official assistance in 1979, Turkey would be unable to obtain imports necessary to meet the basic needs of the Turkish economy. This in turn would aggravate serious domestic political and social problems and could ultimately affect Turkey's stability and its Western orientation.
In January, governments friendly to Turkey agreed to organize a multilateral emergency assistance effort, subject to satisfactory Turkish government measures of economic stabilization and reform. As that effort has taken shape, it has become clear that for it to succeed additional assistance will be required from the United States and other countries.
An additional contribution by the United States of $100 million from the Economic Support Fund and substantial increases from other major donors will give the multilateral effort the momentum necessary for success. We have been in touch with other governments to urge them to increase their contributions on the basis of equitable burdensharing.
In accordance with the requirements of section 620C (d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, I hereby certify that the furnishing of the security assistance for Turkey proposed in this bill will be consistent with the principles set forth in section 620C(b) of that Act.
In this regard, it remains the firm policy of the United States to support the resolution of all differences among countries in the region peacefully, to encourage all parties to avoid provocative actions, and to oppose any attempt to resolve disputes through force or threat of force. With regard to the Cyprus problem, the United States continues to support fully efforts, especially those of the United Nations, to bring about prompt, peaceful settlement on Cyprus, including the withdrawal of Turkish military forces from the island. The United States continues to support the maintenance of the cease-fire on Cyprus pending achievement of a negotiated solution. The assistance to be furnished to Turkey under this bill will help create the stability and security that are important underpinnings to progress toward these goals.
I strongly urge early passage of the enclosed legislation.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
  