
    America cannot avoid the responsibility to speak out in condemnation of the Cambodian Government, the worst violator of human rights in the world today. Thousands of refugees from Cambodia have accused their Government of inflicting death on hundreds of thousands of the Cambodian people through the genocidal policies it has implemented over the past 3 years. Witnesses have recounted abuses that include mass killings, inhuman treatment of the supporters of the previous government, the forced deportation of urban dwellers, and the total suppression of recognized political and religious freedoms, as well as deprivation of food and health care for the general population. Summary executions continue in Cambodia today, and fear of the authorities is pervasive.
We support the growing international protest against the policies of this inhumane regime. On April 17 the Canadian House of Commons, in a unanimous motion, expressed the horror of all its members in the acts of genocide carried out in Cambodia and called on all governments which maintain relations with Canada to protest against the slaughter.
In the private sphere, a Norwegian committee supported by leaders of the major Norwegian political parties will hold hearings in Oslo, beginning today, to illuminate through public testimony the tragic situation existing in Cambodia. Amnesty International has issued an appeal to the Cambodian Government to respond to allegations of continuing summary killings in that country. We welcome and applaud these initiatives.
We also welcome the recent action taken by the United Nations Human Rights Commission, which, this year, in consequence of a British initiative, adopted by consensus a resolution asking the Cambodian Government to respond to allegations of human rights violations.
The American Government again condemns the abuses of human rights which have occurred in Cambodia. It is an obligation of every member of the international community to protest the policies of this or any nation which cruelly and systematically violates the right of its people to enjoy life and basic human dignities.
  