
    [As prepared for delivery.]
SECOND GENTLEMAN DOUGLAS EMHOFF: Hello, everyone.
On behalf of President Joe Biden and First Lady Dr. Jill Biden, it is an honor to welcome you to the White House.
I want to start by acknowledging my wife, Vice President Kamala Harris.
Since she was Attorney General of California, and then a United States Senator, she has fought tirelessly to protect the health and wellbeing of our nation's military men and women, our veterans, as well as their families, caregivers, and survivors.
Now, as Vice President, she continues to fight alongside the President and First Lady, for whom this work is personal. I have been so lucky to see their passion and dedication up close.
As Second Gentleman, I have traveled across the country and the world. And throughout my travels, I have met our nation's heroes.
And who are they?
They are our veterans.
Our active-duty and reserve service members.
Our military spouses and their families.
The military and veteran caregivers who aid the wounded, ill, and injured.
And the survivors of those who gave the ultimate sacrifice.
We are here today to celebrate a special group of those heroes: our wounded warriors.
Today's riders are some of the strongest and most resilient people you will ever meet.
You all are a source of inspiration…not only to those of us in the White House, but to your fellow wounded warriors. Some of whom might be at home watching this event right now and thinking, "Hey, maybe I can do that too."
Well, I am here to tell you that yes, you can.
As you continue down this road of healing, I want all of you to remember: there is nothing that a wounded warrior cannot do.
And if you're ever feeling down or like it's too much, remember that warriors never ride alone. Know that our administration will always be by your side.
Now I have the pleasure of introducing Staff Sergeant Mark Lalli.
Mark continued his family's legacy of military service that goes all the way back to the American Revolution. He is a veteran, a devoted father, a loving husband, and is helping other veterans transition from military to civilian life.
Please join me in welcoming veteran and wounded warrior Mark Lalli.
  