
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

America's forests are an integral part of the global ecosystem and one of this Nation's greatest natural resources. Providing generations of Americans with lumber, fuel, and with many other valuable materials, these magnificent lands have helped us to build a strong and prosperous Nation. The natural habitat for many forms of wildlife, they have also provided watershed protection and grazing range. Yet these lands have provided more than tangible goods essential for survival -- the sublime beauty and serenity of our forests have also refreshed the spirits of many a visitor.
As important as the Nation's forests have been to us and to our ancestors, we have not always used them with commensurate care. Indeed, it was only a little more than 100 years ago that Americans began to realize that the heavy demand for wood products was depleting the Nation's trees at an alarming rate.
In 1872, to dramatize the need to replenish America's dwindling tree supply, concerned residents of Nebraska observed the first Arbor Day. Julius Sterling Morton, the prominent Nebraska politician who later became our third Secretary of Agriculture, was instrumental in encouraging other States to follow suit.
Arbor Day was set aside specifically for the planting of trees. More than a source of beauty and of valuable timber, food, and paper products, trees help to prevent soil erosion; they improve air quality by limiting the buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere; and they reduce energy demands by sheltering our homes and businesses from the sun and wind. Thus, Arbor Day tree plantings provide tangible, lasting benefits while reminding every public-spirited citizen of the value of trees and the importance of reforestation efforts -- not only in our Nation's parks and wilderness areas but also in tropical forests, rain forests, and wetlands around the world.
On Arbor Day we also recognize the efforts of those who plant and care for trees throughout the year: private and public foresters, members of civic associations, individual volunteers, and students who are aided by their parents and teachers. Today Americans of all ages are setting an example of environmental stewardship by participating in the America the Beautiful Program. Under this program we plan to have up to 10 billion new trees growing in America by the year 2001.
Just as a tree is known by the fruit it bears, we will be judged by our actions -- by the way that we use our God-given resources and by the way that we handle our responsibilities toward our fellowman. On Arbor Day let us act to plant and to care for trees. Whether sown in our backyards or in our parks and other public places, their limbs will bear living evidence of our concern for generations to come.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 64, has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the last Friday of April 1991 as "National Arbor Day."
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim April 26, 1991, as National Arbor Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  