
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 2
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled from San Diego, CA, to Charlotte, NC, where they attended the NCAA basketball championship semi-final game at Charlotte Coliseum. In the evening, they returned to Washington, DC.
April 4
In the morning, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH. Following his arrival in the afternoon, he attended the Cleveland Indians opening day game at Jacobs Field and threw the ceremonial first ball of the 1994 baseball season.
In the evening, the President traveled to Charlotte, NC, where he attended the NCAA basketball championship final at Charlotte Coliseum.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lt. Col. Linda M. Hooks, USA, to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Acquisition and Facilities.
April 5
In the morning, the President went to Troy, NC, where he toured Montgomery County Hospital and met with patients. The President returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
April 6
In the morning, the President traveled to Bowling Green, KY. He returned to Washington, DC, in the early evening.
Later, in the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton attended a gala performance of the Royal Ballet at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
April 7
In the morning, the President traveled to Topeka, KS. In the afternoon, he went to Kansas City, MO. In the evening, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN.
April 8
In the morning, the President attended a health care rally in the Crystal Courtyard Atrium of the IDS Tower.
In the evening, the President participated in the "Health Care in the Heartland" town meeting at KSTP television station in St. Paul, MN. He returned to Washington, DC, later that evening.
The White House announced that the President will host the Summit of the Americas in Miami, FL, on December 9–10.
The President announced his intention to make the following nominations:
Timothy A. Chorba to be Ambassador to the Republic of Singapore;
Donna Jean Hrinak to be Ambassador to the Dominican Republic;
Johnny Young to be Ambassador to the Republic of Togo;
Joseph Edward Lake to be Ambassador to the Republic of Albania;
Irvin Hicks to be Ambassador to the Republic of Ethiopia;
Myles Robert Rene Frechette to be Ambassador to the Republic of Colombia, and;
Peter R. Chaveas to be Ambassador to the Republic of Malawi.
  