
    We're taking very special care of our nursing homes and our seniors. --President Donald J. Trump
PROTECTING OUR OLDER PEOPLE: President Donald J. Trump is ensuring the safety and well-being of America's seniors during the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak.

President Trump is making sure our senior citizens remain safe and have access to the healthcare resources they need during the coronavirus pandemic.
In addition to the supplies we have already distributed, FEMA will send supplemental shipments of personal protective equipment to all 15,400 Medicaid and Medicare-certified nursing homes in America.
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is providing States with $81 million from the CARES Act to increase their inspections of nursing homes at this crucial time.
This week, we will be finalizing a new rule requiring information about COVID-19 cases in nursing homes to be reported directly to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and testing data to be posted online.

The rule requires nursing homes report cases to residents and their family members.


The Administration is also establishing the Coronavirus Commission for Safety and Quality in Nursing Homes.

The commission will be composed of leading industry experts, doctors and scientists, resident and patient advocates, family members, infection and prevention control specialists, and State and local authorities.



DELIVERING CRUCIAL ASSISTANCE: The President and his Administration are prioritizing seniors and delivering vital assistance to them during this critical time. 

The President released his "Opening Up America Again" guidelines, instructing States to take additional measures to protect the safety of senior citizens and other vulnerable populations.
President Trump signed historic legislation that provides funding and flexibility for emergency nutritional aid for vulnerable Americans, including senior citizens.
At the President's direction, the Administration dramatically expanded Medicare telehealth coverage, allowing beneficiaries to receive healthcare services from the safety of their homes.
To protect senior citizens, the President directed CMS to prioritize enforcement of infectious disease standards at nursing homes across America.
The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) recently announced nearly $1 billion in grants to assist older adults and people with disabilities, providing services such as home delivered meals and in-home care services.

PROVIDING THE HIGHEST QUALITY CARE: These actions build on President Trump's longstanding commitment to give seniors the best healthcare anywhere in the world. 

President Trump's goal is to ensure older Americans receive the best quality healthcare at the lowest price.
Last year, the President signed an Executive Order to improve older Americans' healthcare and improve the fiscal sustainability of Medicare.

This order empowers older Americans with choice and access, streamlines approval processes, reduces regulatory burdens, and combats waste, fraud, and abuse.


For the third year in a row, the average basic premium for Medicare Part D prescription drug prices has declined, saving beneficiaries $1.9 billion in premiums over time.

  