
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted April 15
Morris N. Hughes, Jr., of Nebraska, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Burundi.
Robert Clarke Brown,
of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term of 6 years, vice Jack Edwards, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Daniel Guttman,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2001, vice Edwin G. Foulke, Jr., term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Elizabeth K. Julian, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Roberta Achtenberg, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Lowell Lee Junkins, of Iowa, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, vice Edward Charles Williamson, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Martin A. Kamarck, of Massachusetts, to be President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for the remainder of the term expiring January 20, 1997, vice Kenneth D. Brody, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Yolanda Townsend Wheat, of Missouri, to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for the term of 6 years expiring August 2, 2001, vice Robert H. Swan, term expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Submitted April 16
David J. Barram, of California, to be Administrator of General Services, vice Roger W. Johnson, resigned.
Hubert T. Bell, Jr., of Alabama, to be Inspector General, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, vice David C. Williams.
John Christian Kornblum, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Richard Holbrooke, resigned.
Barbara Mills Larkin, of Iowa, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Wendy Ruth Sherman, resigned.
Submitted April 17
John W. Hechinger, Sr.,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years, vice John P. Roche.
Submitted April 18
Lawrence E. Kahn, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of New York, vice Neal P. McCurn, retired.
Arthur Gajarsa, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Helen Wilson Nies, retired.
Walker D. Miller, of Colorado, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Colorado, vice Jim R. Carrigan, retired.
  