
    WASHINGTON, DC - Vice President Mike Pence will travel to the Republic of Korea, Japan, Indonesia, Australia, and Hawaii from April 15-25, 2017. This trip will serve as the Vice President's first official travel to the Asia-Pacific region. During his trip, the Vice President will emphasize President Trump's continued commitment to U.S. alliances and partnerships in the Asia-Pacific region, highlight the Administration's economic agenda, and underscore America's unwavering support for our troops at home and abroad.
The Vice President on April 16 will arrive in Seoul, Republic of Korea, where he will spend Easter Sunday with United States and Republic of Korea troops and their families. During the remainder of the visit, he will participate in a bilateral meeting with Acting President Hwang Kyo-ahn and meet with National Assembly Speaker Chung Sye-kyun. Vice President Pence will also participate in a listening session with local business leaders and give remarks to the business community.
On April 18, the Vice President will travel to Tokyo, Japan, where he will meet with Prime Minister Shinz? Abe and lead the inaugural U.S.-Japan Economic Dialogue with Deputy Prime Minister Tar? As?. The Vice President will participate in a listening session followed by remarks to the U.S. and Japanese business community. Continuing the Administration's commitment to rebuilding the U.S. military and to our alliances in the region, the Vice President will tour the USS Ronald Reagan (CVN 76) and give remarks to U.S. and Japanese service members.
The Vice President will then travel to Jakarta, Indonesia on April 20 to meet with President Joko Widodo and Vice President Jusuf Kalla. Noting the 40th Anniversary of US-ASEAN relations, Vice President Pence will meet with the ASEAN Secretary General and ASEAN Permanent Representatives. Among other events, the Vice President will participate in a listening session with U.S. and Indonesian business leaders and give remarks to the business community.
On April 22, the Vice President will visit Sydney, Australia, where he will meet with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. Vice President Pence will also meet with Foreign Minister Julie Bishop and Opposition Leader Bill Shorten along with U.S. and Australian service members. Focusing again on American businesses, jobs, and the economy Vice President Pence will join a listening session and give remarks to the U.S. and Australian business community.
The Vice President will conclude his trip with a visit to Honolulu, Hawaii on April 24. Vice President Pence will meet with senior leadership from the Pacific Command and pay honor to those who fought and perished during the attack on Pearl Harbor by visiting the USS Arizona Memorial. Finally, the Vice President will meet with U.S. troops and their families before returning to Washington, DC.
Note: The Vice President will travel with the Second Lady of the United States, Karen Pence, and his two daughters. Mrs. Pence will release a more detailed schedule of her meetings and cultural visits in the coming days.
  