
    Pool Reports by Zolan Kanno-Youngs, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




April 3, 2023 10:49 EDT

Out of town pool report #1 rolling
Hello again. Hope you're all having a great Monday morning.
The pool was swept at the pickup area near President Biden's Delaware residence and joined his motorcade at 10:46 am. We're rolling to DANG.
Thanks all. 


April 3, 2023 10:58 EDT

Out of town pool report #2 DANG/AF1
The president boarded Air Force One at 10:56 am.
According to the White House, the president traveled to DANG with the following:
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
The president is traveling on Air Force One to Minneapolis with the following:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Deputy press Secretary Olivia Dalton will gaggle on Air Force One. You can listen on
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Here is the schedule for today:
EDT
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily Briefing Closed Press
9:45 AM  Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
11:00 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Delaware Air National Guard Base en route to Hennepin County, Minnesota Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, Delaware Out-of-Town Pool 
CDT
12:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Hennepin County, Minnesota  Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport, Hennepin County, Minnesota Open Press 
2:05 PM THE PRESIDENT tours Cummins Power Generation Facility Cummins Power Generation Facility, Fridley, Minnesota Out-of-Town Pool
2:35 PM THE PRESIDENT discusses how his economic agenda has led to the strongest job growth in history, over $435 billion in major private sector investments nationwide, stronger supply chains here at home, and a Made in America manufacturing and clean energy boom Cummins Power Generation Facility, Fridley, Minnesota Open Press
4:40 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Hennepin County, Minnesota en route to Joint Base Andrews Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport, Hennepin County, Minnesota 


April 3, 2023 13:02 CDT

Out of town pool report #3 Minneapolis arrival/ rough gaggle transcript
Air Force One landed at Minneapolis-Saint Paul Joint Air Force Reserve Station at 12:35 PM CT. The president walked down the steps of AF1 at 12:47 PM ET. His greeters applauded.
When he stepped off the stairs, the president turned back to pick up a presidential coin he accidentally dropped before handing the gifts to his two military greeters.
He then shook hands (or hugged in the case of Senator Amy Klobuchar) each member of the Minnesota delegation on hand to greet him. The president also posed for a photograph with Gus Walz, the son of the governor and First Lady of Minnesota.
The president ignored shouted questions about whether he was concerned about unrest. He stepped into the Beast at 12:52 PM. We're rolling at 12:56 PM.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Minneapolis-Saint Paul Joint Air Force Reserve Station:
Governor Tim Walz, Minnesota Gwen Walz, First Lady of Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN) Senator Tina Smith (MN) Rep. Ilhan Omar (MN-5) Tim Mynett, Spouse of Rep. Ilhan Omar Mayor Jacob Frey, Minneapolis, Minnesota Mayor Melvin Carter, St. Paul, Minnesota Col. Ethan P. Hinkins, Commander, 934th Airlift Wing Chief MSGT Kristen M. Maloney, Senior Enlisted Leader of the 934th Mission Support Group
***
The White House says deputy press secretary Olivia Dalton's gaggle could not be live streamed due to technical issues. I'm told a recording should be uploaded eventually but just in case there's a delay here's a rough transcript:
Olivia Dalton said the president was visiting a Cummins factory that produces clean hydrogen.
"This factory is helping to bring the supply chain for fuel efficient engines and vehicles back to the U.S.," she said. "It is employing hundreds of workers with good paying jobs."
She said it's part of 2 billion dollars companies have invested in Minnesota since Biden took office.
"Today Cummins is announcing 1 billion dollar investment to upgrade factories in Indiana, North Carolina and New York so that they can manufacture lower carbon and zero emissions engines," she added.
She said it will create hundreds of new jobs.
She added that the First Lady is visiting Colorado and Michigan as a part of a tour to highlight programs for high school and community college students. Vilsack is going to New Mexico to highlight how the president's agenda will ensure high speech internet.
On Thursday, the president and vice president will go to Georgia to highlight part of the 435 million dollars in private sector manufacturing investments in good paying jobs.
On storms:
Initial reports indicate more than 50 tornadoes tore through multiple states "destroying homes" businesses and taking dozens of lives. Early Sunday morning, Biden approved an expedited disaster declaration to quickly get federal assistance to Arkansas. He also called the governors of Arkansas, Delaware, Illinois and Indiana.
"We stand ready to respond to any additional requests for federal assistance," she said.
Biden also called to congratulate the NASA astronauts on the Artemis 2 mission.
"The president thanked the astronauts for their service and for inspiring countless people around the U.S. and around the world," Dalton said, adding that the president also spoke to children of the astronauts.
Asked if the White House was concerned about unrest in New York City in the wake of Trump's arraignment:
"I'm not going to comment on the case itself as is standard practice," Dalton said. "I will say of course anytime the American people exercise the right to protest we encourage people to remain peaceful but I'm not going to engage on any hypotheticals on this."
On what's next after Blinken's meeting with Lavrov to discuss WSJ reporter:
"We continue to think about Evan and his family, keep them in our thoughts first and foremost. As you saw yesterday, secretary Blinken spoke with his counterpart, Russian foreign minister Lavrov and communicated directly to him that Evan's detention is unacceptable. We continue to seek his immediate release. These charges are ridiculous and we want to see consular access to Evan as soon as possible."
Is President Biden watching any of the Trump coverage on TV?
"I don't have anything on that," Dalton said.
On NBC report that Chinese spy balloon collected more intelligence than initially described:
"As the Pentagon said before, the surveillance balloon we believe had limited ability to collect any additional intelligence beyond what could be collected through other surveillance means and I just don't have anything beyond that to add."
President worried that Trump indictment will steal thunder from trip to Minnesota and three week tour?
"The president is focused on delivering for the American people. That's what he wakes up and thinks about each day. We're on our way to Minnesota where we'll talk about the Invest in America tour," adding they will talk about legislative achievements and job growth.
"He's also talking about all the ways in which they've created an ecosystem for the private sector to invest in America as well," Dalton said.
On moderate Democrats working on alternative debt ceiling compromise?
"The president has been clear on his position on the debt limit," Dalton said adding there's no excuse for holding the United States hostage. She said it has to be addressed and addressed "swiftly."
She then declined to say whether they are deploying additional federal law enforcement to New York, saying she would not comment on hypotheticals. "We're always prepared," she said.
Q: Any update on whether you have seen signs of a response from China?
A: look, our message has been very clear on this. As I have just said, these are routine transits, pretty much every year in the last 7 years the president of Taiwan has transited the United States and so there is just no reason for there to be any sort of overreaction from the PRC to respond any different this time around.
Q: …the opec+ production cuts will impact the US economy and do you think opec+ is trying to undermine the America economy?
A: You will have to ask Saudi Arabia and OPEC about their motives here. But this was an OPEC+ decision, not a decision by any particular country and I would say that while my colleagues have already been on the record talking about the ways in which we believe this is an un advisable decision to make given the instability in the markets. We also are focused on what the impact is to American consumers first and foremost...
Q: we were just in Mississippi. Is the federal government spread thin at this point when it comes to disaster management?
A: certainly we have seen fema deploy administrator Criswell on the ground in Mississippi. Last weekend with the president on Friday again and this weekend in Arkansas. Certainly the devastation has been tragic, devastating, heartbreaking for all the communities that have been impacted. But I think you have seen the administration responded in a really robust way already on the ground in Mississippi. The SBA, HUD, FEMA, all of these agencies coming together to support these communities.
And the president's continued message to all of these communities that have been impacted is that we will work with you, we will stay by your side until you are back on your feet and recovered.
On OPEC and consequences for Saudi Arabia, she said the US is focused on what serves the interests of American people and what serves them is the work that has been done to bring gas prices down.
She declined to comment on a question about a piece of legislation that would allow the US to sue OPEC members and whether the WH supported it.
She did not give directly answers a question about whether there were any further meetings planned with Russia about the WSJ journalist, Evan Gershkovich. 


April 3, 2023 13:32 CDT

Out of town pool report #4 Cummins arrival
The president arrived at Cummins Power Generation Facility at 1:26 PM. The pool was told to wait in the vans briefly so I was unable to see the president enter the facility.
During the ride over, your pooler saw various spectators waving at the motorcade. One person waved a "Let's go Brandon" flag. 


April 3, 2023 14:08 CDT

Out of town pool report #5 Cummins facility tour/ Biden comment on NY unrest
The pool was brought to a holding area inside the facility that was surrounded by turquoise power generators. Before his tour, the president participated in a photo line.
Before he started his tour, Sen. Klobuchar, Rep. Omar, Gov. Walz and Sen. Tina Smith lined up in front of one of the power generators and directly across from the press holding area. The president met the congressional members at that spot at 1:56 PM.
A tour guide explained to the president the Cummins electrolyzer uses water and electricity to produce hydrogen.
He told the president that by the end of 2024, "we expect 100 new jobs." Biden then turned to the press and asked if we're here for jobs.
He laughed and said "maybe."
As the press was ushered to the second stop of the tour, a reporter asked if the president was concerned about unrest. "No, I have faith in the New York police department," Biden said.
He was then asked if he had faith in the legal system at this current time. "Yes," he said.
His conversation with a guide at the second and third stop of the tour was inaudible.
The White House sends along participants from the photo line.
To Governor Tim Walz (D-MN) Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN) Senator Tina Smith (MN) Rep. Angie Craig (MN-2) Cheryl Greene, Spouse of Rep. Angie Craig (MN-2) Rep. lhan Omar (MN-5) Tim Mynett, Spouse of Rep. Ilhan Omar (MN-5) Mayor Scott Lund, Fridley, Minnesota Melissa Hortman, Speaker of the Minnesota House of Representatives  President Johnny Johnson, Prairie Island Indian Community 


April 3, 2023 14:43 CDT

Out of town pool report #6 remarks/background
Apologies on missing the 2 min.
You can catch the president's remarks here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Here's some background from the White House on the tour:
The President is touring Cummins Power Generation Facility. In October 2022, just two months after President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act, Cummins announced that it will begin manufacturing electrolyzers in the United States for the first time—at its Fridley facility. Electrolyzers are a critical input in producing clean hydrogen, which can power hydrogen fuel cell vehicles as well as industrial processes like steel production. The production of electrolyzers in Fridley is helping bring the supply chain for fuel-efficient engines and vehicles back to the United States—particularly in heavy trucking industries. During the tour President Biden will hear directly from workers at the Fridley facility about their current manufacturing operations and how they're preparing the factory to be Cummins' first electrolyzer manufacturing facility in the United States.
Participants at Tour Stop #1: Plant Orientation Governor Tim Walz (D-MN) Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN) Senator Tina Smith (MN) Rep. lhan Omar (MN-5) Asit Desai, Cummins, Inc. Plant Manager
Participants at Tour Stop #2: High Horsepower Test Cells  Josh Tamminen, Test Technician
Participants at Tour Stop #3: Generator Assembly Line Omar Hernandez, Team Leader, Line 94 Elisha Marsh, Cummins Production Associate
In attendance for the President's remarks on his Investing in America agenda, which has helped unleash the strongest job growth in history, over $435 billion in private sector investments across America, stronger supply chains here at home, and a Made in America manufacturing and clean energy boom:
Governor Tim Walz, Minnesota  Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN) Senator Tina Smith (MN) Rep. Angie Craig (MN-2)  Rep. lhan Omar (MN-5) Mayor Scott Lund, Fridley, Minnesota Melissa Hortman, Speaker of the Minnesota House of Representatives  President Johnny Johnson, Prairie Island Indian Community State and local elected officials and community leaders Members of Cummins, Inc. leadership, facility workers, and management
Pre-Program Tony Satterthwaite, Vice Chairman, Cummins Inc.  Governor Tim Walz, Minnesota  Mayor Scott Lund, Fridley, Minnesota Rep. lhan Omar (MN-5) Senator Tina Smith (MN) Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Speaking Program Brandon Moore, Training Program Leader The President 


April 3, 2023 15:20 CDT

Out of town pool report # 7 remarks over
The president spoke for about 27 minutes. After his speech, the president greeted and shook hands and posed for photos with spectators, workers and some of their children who had come to witness the speech at the Cummins plant. The mingling lasted about 16 minutes.


April 3, 2023 16:33 CDT

Out of town pool report #8 rolling
At 4:27 PM, the motorcade departed the facility. We were loaded into the vans at roughly 3:30 PM.
Your pooler asked the White House what the president was doing while we were holding for nearly an hour and they declined to provide an answer. 


April 3, 2023 17:03 CDT

Out of town pool report #9 AF1
The president arrived at the airport and stepped out of the Beast at 4:59 PM. He was holding a paper white bag and signaled for a staffer to come take it. While walking up the stairs of Air Force One he turned to answer question on OPEC and oil production but it was impossible to hear from our position. Your pooler asked him to repeat himself but he continued up the stairs.


April 3, 2023 17:08 CDT

Out of town pool report #10 comment boarding AF1
"It's not going to be as bad as you think," the president said of his reaction to OPEC. Just listened to a recording. Sending now before we take off. 


April 3, 202320:08 EDT

Out of town pool report #11 JBA arrival
Air Force One landed at Joint Base Andrews at 8:01 PM ET.


April 3, 2023 20:19 EDT

Out of town pool report # 12 marine one
The president stepped off Air Force One at 8:09 PM. He saluted his greeter and immediately walked to Marine One. M1 took off at 8:17 PM. 
A big thanks for Kwasi Gyamfi Asiedu of the LAT for his help pooling over the past few days. 
From the White House: 
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffNatalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Thanks for sticking with me!




Pool Reports below by Christian Datoc, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




April 3, 2023 12:28 EDT

In-town pool report #1 — gaggle issues
Good morning. I'll be your in-town pooler for POTUS' arrival this evening, but passing along from the White House regarding todays gaggle, previously scheduled for 12:30pm ET:
Due to technical difficulties, today's gaggle cannot be streamed live. The audio will be re-fed as soon as possible, and we will let the in-town chain know what time that will happen. 


April 3, 2023 12:39 EDT

In-town pool report #2 — calls to NASA/Artemis II astronauts
Passing along from the White House:
Yesterday, President Biden called to congratulate NASA astronauts Reid Wiseman, Victor Glover, and Christina Hammock Koch, and Canadian Space Agency (CSA) astronaut Jeremy Hansen, who will venture around the moon on the Artemis II mission in 2024. The President thanked the astronauts for their service and for inspiring countless people around the U.S. and the world. He also spoke to the children of the astronauts. The crew - which is the first to fly around the Moon in more than 50 years - includes the first woman, first person of color, and the first international crewmember on a lunar mission.
The flight will build upon the successful uncrewed Artemis I mission completed in December, and it will set the stage for the first woman and first person of color to land on the Moon through the Artemis program, while paving the way for future long-term human exploration missions to the Moon, and eventually Mars. 


April 3, 2023 15:38 EDT

In-town pool report #3 — gaggle audio
Passing along from the White House:
Please see below for a link to listen to today's gaggle:
https://youtu.be/CIo4NS2TsgI 


April 3, 202320:11 EDT

In-town pool report #4 — gathering for arrival
Good evening. Pool is preparing to gather for President Biden's imminent return to the White House. We're running slightly behind schedule, per WH officials.


April 3, 202320:31 EDT

In-town pool report #5 — wheels down, no comment
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 8:27pm ET
POTUS walked directly into the residence without fielding questions from the pool at 8:29pm, though he did give a quick wave and a smile.


April 3, 202320:34 EDT

In-town pool report #6 — lid
… called at 8:33pm. Have a great night, y'all!



  