
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory commission on compensation of career Federal executives, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the President's Commission on Compensation of Career Federal Executives. The Commission shall be composed of seven members, to be appointed or designated by the President, not more than four of whom shall be employees of the Federal government. The President shall designate the Chairman of the Commission.
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission shall study the levels of compensation paid to career members of the Senior Executive Service (SES) and shall advise the President and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management on its findings and recommendations, including its conclusions on:
(1) what effects inflation has had on these pay levels;
(2) how these pay levels compare with those of similarly situated executives in the private sector;
(3) how these pay levels affect the recruitment and retention of career executives in the Federal service;
(4) whether these pay levels are appropriate;
(5) how compensation of the Senior Executive Service should relate to compensation of (a) Executive Level employees, and (b) GS/GM employees; and
(6) whether legislation should be proposed to alter the President's authority to adjust SES compensation levels.
(b) The Commission shall report its findings and recommendations to the President and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management no later than August 1, 1987.
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent provided by law, provide the Commission such information with respect to the compensation of career Federal executives as it may require for purposes of carrying out its functions.
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for their work on the Commission. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).
(c) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, provide the Commission with such administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission established by this Order, shall be performed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
(b) The Commission shall terminate 30 days after submission of its report to the President.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
April 10, 1987.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:12 a.m., April 21, 1987]
  