
    For too many families, in too many places, worrying about health problems and access to health care is a daily reality. So today, on World Health Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to building a future that is safer, more equitable, and healthier, for families here and abroad.
Since day one of my administration, we have renewed U.S. leadership in global health, starting here at home. As we vaccinated 255 million Americans and fought COVID-19, we also lowered health care costs and enrolled a record breaking 14.5 million people; expanded postpartum coverage in several States; released a new Overdose Prevention Strategy; and launched a national strategy to treat mental health and physical health concerns equally.
On the global stage, we have led an ambitious campaign with our allies and partners to fight COVID-19, strengthen global health systems, and finance future pandemic preparedness. We have already shipped more than 516 million COVID-19 vaccines to countries around the world, with no strings attached, and we have pledged another 700 million by the end of this year. But we have to keep up the fight. More work lies ahead, and Congress must continue funding our fight against COVID-19, at home and abroad.
While we focus on COVID-19, we have also reinvigorated our efforts and our investments to address core global health challenges. We're doubling down on our commitment to meet our 2030 goals to end the AIDS epidemic. We're boosting efforts to fight tuberculosis and malaria, including through our $2 billion commitment to the Global Fund and by rallying contributions from around the world. We're working to reverse the alarming downward trend in global life expectancy and the impacts of the climate crisis by making foundational investments in childhood vaccinations, maternal and reproductive health, and basic nutrition. And it's why the United States joined the Universal Health Coverage Group of Friends, a coalition of countries dedicated to strengthening health systems and expanding access to health coverage around the world.
This pandemic has spotlighted the critical role and bravery of health and care workers. That's why I've asked my administration to develop a global health workforce plan, to accelerate our contributions to the Sustainable Development Agenda and investments in health and care workers.
Our health and security at home are irrevocably connected to the health and security of people everywhere. On this World Health Day, let us recommit to making sure that all people can access the health care they need.
  