
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman:)
In accordance with Public Law 95-384, I am submitting to you a bimonthly report on progress toward a negotiated settlement of the Cyprus question.
During this period U.N. Secretary General Perez de Cuellar continued his efforts to restore momentum to the search for a peaceful Cyprus settlement. On his instructions, U.N. Under Secretary General Goulding visited Cyprus February 4-7 to discuss with the Greek and Turkish Cypriot sides procedural ideas that could help move the negotiating process forward. Mr. Goulding proposed the holding of separate, exploratory talks in Nicosia between U.N. officials and representatives of the two sides. These discussions would be informal and nonbinding and were intended to help the Secretary General carry forward his good offices mission.
In mid-March, the two Cypriot sides reviewed the Secretary General's proposals with the Secretary General's Acting Special Representative on Cyprus. The Greek Cypriot side said its general position on the proposal was positive, although this did not imply any change in its view on the necessity for priority discussion of the issues of importance to it, or in its support for the convening of an international conference. The Turkish Cypriot side expressed its concern that the proposed procedure could undercut the Secretary General's March 1986 draft framework agreement, which the Turkish Cypriot side had accepted and the Greek Cypriot side had not. As of this date, U.N. Secretariat officials are continuing their contacts with the two sides on the proposal advanced by Mr. Goulding.
In both public statements and private discussions during this period, Administration officials have stressed our continuing support for the U.N. Secretary General's Cyprus mission. We have also been urging those directly involved with the Cyprus issue to seek every opportunity to improve the atmosphere on the island so as to enhance the prospects for progress toward a negotiated settlement.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
  