
    "It's a shocking denial of his campaign promises that those freshmen who voted for him here four years ago or three and a half years ago, many of them now find themselves unemployed as a result of his failed policies. And I think you're going to see a dramatic turnaround on the campuses this year with much stronger support for the Republican ticket and strong support for Mitt Romney's program of addressing our problems rather than hiding from them." - Former Colorado Senator Hank Brown
Former Senator Hank Brown, Congressman Aaron Schock, and College Republican National
Committee Chairman Alex Schriver
"President Obama Has Failed Young Adults" Press Conference Call
April 24, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "President Obama Has Failed Young Adults" Press Conference Call:
FMR. SEN. HANK BROWN: "President Obama gets an 'F' for failing our youth. As I think many of you know, four years ago, the President was able to fool a number of our college students into supporting his campaign and the result has been the highest level of unemployment for youth in our country's recorded history. It's a shocking denial of his campaign promises that those freshmen who voted for him here four years ago or three and a half years ago, many of them now find themselves unemployed as a result of his failed policies. And I think you're going to see a dramatic turnaround on the campuses this year with much stronger support for the Republican ticket and strong support for Mitt Romney's program of addressing our problems rather than hiding from them. And I think the youth, more than anyone else, have a vested interest in seeing Medicare and Medicaid addressed and saved and resolved so that the benefits are there for them when they retire. This is going to be an exciting campaign and I think one of the biggest shifts in votes away from Obama will occur in our youth vote."
REP. AARON SCHOCK: "I had the opportunity to have Governor Romney in Peoria a few months back and we went to my alma mater, Bradley University, where over 2,000 students showed up to hear [Governor] Romney's message and plan to get them jobs when they get out of college. The fact of the matter is, young people go to college, young people take out student loans, young people work very hard though these years of their life to find a better way of life, to get good jobs, to provide for them and their families. And the fact that the President has focused so much attention on student loans and debt is a bit ironic when what young people really want is not student loans but a way to pay for their student loans. They want good-paying jobs and, despite the President's rhetoric, it doesn't meet the reality of what he's talked about and that is hope and opportunity for all, a fair playing field for all. The reality is that there's not an opportunity for young people as they've graduated from college, and that's not an opinion, it's fact. Half of the young people who graduated last year are still unemployed or underemployed. Nearly the same percent still live with their parents. This is not the America that they dreamed of living in. It's certainly not the hope and promise that President Obama made to these young people three years ago when he was running or four years ago when he was running for president. And in addition to them being unemployed and a lack of jobs, they are now being delivered a mountain of debt that their generation will have to pay for. They are the unwitting cosigners of this nation's $15 trillion and growing debt that has gone from $10 to $15 trillion since this president has been in office. So with fewer jobs, with a larger debt, the path could not be clearer for young people to choose and, you know, as James Carville once said, it's the economy, stupid. And I think young people today, despite their varying issues on a whole host of issues, that the issue of the day for young people is going to be the economy, it's going to be the job prospects for them getting out of college and they are going to remember the fact that despite the President's economic promises, it doesn't meet the reality of today as they try and look for jobs."
...
COLLEGE REPUBLICAN CHAIRMAN ALEX SCHRIVER: "We all know that in 2008, in 2008, 66% of my fellow young people voted for Senator Obama for president. We're sitting here three and half years later and half of my generation didn't get up and go to a job this morning. ... Young people are sitting here three and half years later, and they're not better off. They can't find jobs. They can't pay their bills. And that's really what this is about. The policies of this administration have disproportionately affected my demographic greater than any other group. The three largest deficits in history and in burdening my fellow students, young Americans, with trillions of dollars of national debt. And that's what this election is about. 74% of young people's number one issue according to Harvard Institute of Politics is jobs and the economy. Three quarters of young people are saying, we want a candidate, we want a president that's going to talk to us about jobs and the economy and not simply provide campaign solutions to get re-elected."
  