
    To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am formally transmitting to the Congress a request for a supplemental appropriation of $528 million which will support 888,100 jobs for disadvantaged youth this summer.
The Secretary of Labor has advised me that the unemployment picture for youth is expected to improve this year over last year. However, the problem of youth unemployment continues to be a difficult one, especially in the summer months when students are out of school and seeking work. The action I am proposing today, combined with other related summer youth programs, will mean Federal efforts will produce a summer job for 1.5 million young people.
If Congress acts in a timely fashion on this request for a supplemental appropriation, the Summer Youth Employment Program will get funds where they are needed while they can be most useful. The appropriation I am requesting will create the same number of jobs at the local level as we achieved last summer.
I have made my request to the Congress in the form of an urgent supplemental. Many areas begin their programs in May, and sufficient lead time is required to ensure proper planning for so large a program. It is important that the employment provided to these young people be meaningful, and that the program operate with maximum efficiency.
I also want to call attention again to the importance of prompt Congressional action on a related matter--my request for $1.7 billion in supplemental funding for public service jobs under the CETA program. This request, contained in my 1977 Budget, would provide funds needed to prevent layoffs from Federally supported public service jobs programs. A number of local sponsors are already facing the prospect of terminating their programs because their funds are running out.
This public service employment program is already employing people. Whatever differences I may have with the Congress over other aspects of the job creation issue, there is no reason why local officials and individual job holders should be held in suspense or in fear of being laid off.
Action is essential on both the summer youth and the temporary employment assistance supplemental requests. I hope the Congress will act quickly to pass both measures.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
April 8, 1976.
  