
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
On January 8, 1994, I provided my second report to you on the deployment of a U.S. Army peacekeeping contingent as part of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. I am now providing this further report, consistent with the War Powers Resolution, to inform you about my decision to augment our contingent in support of multilateral peacekeeping efforts in the region.
Since its arrival in July 1993, our combatequipped U.S. Army contingent of approximately 315 Americans has been an important part of UNPROFOR Macedonia. Along with a Nordic battalion consisting of troops from Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Denmark, the U.S. Armed Forces have assisted in the U.N. Security Council-authorized mission of monitoring and reporting developments along the northern border that could signify a threat to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The U.S. contribution has played an important role in the UNPROFOR Macedonia effort to prevent the conflict in the former Yugoslavia from spreading while contributing to stability in the region.
In order to support the United Nations as it sought additional forces to serve with UNPROFOR Bosnia-Herzegovina, the United States offered to increase the U.S. contribution to UNPROFOR Macedonia by approximately 200 personnel. The United Nations expressed its appreciation for continued U.S. cooperation and support and requested that the additional U.S. personnel be deployed to UNPROFOR Macedonia. We believe that the decision to deploy additional U.S. personnel to replace elements of the UNPROFOR Macedonia Nordic battalion has contributed to the decisions by member governments to deploy additional military personnel to Bosnia-Herzegovina.
As a result of these decisions, the U.S. European Command is deploying a reinforced company of approximately 200 personnel to augment the U.S. Army contingent in UNPROFOR Macedonia. The additional U.S. Armed Forces are from Company D, 1st Battalion, 6th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division, V Corps, Vilseck, Germany. This unit is joining the U.S. reinforced company that was deployed earlier. The unit is equipped to assume sector responsibilities for departing Nordic troops as part of the ongoing U.N. monitoring and observer mission.
United States forces assigned to UNPROFOR Macedonia have encountered no hostilities, and there have been no U.S. casualties since the operation began. The mission has the support of the government and the local population. Our forces will remain fully prepared not only to fulfill their peacekeeping mission, but to defend themselves if necessary.
This additional U.S. contribution to UNPROFOR Macedonia is consistent with our commitment to multilateral efforts to address threats to international peace and security in the former Yugoslavia. I have ordered the deployment of U.S. Armed Forces for these purposes pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct foreign relations and as Commander in Chief.
I appreciate the support of the Congress for our efforts in the former Yugoslavia, and I look forward to continued cooperation with you in these matters.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  