
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
James H. Anderson, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Robert M. Scher, resigned.
Rubydee Calvert, of Wyoming, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2022, vice David J. Arroyo, term expired.
Bonnie Glick, of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Alfonso E. Lenhardt.
Jennifer L. Homendy, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2019, vice Mark R. Rosekind, resigned.
Heidi R. King, of California, to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, vice Mark R. Rosekind.
John P. Pallasch, of Kentucky, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Portia Y. Wu.
Mark Rosen, of Connecticut, to be United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of two years, vice Margrethe Lundsager, resigned.
Laura Gore Ross, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2022, vice Jannette Lake Dates, term expired.
Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, of Puerto Rico, to be United States District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, vice Jose Antonio Fuste, retired.
Pamela A. Barker, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice Donald C. Nugent, retired.
Kenneth D. Bell, of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, vice Richard L. Voorhees, retired.
Stephen R. Clark, Sr., of Missouri, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, vice Carol E. Jackson, retired.
Charles L. Goodwin, of Hawaii, to be United States Marshal for the District of Hawaii for the term of four years, vice Gervin Kazumi Miyamoto, term expired.
James Patrick Hanlon, of Indiana, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Indiana, vice William T. Lawrence, retiring.
Scott Patrick Illing, of Louisiana, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Louisiana for the term of four years, vice Genevieve Lynn May, term expired.
John D. Jordan, of Missouri, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Missouri for the term of four years, vice William Claud Sibert, term expired.
Jonathan W. Katchen, of Alaska, to be United States District Judge for the District of Alaska, vice Ralph R. Beistline, retired.
Scott E. Kracl, of Nebraska, to be United States Marshal for the District of Nebraska for the term of four years, vice Mark Anthony Martinez, term expired.
R. Don Ladner, Jr., of Florida, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Florida for the term of four years, vice Edward M. Spooner, retired.
Cheryl A. Lydon, of South Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina for the term of four years, vice William N. Nettles, term expired.
Erica H. MacDonald, of Minnesota, to be United States Attorney for the District of Minnesota for the term of four years, vice Andrew Mark Luger, resigned.
Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Julio M. Fuentes, retired.
Mary S. McElroy, of Rhode Island, to be United States District Judge for the District of Rhode Island, vice Mary M. Lisi, retired.
David Stephen Morales, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Janis Graham Jack, retired.
Sarah Daggett Morrison, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio, vice Gregory L. Frost, retired.
David James Porter, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice D. Michael Fisher, retired.
J. C. Raffety, of West Virginia, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of West Virginia for the term of four years, vice Gary Michael Gaskins, term expired.
Gadyaces S. Serralta, of Florida, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Florida for the term of four years, vice Amos Rojas, Jr., term expired.
Mark F. Sloke, of Alabama, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Alabama for the term of four years, vice Charles Edward Andrews, term expired.
  