
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals to serve in his administration and two individuals to serve on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.
The President intends to nominate Robert D. McCallum, Jr. to be Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division. McCallum is currently a Partner with the Alston & Bird law firm in Atlanta, Georgia, where he has served since 1973. He is a graduate of Yale University, a Rhodes Scholar with a Master's degree from Oxford University, and he received his law degree from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Colonel Paul V. Kelly to be Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs. He was most recently the President of the Physical Evaluation Board for the Department of the Navy and served as the Director of the Marine Corps War College from 1994 to 1997. Kelly was Legislative Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1990 to 1993 and was the Liaison to the Defense Appropriations Committees for Marine Corps Matters from 1988 to 1990. A twenty-year veteran of the Marine Corps, he has received numerous awards including the Purple Heart. He is a graduate of Merrimack College and received his Master's degree from Lowell Technological Institute.
The President intends to nominate Erik Patrick Christian to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. He is currently the Legal Counsel to the Mayor of District of Columbia and served as Deputy Mayor for Public Safety and Justice for the District of Columbia from 1999 to 2000. He served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia from 1989 to 1995 and then again from 1997 to 1999. A D.C. native, he is a graduate of Howard University and Georgetown University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Maurice A. Ross to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. He is presently Assistant Counsel in the Office of Professional Responsibility in the Department of Justice where he has served since 1997 and was Senior Counsel at the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation from 1993 to 1997. Ross served as Assistant U.S. Attorney in Washington, D.C. from 1991 to 1993 and was Associate Deputy Attorney General at the U.S. Department of Justice from 1990 to 1991. Originally from Washington, D.C., he is a graduate of Yale University and Harvard Law School.
  