
    Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA!
The President. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Thank you. Hello, Green Bay. Thank you. We love Green Bay. [cheers and applause] Thank you. Thank you.
In the great state of Wisconsin, home of the legendary Green Bay Packers, right? [cheers and applause] And there's no place I'd rather be than right here in America's heartland, right? [cheers and applause] And there's no one I'd rather be with than you, the hardworking patriots, who make our country run so well, and it's running right now better, maybe than it ever has. Thank you. [cheers and applause]
The strength of our nation is found in the heart of our people, so true. Tonight, America's heart is with the victims of the horrific synagogue shooting in Poway, California —just happened. Our entire nation mourns the loss of life, prays for the wounded, and stands in solidarity with the Jewish community. We forcefully condemn the evil of anti-Semitism and hate, which must be defeated. Just happened, must be defeated. [cheers and applause]
And we are grateful to the law enforcement personnel for their courageous response, incredible response today by law enforcement. [cheers and applause] And I especially want to recognize a certain off-duty border patrol agent who bravely returned fire and helped disrupt the attack and saved so many lives, border patrol. [cheers and applause] And I also want to thank Mayor Steve Voss, we had a great conversation. And Governor, Gavin Newsom, had a great conversation. And we stand together. We will all get to the bottom of it. We're going to get to the bottom of a lot of things happening in our country. [cheers and applause]
Together, we're building a new chapter of American greatness. One, founded on the idea that all citizens are entitled to live in safety, prosperity, and peace. This is an exciting time for our great country. This is an exciting time for America. [cheers and applause]
Just yesterday it was announced that the United States economy grew—some people thought unexpectedly, not me, I didn't think. In fact, frankly, if we had the Obama interest rates, low, almost nothing, actually nothing. And if we had quantitative easing instead of tightening, we used this conservative approach. We would have been even much higher than this. But this is very high. Far greater. First quarter is always for the most part, it's the lowest quarter. We did 3.2% in the first quarter [cheers and applause] GDP, crushing expectations and accelerating our economic boom. And that was with a shutdown, that was with a lot of different things, that was with bad weather, that was with everything you can imagine. Three point two in the first quarter, usually the lowest and worst quarter. [cheers and applause]
And Prime Minister Abe, we're negotiating trade deals because every country has been ripping us off for years. And I really like the prime minister, he's a friend of mine, but I said, "Mr. Prime Minister, we've gotta do something." For so many decades we've been losing tens of billions of dollars to China and Japan, and India, and name any country... and we lost. But we're not losing anymore. And I said, "Listen, we gotta do something." $68 billion in trade losses over the last four, five years —a year! So we're renegotiating. And I think he'll be fair, I think he'll be fair.
And by the way, he started by saying that he's putting $40 billion into the United States for new car factories. Toyota's coming in with $14 billion, [cheers and applause] many, many companies are coming in. And they're coming in, frankly, to Michigan, they're coming back, they want to be back to Ohio, to Pennsylvania, to North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, and what's the name of this special place? It's called Wisconsin. [cheers and applause]
So they'll be investing very shortly. And it's started already —40 billion with a B, 40 billion dollars, and it'll be a lot more than that.
The poverty rate for Wisconsin families has reached the lowest rate in 22 years. [cheers and applause] The unemployment rate for Wisconsin workers has reached historic lows —never been this low before ever, ever, ever, think of that. [cheers and applause] Never been, historic low. And we're now the No. 1 economy anywhere in the world and it's not even close. [cheers and applause]
Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA!
The President. By the way, Saturday night, is there any place that's more fun than a Trump rally? [cheers and applause] Can you imagine, Sleepy Joe, [laughter] Crazy Bernie, [laughter] you look at the candidates, right?
Crowd Member. Pocahontas!
The President. I think Pocahontas, she's finished, she's out, [cheers and applause] she's gone. Nah, when it was found that I had more Indian blood in me than she did. And then it was determined that I had none, but I still had more. [laughter] That was the end of her 32-year scam on colleges. But can you imagine any of these people up here doing what I'm doing? There'd be 200 people show up if they were President, if they weren't President, nobody would show up. Is that right? [applause]
And I have to say, I was saying on the way over, they told me about bad weather, by the way, we may have to cancel tonight. I said, "Are you crazy?" [booing] ooing] Now can you imagine? I learned this morning, they thought you could have a big snowstorm, right? A big, big snowstorm. The people that get it wrong, the most are the weather forecasters and the political analysts. [Trump gestures toward news media.] [cheers and applause]
No, they said there's a big, big storm, it's going to be hitting Green Bay. We may have to cancel. I said, "Like hell, we're going to cancel. People are standing out." [cheers and applause] People are standing out 24 hours ago, 32 hours ago, outside. Who stood out there for 24 hours? Thank you. We love you. Thank you. Thank you.
And you know what, and you're rewarded with the best seats in the house, right? That's the way it's ah... [cheers and applause] That's right.
America's future has never been brighter, yet the Democrats, those very friendly people [booing] ooing] in Washington have never been angrier than they are today. You see, somebody else with a very low level of energy, was supposed to be standing here instead of me. They wouldn't be in this room.
Crowd. LOCK HER UP! LOCK HER UP! LOCK HER UP!
The President. I don't know they've got some problems, I would say that. But you know, if you look, two weeks out, in 2016, I was going to rallies we were doing five and six like this. And there were thousands of people outside just like there are right now. We had 69,000 people sign up to come in. What is this place on like ten or twelve or whatever. Whatever it holds, we set the record. I just was told by the owners, where's the owner? [cheers and applause] Nice guy. I don't know what the hell it holds, but we just set the record. Where's the owner? Is this your record? Thank you. Whoa... . thank you. It's always dangerous. He said, "Yes, it is sir." It's always dangerous, you ask the question. He goes, "No, sir," I'm dead. They will take [gestures toward media]—they will take that answer—that'll be headlines.
Thank you very much, you saved me. Nah, this is the record. We set records everywhere. And it's not me. This's a movement like we've never seen in the history of our country. [cheers and applause]
But the radical, liberal Democrats put all their hopes behind their collusion delusion. [booing] Which has now been totally exposed to the world as a complete and total fraud; the greatest political hoax in American history, it really has been. So this witch hunt was never really just about me. It was always about stopping you, the millions and millions of freedom-loving citizens, who rose up on that incredible November day. Remember that day? November 8. [cheers and applause] And demanded a government that puts America first, OK? And we're doing that with China, we're doing that with India, we're doing that with Japan.
We're doing it with a great new trade deal, that hopefully will get approved in the House. I hope they're going to approve it because it's great for the farmers, everybody wants it, everybody loves it. But we're all signed up and getting ready, I guess in 30 days to put it in, the USMCA, like the song YMCA, right, you remember? USMCA, that's with Mexico and Canada, it's a great deal and it's uh going to be very really good for manufacturers and really, really good for the farmers. That's what we want to do. [cheers and applause] Put a lot of pressure on your Congressmen and your Senators because they have to ratify it. You know they have to approve it, and frankly, with what you have today, maybe they'd rather have us have a loss than do something that's good for the country, right? [booing]
Because NAFTA is one of the worst trade deals ever signed in the history of our country. You look at around Wisconsin, but you still see the scars —empty buildings. You up to New England, you go to Ohio, you go to different places, NAFTA was a disaster. And what we had, the one thing I wanted more than anything else, I want to make it almost impossible for a company to leave Wisconsin, and leave other states and go to Mexico, and go to other places, but go to Mexico, [cheers and applause] fire its workers, open a new plant in Mexico, hire other workers and sell the equipment into the United States. I don't want that.
And we're not going to do it and if it makes it virtually not economically viable, that's what I want. So, uh, it's gonna be great. I hope we can get Congress to get it approved quickly because it's going to be fantastic for everybody in this room and especially manufacturers and farmers and people aren't going to be firing people and moving their plants to other countries. [cheers and applause]
Remember that spell we were going through before I was a politician, remember? Can you believe I'm a politician, I can't even. [laughter] Politician. But you remember that spell where everybody was just leaving the country and going into Mexico, Canada, Mexico, Canada. And Canada has been taking big advantage of your agricultural products, you know that. You know Canada, we love the song, "Oh, Canada," let's sing Oh, Canada, right? We love the song. But I came up here a year ago, and I was with farmers and they were selling specialty milk. Now you're getting killed for years. Two hundred and ninety-seven-percent tariff. That means you can't sell it, that's essentially putting up a barrier.
So, all of those things are taken care of in this new deal, and you're going to be opened up and [cheers and applause] they don't love it, but... [cheers and applause] It's gonna be good for everybody. It's gonna be good for everybody, and if they didn't approve, I would've just put tariffs on the cars. I would've done that. I didn't want to do that. I didn't want to do that. But I said, "If that's not gonna happen, we're putting tariffs on the cars, and frankly we'll make more money." But the farmers wouldn't be helped so much. But you watch the company grow and prosper as you starve. That's no good, right? So, we like it and it's good actually it's good for Canada, it's good for Mexico, it's good for us. We've gotta get Congress to approve it. So put a lot of pressure on these geniuses we have over here. [cheers and applause] That's going to be a great trade deal.
And we're very close to making a deal with China, but who knows? I always say, who knows? Because who the hell does? The deal is either going to be a great deal, it has to be. I told President Xi, he's a friend of mine. I said, listen, this can't be like a good deal for both. This has to be a deal 'cause, we have been losing to China for many years. Five hundred billion dollars a year. We have rebuilt China. We've given 'em so much. Well think of it. Let's cash, you know, they can say it's surplus, they can say it's deficit, call it whatever it... we were losing cash. We're giving them five hundred, how the hell can you do it.
And as... Prime Minister Abe said to me today, he said nobody's ever talked to me this way —from our country. [laughter] True. [cheers and applause] No, he said it friendly. He – No, he said it friendly, he's a friend of mine, but he said nobody from this country, no President has ever said this. You know, nobody ever even talked about it. We lose 75 billion a year. Japan, as an example, sells us their cars. The cars come in, no tax. They don't take our cars.
Other than that, it's a very fair deal. [laughter] So da cars come in —essentially, it's two and a half percent, but essentially it's not tax. Our agriculture, they don't want it. We want to sell the agriculture. So, they sell cars, we sell, practically nothing. That's how we have these massive imbalances with so many countries.
Now China's the big one. Because with China it's at least $375 billion year deficit. Think of it. Three hundred —-who the hell wants—who made these deals? [laughter] It's true. Honestly, in all fairness to Obama, this was him, but this was before Obama, a long time before Obama.
This's been going on for a long time and all I'm telling you is, if we don't make a deal we're going to do even better, OK. We have all the cards. Don't forget, we're the piggy bank that everybody's robbing. We're—we're the ones, [applause] we're the piggy bank that everybody is stealing from and robbing and taking advantage of.
But no matter how hard they try to stop us, they can't because our love for America will always be stronger than a corrupt thirst for power. This—I don't – I, I'll tell you what, you know, people say, oh, he's wants to take over the country. He wants to extend... they don't believe I'm leaving in six years. He wants to extend. He wants to have presidency for life. These are sick people [gestures toward media]. I promise, at the end of six years, I'll be very happy, but you're going to be left with the strongest country you've ever had. [cheers and applause] I promise you.
Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA!
You're right, USA, we love USA, and that's right. And that's what this fight is all about. We're taking on the failed political establishment, and restoring government of, by, and for the people. It's the people. You're the people. You won the election. [applause]
And if you look at what's happened with the scum... that's leaving the very top of government, people that others used to say, oh, that's one tha. . thats dirty, these were dirty cops, these were dirty players. You take a look at what's going on. There's 21 of them already, and I'm not even doing ... they're just leaving because they got caught like nobody ever got caught. [cheers and applause] And then a truest sense of the word, what we are doing now is draining the swamp, that's true. [cheers and applause]
Crowd. DRAIN THE SWAMP! DRAIN THE SWAMP! DRAIN THE SWAMP!
The President. I mean, we're draining the swamp, but are we having a good time or what? [cheers and applause]
And look at all those beautiful red hats and some white ones. Some white ones. Look at that. Those are, that's a lot of red hats and, but you do have the white ones too, right? And you have the black ones too. You have a lot of them, you have a lot of different hats.
But let me just say, so we have to make a decision, you want to make it tonight.
So we're doing great, the country is doing great. We're rebuilding our military. We're doing so many things. Listen, so we have a decision to make. We may have the greatest theme in the history of politics called Make America Great Again. It's called MAGA country, MAGA country. [cheers and applause] It's called MAGA country.
You know, I didn't hear that term until that third-rate actor in Chicago went out [booing] and he said, "I was beaten up by MAGA country." Can you believe it? Now that's a hate crime, right? He said he was beaten up by MAGA country, turned out to be a total lie. But think of it, MAGA, Make America Great Again. And by the way, I have to tell you, that case in Chicago is a disgrace to our nation. [cheers and applause] Disgrace.
So—so we have a decision to make. Now, if this weren't the greatest thing—I really believe that it's been said, but make America Great Again. Ronald Reagan used seldom Let's Make America Great, close but not the same. Let's, apostrophe s. You don't want the apostrophe, it's too complicated. Doesn't work. But Ronald Reagan was good. He said Let's Make, but he didn't use it, erh he used it a little bit.
We seriously used it, right? MAGA. And MAGA we got for free because my whole deal was Make America Great Again, all of a sudden people are start going hashtag MAGA. [applause]
But we have a choice to make and a decisions to make. So very shortly —we're going to say, you see what we did with our vets, we have choice, we're going to go over. We have accountability where you can find—We have a lot of things. OK, we've done so much. Our military is like going to be very soon in great shape. We took 100% of the caliphate in Syria. Everyone said, "Oh, you're never going to be." [cheers and applause] And by the way, by the way, and when some whack job, that picks up something over the internet goes out and blows up a store and people get killed, I understand that happens. I understand because these people are sick, they're demented. But we nevertheless, in terms of a war, we took 100%. But you're going to have these cells, and they're gonna do damage. And it's a shame and we've gotta stop 'em. We've done a great job, but we've gotta be careful. We've gotta be good. These are sick, horrible human beings, if you even call them human beings.
So we've gotta be careful. And you know what, when you see—and I say this because we have a massive television row-ites. [Trump waves toward media.] Do you ever see so many cameras? If somebody else were here, you'd have about like none. It's like the Academy Awards used to be before they started hitting us, and their ratings started falling like a rock. [cheers and applause] True.
So we have a choice ta make. Ready? So Make America Great Again. The problem is we've made America great. Very sure. We're going to have a couple of things to do. We shouldda had health care, but one man decided to vote against us at the last moment. [booing] That was OK... Even though he campaigned for eight years repeal and replace, but that's OK. That's OK because we're coming up, we win, we're coming up with a great package of health care. We're going to be the party of health care. We're coming up with a great package after the election. We've gotta take back the House. We've gotta win the Senate. We've gotta win the presidency. We're going to have great. [cheers and applause] But we got rid of the individual mandate. That's the big thing that the worst part of it.
So here's what our decision is, do we use, for the new campaign, which will be starting soon.
We have the great Sarah Huckabee over here. Sarah? [Trump turns away from podium.]
Crowd. Sarah! Sarah! Sarah! Sarah!
Sarah Huckabee Ssnders: Thank you, Mr. President. Obviously, I thought it was going to be a little warmer here in Wisconsin. But it's pretty hot in this room tonight. [cheers and applause] Thanks to—Thanks to all the amazing things you've done for our country. Last year, this night, I was on a slightly different event, not quite the best welcome. [booing] So this is an amazing honor. [Sanders refers to the WHCA Dinner.]
I'm so proud to work for the President. They said he couldn't win in 2016, and he did. They said that he couldn't make our economy better, and it's booming. They said he couldn't rebuild the military and he's done it.
They said there was collusion and there wasn't. They've questioned him at every step, and he's proven them wrong every single time because of all of you. Thank you, Mr. President for leading our country. [cheers and applause] Thank you.
The President. Oh, she doesn't get it. She doesn't get it. [laughter] She doesn't understand me after all these years. She's becoming too popular. I'm jealous. Sarah, you're fired! She was wondering what was that all about. She's been great and Dan Scovino and Mike and the whole group and Madeline, everybody, [applause] what a group. What a group.
No, they're great people and they really love this country and what they've been through—they've been through a lot. They've been through a lot of phony stuff. The witch hunts, they've been through a lot.
So we're delighted to be joined tonight by many incredible Wisconsin Republican leaders. A really great friend of mine, a man who is really the focus of what's going on in so much of Washington. A very tough guy, very strong guy. I call him Wisconsin tough. And I don't even know if you know it and I don't know if you appreciate it, but I'm telling you he's really good. Ron Johnson. [cheers and applause] Thank you, Ron, a great job. He's doing a big job, now, I can tell you that he's working on some things that are very important.
And members of Congress, Bryan Steil. Bryan. Thank you, Bryan. [cheers and applause] Glenn Grothman. [cheers and applause] This guy... every time I introduce him... You know I love champions. I don't care if it's in sports. I just like champions. So he's your tree-climbing champion, you know who I'm talking... for five years, and that's not easy. He'd go up and come down. He said the hard part was coming down because you'd get killed if you missed. But for five years he was the champion, the world champion, five years. And he's with us tonight and I'll tell you, he's our champion, he fights so hard. He's working on a reciprocal trade bill. So, if somebody charges us a tariff of 100% or 50% or 25%, we say thank you very much. We're going to have a reciprocal tax of 25 or 50 or 100. [cheers and applause] What could be wrong with that? And he's leading the charge, and he's got tremendous enthusiasm, but he's a great guy, and he's a great champion. Sean and his wife, by the way is better than him. Sean Duffy. [cheers and applause] Right?
And another great friend of mine somebody that's been so effective, Mike Gallagher. Mike, thank you. [cheers and applause] Thank you. Thanks, Mike. And thanks also to Wisconsin House Majority Leader, Jim Steineke. Jim. Thanks Jim, great. [applause] Ahh Wisconsin. Senate President, Roger Roth, Senate Majority Leader, Scott Fitzgerald, thank you. [applause] These are great people, they've done so much for us. So we have other leaders in the room, but we all know who they are. They've been incredible.
The Republican Party has been incredible. After just the first two years time, America is winning again and America is respected again all over the world, no more games, all over the world. [applause] Since the election, we've created more than six million new jobs. Nobody would've believed that. If I'd said this, when I came here often, I came here often. Remember I came, and they didn't like certain people that were with me, they booed the hell out of those people, right? [laughter] But they liked me, that's all that mattered. If I would have said six million jobs we're going to create, by this time, two and a half years, can you believe how time flies? Two and a half years already.
I said the other night, I remember, first night, standing in my bedroom, I should say our bedroom, with our great First Lady, I said, "Do you believe?" First night, I said, "Here we are, here we are, in the White House." And four years sounded so long away. And now four years is coming up with two and a half years and no Administration has done as much as we have in the first three years. [cheers and applause] Ever. So ...
Crowd. FOUR MORE YEARS! FOUR MORE YEARS! FOUR MORE YEARS!
The President. Thank you. And by the way, yesterday was our First Lady's birthday. [cheers and applause] And people love her. We're about the same age, very close.
But if I would have said that we would be in two-and-a-half years creating six million jobs, people would have laughed. 600,000 manufacturing jobs. Remember, President Obama said manufacturing jobs are gone. You'd need a wand, a magic wand. We found the magic wand, because they're coming and they're coming fast, and those are great jobs. [cheers and applause] In the state of Wisconsin alone, we have created 23,000 brand new manufacturing and construction jobs, a record. [cheers and applause] And after years and years of declining wages, wages are rising for the first time in 21 years. [cheers and applause]
And you know what's nice, because I have a couple of friends here, they're pretty wealthy people, very successful people, and you know what? The hell with 'em. I don't care. I care about everybody. You know what I love? You know what I love? I love the fact that wages are rising fastest for the lowest income Americans, for single jobs. [applause]
You know when they say it hasn't trickled down, the most success—percentage-wise —the most successful are the lowest income Americans. There's something great about that. And people that are now able to go out, you know, we got Veterans Choice. We also have employment choice. because you never had a chance yet to stay in a job that you hated or you couldn't get a job. Now you can go out, you have seven alternatives, you get a job that you love, and you get much higher salaries, it's great. [cheers and applause] It's great.
And you've heard me say this a hundred times, but I say it again and I'll keep saying it, The unemployment rates for African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans and Asian-Americans have all reached their lowest levels in the history of our country.
And remember this, if I make any misstatement, if I'm off by just a little tiny bit, those people back there will be headlines. [Trump waves toward media.] [booing] So I have to be very careful. Fake news. They're fake. They are fake. They are fakers.
Crowd. CNN sucks! CNN sucks! CNN sucks! CNN sucks!
The President. Uhhh, feh feh feh. I'll tell you, you know what sucks? Their ratings suck because people don't believe 'em them anymore. [cheers and applause]
We have cut 30,000 pages of job-killing regulations from the Federal Register, that's an all time record, It's never happened before. [cheers and applause] Right?
We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in our nation's history. And you know something that is very important to me and very important to—because of you, to keep family farms, ranches, and small businesses together in the family. When you pass on, and go to heaven so you can look down at these great children, and you don't like your children, don't listen to yer what I'm going to say. [laughter] Probably a couple of you out there that say, you know, "I don't like the kid. I'm not leaving them my damn farm, right? [laughter] Probably. Anybody in here like that, raise your hand. No don't. [laughter]
But on the assumption that you love your kids, and you love your family, and you want to leave the farm, you remember what used to happen. The estate tax was 45, 50, 55%. They hadda go out and borrow money, and in sometimes the land is worth more than the income, and they couldn't do it in the banks end up, and the banks fight 'em, and that's not what they do for a living, the kids, and they lose the farm, they lose the ranch, they lose the small business, right?
Well, we have eliminated the unfair estate tax, or death tax on, all of those things. [cheers and applause] Zero. Zero. That's a good one.
After decades of calamitous trade deals that stripped away our wealth, literally stripped away this country's wealth, and our jobs, and so many other things, took away our dignity. When great companies would leave the United States for another country because of stupid taxes, because of stupid regulations, because frankly, in some cases, and the unions are going to work on this, I tell them, "You've gotta work on this, you've gotta have a little flexibility because there are other choices."
But now the choices are going to be other states. They're going to be competition. But you know what, now, America fought back and all of these companies are coming back into our nation again. They wanna be where the action is. [cheers and applause] They want to be where the action is. They're all coming back, all of them. [cheers and applause]
And the era of economic surrender is over. That's what we did. We would like—You remember that I used to do it when I was a civilian when I had no idea, I was going to be running for president, right? I had no idea. I used to say what the hell is going on in Michigan. They gave me an award six years, seven years ago. I had no idea. It was the man of the year in Michigan. I went to Michigan, I said, "Do you people know what's happening? You're losing all your car companies. They're all leaving. They're going to Mexico, Canada, they're leaving. They're going to China. You know what the hell is"—And this was before I was thinking about running for office. But I've been saying it for 20 years. And now we've stopped it. Those companies are all coming back. Straight. [cheers and applause]
When the Wisconsin timber industry was threatened, my Administration took immediate action. We impose tariffs on dumped foreign goods, and subsidized products, and saved countless timber jobs all across this great state. [applause] And you know that, you know that John. Big difference, right, they were losing—you were losing a lot of jobs and they were taking the timber from other states and other countries, nope, not anymore, we're doing good.
Before I took office, one of the greatest threats to the future of American manufacturing was the previous Administration's Trans-Pacific-Partnership. You think NAFTA would have been bad? This would have made NAFTA look like a good deal. The TPP would have decimated U.S. manufacturing and gutted America's auto industry, would have gutted the industry. And they were dying to do this crazy deal.
I also ended up another one, you know, the great Paris Accord. How—how's Paris doing lately? How's Paris? How's Paris doing? Send all the money to countries that the people never heard of and raise their taxes. I ended that one too. I thought I was going to take a lot of heat on that one. [cheers and applause] Saved a lot of money, saved a lot of jobs, saved a lot of businesses. I said, "You know when I end this Paris Accord, I'm going to take heat." I didn't even take heat. My people understood it, it was a rip-off. It didn't allow us to use our wealth. Would have stolen our jobs. But just take a look at what's happening to other places where they're trying to do it. And we had something —we would have never, ever been able to adhere to the rules, they were so strict on us.
You know, China can sign rules. They're not going to be sued by Greenpeace. If Greenpeace goes to China, that's the end of Greenpeace, you never see 'em again. [laughter] So China doesn't care if they violate Greenpeace, and some of these other wonderful environmental groups. But the United States get sued, and we adhere to these things. It's a little bit different. We would have lost our ass on that deal. That would have been a terrible deal. And that's why I was willing to take the heat, but there was no heat. I'm still waiting. I guess at some point they'll bring it up. They'll probably bring it up. Bernie Sanders will say, "What?" I'll say, "Take a look at Paris on a Saturday afternoon, Bernie, how they doing over there? Good?" [laughter] The yellow vests, how are they doing? I don't think so good, and they're great friends of mine, but I don't think they're doing so good.
That's why in one of my first acts as President, I withdrew the United States from the one-sided job killing disaster known as TPP. [cheers and applause] TPP, what a mess. That was another one of these deals that was set up for the strict purpose of taking wealth out of the United States for the benefit of those other countries that were in the deal. It was a one sided horror show. America will not be taken advantage of any longer. [cheers and applause]
For years we gave foreign nations free and unfettered access to our economy while they constructed massive barriers to American exports. We give them, you come in, take us, Joe, it's wonderful, we want to go there. No, we don't do that, we don't accept your product. Oh, that's wonderful.
As one example, we charge other countries zero tariffs on foreign paper products. But when Wisconsin paper companies exported abroad, they sent their product abroad, China charged us big tariffs. India charged us big tariffs. Vietnam charged us massive tariffs. Unfair. Reciprocal trade act, John, reciprocal trade act. [applause]
Look at Harley Davidson. Look at Harley Davidson. I met with them three years ago, one of my first meetings, Harley Davidson. And I said to the people are very nice. They would tell me tough to do business in certain kind — "How you're doing in India?" And they said, "Oh, we don't do any business." They weren't even complaining because for so many years. So India charged a 100% tariff on a Harley Davidson. But when they send their motorcycles, and they make 'em, to us. We charge 'em nothing. So I called up Prime Minister Modi, I said "Unfair." He cut it 50%. But I said, "That's not good enough because look, it's 50% to nothing." And what we're doing is changing all of that stuff, changing all of that. [cheers and applause] Rapidly. Rapidly changing.
And that goes for military protection also. That goes for military protection also where we are getting ripped. We're defending the world, we're defending wealthy countries that can well afford to pay us. But they've been getting this free military, or at least massive partial subsidies, for so many years. It's almost like habit. It's more habit than anything else. Nobody does anything about it, but we do.
There's one country —we lose $5 billion yeh, I won't say it. I don't want to embarrass anybody. The last thing I want to do is embarrass somebody. [laughter] But they lose... We spend $5 billion a year defending them, right.
So I said to the generals, "How much do we spend?" Next day, "Sir, we spent $5 billion." Very wealthy country. I said, "How much do they pay?" "Sir, they pay $500 million." I said, "You mean we lose four and a half billion dollars to defend it?" And they're rich. So I called the country, right, I called the country.
So we lose four and a half billion for the privilege of defending a country, that's very tough on us on trade and various other things. So I called, I said, "Listen, no good." [laughter] Now they were in a state of shock 'cause they never got a call like this in twenty five years, right. I said, "It's no good. We're losing four and a half billion dollars. It's no good. We can't do this anymore. This is crazy." And he got very upset. Angry. "This is not fair" he sa... I said, "Of course it's fair." He said, "Well, we'll give you 500 million more." Because the budget, you see, had already been set, there's only a month left. So, you know. I said, "You know what, I want more." We argued. So they paid us more than 500 million for one phone call. It took me one call.
Now I'm not bragging, I hate the deal. [cheers and applause] For one call. Ron knows. One call. 'Sa first call they've had in 35 years. I don't think they've ever had a call. One-sided horrible deal. So I said, "It's OK. You know, I understand you have budgets." You know you go through a budget. "Next year," which now turns out to be in about two weeks. I said, "We're going to call you for much more. You gotta pay, you gotta pay. Not fair. We're defending you, and you're rich."
You know, we can defend people. They're not rich and they're being horribly treated, and human rights, and all this sort. That's different. These are rich countries. But think of it, one phone call, we pick up 500 million, that's not terrible; but now we're gonna pick up a lot more. And we have that with many countries.
Look, Saudi Arabia, very rich country, we defend them. We subsidize Saudi Arabia. They have nothing but cash. Right? We subsidize, and they buy a lot from us. Four hundred and fifty billion dollars they bought. You know you had people wanting to cut off Saudi Arabia. They bought $450 billion. I don't wanna lose 'em. But the military, we subsidize... Saudi Arabia! I called the king; I like the king. I said, "King, [laughter] we're losing our ass defending you, King, and you have a lot of money." [laughter] [cheers and applause] That's true. And he said, "But, why would you be calling me? Nobody's ever made such a call before." I said, "That's 'cause they were stupid." [laughter] So, we're working a deal with Saudi Arabia. So many things. So many things.
I'll tell you what, honestly, it's easier than collecting a hundred and thirteen dollars and 57 cents from a tenant in a bad location in New York City. And it's safer too. [laughter] It's easier, it's true, it's easier. OK, enough of that, but it's true.
So we're getting ripped off on trade, we're getting ripped off on military, by NATO, I'm all for NATO, but you know we're paying for almost 100% of defending Europe. And they're killing us on trade. [booing] The European Union, the EU is killing us. We lost $181 billion and we're defending them for peanuts. It's uh, it doesn't—does this make sense to you what I'm saying? Noooo! And in the meantime, your taxes go up, although, they actually, because of me ,have gone down, so I guess I ... [cheers and applause]
The International Trade Commission recently announced that under the USMCA American dairy exports to Canada are expected to surge by more than 50%, OK? We gotta get the deal done. Ron, you gotta get that deal done. You'll get it done. Gotta get it done.
In my first 100 days in office. I traveled to this very state to sign an executive order declaring that we will live by two simple rules, "Buy American and Hire American", right here in Wisconsin. [cheers and applause] But while we are unleashing America's economic renewal, the new agenda of the Democrat Party—it's not the Democratic Party, it sounds better, they oughta change their name, it's much better. But why should I make their name sound good, right? The Democrat Party, radical, left... they should change that too. Call it, officially, The Radical Left Democrat Party. Would drive our nation into economic and financial ruin very quickly. And they will take your guns away too, by the way. [booing]
Nothing is more dangerous than the Democrats, crazy immigration agenda. We want it solved. We're building the wall by the way. [cheers and applause] We're gonna have over 400 miles of wall built by the end of next year.
Crowd. BUILD THAT WALL! BUILD THAT WALL! BUILD THAT WALL!
The President. You know, we can get money for anything. They were willing to give me money for every single thing, more money than I wanted. I said, "I don't need that much money, give me money for the wall." "We're not giving you anything for the wall." You know why? Because politically they don't like it. So, I went out and did it a different way. And we have the money for the wall, and we're building the wall. [cheers and applause] Because their entire party has been taken over by far-left radicals, who want to nullify and erase American borders. They want open borders. They want open borders. [booing] They want people to pour in, and they think that's going to be votes ultimately for them. These left-wing extremists don't believe America has the right to enforce our immigration laws or decide who gets to enter and remain in our country. Not gonna be that way.
And think of Border Patrol. We apprehend a hundred thousand people a month. You know what that is? Democrats want to allow totally unlimited, uncontrolled, and unchecked migration, all paid for by you, the American taxpayer. [booing]
The Republican Party believes America has not only the right, but the absolute duty to control our borders and to enforce our laws. [cheers and applause] And we believe the immigration system must put the needs of American workers and families first. And people can come into our country. We need people to come in. We have so many companies coming. They need workers. But they have to come in legally and they have to come in through merit. [cheers and applause]
And we will always support the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol. These are great heroes. [cheers and applause] Last month alone, 100,000 illegal immigrants arrived at our borders, placing a massive strain on communities, and schools, and hospitals, and public resources like nobody's ever seen before. Now we're sending many of them to sanctuary cities, thank you very much. [cheers and applause] They're not too happy about it. I'm proud to tell you that was actually my sick idea, but swa [sic]. [cheers and applause] No. Hey, hey, what, what they, what did they say? "We want 'em." I said, "We'll give 'em to you. Thank you." They said, "We don't want 'em."
Yet—while, wealthy liberals preach open borders, they live behind gates and guards, they send their families to the best doctors and private schools. And while pushing immigration policies that drain the public services, every-day citizens depend on you, and they depend on you, I depend on you. because we can change our immigration laws —I used to say in 45 minutes, it's really 15 minutes, it's so simple.
But we need Democrats to vote on it, otherwise we can't change it. And they don't want, because No. 1, they don't want to give us a victory. We're going to take it anyway. We're going to take the victory, anyway. But they don't want to give us a victory on that issue. And No. 2, they don't mind open borders and obviously open borders bring tremendous crime, they don't mind crime, if you can believe.
The border crisis is also driving, and very strongly, the drug crisis, the biggest crisis we have, drugs. It's people, and it's drugs, and it's traffickers, cartels, traffic, huge quantities of heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl across our southern border. Drugs that claimed the lives of 80, 90, and maybe even 100,000 people a year, and ruin the lives and the families of so many more.
To confront the border crisis, I declared a national emergency. [cheers and applause] The good news is everybody agrees. Everybody agrees. Now, everybody's in. They look at those caravans —we just had a caravan form, 20,000 people. And we told Mexico, I said, "Listen, if you let those people come through your country, we're going to close the damn border. We'll close it. I don't care." [cheers and applause] They gotta bring 'em back. They gotta bring 'em back. Humanely, they gotta bring 'em back.
The flood of illegal migration is the direct consequence of Democrat-backed policies that prevent border violators from being promptly returned home. They're allowed to stay in our country. Catch and Release. They're allowed—you catch them and then you have to release them. [booing] It is crazy. Congress has to fix these horrible immigration laws. We have to end human smuggling, stop human trafficking, shut down sanctuary cities, deport criminal aliens and replace visa lotteries and chain migration with immigration systems based on skill, and talent, and merit.[cheers and applause]
Ron Johnson's going to do it, Ron, congratulations. Stand up, Ron. Will you get that done for me, please. No get it done for Wisconsin. OK?. He'll do it. He'll do it.
On issue after issue, the Democrat Party has never been further outside the American mainstream. I mean it's crazy what's going on with them. Oh, do I look forward to running against them. [laughter] They are pushing a $100 trillion government takeover of the US economy, known as the Green New Deal. [booing] We're gonna rip down every single building in Manhattan and build a new building in it's place.
They've introduced a total federal takeover of U.S. health care that would abolish the private health insurance of 180 million Americans. Many of you are in this room right now. [booing]
And they are aggressively pushing extreme late-term abortion, [booing] allowing children to be ripped from their mothers womb right up until the moment of birth. And just this week, your Democrat governor, and by the way, [booing] by the way we have Scott Walker, he's here. [cheers and applause] Great governor, he did a great job, he's a great governor. He's got a big future.
But your Democrat governor here in Wisconsin shockingly stated that he will veto legislation that protects Wisconsin babies born alive, [booing] born alive. The baby is born. The mother meets with the doctor. They take care of the baby, they wrap the baby beautifully. And then the doctor and the mother determine whether or not they will execute the baby.[booing] I don't think so. Incredible. No, it's incredible. Until this crazy man in Virginia said it, nobody even thought of that, right? Did anyone even think of that? Yeah, late term. But this is where the baby is actually born, it came out, it's there, it's wrapped and that's it. [booing] Who believes it? So to protect innocent life, I called on Congress to immediately pass legislation prohibiting the extreme late-term abortion of babies. [cheers and applause]
So, Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, hoaxes, and delusions.
The Republican Party is the party for all Americans, that's what it is, it really is, and common sense. We're a party of common sense. [applause] We're the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, we're the party of the Second Amendment and its protection. [cheers and applause]
Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA!
The President. And every day we are making good on the motto "Promises Made, Promises Kept." We have.
Last month I signed an executive order—Where's Charlie [Kirk]? Where are you Charlie? Charlie? Where's Charlie? Where is he? What a great—The man. He's like 14 years old, I can't believe. How old Charlie? Twenty-five. Can you believe? This guy's unbelievable. What a job. In honor of him; he worked so hard. [applause] And for those of you who think that youth isn't on our side, just look at this audience tonight. Look at what Charlie has done. [cheers and applause] You'd be amazed.
I was watching, the other night, the NFL draft, can you believe it? And it was the second-draft choice. And he gets out, Bosa; and he gets out real—he's gonna be a great player from Ohio State. And he's a MAGA fan. He loves Trump, he loves MAGA. [cheers and applause] We got a lot of young people out there. You want to know the truth. I actually think we have more than they do, who knows? But I think we have more than they do. And, he's going to have a great career.
Last month, I signed an executive order to defend free speech on college campuses. [cheers and applause] And if they don't give free speech, they lose billions and billions of dollars, and that's OK. [cheers and applause]
And we've launched a historic initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs —so Important. [cheers and applause] Last year, prescription drug prices went down for the first time in 51 years, OK? [cheers and applause] It was going up, up, up. And it's gonna go down, down a lot more, going down. That was a big deal, not by much, but you know it's always gone up a lot, 18%, 6%, 9%. It went down, and it's going to start going down because all of these very complex things that we're doing are starting to kick in. We're going to get 'em down. And maybe on that one, we're gonna work with the Democrats to be honest, because they want to get it down too, and we'll see if we can put it all together.
But prescription drugs —look, it's a rigged system, OK? If I told you how crazy it is, the web, it's a web, you need 193 I.Q. to even understand this web of geniuses. They put this thing to lower drug prices. It has 19 effects here and 27. , , we got it down and we're getting it down further. We have the smartest people, the best people in that world working on it; and it's happening. [cheers and applause] And we might be able to get Democrat support.
We're vastly expanding affordable alternatives to Obamacare. We repealed Obamacare's unfair and very unpopular individual mandate, where you had to pay a fortune for the privilege of not having health insurance, that was very bad. And we'll always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. [cheers and applause]
The Republicans are always going to protect pre-existing conditions.
We're unleashing American energy and getting Washington bureaucrats off the backs of hunters, fishers, farmers, and everyone who enjoys our great outdoors. [cheers and applause] And we've committed to providing—I think you'll like this —and Ron, there's great Congressman that you have in this room are working hard on it, we're very close —$300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiatives. [cheers and applause] And we're building the new Soo Locks to protect jobs and commerce throughout the entire Midwest. [cheers and applause] Soo Locks.
And I'm pleased to report that earlier this month, Interlake Steamship Company announced plans to build the first Great Lakes freighter in 35 years, just north of here, in Sturgeon Bay. How did you know? [cheers and applause] Thirty-five years. And that just means more jobs, more jobs, more jobs.
To keep America safe, we are rebuilding America's mighty might. We are rebuilding our military like never before in the history of our planet. [cheers and applause] That includes brand new combat ships from Marinette and more than 6,000 brand new armored vehicles from Oshkosh. [cheers and applause]
And we're boldly defending American interests. Just yesterday, I announced that my Administration is unsigning the UN Arms Trade Treaty. [cheers and applause] We're unsigning it. We're pulling it back out of the United Nations. We're pulling it back out of Congress. All of you Second Amendment people, you know we know what it is. We'll be very happy with it. Because we will never allow foreign bureaucrats to trample on America's freedom. We're not gonna allow it. That was a President Obama disaster. [booing]
I also withdrew the United States from the absolutely horrible ,one-sided Iran nuclear deal. [cheers and applause] What an impact that's had. You know, when I first became President, the first week, I met with our great military people. And we went over problems. And one of the biggest problems was Iran, they were all over. Iran was all over the place. They were over—I've never seen anything like it —14 different conflict zones, Yemen, Syria, all over, and small battles. I said, "So what do you do with these people?" I withdrew from that horrible deal where they paid 150 billion to Iran. They paid 1.8 billion in cash, probably for hostage.
By the way, I got 22 hostages out. [cheers and applause] And the other day our great hostage negotiator made the statement that Trump is the greatest hostage negotiator this country has ever had. So, you know what, so I put it out, I put it out, why not? You know, a lot of times if you're not going to brag about it, nobody else is, you might as well do it. [applause] True. So, our ambassador made this statement, and the press picked it up, and they were going after me. "It's not true, it's not true." And then he called them and he said "No, it is true." And instead of saying it's true, they stopped talking about it, fake news. [booing]
I recognized Israel's capital, and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. [cheers and applause] And it would have opened in 25 years. What I said to our great ambassador, David Friedman, one of the most successful lawyers in New York, who became Ambassador to Israel. I said, "David, they want to spend $1.1 billion, we could do it cheaper." They want to buy this piece of land in Jerusalem, top dollar. I said, "David, what can we do?" And he called me back, he said, "Sir, we have a piece of land that's much better, and on that piece of land, we have an old building. We're not using the building very much and we can renovate the building for $400,000. And we'll have a beautiful embassy and a better location. [applause] And we can have it done... and, Sir, we can have it done in four months instead of 25 years." [cheers and applause] So, here's your alternative, a building at a great location in four months for $400,000, or a building that will probably never get built, but let's say 20 years. For 1.1 billion today, meaning 3, 4 billion dollars in a lousy location, that won't be as good as what we built. And it's the first time I've had, ever done this. He said four hundred thousand. I said, "David, it's too cheap. We have to make it..." It's true. I said, "Make it $500,000." [cheers and applause] It's true. It's True. And it's open. We opened it like almost a year ago.
And you know in New York I have a friend, he's a very successful guy. He's very proud of his office because he used to think, oh, Jerusalem stone. This is stone from Jerusalem. It's one of the most expensive. He considers it a treasure. And every time I go in, he says, oh, look at my beautiful stone, it's from Jerusalem.
So, we're building a building in Jerusalem. I said, "David, do me a favor, buy Jerusalem stone. You're right there." We got it so cheap, you wouldn't believe it. [laughter] And the whole damn building is made practically of Jerusalem stone. [applause] It's true. It's beautiful. It's beautiful. So we got it open it for months instead of 20 or 25 years. And we saved at least 1.1 billion and it's a great embassy right now. It's a great, great thing. It's great.
And just weeks ago I announced that the United States will recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. [cheers and applause] So that's been under consideration for 52 years. For 52 years, they told me they've been studying it. They've had summits, many, many meetings summits, people coming from all over the world talking about the Golan Heights and then they'd leave. This is very important strategically for victory. Heights. You're up high, very important. Fifty-two years ago it started. And I did it, like, quickly, done, it's all done. [applause]
And we also recognize the legitimate government of Venezuela ,and we strongly condemn the socialist brutality of the Maduro regime. And you see what socialism does. That was one of the wealthiest countries in the world, now it's one of the poorest.
And to those who would try to impose socialism in our country, we see nothing but trouble. We see nothing but poverty. And we will say again tonight that America will never be a socialist country, ever. [cheers and applause] Never, never.
Crowd. USA! USA! USA! USA!
The President. Great. Wow this crowd has a lot of enthusiasm! [cheers and applause] Hell of a crowd! Saturday night, we're having a good time! And you know why we're having a good time? Because we are talking about a subject that we love, The United States of America, it's very simple. [cheers and applause]
Each of us in this arena is united by the same timeless values. We believe in the American Constitution, and we believe in the rule of law.
We believe in the dignity of work, and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. [cheers and applause]
We believe in religious liberty, the right to free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. [cheers and applause]
We believe that children should be taught to love our country; to honor our history; and to always respect our great American flag. [cheers and applause]
And we believe in the words of our national motto, "In God We Trust." [cheers and applause]
These are the traditions, customs, and principles that unite people all across this beautiful state of Wisconsin. These are the values that bind us together as citizens, as patriots, and as Americans.
You joined our movement, the greatest movement in the history of our country, because you rejected the failures and the betrayals of the past. You were betrayed. You were betrayed by dishonest people. You were betrayed by stupid people. You stared down a corrupt system that enriched itself at your expense. You protected your family. You defended your dignity. You recaptured your destiny. And you took back your country with that great election two and a half years ago. [cheers and applause] Good.
Crowd. FOUR MORE YEARS! FOUR MORE YEARS! FOUR MORE YEARS!
The President. You have always been loyal to this nation, now you finally have a president who is loyal to you. [cheers and applause] Every day between now and November 2020, we are going to keep on working; we are going to keep on fighting; and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are going to win. [cheers and applause] Remember, I used to tell you about winning, we're winning.
We are respected again. And I have to say, every leader, without fail, that comes to see me in the Oval Office, they all say, "Congratulations. It's incredible what's happened to the United States." And I'm not just talking about economically, which is tremendous. We've created $12 trillion of value since the election, $12 trillion. And our primary competitor, very big, powerful competitor has lost $17 trillion since our election. They were catching us. If somebody else were in this position, they would have caught us already. They're not catching us now, we're way out in front.
With every last ounce of heart and hope and sweat and soul we are going to make our stand. We are going to stand for liberty. We are going to stand for justice. We are going to stand for freedom. And we are going to stand for the sacred rights given to us by the hand of Almighty God. [cheers and applause]
We are one united movement, one united people, and one United States of America. [cheers and applause]
And together, with the great and proud people of Wisconsin, we will make America wealthy again.
We will make America strong again.
We will make America safe again
And we will make America great again. [cheers and applause]
Thank you, Wisconsin. Thank you. [cheers and applause]
[Music: The Rolling Stones, You Can't Always Get What You Want.]
  