
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




April 15, 202210:30

VP Supplemental Pool #1 — Holding in
Hello -- I'm your pooler for VP Harris bilat with the Tanzanian President in the ceremonial office in EEOB.
Below background from the White House:
Vice President will hold a bilateral meeting with President Samia Suluhu Hassan of Tanzania. There will be a pool spray at the top of this meeting in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office.
I'm told more background is coming. Will send color and quotes as they come.



April 15, 202210:38

VP supplemental Pool #2
To clarify -- the event is not live-streamed so I'll send out the otter link.
Participants per the White House:U.S. Delegation:- Vice President Harris- Tina Flournoy, Chief of Staff- Phil Gordon, National Security Advisor- Safia Mohamoud, Special Advisor for Africa- Dean Lieberman, Special Advisor for Asia- Taryn Wolf, NSC Director for Tanzania- Molly Phee, Assistant Secretary of State for Africa- Donald Wright, U.S. Ambassador to Tanzania
Tanzania Delegation:- H.E. Samia Suluhu Hassan, President of Tanzania- Ambassador Liberata R. Mulamula (MP), Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation- Dr. Lameck Nchemba Mwigulu Madelu (MP), Minister of Finance and Planning- Dr. Ashatu Kachwamba Kijaji (MP), Minister of Investment, Trade and Industries- Hon. Mohamed Simai Said, Minister of Tourism and Heritage - Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar- Ambassador Dr. Elsie Sia Kanza, Ambassador of the United Republic of Tanzania to the United States of America- Dr. Kassim Mohammed Khamis, Personal Assistant to the President – Speechwriting and Ag. Diplomacy- Ambassador Swahiba Habib Mndeme, Director of the Department of Europe and America, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation



April 15, 202211:02

VP Supplemental Pool #3 - event over
The VP and president walked in a little after 10:44. Event ended around 10:55.
Harris listed the thre main categories of conversation in the bilat: strengthening democracy, economic growth of Tanzania and global health issues like COVID-19.
After they spoke, the two women walked to the balcony.
No news. Otter link here for those that need it: https://otter.ai/u/abns4Mg0E8B-nWYpsxE7bsWUSc4




  