
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, designate two individuals, and appoint fourteen individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Ben S. Bernanke, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers. Upon confirmation, the President will also designate him Chairman. Dr. Bernanke currently serves on the Federal Reserve System's Board of Governors. In addition, he also serves as Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University, a position he has held for twenty years. Dr. Bernanke previously taught at Stanford University, New York University, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He earned his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his Ph.D. from Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate Kenneth J. Krieg, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics. Mr. Krieg currently serves as Director for Program Analysis and Evaluation in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. He previously served in various capacities, including Vice President and General Manager of International Paper in Purchase, New York and Memphis, Tennessee. Earlier in his career, Mr. Krieg served as Executive Assistant to the Deputy Secretary in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. He earned his bachelor's degree from Davidson College and his master's degree from Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government.
The President intends to nominate David A. Sampson, of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce. Dr. Sampson currently serves as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development. He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer for the Arlington, Texas Chamber of Commerce. Earlier in his career, Dr. Sampson served as Chairman of the Texas Council on Workforce and Economic Competitiveness and as Vice Chair of the Texas Strategic Economic Development Planning Commission. He earned his bachelor's degree from David Liscomb University, his master's degree from New Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary, and his Ph.D. from Abilene Christian University.
The President intends to designate Rhonda Keenum, of Mississippi, to be Acting Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Governors of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross, for a three-year term:
Michael Chertoff of New Jersey
Carlos M. Gutierrez of Michigan
Michael O. Leavitt of Utah
Jim Nicholson of Colorado
Condoleezza Rice of California
Margaret Spellings of Texas
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation:
Gerald A. Jemison, of New York (Indian Tribe/Native Hawaiian Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring June 10, 2008
Mark A. Sadd, of West Virginia (Public), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring June 10, 2008
John G. Williams III, of Washington (Expert in the Field of Historic Preservation), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring June 10, 2007
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust:
John T. Caid, of Arizona (Expert in Management of game and nongame wildlife), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 16, 2007
James R. Gosz, of New Mexico (Expert in Management of Forest Lands) for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 16, 2009
Tracy Hephner, of New Mexico (Expert in Livestock Management), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 16, 2009
Raymond Loretto, of New Mexico (Active in State or local government in New Mexico), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 16, 2009
The President intends to appoint James Balsiger, of Alaska, to be a Commissioner of the United States Commissioners on the International Pacific Halibut Commission (U.S. & Canada), for a two-year term, and to be the United States Commissioner of the United States Commissioner on the United States Section of the North Pacific Anadromous Fish Commission, for a four-year term.
  