
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 30
In the evening, the President attended the Gridiron Dinner at the Capital Hilton Hotel.
March 31
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with members of the University of Tennessee women's basketball team to congratulate them on winning the NCAA national championship.
April 1
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with members of the University of Kentucky men's basketball team to congratulate them on winning the NCAA national championship.
April 2
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD, where he threw out the first pitch at the Baltimore Orioles-Kansas City Royals baseball game at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. In the late afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Indiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by the "Blizzard of 1996" on January 6-12.
The President announced his intention to nominate Leslie M. Alexander as Ambassador to Ecuador and Prudence Bushnell as Ambassador to Kenya.
The President announced the nomination of James E. Hall as Chair of the National Transportation Safety Board.
April 3
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton visited with the family of Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown, who was killed that morning in the aircraft tragedy near Dubrovnik, Croatia.
April 4
The President announced his intention to nominate Hubert T. Bell, Jr., as Inspector General of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
April 5
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Oklahoma City, OK, where they laid a wreath at the former site of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, which was destroyed in a terrorist bombing in April 1995.
In the afternoon, the President addressed the community at the University of Central Oklahoma.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
  