
    "This is a tough time, and so the President put an ad out yesterday talking about gasoline prices and how high they are, and guess who he blamed? Me! Why, maybe after I'm president I can take responsibility for things I might have done wrong, but this president doesn't want to take responsibility for his mistakes. I mean talk about someone who is running as far away from Harry Truman's dictum as possible. Harry Truman had the sign on his desk that said ‘The Buck Stops Here,' but this president is always looking for somewhere else to point." — Mitt Romney
Remarks
Waukesha, WI
April 3, 2012
Click Here To View Mitt Romney Discuss Why President Obama Is Responsible For Higher Energy Prices
Mitt Romney: "The President has been busy over the last couple of days, doing what he likes to do a great deal, which is finding someone to blame for his own problems. If you're going by the gas station these days, it's kind of a frightening experience and your credit card may max out, the pump may stop if it hits $100. If you've got an SUV or a pick-up truck, it's going to do like yours did, Congressman, it may hit $100. A lot of people are seeing $60, $70, $80 to fill up a tank of gas. You've got a lot of folks, particularly single-moms and people who are just working at the edge that are having a hard time getting to and from work. This is a tough time, and so the President put an ad out yesterday talking about gasoline prices and how high they are, and guess who he blamed? Me! Why, maybe after I'm president I can take responsibility for things I might have done wrong, but this president doesn't want to take responsibility for his mistakes. I mean talk about someone who is running as far away from Harry Truman's dictum as possible. Harry Truman had the sign on his desk that said ‘The Buck Stops Here,' but this president is always looking for somewhere else to point. And so he talks about how oil production is up during his term, which of course has nothing to do with him. It has everything to do with his predecessors opening up land for leases and permits and also for drilling going on private land, which he hasn't been able to stop... Yet. And so during his term, by the way, the number of leases on government land has been cut in half. The number of permits given to people to drill, that's been cut to one-third of what it was before. He was the one [who] stopped the drilling in the Gulf, that said no to drilling in ANWR, no to drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf. That this is a person who has done everything he can to make it harder to take advantage of our fossil fuels in this country from coal to gas to natural gas. And if we're going to have an American policy that keeps our energy dollars in America and keeps us from being beholden to the cartel in the oil world, why we're going to have to have our own resources. If I'm President of the United States, rather than saying no to oil, gas and coal and also no to the pipeline from Canada, I will say yes to those and get that pipeline off the ground and get this country energy secure."
  