
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Ohio Governor John Kasich and Ohio Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor.
"I am proud to have earned the support of Ohio Governor Kasich and Ohio Lt. Gov. Taylor," said Mitt Romney. "This might be the most important election in a generation. Our country can continue on its current path, or we can choose another path — one with lower spending, more jobs, and less debt. Ohio will be a critical — and possibly deciding — state in November. Having the support of Governor Kasich and Lt. Gov. Taylor will be vital in our efforts to defeat President Obama and change the direction of the country."
Announcing his support, Governor Kasich said, "The biggest issue in this presidential election will be who can make the economy stronger so that America's families can be stronger. I'm for Mitt Romney because he's got the proven experience as a manager and as a job creator that America needs right now. The progress we've made in Ohio is hampered by a White House that can't make up its mind and which can't set the right course for our economy. Mitt Romney's got what it takes to get us back on track and I look forward to working with him to make his campaign in Ohio and across the country a success."
Lt. Gov. Taylor said, "With job creation being Ohio's top priority, the presidential race is going to be about whose policies can help us continue to get back on our feet. The tax-and-spend policies we see now from the White House are only barriers to our efforts to get Ohioans working again. By contrast, Mitt Romney has a deep understanding of the needs of job creators and will put that experience and know-how to work for Ohioans and the nation, and I'm happy to support his campaign for the presidency."
Background On Governor Kasich:
Governor Kasich was elected in 2010. Previously he served for 18 years in the U.S. House of Representatives where he was chairman of the Budget Committee and the architect of the first balanced budget in decades. In his first year as governor, he closed an historic $8 billion budget shortfall without a tax increase and instead cut taxes by $800 million. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, on Gov. Kasich's watch Ohio has created more than 82,000 jobs —the most in the Midwest and the fourth largest increase in the nation — and both Standard & Poors and Moody's have raised Ohio's credit outlook from negative to stable.
Background on Lt. Gov. Taylor:
Lt. Gov. Taylor was elected with Gov. Kasich in 2010. Previously she served in the Ohio House of Representatives and as Auditor of State. As Lt. Gov. she oversees the Department of Insurance and leads the Administration's effort to streamline and update Ohio's regulatory policies.
  