
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following key additions to his Administration:
Brett Giroir of Texas to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, Health. Dr. Giroir currently serves as President and CEO of ViraCyte, LLC and as an Adjunct Professor of Pediatrics, Tropical Medicine and Medical Ethics and Health Policy at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. Prior to that he was the Executive Vice President and CEO at the Texas A&M Health Science Center, and earlier he served as Director, Defense Science Office of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), and also as a Chief Medical Officer at Children's Health in Dallas, as well as a Professor at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. He earned a A.B., magna cum laude in Biology from Harvard University and his M.D. from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. He has received the Secretary of Defense Medal for Outstanding Public Service and the Texas A&M University System Award for Innovation. He serves as Chair of the Veterans Choice Act Blue Ribbon Panel to Review and Assess the Veterans Health System, a Scientific Advisory Board Member at the Cancer Moonshots Program, MD Anderson Cancer Center, and is a Scientific Advisory Board Member at the A. Alfred Taubman Medical Research Institute, University of Michigan.
Heather L. MacDougall of Florida to be a Member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. Ms. MacDougall was designated acting Chair of the Occupational Safety & Health Review Commission in January 2017. In 2014, she was nominated to the Commission by then-President Obama and confirmed unanimously by the Senate. Before this, Ms. MacDougall had 20 years of experience representing employers throughout the United States in matters involving labor, employment, and occupational safety and health law, most recently with Akerman LLP in West Palm Beach, Florida. In addition, she served as Chief Counsel to OSHRC Chairman W. Scott Railton. Earlier in her career, she was Associate General Counsel to the HR Policy Association, a public policy organization that advocates for the human resource officers of major employers, where she represented the association as amicus curiae in U.S. Courts of Appeals and Supreme Court cases. Chairman MacDougall received a B.A. from the University of Wisconsin and a J.D. from Marquette University Law School.
Elinore F. McCance-Katz of Rhode Island to be Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, Department of Health and Human Services. Dr. McCance-Katz, M.D., Ph.D. is the Chief Medical Officer for the Rhode Island Department of Behavioral Healthcare, Developmental Disabilities, and Hospitals. She is also Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior and Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences at the Alpert Medical School at Brown University. Previously, she served as the first Chief Medical Officer for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). She obtained her Ph.D. from Yale University with a specialty in Infectious Disease Epidemiology and is a graduate of the University of Connecticut School of Medicine. She is board certified in General Psychiatry and in Addiction Psychiatry. She is a Distinguished Fellow of the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry with more than 25 years of experience as a clinician, teacher, and clinical researcher.
Neal J. Rackleff of Texas to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Community Planning and Development. Mr. Rackleff is a partner at Locke Lord, a nationally recognized law firm, where he focuses his practice on community and economic development, affordable housing, and inner-city revitalization. He previously served as Director of the City of Houston's Housing and Community Development Department. During his Houston tenure, the Department financed production of 7,800 high-quality affordable multifamily housing units (with another 2,700 in progress) and assisted 1,700 single-family homeowners with reconstruction of hurricane damaged homes, financial assistance to low-income homebuyers and emergency home repairs to ameliorate health and safety issues. Additionally, during this period, Houston became the first major city to effectively end homelessness of veterans while chronic homelessness declined more than 70%. Key revitalization projects led by Mr. Rackleff include developing a grocery store in a food desert and the historic preservation and conversion of a blighted office building into the new JW Marriott Houston Downtown hotel. Mr. Rackleff graduated cum laude from Brigham Young University and received his law degree from the University of Southern California.
---
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Designate Philip A. Miscimarra as Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to designate Philip A. Miscimarra as Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board.
Philip A. Miscimarra of Illinois to be Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board. Mr. Miscimarra was first sworn in as a Member of the National Labor Relations Board on August 7, 2013 for a term that expires on December 16, 2017. Previously he was a partner in the Labor and Employment Group of Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP. Since 1997, Mr. Miscimarra has been a senior fellow at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton Business School. Mr. Miscimarra worked at Seyfarth Shaw LLP as partner from 1990 to 2005 and associate from 1987 to 1989. Mr. Miscimarra received a B.A. from Duquesne University, an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business, and a J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
  