
    (WASHINGTON, DC) April 27, 2016 – In a major address today, Republican presidential candidate and GOP front-runner, Donald J. Trump detailed his views on critical foreign policy issues, making it abundantly clear that he is committed to prioritizing America first in national security, international diplomacy and global trade.
"Today, our foreign policy is a complete and total disaster," Mr. Trump said. "There's no vision, no strategic purpose, no direction, no consistency."
In his speech before The National Interest Magazine and its parent institution, The Center for the National Interest, and invited guests, the presumptive GOP nominee for President of the United States articulated five important criticisms of American foreign policy: the nation's resources are overextended; many of our allies aren't paying their fair share; our friends fear they can't depend on us; our rivals no longer respect us – and the country doesn't have clear foreign policy goals.
"All of this is going to change when I am President," he said. "America is going to be strong again. America is going to be a reliable friend and ally again."
As President, he would ensure the defeat of ISIS as a major foreign policy goal. "I have a simple message for ISIS: Their days are numbered. I won't tell them where and I won't tell them how. We must, as a nation, be strong and resilient. They're going to be gone."
The front-runner also pledged to rebuild America's military and the national economy – two vital pillars of a peaceful and secure world. "We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. Our military dominance must be unquestioned," he said. "We are also going to have to change our trade, immigration and economic policies to make our economy strong again – and to put Americans first again."
After criticizing the "reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy" of President Barack Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump outlined a more coherent international vision. "Our foreign policy goals must be based on America's core national security interests," he said. He pledged to defeat radical Islam in the Middle East and to focus on stability in the region, not nation-building. Recognizing the differences America has with China and Russia, he also vowed to "seek common ground based on shared interests."
"My goal is to establish a foreign policy that will endure for several generations centered on prioritizing America first. Under a Trump Administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that their needs come second to the citizens of foreign countries," he said.
Mr. Trump's prepared remarks can be viewed here: https://www.donaldjtrump.com/press-releases/donald-j.-trump-foreign-policy-speech
  