
    Urges Americans to put Humanity First through Universal Basic Income
New York, NY, April 19, 2018: Democratic Presidential candidate Andrew Yang is coming to Concord, NH on Wednesday, April 25th. Yang—an NYC-based entrepreneur, author, and father of two—is running on a platform of Universal Basic Income. As President, he would enact the Freedom Dividend, giving $1,000 per month to every adult U.S. citizen between the ages 18 and 64.
Andrew believes so strongly in the Freedom Dividend improving the lives of millions of Americans that he plans to demonstrate its effectiveness immediately, starting in New Hampshire. Starting in 2019, he will personally give one New Hampshire resident $1,000 every month for the entire year. He and his team will select a recipient in December 2018 from nominations collected across the community, with plans to expand.
What does this mean to New Hampshire residents? Andrew Yang is coming to Concord on Wednesday, April 25th to meet with New Hampshire voters and explain his vision to put Humanity First. Here is our public itinerary:
2pm – 4pm Coffee & Open Conversation at True Brew Barista
4pm – 5:30pm Meet & Greet at NH Democratic Party HQ
5:30pm – 6:30pm Press Conference at NH Democratic Party HQ
All events are open to the public.
To learn how any American citizen can nominate a New Hampshire resident for the Freedom Dividend, visit www.yang2020.com/nominate.
About Andrew
Andrew Yang is an entrepreneur and author running for President as a Democrat in 2020. In 2011 he founded Venture for America, a national entrepreneurship fellowship, and spent the last 6 years helping to create more than 2,500 jobs in cities like Cleveland, Detroit, and Pittsburgh. His work at VFA had him recognized by the Obama White House as a 2012 Champion of Change and 2015 Presidential Ambassador for Global Entrepreneurship. When Andrew realized that new technologies like artificial intelligence and automation threatened to eliminate one-third of all American jobs, he knew the nation needed a leader with a vision for our radically different future. Andrew's highly innovative platform includes the implementation of a Universal Basic Income: $1,000 a month for every American adult age 18-64, no strings attached. See his features in the New York Times, CNBC and Business Insider, and watch his campaign video here. His book, 'The War on Normal People,' details his concerns about the automation of labor and how we can build a better future for all Americans.
About Universal Basic Income
Universal Basic Income (UBI) is a form of social security that guarantees a certain amount of money to every citizen within a given governed population, without having to pass a test or fulfill a work requirement. Every Universal Basic Income plan can be different in terms of amount or design.
Andrew Yang is running for President as Democrat in 2020 on the platform of Universal Basic Income, which he calls the Freedom Dividend. The Freedom Dividend he is proposing for the United States is a set of guaranteed payments of $1,000 per month, or $12,000 per year, to all U.S. citizens between the ages of 18 and 64. Yes, that means you and everyone you know would get another $1,000/month every month from the U.S. government, no questions asked. For more information, visit our campaign website.
  