
    (PHILADELPHIA, PA) – The Clinton campaign in Pennsylvania today announced the creation of the Veterans for Hillary Leadership Committee. The committee, made up of 21 distinguished veterans from the Keystone State, will spearhead the campaign's efforts to reach out to Pennsylvania's veterans and inform them about Hillary's record of fighting for the men and women who have worn our nation's uniform. Congressmen John Murtha and Joe Sestak, will co-chair the committee.
The committee was unveiled at a Veterans for Hillary event in Clifton Heights today where Congressman Sestak, the highest ranking member of the military currently serving in the U.S. Congress, discussed Hillary Clinton's readiness to be Commander in Chief on day one in the White House.
"Whether it is the national disgrace at Walter Reed or the failure to deal with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, the Bush Administration has consistently failed to take care of our veterans," said Congressman John Murtha, who served in the Marine Corps for 37 years on active duty and in the reserves. "Hillary Clinton has not merely voiced support for our troops – she has fought to ensure troops returning from Iraq are screened for Traumatic Brain Injury and get the care they need. She has been a tremendous advocate for veterans in the Senate and will put their concerns front and center as President."
In addition to the 19,000 men and women in the Pennsylvania National Guard, 5,400 Pennsylvanians join the Armed Forces every year. Senator Clinton led a bipartisan effort to ensure that Guard members and men and women in the reserves, who are shouldering much of the burden in the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, now have access to the same health care as active duty service-members.
"Hillary Clinton has demonstrated her commitment to our nation's veterans time and again," said Congressman Joe Sestak, who served in the Navy for over 30 years, retiring as a Rear Admiral. "She has worked tirelessly with Democrats and Republicans alike to ensure that we are taking care of those who have served our country, and hundreds of thousands of citizen soldiers in the National Guard and reserves now have health care because of her efforts."
The Veterans for Hillary Leadership Committee includes:

Larry Babitts, Boiling Springs, US Army
on Byrd, Tobyhanna, US Army
Russell Canevari, Jessup, US Army
Ed Cemic, Sr., Johnstown, US Army
Kathy Cullinane, Scranton, USAF
Hal Donahue, Scranton, USAF
Thomas Dougherty, Dunmore, US Army
General Mike Dunn, Davidsville, US Army
Glen Embree, Mt. Pleasant Township, Navy
Greg Erosenko, Monroeville, US Army
Wy Gowell, Clark Summit, USAF
John Hugya, Hollsopple, USMC
Christin Joltes, Johnstown, USAF
Jim Kull, Uniondale, US Army
Joe Long, Bethlehem, USAF
William McCool, Levittown, Navy
Mike Miskell, Scranton, Navy
Phyllis Reinhardt, Scranton, US Army
General Gerald Sajer, East Berlin, US Army
Joseph Tully, Scranton, Navy
Jeffrey Voice, Philadelphia, US Army

  