
    President Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Elaine C. Duke, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security. Ms. Duke currently serves as Deputy Under Secretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, she served as Chief Procurement Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Transportation Security Administration. Ms. Duke received her bachelor's degree from New Hampshire College and her master's degree from Chaminade University.
The President intends to nominate Brandon Chad Bungard, of Virginia, to be General Counsel for the Federal Labor Relations Authority, for a five-year term. Mr. Bungard currently serves as General Counsel of the United States Merit Systems Protection Board. Prior to this, he served as Chief Counsel and Deputy Staff Director of the Committee on Government Reform's Subcommittee on the Federal Workforce and Agency Organizations in the U.S. House of Representatives. Earlier in his career, he served as Counsel on the Committee on Government Reform in the U.S. House of Representatives. Mr. Bungard received his bachelor's degree from Liberty University, his JD from Regent University School of Law, and his LLM from the George Mason University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate John P. Hewko, of Michigan, to be Assistant Secretary (Aviation and International Affairs) at the Department of Transportation. Mr. Hewko currently serves as Vice President for Compact Development at the Millennium Challenge Corporation. Prior to this, he served as a Partner at Baker and McKenzie. Earlier in his career, he served as a Visiting Scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Mr. Hewko received his bachelor's degree from Hamilton College, his master's degree from Oxford University and his JD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Janice L. Jacobs, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary (Bureau of Consular Affairs) at the Department of State. Ms. Jacobs, a career member of the Foreign Service, currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Consular Affairs. Prior to this, she served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Senegal and to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Visa Services. Ms. Jacobs received her bachelor's degree from Southern Illinois University and her master's degree from the National War College.
The President intends to designate Patrick W. Dunne, of New York, to be Acting Under Secretary for Benefits of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  