
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

May 1, 1985, is Law Day, U.S.A. This year's Law Day theme, "Liberty and Justice for All," reaffirms the principles upon which our Republic was founded. The guarantee of liberty and the right to seek justice emerged through law: through the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights. As Americans, we continue to preserve these principles through our lawmaking and judicial systems.
Each time we recite the Pledge of Allegiance, we renew our commitment to providing the benefits of liberty and the reality of justice for all.
These principles have served and continue to serve as an inspiration to everyone in this great Nation, because they represent a promise, an ideal, and an opportunity. It is the promise of liberty and justice for all that has brought millions of immigrants to American shores. It is the ideal of liberty and justice for all that has guided our government in making and enforcing our laws. It is the opportunity for liberty and justice for all that has inspired Americans from all walks of life to participate in and give life to our unique form of government.
The fact that we continue to strive to be one Nation, under God, with liberty and justice for all, is a tribute to the memory of the millions of Americans who, throughout our history, have been willing to die to secure or preserve these ideals. The great patriot Patrick Henry's impassioned plea, "Give me liberty or give me death," continues to symbolize today the fervor with which Americans treasure these freedoms.
Law Day is an important opportunity for all Americans to improve their understanding and appreciation of the contribution law makes to the preservation of liberty and justice. I urge all Americans to join with me in renewing our dedication to those principles for which so many Americans have sacrificed their lives.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Wednesday, May 1, 1985, as Law Day, U.S.A. I urge the people of the United States to use this occasion to renew their commitment to the rule of law and to reaffirm our dedication to the partnership of law and liberty. I also urge the legal profession, schools, civic, service, and fraternal organizations, public bodies, libraries, the courts, the communications media, business, the clergy, and all interested individuals and organizations to join in efforts to focus attention on the need for the rule of law. I also call upon all public officials to display the flag of the United States on all government buildings open on Law Day, May 1, 1985.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  