
    "After two days of campaigning on college campuses, it's clear that enthusiasm for President Obama is down sharply among young Americans. With one of every two recent college graduates unemployed or underemployed, President Obama won't be able to skate by on empty rhetoric and campaign promises - he'll have to run on his failed record of high unemployment, skyrocketing gas prices, and mountains of new debt."  -Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama's Recent College Events Were Met With Sinking Poll Numbers And "Fizzled" Enthusiasm Among Young Adults:
"There Were Indications That Enthusiasm Was Sharply Down Among Members Of The So-Called Millennial Generation, With The Sagging Economy The Main Factor." "But as the president embarks on a three-state tour of college campuses to press Congress to act to preserve low interest rates on student loans, there were indications that enthusiasm was sharply down among members of the so-called millennial generation, with the sagging economy the main factor." (Michael A. Memoli, "Poll: Young Voters Prefer Obama, But Enthusiasm Has Waned," Los Angeles Times, 4/24/12)
"Republican Registrations Among 18 To 24 In North Carolina, Colorado And Iowa Have All Increased Since 2008..." "Republican registrations among 18 to 24 in North Carolina, Colorado and Iowa have all increased since 2008, according to data provided by the RNC via the three state secretaries of state offices. In Colorado, young voters registered Democrat at almost a 2 to 1 split. In 2011, that gap has been narrowed to almost 1 to 1, with 11,542 Democratic registrations vs. 11,573 Republican registrations. In Iowa, Republicans lead in 2011 voter registrations amount young people, overcoming an almost 2 to 1 advantage in 2008." (Byron Tau, "GOP, Romney Hopes To Recapture Some Of The Youth Vote From Obama," Politico, 4/24/12)
"The 75 Percent Rating [President Obama] Enjoyed In 2009, The Year He Took Office, Has Dropped To 57 Percent, According To Gallup." (Philip Elliott, "Once Obama's, Younger Voters In Play This Election," The Associated Press, 4/25/12)
President Obama's North Carolina College Event "Didn't Compare To His Appearance On Campus Four Years Ago Before A Much Larger Crowd." "Once Obama took the stage, the capacity crowd of 8,000 cheered loudly, but it didn't compare to his appearance on campus four year ago before a much larger crowd. And interviews with more than a dozen other college students like Walsh and Fleishman indicate that support for Obama, though strong, is infused with less enthusiasm." (John Frank, "Youth Vote Still Favors Obama, But Enthusiasm Is Waning," Raleigh News & Observer, 4/25/12)
UNC-Chapel Hill Student, On Young Voter Enthusiasm For President Obama: "Fizzled." "The UNC-Chapel Hill freshmen were too young to vote in 2008, but they were big Obama supporters, magnetized they say by his star quality. 'Since 2008, I think you can really say it's ...' Walsh started, pausing to think. 'Fizzled,' Fleishman inserted." (John Frank, "Youth Vote Still Favors Obama, But Enthusiasm Is Waning," Raleigh News & Observer, 4/25/12)
CU Professor Kenneth Bickers: "There Doesn't Seem To Be The Same Sort Of Visual Excitement As You Walk Across Campus." "'What I hear from students is not about student loans but anxiety about jobs,' said Kenneth Bickers, a political science professor at CU. 'There are just a lot fewer stickers on clothing, computers and backpacks. There doesn't seem to be the same sort of visual excitement as you walk across campus.'" (Kristen Leigh Parker, "Anticipation To Hear Obama Great, But Support Not As Evident As In 2008," Denver Post, 4/24/12)
Why Are Young Voters So Down On President Obama? They're Struggling To Find Work In The Obama Economy:
"Young Americans Graduating From High School And College Over The Last Several Years Have Been Confronting One Of The Worst Job Markets In Decades." (Josh Sanburn, "Fewest Young Adults In 60 Years Have Jobs," Time, 2/9/12)
More Than Half Of All Recent College Graduates Under The Age Of 25 Were "Jobless Or Underemployed, The Highest Share In At Least 11 Years." "About 1.5 million, or 53.6 percent, of bachelor's degree-holders under the age of 25 last year were jobless or underemployed, the highest share in at least 11 years. In 2000, the share was at a low of 41 percent, before the dot-com bust erased job gains for college graduates in the telecommunications and IT fields." (Hope Yen, "1 In 2 New Graduates Are Jobless Or Underemployed," The Associated Press, 4/22/12)
"Only One In Four U.S. Teenagers Held A Job In 2011, The Smallest Percentage In Decades And Half What It Was In 1999-2000." "Teenaged workers, whether it was students seeking summer jobs or school dropouts and graduates looking for full-time work, were particularly hard-hit by joblessness. Only one in four U.S. teenagers held a job in 2011, the smallest percentage in decades and half what it was in 1999-2000." (Andrew Stern, "Job Market Hurt Teens Most: Study," Reuters, 1/24/12)
Young Americans Aren't The Only Ones Deserting President Obama - Governor Romney's Message Is Resonating With Independents:
According To A New Fox News Poll, 68 Percent Of Independent Voters Say President Obama Does "Not Have A Plan For The Economy." "Among independent voters, 68 percent said Obama did not have a plan for the economy ... The poll's results show Romney padding a lead among independent voters with a 13-point edge, topping his 6-point edge two weeks ago." (Meghashyam Mali    , "Poll: Romney, Obama Tied," The Hill, 4/26/12)
Independent Voters Favor Governor Romney Over President Obama By 13 Points. "Independents give the advantage to Romney by 13 points.  Two weeks ago he had a six-point edge with independents, while in March independents split evenly between the candidates." (Dana Blanton, "Fox News Poll: Obama And Romney Tied," Fox News, 4/25/12)
"President Barack Obama's Job Approval Rating Remains In Negative Territory -- Unwelcome News For An Incumbent Running For Re-Election" "President Barack Obama's job approval rating remains in negative territory -- unwelcome news for an incumbent running for re-election. ... While 45 percent of American voters approve of the president's performance, a 51-percent majority disapproves, according to a Fox News poll released Wednesday." (Dana Blanton, "Fox News Poll: 45 Percent Approve Of Obama, As 83 Percent Say Country Still In Recession," Fox News, 4/25/12)
  