
    
  Names Matt Schultz Iowa State Chairman and 23 co-chairs comprised of Iowa lawmakers, activists, and influencers

HOUSTON, Texas — U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today announced his Iowa Leadership Team, naming prosecutor and former Iowa Secretary of State Matt Schultz his Iowa State Chairman, in addition to 23 other state lawmakers, conservative activists and influencers as Iowa state co-chairs.
Cruz for President's Iowa State Director, Bryan English, sent the following letter to the team welcoming them to the campaign. The text of the letter is below:
To the Cruz Iowa Leadership Team,
First, congratulations on joining the team that will elect the next President of the United States! From Iowa, to Texas, to New Hampshire, and all across the country, Cruz for President is putting together some of the most committed, skilled, and hardworking grassroots leaders to build our campaign. We are going to have the money, manpower, and message to be competitive, win the nomination, and beat Hillary next November!
Keep in mind, we're not going to just walk into the nomination. We are going to have to fight every step of the way. There is no candidate the political elites are more afraid of than Ted Cruz. He represents a new way of doing things in Washington that upsets the big-government status quo the entrenched interests depend on. They will try to divide his base, distort his record, and distract voters from the real issues. It is our job as courageous conservatives to make sure people know who Ted is, how he's fought for us, and the truth about his record.
That's why we've built a team in Iowa to reflect the broad coalition we will need to win. It includes leaders from across Iowa, including those in evangelical and homeschool circles, some who were instrumental in building the Liberty Iowa movement, plus energetic business owners and elected officials.
We have a number of individuals who were active in the campaigns of the last two winners of the Iowa Caucuses, Rick Santorum and Mike Huckabee. There are some who helped strong performers in past cycles like Rep. Ron Paul, Rep. Michelle Bachmann, and Governor Mitt Romney. This diversity of backgrounds is an indication of our strength.
Yet, having such a broad coalition does not come without risk. The media and the other campaigns may try to use it against us. That's why candidates typically look for a niche, attempt to fill it, and then defend their turf. But that's not who we are, and it's not how we are going to win.
Ted Cruz is a bold, visionary, Republican candidate of conviction who knows you build a big-tent party through consistent leadership on conservative principles. He is going to do extraordinarily well in Iowa, and be competitive in every other state, by bringing together all sides of the GOP coalition: social, fiscal, and national security conservatives; traditional Republicans, libertarians, and right-leaning independents; the $25 donor and the ones who can max-out; middle-class workers trying to stretch a paycheck and the moms and dads making the most important investment in America's future.
And we will win if we all clearly see and effectively promote Ted's positive vision for the future of this great country. As he said on the day he announced for President:
It is a time for truth. It is a time for liberty. It is a time to reclaim the Constitution of the United States. I am honored to stand with each and every one of you, Courageous Conservatives, as we come together to reclaim the promise of America, to reclaim the mandate, the hope and opportunity for our children, and our children's children. We stand together for liberty.
This is our fight. The answer will not come from Washington it will come from only the men and women across this country from men and women, from people of faith, from lovers of liberty, from people who respect the Constitution, it will only come as it has come at every other time of challenge in this country:
When the American people stand together and say we will get back to the principles that made this country great, we will get back and restore that shining city on a hill, that is the United States of America.
I want to thank Matt Schultz, former Iowa Secretary of State and prosecutor, for chairing the team and helping to bring together such an impressive group of leaders.
It is my honor to stand shoulder to shoulder with you in this fight, and look forward to working with each and every one of you to elect Ted Cruz the next President of the United States.
In Liberty,
Bryan English
Iowa State Director
Cruz for President
The Cruz Iowa Leadership Team
Matt Schultz, Chair, Truro
Marlin and Becky Bontrager, Kalona
State Senator Jake Chapman, Adel
Pastor Bradley Cranston, Burlington
Vicki Crawford, Granger
Pastor Mike Demastus, Des Moines
State Senator Dennis Guth, Klemme
State Representative Greg Heartsill, Melcher
State Representative Steve Holt, Denison
James Knox, Cedar Rapids
Joel Kurtinitis, Perry
Kelsey Kurtinitis, Perry
Bill Salier, Nora Springs
Dick Schlitter, Onawa
Dorothy Schlitter, Onawa
State Senator Jason Schultz, Schleswig
State Representative Larry Sheets, Moulton
Councilman Mick Snieder, Orange City
Adam Steen, West Des Moines
Chad Steenhoek, Ames
John Wacker, Garner
State Representative Ralph Watts, Adel
Pastor Darran Whiting, Marion
  