
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Campaign today announced that Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum will lead the Mayor's efforts in the state. The Mayor made the announcement in Tallahassee with the Attorney General and several members of the Florida State House who will be joining the Mayor's Florida leadership team.
"As a conservative and someone who has been active in national security for decades, I'm honored to help Rudy's team in Florida and I know that he's the candidate most fit to lead the country," McCollum said. "Floridians know Rudy's record of transforming New York City through conservative, tough on crime, law and order principles and it is that record of leadership, which has already translated to a great deal of support throughout the state."
Before being elected in 2006, Attorney General McCollum served in the U.S House for twenty years, founding and chairing the House Task Force on Terrorism and Unconventional Warfare. McCollum also served three terms on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. McCollum was on active duty in the U.S. Navy from 1969 to 1972. In 1992, he retired from the Naval Reserve as a Commander, having served 23 years as an officer in the Judge Advocate General's (JAG) Corps. He is a member of the American Legion, the Reserve Officers Association, the Naval Reserve Association and the Military Order of the World Wars.
"Attorney General McCollum is a leader, a committed public servant, and an asset to the campaign," said Mayor Giuliani. "He will be a tremendous advocate as we continue to expand our team in Florida."
STATE REPRESENTATIVES SUPPORTING MAYOR GIULIANI
Rep. Thad Altman – Represents Dist 30 in Brevard County
Rep. Carl Domino – Represents Dist 83 in Palm Beach County
Rep. Greg Evers – Represents Dist 1 in Escambia, Okaloosa, and Santa Rosa Counties
Rep. Rich Glorioso – Represents Dist 62 in Hillsborough and Pasco Counties
Rep. Peter Nehr – Represents Dist 48 in Pasco and Pinellas Counties
Rep. Pat Patterson – Represents Dist 26 in Flagler and Volusia Counties
Rep. Juan Carlos "J.C." Planas – Represents Dist 115 in Miami-Dade County
Rep. Julio Robaina – Represents Dist 117 in Miami-Dade County
Rep. Juan C. Zapata – Represents Dist 119 in Miami-Dade County
  