
    DUBUQUE, IA -- Senator Hillary Clinton, who met with nurses from Dubuque's Finley Hospital for the second time on Sunday, launched an online petition calling for support of the nurses in their ongoing contract dispute with hospital administrators.
"This is not an issue of pay -- no one goes into nursing to get rich -- this is an issue of patient care," said Senator Clinton. "The nurses need the piece of mind that comes from knowing they will not be fired just for speaking out to improve the quality of care for patients."
"Our struggle to improve the quality of care for our patients has gone on too long and I am happy to have the support of Senator Clinton in our efforts," said Linda Merfeld, a nurse at Finley Hospital.
Last week Clinton sent a letter to Finley Hospital administrators demanding management to reach an agreement with the nurses providing:

A protected voice to speak up when nurses feel patient care is being undermined and their licenses may be in jeopardy,
A real voice in hospital policies and procedures that affect patient care, such as having enough staff on duty to care for patients; and,
Improvements at work that attract and retain the most qualified nurses at the bedside.

"We do not need to wait until 2009 to make a difference. We can start today," said JoDee Winterhof, State Director for Iowans for Hillary, in a blog post officially launching the petition. The campaign also sent an email to its supporters today.
"Our campaign is already working to put America back on track. For the first time in the caucuses, a campaign is utilizing the power of a strong Iowa specific online operation to make a difference in local issues," said Winterhof.
Supporters can access the petition at: http://www.hillaryclinton.com/finleynurses.
The nurses became a part of SEIU Local 199 a few years ago to protect themselves from retaliatory action if they spoke up about substandard patient care. They have continued to care for patients despite their expired contracts. The nurses want the ability to speak up and advocate for better patient care without the fear of losing their jobs.
  