
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to Section 123 d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d) ), the text of the Protocol Amending the Agreement for Cooperation Concerning Civil Uses of Atomic Energy Between the United States and Canada, along with the accompanying Agreed Minute. The proposed Protocol is accompanied by my written determination, approval and authorization, and by the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the Protocol. The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy, which includes a summary of the provisions of the Protocol, and the views of the Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission are also enclosed.
The purpose of the proposed Protocol is to extend the present agreement (which expires on July 14), to modernize and expand the framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between the two countries, and to strengthen the provisions for shared non-proliferation policies and the nuclear supply policies of the United States and Canada. On our part, these policies include the requirements set forth in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978. In my judgment the United States-Canada Agreement for Cooperation, as proposed to be amended, meets all statutory requirements.
I am particularly pleased to transmit such an agreement with Canada, one of the strongest supporters of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and of international nonproliferation efforts generally. The proposed Protocol reflects the desire of the Government of the United States and the Government of Canada to update the framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between our two countries in a manner that recognizes our common non-proliferation goals as well as the singularly close and extensive relationship between the United States and Canada in the peaceful applications of nuclear energy. The proposed Protocol will, in my view, further the non-proliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States.
I have considered the views and recommendations and statements of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed Protocol and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and have authorized its execution and urge the Congress to give it favorable consideration.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
April 28, 1980.
  