
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate key additions to his Administration.
Vishal J. Amin of Michigan to be Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator in the Executive Office of the President. Mr. Amin is currently Senior Counsel on the House Judiciary Committee. Earlier in his career, he served in the Administration of President George W. Bush at the White House, as Associate Director for Domestic Policy, and at the U.S. Department of Commerce, as Special Assistant and Associate Director for Policy in the Office of the Secretary. He received his bachelor's degree in neuroscience from Johns Hopkins University and his law degree from Washington University in St. Louis.
Mark E. Green of Tennessee to be Secretary of the Army. Dr. Mark Green currently serves as Tennessee State Senator for District 22. He is the Chaplain of the Senate GOP Caucus and was selected as the Tennessee Journal's Rookie of the year in 2013. Dr. Green is the CEO of Align MD, an emergency department staffing company, which provides leadership and staffing to emergency departments and hospitalist services in forty-seven hospitals in nine states. In 1986, Second Lieutenant Green graduated from West Point with a degree in economics and began his military career as an infantry officer. Dr. Green served as a rifle platoon leader, scout platoon leader, battalion personnel officer, a supply officer, an airborne rifle company commander in the famed 82nd Airborne Division, and commanded a recruiting company in U.S. Army Recruiting Command. As an Army physician, Mark served in the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment where he made three combat tours to the Middle East. His military awards include the Bronze Star, the Air Medal, the Air Medal with "V" device for valor under heavy enemy fire, and numerous other medals for service.
Kevin Allen Hassett of Massachusetts to be a Member and Chair of the Council of Economic Advisors. Mr. Hassett is the State Farm James Q. Wilson Chair in American Politics and Culture and the Director of Research for Domestic Policy at the American Enterprise Institute, where he has researched the impact of tax policy on the behavior of firms and welfare of citizens. Prior to joining AEI, Mr. Hassett served as a senior economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board, and as an associate professor of economics and finance at the Graduate School of Business of Columbia University. He has been an economic adviser to Republican presidential candidates John McCain, George W. Bush, and Mitt Romney, and a consultant to the U.S. Treasury during the administrations of both George H.W. Bush and William J. Clinton. A native of Greenfield, Massachusetts, he received a BA with high honors from Swarthmore College and was awarded a PhD in economics from the University of Pennsylvania. He resides in Washington, D.C. with his wife Kristie, and two sons.
Stephen T. Parente of Minnesota to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, Planning and Evaluation. Dr. Parente, PhD, MPH, MS is Minnesota Insurance Industry Chair of Health Finance in Carlson School of Management, Associate Dean of MBA and MS Programs, and Director of the Medical Industry Leadership Institute at the University of Minnesota. As a Finance Professor, he examines insurance, health IT and health reform. He is Governing Chair of the Washington, D.C. based Health Care Cost Institute, a non-profit with private insurer data representing 60 million insured. Dr. Parente serves as a Congressional Budget Office health advisor and was a health policy advisor for the McCain 2008 Presidential Campaign. He has a doctorate from Johns Hopkins University
Neomi Rao of Washington, D.C. to be the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget. Ms. Rao is a professor at the Antonin Scalia Law School at George Mason University, where she founded and directs the Center for the Study of the Administrative State. Her research and teaching focuses on constitutional and administrative law. Currently a public member of the Administrative Conference of the United States, Ms. Rao has previously served in all three branches of the federal government. She served as Associate Counsel to President George W. Bush; counsel for nominations and constitutional law to the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary; and law clerk to Justice Clarence Thomas of the U.S. Supreme Court. She practiced public international law and arbitration at Clifford Chance LLP in London. Ms. Rao received her JD with high honors from the University of Chicago and her BA from Yale University.
Russell Vought of Virginia to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Vought spent twelve years on Capitol Hill in numerous roles. He served as the Policy Director for the House Republican Conference, under then-Chairman Mike Pence, and as the Executive Director of the Republican Study Committee (RSC), under then-Chairman Jeb Hensarling. He previously served as the RSC's Budget Director under two other chairmen. He began his career working for Senator Phil Gramm for four years as a legislative assistant. Since leaving the Hill, Mr. Vought has spent the last seven years as Vice President of Heritage Action for America. He graduated with a BA from Wheaton College (IL) in 1998 and a JD from the George Washington University Law School in 2004. He and his wife, Mary, have two daughters, Margaret Ella and Porter.
  