
    HOUSTON, Texas — When Ted Cruz formally named Carly Fiorina as his vice presidential running mate yesterday, the positive reaction in California from Republican leaders was swift:
"Carly's life experiences provide a unique perspective and insight into the business community, women's work, family and health concerns, as well as a conservative California perspective to issues of security and employment growth affecting our state and the nation. Her tireless spirit, commitment, integrity, straight talk and can do attitude is just what Americans want to see as Vice President." — Diane Harkey, Member, State Board of Equalization
"Carly Fiorina's conservative values and record of accomplishment are a potent mix. It's clear that thoughtful, conservative leadership continues to line up in support of Ted Cruz." — Senator Ted Gaines
"Carly Fiorina's inspirational personal story provides her a unique connection with voters. Her impressive background in both the private and public sector make her the type of leader our county needs." — Assemblywoman Shannon Grove
"California Republicans know and love Carly Fiorina. Her connection to the conservative movement in the state runs deep and will have a strong impact here." — Michelle Steel, Orange County Supervisor, former Board of Equalization Member
"Carly Fiorina is ready to shake up the system and change things for the better in Washington. Not only is she an outstanding spokesperson for our conservative message, but she is a leader with real-world experience that is ready to take action." — Assemblyman Matthew Harper
"In California we know what a tremendous choice Carly is to serve our Country as our Vice President. She was battle tested here as a courageous, consistent conservative. She is uniquely qualified to make the case as to what a poor role model Hillary Clinton is to every girl in this Country." — Mike Schroeder, former California Republican Party Chairman
Ted Cruz has earned the endorsements of the following Current and Former Federal and State Elected Officials in California:
Diane Harkey, Board of Equalization Member
George Runner, Board of Equalization Member
Michelle Steel, Orange County Supervisor, former Board of Equalization Member
Tom McClintock, Congressman
Dana Rohrabacher, Congressman
Ted Gaines, State Senator
Matthew Harper, Assemblyman
Shannon Grove, Assemblywoman
Marie Waldron, Assemblywoman
Travis Allen, Assemblyman
Brian Jones, Assemblyman
Don Wagner, Assemblyman
Jay Obernolte, Assemblyman
Jim Battin, Former State Senator
Dennis Hollingsworth, Former State Senate Republican Leader
Martin Garrick, Former Assembly Republican Leader
Scott Baugh, Former Assembly Republican Leader
  