
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

By tradition, the second Sunday in May is designated as Mother's Day, one of America's best-loved holidays. It gives us all a special occasion to honor our own, and to praise the unique dignity of motherhood one of life's highest callings.
Thomas Jefferson called motherhood "the keystone of the arch of matrimonial happiness," and we must always remember that with love, strength, and fortitude, the American mother assisted in the settlement, development, and prosperity of our country. Her contributions to the well-being of the family, the community, and the Nation are beyond all reckoning. A Jewish saying sums it up: "God could not be everywhere—so He created mothers."
The role of the mother has changed constantly in our society, but its fundamental meaning abides: love and caring. The modern mother is conquering new worlds. She continues to be the heart of the family and the hearth of the home. Where mothers are honored and loved, the family is strong. And where the family is strong the nation is strong.
In recognition of the magnificent contributions of mothers to their families and to the Nation, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 770), has designated the second Sunday in May of each year as Mother's Day and requested the President to call for its appropriate observance.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby request that Sunday, May 11, 1986, be observed as Mother's Day. I urge all Americans to express their love and honor to their mothers and to reflect on the importance of motherhood to the well-being of our country. I direct Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Federal government buildings, and I urge all citizens to display the flag at their homes and other suitable places on that day.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  