
    Mr. Prime Minister and ladies and gentlemen:
There are many reasons why we are very honored to welcome the Prime Minister to Washington on this occasion. One of them is that we think of the great debt that we in America owe to Italy and particularly to those of Italian descent. We think of the debt we owe in the field of art, music, religion, but most of all, in terms just of people, the millions of people who are proud of their Italian background, but who are also proud to be Americans.
We have, of course, an example of what those of Italian background have contributed to our Nation in our Ambassador to Italy--businessman, Governor, Cabinet officer, now Ambassador--this indicates how in field after field those of Italian background have enriched America, have added to our leadership, and have helped to make us a great people and a great country.
Mr. Prime Minister, we are also honored to welcome you because of your position of leadership, strong leadership, of one of America's strongest friends and best allies in the world. We have stood together since the end of World War II. We shall stand together in peace in the years ahead, and as I think of the subjects that we will be discussing today, the subjects of security, of trade, areas that will contribute to peace, not only in Europe and the Mediterranean but in the world, but will also contribute to prosperity, a better life for the people of Italy and the people of America, the people of the world, I realize how much our talks can contribute to those goals.
As we meet during these 2 days, I am sure it will some day be recorded that Italy and the United States on this occasion, not only renewed an old friendship and reasserted it, but we began the structure of a new relationship, not only between the United States and Italy but between the United States and the new Europe, a new relationship which can bring a better life to all of our people on both sides of the Atlantic.
So, Mr. Prime Minister, for these and many other reasons, as you come here to the White House, you receive not only a warm welcome here, but every place you go in America, the hearts of America will go out to you and the people you represent.
  