
    Thank you very much, Secretary Riley, and thank all of you for being here to recognize Sandra McBrayer, our 1994 Teacher of the Year.
I want to say as I begin that the work in the Senate and the House has kept Senator Boxer and Senator Feinstein and Congresswoman Lynn Schenk from coming here today. But all three of them called and asked to be remembered at this occasion and to say they are proud of and strongly support the work that Sandra McBrayer has done.
One of the things I hoped to do when I ran for President was to increase our national effort to improve education in ways that made sense to grassroots educators who were out there making a difference. After serving for 12 years as a Governor and spending more time on schools and jobs than any other two issues, I have probably spent more time in more different kinds of classrooms than any person who has had the privilege to hold this office. And one of the things that I always believed was that virtually every challenge in American education had been met with genuine excellence by someone somewhere, that there were people committed, good people all across this country, that were trying to come to grips with the awesome challenges of educating all America's children to world-class standards and that what we had to do at the national level was to clarify what those standards are, to give people some means of measuring whether they were being achieved, and then to support the grassroots reforms and the people who were carrying them out. That's what we're trying to do with Goals 2000, with the school-to-work bill, with all our other educational initiatives.
And that's why I was so pleased, when I first met Sandra McBrayer in California not very long ago and heard about her work, that she was actually chosen as the Teacher of the Year. We met when she came to the Goals 2000 signing when she was just a California Teacher of the Year, and I didn't know she was going to get such a quick promotion, but I sort of suspected it because of what she has done.
I cannot tell you how much it means to me to have someone here who's proved that you could teach homeless kids and that they count and they matter and they can learn and they can achieve great things. She knows that children have to be fed; they need clothes to wear and a place to sleep at night, and it's harder if they don't have those things.
She started the Homeless Outreach School in San Diego in a storefront in 1988. Her school provides, in addition to education, two meals a day, showers, and laundry facilities. Her students don't follow a regular schedule; they come to class between their jobs or when they're not caring for children of their own. But they each fulfill a weekly contract of studies that are completed either at home or in school.
This is very important. This is one of the central ideas of Goals 2000. We should measure our educational effort not by how teachers do everything all day, every day, but by whether certain results are achieved. And then we should allow our teachers and our school principals to devise their own best ways to achieve those results based on the realities that they deal with.
She is living every day what I believe is the central idea that would do more to transform and revolutionize American education than any other single thing in public education, at least, if we could implement it and implement it all over America.
The most important lessons of these students may not be learned inside the classroom. Maybe it's the confidence they gain by finally having someone like Sandra McBrayer to believe in them, someone who believes they count in society and they have something to contribute and the rest of us need them.
You might have heard the line that teaching kids to count is fine but teaching them what counts is best. Sandy McBrayer has done even more than that; she's taught her children that they count. Over 25 of her students who started out on the streets are now in college.
So I want to thank her for her dedication to the students of the Homeless Outreach School, for being a model for all teachers throughout the country, and for the whole idea of education reform. And I'm proud to present her the 1994 Apple Award as America's Teacher of the Year. I'll hold your apple for you. I'll polish your apple for you. [Laughter]
  