
    "Following his chief strategist's lead, President Obama made a convincing case for electing Mitt Romney when he stated the economy is 'not as robust as we'd like.' After three years of failed economic policies and broken promises, it's clear that President Obama isn't prepared to help build an economy that helps get Americans back to work." -Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
In A Recent Interview, President Obama Admitted That The Economy Is "Not As Robust As We'd Like":
President Obama, On The Obama Economy: "Not As Robust As We'd Like..." OBAMA: "You still have an unemployment rate that's way too high, you have folks whose homes are underwater because the housing bubble burst, people are still feeling the pinch from high gas prices. The fact of the matter is that times are still tough for too many people, and the recovery is still not as robust as we'd like, and that's what will make it a close election." (Jann S. Wenner, "Ready For The Fight: Rolling Stone Interview With Barack Obama," Rolling Stone, 4/25/12)
The President Is Echoing Recent Comments By His Chief Strategist, Who Said We Can't Keep Going "Down The Road We Are On":
Obama Chief Strategist David Axelrod: "The Choice In This Election Is Between An Economy That Produces A Growing Middle Class ... And An Economy That Continues Down The Road We Are On..." AXELROD: "The choice in this election is between an economy that produces a growing middle class and that gives people a chance to get ahead and their kids a chance to get ahead, and an economy that continues down the road we are on, where a fewer and fewer number of people do very well, and everybody else is running faster and faster just to keep pace." (Fox's "Fox News Sunday," 4/15/12)

Axelrod: "People Will Judge [President Obama] Based On His Record." CROWLEY: "So if you take this, is it fair to say, listen, the president is the guy in charge?" AXELROD: "People will judge him based on his record." (CNN's "State Of The Union," 4/22/12)

It Is Understandable Why President Obama And His Team Have Such A Dim View Of The Economy:
Unemployment Has Been Above 8% For A Record-Breaking Thirty-Eight Straight Months. The jobless rate has been above 8% since February 2009, a thirty-eight month span unequaled in recorded history. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/17/12)


    "The Congressional Budget Office Is Projecting Unemployment Of More Than 8% Throughout This Election Year And Into 2014." (David Jackson, "CBO Projects 8%-Plus Unemployment Into 2014," USA Today, 2/16/12)
  

Nearly Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Unemployed, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking For Work. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/17/12)


    More Than Half Of Recent College Graduates Are "Jobless Or Underemployed, The Highest Share In At Least 11 Years." "About 1.5 million, or 53.6 percent, of bachelor's degree-holders under the age of 25 last year were jobless or underemployed, the highest share in at least 11 years. In 2000, the share was at a low of 41 percent, before the dot-com bust erased job gains for college graduates in the telecommunications and IT fields." (Hope Yen, "1 In 2 New Graduates Are Jobless Or Underemployed," The Associated Press, 4/22/12)
  



    Since President Obama Took Office, The Unemployment Rate For Hispanic Or Latino Workers Has Increased To 10.3%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/19/12)
  



    Women Account For More Than 92 Percent Of The Jobs Lost Since President Obama Took Office In January 2009. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics Website, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/25/12)
  

And The Obama Economy Isn't Just Failing Job Seekers - President Obama Has Presided Over Soaring Gas Prices And High Rates Of Foreclosures:
Under President Obama, Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled From The Nationwide Average Of $1.85 Per Gallon When He Was Sworn Into Office To $3.87 Per Gallon Today. (U.S. Energy Information Administration, www.eia.gov, Accessed 4/25/12)

NBC's Chuck Todd, On President Obama's Energy Policy: "He's Made No Progress." TODD: "There is no issue that has been a, I guess, a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general. There's a lot of, we can come up with a lot of excuses as to why, but boy, it's just like you can't - he's made no progress." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)

Since President Obama Took Office, Millions Of Homes Have Been Lost To Foreclosures With Another Four Million "In The Foreclosure Process Or Seriously Delinquent." "Meanwhile, 2.5 million homes have been lost to foreclosure since 2009, an additional 4 million are in the foreclosure process or seriously delinquent, and home prices are still falling in much of the U.S., shrinking household wealth for millions of Americans." (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs?," USA Today, 12/12/11)
Housing Experts Have Noted That "Every Program" From President Obama "Has Fallen Far Short Of Goals." "'Every program has fallen far short of goals. I can't think of one that's been largely successful,' says John Dodds, director of the Philadelphia Unemployment Project, a non-profit that's been involved in foreclosure prevention for decades." (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs?," USA Today, 12/12/11)
  