
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate George Tracey Mehan, III, to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Water Programs. He is currently the Director of the Office of Great Lakes in the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. He served as Associate Deputy Administrator of the EPA from 1992 to 1993 and was Director of the Missouri Department of Natural Resources from 1989 to 1992. He is a graduate of St. Louis University and St. Louis University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Eduardo Aguirre, Jr., to be First Vice President of the Export Import Bank of the United States for the remainder of a four year term expiring January 20, 2005. Aguirre is currently the President of Bank of America's International Private Bank. He was appointed by then Governor George W. Bush as a regent for the University of Houston System and former President Bush appointed him to serve on the National Commission for Employment Opportunity from 1991 to 1993. A resident of Houston, Texas, he is a graduate of Louisiana State University.
The President intends to nominate Donald E. Powell to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term of six years and Chairperson for a term of five years. He is presently the President and CEO of First National Bank in Amarillo, Texas, and was formerly with the Boatman's First National Bank of Amarillo. He is currently the Chairman of the Board of Regents for the Texas A&M University System. He is a graduate of West Texas State University and received a Master's degree from Southern Methodist University.
The President intends to nominate Robert S. Martin to be Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services. He is currently a Professor and Interim Director of the School of Library and Information Studies at Texas Women's University in Denton, Texas. He served as Director and Librarian of the Texas State Library and Archives Commission from 1995 to 1999 and served as a Professor and as Associate Dean of Special Collections at Louisiana State University from 1991 to 1995. He is a graduate of Rice University, received a Master's degree from North Texas State University and a Doctorate in Library Science from the University of North Carolina.
The President intends to nominate Alfred Rascon to be Director of the Selective Service. Most recently he served as Inspector General of the Selective Service and has also served as a Special Agent with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He served with the Drug Enforcement Agency as an Intelligence Operations Specialist, and from 1976 to 1984 he was a U.S. Army military liaison officer in the Republic of Panama. Rascon was awarded the Medal of Honor by President Clinton for military service during the Vietnam War. Originally from California, he is a graduate of California Coast University and Excelsior College at the University of New York State.
The President intends to nominate Christina B. Rocca to be Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs. She is currently a Professional Staff Member for Senator Sam Brownback, serving as his foreign policy advisor. Rocca served as a Staff Operations Officer for the CIA Directorate of Operations from 1982 to 1997 and is a graduate of King's College at the University of London in London, England.
  