
    "Americans from across the political spectrum can unite around prison reform legislation that will reduce crime while giving our fellow citizens a chance at redemption." --President Donald J. Trump
ACHIEVING GROUNDBREAKING REFORM: The landmark First Step Act enacted commonsense criminal justice reform that is helping prisoners gain a new lease on life and is making America safer.

In December 2018, President Donald J. Trump signed into law the First Step Act, marking the first major reforms to our criminal justice system in over a decade.
The First Step Act enacted commonsense reforms to make our justice system fairer and help inmates successfully transition back into society.
President Trump remains committed to building on this success and continuing the great work achieved by this legislation.

OFFERING A SECOND CHANCE: Inmates across the country are getting a second chance thanks to the First Step Act.

The First Step Act is providing prisoners with a second chance through rehabilitative programs, fair sentencing, and smart confinement.
Over 16,000 inmates are enrolled in a drug treatment program offered as part of the robust drug treatment strategy managed by the Bureau of Prisons (BOP).

To date, BOP has assessed over 400 inmates for participation in Medication Assisted Treatment programs designed to aid in their recovery.


The First Step Act provided the opportunity for sentencing relief for certain defendants who received mandatory minimum sentences prior to the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010.

721 defendants have received sentence reductions, 573 of which have resulted in inmates being released.


The First Step Act expanded avenues for eligible elderly and terminally ill prisoners to get their sentences reduced by allowing for their motions to be directly filed with the courts.
The First Step Act authorized eligible low-risk and elderly inmates to be transferred to home confinement when possible.
The legislation also advised BOP to place inmates within 500 driving miles of home when possible.

DEDICATING RESOURCES TO REDUCE RECIDIVISM: The Trump Administration is committed to helping prisoners successfully rejoin society after their release.

President Trump's fiscal year 2020 Budget proposes over $500 million for various Federal programs to help prisoners succeed in society after their release, including:

$234 million for the Department of Justice to support reentry programs, inmate education, and occupational training programs.
$78 million for the Department of Labor to improve employment outcomes for formerly incarcerated adults and young adults.




In 2019, the Department of Education will provide $28 million for a Pell grant pilot program to help eligible incarcerated Americans pursue postsecondary education.
These initiatives are intended to help reduce the rate of recidivism and offer prisoners the support they need for life after incarceration.

  