
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 28
In the afternoon, the President went to Camp David, MD.
March 29
In the morning, the President returned to the White House, where he met with Chief of Staff John Podesta in the Oval Office. Later, he met with the foreign policy team and military leaders in the Oval Office concerning the situation in Kosovo.
The President announced the appointment of Robert A. Babbage, Jr., and Larry Echohawk as members of the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
March 30
In the afternoon, the President met with President-elect Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria concerning a range of bilateral and regional issues.
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom regarding the situation in Kosovo and the Northern Ireland peace process.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Hanson to be Assistant Secretary for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
April 1
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom and Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland concerning the Northern Ireland peace process. Later, he met with the national security team in the Oval Office.
Later in the morning, the President traveled to Norfolk, VA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he met with Defense Secretary William Cohen and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Henry (Hugh) Shelton. Following his arrival at the Norfolk Naval Station, he met privately at the Pennsylvania House with a group of military families to convey the Nation's appreciation for their sacrifices and hardships.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Z. Lawrence to be a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers.
April 2
In the morning, the President met with representatives of humanitarian organizations in the Cabinet Room concerning relief efforts in Kosovo.
The President designated Harold C. Pachios as Chair of the Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
  