
    Yesterday, at Vandenberg Space Force Base in California, Vice President Kamala Harris announced that the United States commits not to conduct destructive, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) missile testing, and that the United States seeks to establish this as a new international norm for responsible behavior in space. This commitment addresses one of the most pressing threats to the security and sustainability of space, as demonstrated by Russia's November 2021 destructive direct­-ascent ASAT missile test. The People's Republic of China conducted a similar test in 2007.
As Chair of the National Space Council, the Vice President has made establishing international rules and norms for space a priority, and the announcement made yesterday is one initiative under this effort.
The Vice President said she believes that "without clear norms, we face unnecessary risks in space." She continued: "The United States will continue to be a leader in order to establish, to advance, and demonstrate norms for the responsible and peaceful use of outer space."
Read more about the announcement below.
The Washington Post: U.S. calls for an end to destructive satellite tests in space[Christian, Davenport, 4/18/22]
The United States will no longer conduct destructive tests of satellites, Vice President Harris announced Monday, and called on other nations to agree to a set of rules governing responsible behavior in space as Earth orbit becomes increasingly congested with dangerous debris.
The announcement, made during a visit to Vandenberg Air Force Base on Monday, came five months after Russia blew up a dead satellite with a missile, creating a massive debris field that will stay in orbit for years.
"It is clear there is strong interest among our international partners to develop these norms," she said Monday. "We must write the new rules of the road, and we will lead by example."
Politico: U.S. vows not to conduct anti-satellite tests[Bryan Bender, 4/18/22]
"As of today the United States commits not to conduct destructive, direct-ascent, anti-satellite missile testing," Harris said. "Simply put, these tests are dangerous and we will not conduct them. We are the first nation to make such a commitment. I call on all nations to join us."
The pronouncement comes after Russia fired a missile at one of its own satellites in November, creating thousands of pieces of space junk and sparking an international outcry and new calls for a ban on such tests.
Harris also cited a 2007 test conducted by China in 2008 that created 2,800 pieces of debris still orbiting the Earth.
"These tests, to be sure, are reckless, as they are irresponsible. These tests could also endanger so much of what we do in space," she added, citing the risk to both satellites and astronauts.
Los Angeles Times: Vice President Kamala Harris says the U.S. will halt tests of anti-satellite missiles[Courtney Subramanian, 4/18/22]
Harris said she hoped the U.S. action would spur other countries to join in halting such tests. "The United States is committed to lead the way and to lead by example," she said.
Associated Press: White House commits to barring anti-satellite missile tests[Aamer Madhani, 4/18/22]
Harris stressed that the debris created by the missile tests threatens not only astronauts and U.S. military interests but also could impact commercial satellites that the world relies on for weather forecasts, GPS systems that help drivers navigate streets, television broadcasts and critical infrastructure.
"A piece of space debris the size of a basketball, which travels at thousands of miles per hour, would destroy a satellite. Even a piece of debris as small as a grain of sand could cause serious damage," Harris said.
CNBC: U.S. commits to ending anti-satellite missile testing, calls for global agreement[Michael Sheetz, 4/18/22]
During Harris' first meeting in December as chair of the National Space Council, the vice president directed the group to work with other agencies and create proposals that would establish new national security norms in space.
The U.S. ASAT commitment, which coincides with Harris' tour of Vandenberg Space Force Base in California on Tuesday, marks the first step of that effort.
The Verge: Kamala Harris to announce US will no longer conduct anti-satellite tests[Loren Grush, 4/18/22]
Harris will speak more extensively on the new commitment during a speech at Vandenberg Space Force Base in California this evening. Harris currently serves as the chair of the White House's National Space Council, an executive advisory group that helps to set the nation's space agenda.
This declaration comes five months after Russia conducted an ASAT test in November. The country launched one of its Nudol missiles from Earth, which destroyed Russia's Cosmos-1408 satellite, a Soviet-era spacecraft that's been in orbit since the 1980s.
Houston Chronicle: Kamala Harris promises U.S. won't destroy satellites in space. Will other nations follow suit?[Andrea Leinfelder, 4/19/22]
Vice President Kamala Harris made this pledge Monday and hopes other nations will follow suit, eliminating anti-satellite missile tests that create hazardous debris for humans and satellites circling the Earth.
"These weapons are intended to deny the U.S. our ability to use our space capabilities by disrupting, destroying our satellites — satellites which are critical to our national security," Harris said during her visit to Vandenberg Space Force Base in California. "These tests, to be sure, are reckless, and they are irresponsible. These tests also put in danger so much of what we do in space."
Bloomberg: U.S. to Forgo Tests of Anti-Satellite Missiles Over Debris Risks[Jordan Fabian, 4/18/22]
Vice President Kamala Harris will announce Monday the U.S. won't test some anti-satellite weapons in space, a move aimed at pressuring rivals Russia and China.
Banning "reckless and irresponsible" anti-satellite missile tests should become the "international norm," Harris's office said in a statement. During a visit to the Vandenberg Space Force Base in California she will announce that the U.S. will forgo tests of what are known as "direct-ascent" anti-satellite weapons -- generally, missiles designed to destroy spacecraft in orbit by impact.
  