
    Yesterday, The Ohio Mayors Alliance Board of Governors published an op-ed in The Columbus Dispatch, expressing bipartisan optimism following the passage of President Joe Biden's American Rescue Plan.
After a year spent on the frontlines watching their local businesses close, seeing their neighbors struggle to put food on the table, and witnessing their children struggle learn at home, the Ohio Mayors Alliance put their communities above beltway politics and Capitol Hill partisanship – calling for assistance.
As the bipartisan Board of Governors makes clear, their call for relief was answered in form of the American Rescue Plan – which provides funding to ramp up vaccinations, get students back in school, keep small businesses afloat, keep Ohio's essential services up and running, and give families with children the desperate aid they need.
Over the course of the pandemic, these mayors and cities have worked together to tackle COVID-19 and protect their communities. All that time, they have had one goal in mind: get back to "normal." The Ohio Mayors Alliance believes that "getting back to normal" is a goal everyone can agree on, regardless of political party.
The Ohio Mayors Alliance Board of Governors consists of Mayor John Cranley (D-Cincinnati), Mayor Tim DeGeeter (D-Parma), Mayor Andrew J. Ginther (D-Columbus), Mayor Don Patterson (R-Kettering), Mayor Christina Muryn (R-Findlay), Mayor David Scheffler (R-Lancaster) and Mayor Nan Whaley (D-Dayton).
Read the full op-ed below:
The Columbus Dispatch: Ohio mayors: Billions from American Rescue Plan will help get nation back to normal[The Ohio Mayors Alliance, 4/1/21]
As local leaders representing both parties, we're optimistic about the road ahead after over a year of unprecedented health and economic challenges in our communities. The increase in vaccine supply has been welcome. And the recently approved federal aid for state and local governments will help to quicken our economic recovery.
The COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing economic crisis turned many Ohioans' lives upside down. Our cities struggled to keep essential services running, businesses shuttered, and our neighbors struggled to make ends meet. Our children have been forced to grapple with tough concepts over spotty internet connections, without the direct aid of a kind teacher. And most tragically — our loved ones have died alone, without a hand to hold.
Our country needed to take decisive action to increase our already unprecedented response and defeat the virus. Our cities and citizens needed relief.
As mayors — Democrats and Republicans — witnessing the devastation firsthand, we could not wait for political squabbles to play out in Washington. We have dealt with more than a year of tough decisions — spending scarce resources to combat the pandemic and save our citizens' lives while also providing the essential services necessary for our communities to function. The need to get back to normal is something we can all agree on, regardless of political party.
We needed assistance, and the American Rescue Plan answered our call, providing $350 billion in state and local aid, including more than $10 billion in state and local relief for Ohio, so we can keep our essential services up and running and our communities safe. This relief and recovery package offers us a chance at jump-starting that return to normal, which is good for our economy and critical for the most vulnerable.
Local governments from across Ohio have been working together throughout this pandemic to respond to the unprecedented challenges our communities have faced.
We will continue this important cooperation as we recover from this crisis. Our bipartisan coalition of mayors has already begun discussing ways that we can invest these resources into our communities and accelerate our economic recovery.
The American Rescue Plan also provides help for shuttered and struggling small businesses. They will have a chance at revival with the plan's $7.25 billion in expanded funding for the Paycheck Protection Program. With this aid and wider eligibility, businesses pushed to the edge will now be able reopen and thrive. Direct relief is also coming to Ohioans. The plan gives families relief through the expansion of the Child Tax Credit, allowing parents to claim up to $3,600 for each child dependent.
The chance for recovery is here — and it's called the American Rescue Plan. We thank Congress in passing this legislation and trusting mayors on the frontlines of their communities to put these funds to work. The cost of this legislation is great, but the cost of doing nothing is far greater. It will help us get shots in arms, beat COVID-19 and quickly rebuild our economy.
This is not a partisan goal, it's an American one.
The Ohio Mayors Alliance board of directors: Mayor John Cranley (D-Cincinnati), Mayor Tim DeGeeter (D-Parma), Mayor Andrew J. Ginther (D-Columbus), Mayor Don Patterson (R-Kettering), Mayor Christina Muryn (R-Findlay), Mayor David Scheffler (R-Lancaster) and Mayor Nan Whaley (D-Dayton)
  