
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and designate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Sandra L. Pack, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Management) and upon appointment designate Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Pack recently served as Chief Financial Officer of the Bush Cheney 2004 campaign. She previously served as Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management & Comptroller). Prior to that, Ms. Pack was Director of Treasury for the Bush Cheney 2000 campaign. Earlier in her career, she worked for Ernst & Young as Director of Small Business Consulting and Accounting Services. Ms. Pack received a bachelor's degree Notre Dame College of Maryland and is a Certified Public Accountant for the State of Maryland.
The President intends to nominate Randal Quarles, of Utah, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury (Domestic Finance). Mr. Quarles currently serves as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (International Affairs). He previously served as the United States Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund. During President George H. W. Bush's Administration, Mr. Quarles served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Institutions Policy. In the private sector, he was Co-Head of Davis Polk & Wardwell's Financial Institutions Group, advising domestic and international banks and bank holding companies. Mr. Quarles received a bachelor's degree from Columbia College and a J.D. from Yale Law School.
The President intends to nominate John J. Sullivan, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce. Mr. Sullivan currently serves as Deputy General Counsel of the Department of Defense. Prior to that, he was a Partner in the Washington, D.C. law firm of Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw, LLP. During President George H. W. Bush's Administration, Mr. Sullivan worked in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice. Earlier in his career, he was a Law Clerk for Justice David H. Souter, Supreme Court of the United States. Mr. Sullivan received a bachelor's degree from Brown University and a J.D. from Columbia University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate James Philip Terry, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals, for a term of six years. Mr. Terry currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs. He previously served at the Department of Interior as an Administrative Judge on the Board of Land Appeals. Prior to that, Mr. Terry served in the United States Marine Corps for 27 years, retiring in 1995 at the rank of Colonel. His final four years were served as Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. During his military career, Mr. Terry also served as a Marine Corps Staff Judge Advocate and as an infantry officer in Vietnam. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia; a J.D. from Mercer University; a master's degree from the University of Virginia; a master's degree from The George Washington University; a SJD from The George Washington University; and a master's degree from the Naval War College.
The President intends to nominate John M. Reich, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision at the Department of the Treasury. Mr. Reich currently serves as Vice Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Board of Directors. He previously served as Chief of Staff to U.S. Senator Connie Mack. Prior to that, he worked in the banking industry serving as President and CEO of the National Bank of Sarasota, in Sarasota, Florida. Mr. Reich received a bachelor's degree from Southern Illinois University and a master's degree from the University of South Florida. He is also a graduate of the Louisiana State University's School of Banking of the South.
The President intends to designate F. Duane Ackerman, of Georgia, to be Chairman of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, for a one-year term.
The President intends to re-designate Patricia F. Russo, of New Jersey, to be Vice Chairman of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, for a one-year term.
The President intends to re-designate Steven J. Law, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
  