
    AMERICA'S ALUMINUM INDUSTRY IN TROUBLE: While American manufacturing of aluminum suffers and shuts down, foreign imports continue to pour into our country.

In 2016, aluminum imports into the United States increased by 18 percent while American production fell by 47 percent.
Of the eight aluminum smelters based in the United States at the beginning of 2016, seven have either shutdown, reduced production, or are idled.
From 2012 to 2015, imports of semi-fabricated aluminum from China grew by 183 percent.
Imports of aluminum foil from China have grown from zero percent of the United States market in 2004 to 22 percent today.
Employment in the aluminum industry fell by nearly 13 percent from 2015 to 2016.

NEEDED STEPS TO PUT AMERICA'S ALUMINUM INDUSTRY FIRST: President Trump is acting to make sure America's aluminum industry comes first by prioritizing an investigation into whether aluminum imports impair the national security.

Today, President Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum prioritizing an investigation previously initiated by the Secretary of Commerce into whether aluminum imports threaten the economic and national security of the United States.

Aluminum is critical for U.S. national defense, from Army ground vehicles and Air Force jets to Navy warships.
The investigation is being conducted under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962.


By law the investigation must be concluded and a report submitted within 270 days.
The Secretary of Commerce's investigation into aluminum imports will determine what effect they have on economic and national security, including by investigating:

Whether aluminum imports impair the ability of the domestic aluminum industry to meet our national defense needs.
Whether aluminum imports have any substantial effects on employment or government revenue.
Whether aluminum imports weaken our internal economy, recognizing the close relationship between economic welfare and national security.


If aluminum imports are found to impair the national security of the United States, President Trump will have 90 days to determine what action should be taken to remedy that harm.

KEEPINGS HIS PROMISE: President Trump promised the American people he would examine aluminum imports into the United States and revitalize the aluminum industry.

Then-Candidate Trump promised that "we are going to put American steel and aluminum back into the backbone of our country."

  