
    Invites Supporters to Submit Testimonials
Today, Senator Hillary Clinton released a video tribute to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in recognition of the 40th anniversary of the civil rights leader's untimely death.
"Dr. King challenged all of us to stay awake during the great civil rights revolution that was sweeping our country. Today, in 2008, there is still a need for us to remain awake, stay focused and work together to address the challenges we face," said Hillary.
The assassination of Dr. King is an unforgettable moment in the history of our country. It touched the lives of all of us and forever changed America's path. Dr. King's work did not end with his death and has instead continues to flourish in communities and neighborhoods across the country. It is possible to see Dr. King's work and his legacy every day in our society.
Helping each other and giving back to our communities are the best ways to keep alive the legacy of Dr. King.
To view the video, [Click here]: www.hillaryclinton.com/action/mlk
A full transcript of the video is below.
Americans all across our great country and people around the world have been inspired to achieve great things because of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. - because of his teachings and because of his life. On April 4th, we observe the 40th anniversary of his death, and it is important that we take a moment to reflect on his legacy.
I remember so well the great privilege I had as a young girl to hear Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. speak in Chicago. He called his sermon that evening 'Remaining Awake Through a Great Revolution.' Dr. King challenged all of us there, as he did throughout his life, to stay awake during the great civil rights revolution that was sweeping our country.
Today, in 2008, though the revolution may not be as obvious or vivid as it was when I was a young girl listening to Dr. King, there is still a powerful need for all of us to remain awake, to stay focused and work together to address the challenges we face.
We're a nation at war, our economy is in crisis, while the government bails out Wall Street firms, millions of citizens are struggling - they might face the prospect of losing their homes, or be one of the tens of millions don't even have health care that is affordable and available. Wages haven't kept up with prices at the gas pump, and the war in Iraq continues to claim the lives of our brave men and women in uniform.
Well, I'm running for president because I still remember Dr. King's challenge. He asked us what we would say when we appear before the throne of judgment and are asked, 'What did you do for others?' Dr. King said that no matter what our answer might be, God would say, 'Well, that is not enough.' There is always more to be done.
On this solemn occasion, my thoughts and prayers are with Dr. King's family and of course I remember so well the loss of Coretta who was his partner in every way. And I also think of the families of so many other Americans that have given their lives in the pursuit of equality, freedom and justice.
I believe we can honor Dr. King and all Americans - including the women and men serving our country around the world - by remembering his timeless challenge: What did you do for others?
What does Dr. King's legacy mean to you? I invite you to share your thoughts and experiences about Dr. King on my website at www.hillaryclinton.com.
Standing up for others has been my life's work. I hope you will join me in honoring Dr. King¹s legacy and continuing his work to make our country a land of equality, justice and opportunity for all.
  