
    
  Organizes Cal State — Chico, UCLA and UC — Berkeley town hall meetings, holds fundraisers and schedules media appearances

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will visit California this week for a three-day campaign tour. The 12-term Congressman from Texas will visit the Golden State from Tuesday, April 3rdto Thursday, the 5th for a series of town hall meetings, media appearances, and private fundraisers.
A major feature of Ron Paul's California visit is sizable college campus town hall meetings that are free and open to students and the general public. One college campus town hall meeting will take place on each day of Dr. Paul's visit, beginning with Cal State — Chico, then UCLA, and then UC — Berkeley. These events often attract large crowds, so the public are strongly encouraged to RSVP online using the information provided below.
Ron Paul's town hall meetings in California are being organized by 'Youth for Ron Paul' (YFP). YFP, an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign, launched in September 2011, and since its inception, students nationwide have organized 591 chapters and recruited more than 53,600 people. To learn more about 'Youth for Ron Paul,' including how to sign-up and establish a local chapter, visit the YFP website by clicking here.
"Ron Paul's message of individual liberty, prosperity, and peace resonates with California students and voters. In California, almost 60 Youth for Ron Paul chapters are recruiting new supporters for the campaign each day, more than in any other state. That's why we're excited for Ron Paul's upcoming visits to Cal State — Chico, UCLA, and UC — Berkeley. He will continue to inspire this new generation of voters and bring them into the political process, which is vital to defeating President Obama and revitalizing the Republican Party. No other GOP candidate offers that possibility," said Edward King, National Youth Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
"Nationally, Ron Paul's support among youth is unparalleled by any of the other Republican candidates. This carries over into California voters, who are creating a powerful organization and are showing the potential to make a key difference in this election," added Ani DeGroot, Deputy National Youth Director.
An open press opportunity will follow each of Ron Paul's campus town hall meetings. Members of the local and major print, broadcast, and online media with particular needs such as the desire to arrange a candidate interview should contact Assistant Press Secretary Arick Stall at aricks@ronpaul2012.com. Please, no exceptions.
Dr. Paul's fundraisers are closed to all media.
Details of the events are as follows. All times Pacific.
Tuesday, April 3, 2012
7:00 p.m.
Town Hall Meeting w/ Ron Paul
California State University, Chico
Bell Memorial Student Union — Trinity Commons
548 West Second Street
Chico, CA 95928
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
Wednesday, April 4, 2012
8:30 p.m.
Town Hall Meeting w/ Ron Paul
University of California, Los Angeles
Straus Stadium at the Los Angeles Tennis Center (LATC)*
420 Charles E. Young Drive West
Los Angeles, CA 90095
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
[*Please note that this is a different venue than the one previously announced. Limited parking is available for news vans only along the curb of Charles E. Young Drive West on the west side of the Los Angeles Tennis Center.]
Thursday, April 5, 2012
7:00 p.m.
Town Hall Meeting w/ Ron Paul
University of California, Berkeley
Zellerbach Auditorium
101 Zellerbach Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720
For a map of the location, click here. To RSVP for the event, click here.
  