
    The President today announced the following appointments to the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs:Alan F. Holmer to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy to Richard S. Williamson, Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. Formerly he was an attorney with the Washington, D.C., law firm of Steptoe & Johnson. From 1972 to 1978, Mr. Holmer was administrative assistant to Senator Bob Packwood (R-Oreg.). During the 1980 primaries, he was an adviser to the Reagan campaign on natural resource issues and was a volunteer in Oregon during the 1980 general election campaign. Mr. Holmer was graduated from Princeton University Law Center (J.D., 1978). He is married and has one child. Mr. Holmer resides in McLean, Va.
Judy F. Peachee to be Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, with management responsibilities for liaison with State legislatures. In addition, she will be responsible for working with State and local officials to eliminate sex discrimination in State laws. From 1978 to 1981, she was special assistant for State affairs for Senator John W. Warner (R-Va.) and from 1974 to 1977, was appointments secretary to Governor Mills E. Godwin, Jr. (R-Va.) and staff liaison to the Virginia Commission on the Status of Women. She served from 1976 to 1980 as Virginia's Republican national committeewoman. Mrs. Peachee attended Madison College in Harrisonburg, Va., and graduated from St. Lukes Hospital School of Technology. She has three children and resides in Richmond, Va.
James M. Medas to be Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, with responsibilities including maintaining liaison with Governors and other statewide elected officials. He was formerly chief of staff for the California State Senate minority leader and a practicing attorney in Los Angeles. Mr. Medas is a graduate of Miami University (B.A., 1965) and Harvard Law School (I.D., 1968). In 1980 he served as director of voter activities in California for the Reagan-Bush campaign and the California Republican Party.
J. Steven Rhodes to be Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, with management responsibility for liaison with city and county officials. From 1973 to 1981, Mr. Rhodes was associated with Dart Industries, Inc., in Los Angeles, most recently as director of government and public affairs. He was graduated from Loyola Marymount University (B.A., 1973) and Pepperdine University (M.B.A., 1977). Mr. Rhodes was born in New Orleans, La. He is married and has one child.
Penny L. Eastman to be special assistant to Richard S. Williamson, Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, with responsibilities including work relating to the Regulatory Relief Task Force. Most recently, Ms. Eastman was employed by the law firm of Winston & Strawn. From 1973 to 1978, she was a congressional aide to Representatives Larry Winn (R-Kans.), William H. Hudnut III (R-Ind.), and Philip M. Crane (R-Ill.). During the primary and general election campaign, she was an assistant to the campaign chairman, Senator Paul Laxalt. She attended high school and college in the Washington, D.C., area. Ms. Eastman was born in Washington, D.C., and currently resides in Falls Church, Va.
Susan Hawkes to be deputy to James M. Medas, Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. She was previously an attorney with the law firm of Patmont & Myers in San Francisco. Recently she served as counsel to the senior policy advisor for intergovernmental affairs in the Office of the Presidentelect. Ms. Hawkes is a graduate of Mills College (B.A., 1976) and Golden Gate University School of Law (I.D., 1980). She was born in Washington, D.C., and is currently a resident of Arlington, Va.
Eve Baskowitz to be deputy to J. Steven Rhodes, Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. Formerly Miss Baskowitz was employed in the Washington office of the law firm of Winston & Strawn. During the 1980 Presidential election campaign, she was coordinator of the business advisory task force. She graduated from Sweet Briar College. Miss Baskowitz was born in St. Louis, Mo., and resides in Alexandria, Va.
Robert R. Gleason, Jr., to be deputy to Judy F. Peachee, Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs. He was formerly executive assistant to the cochairman of the Republican National Committee and from 1971 to 1976, was assistant to the executive director of the National Association of Trade & Technical Schools. He was site coordinator for the 1980 Republican election night activities in Washington, D.C., and was transportation coordinator for the 1980 Republican National Convention. A graduate of Tri-State College, Indiana (B.S., 1969), Mr. Gleason is married and has lived in Washington, D.C., for 11 years. He was born in Jersey City, NJ.
  