
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Roger W. Baker, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Information and Technology), vice Robert T. Howard, resigned.
Rand Beers, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary, Department of Homeland Security, vice Robert D. Jamison, resigned.
Raphael William Bostic, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Darlene F. Williams, resigned.
Michael L. Connor, of Maryland, to be Commissioner of Reclamation, vice Robert W. Johnson.
Philip J. Crowley, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Public Affairs), vice Sean Ian McCormack, resigned.
John Q. Easton, of Illinois, to be Director of the Institute of Education Science, Department of Education for a term of six years, vice Grover J. Whitehurst, term expired.
Larry J. Echo Hawk, of Utah, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Carl Joseph Artman, resigned.
Jeffrey D. Feltman, of Ohio, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Near Eastern Affairs), vice C. David Welch, resigned.
Gabriella Cecilia Gomez, of California, to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs, Department of Education, vice Holly A. Kuzmich, resigned.
Wallace C. Gregson, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice James Shinn.
William A. Gunn, of Virginia, to be General Counsel, Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Paul J. Hutter.
Priscilla E. Guthrie, of Virginia, to be Chief Information Officer, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, vice Dale W. Meyerrose, resigned.
Sandra Brooks Henriquez, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Orlando J. Cabrera.
Fred P. Hochberg, of New York, to be President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2013, vice James Lambright, term expired.
Bonnie D. Jenkins, of New York, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as Coordinator for Threat Reduction Programs.
Elizabeth Lee King, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Robert L. Wilkie, resigned.
Howard K. Koh, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Joxel Garcia, resigned.
Raymond Edwin Mabus, Jr., of Mississippi, to be Secretary of the Navy, vice Donald C. Winter.
George Wheeler Madison, of Connecticut, to be General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury, vice Robert F. Hoyt, resigned.
Kathleen Martinez, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Neil Romano, resigned.
Judith A. McHale, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy, vice James K. Glassman, resigned.
A. Thomas McLellan, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice Scott M. Burns, resigned.
Michael Nacht, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Joseph A. Benkert.
Daniel B. Poneman, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Energy, vice Jeffrey Clay Sell, resigned.
Donald Michael Remy, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army, vice Benedict S. Cohen, resigned.
Jose D. Riojas, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Operations, Security, and Preparedness), vice Charles L. Hopkins, resigned.
Francisco J. Sanchez, of Florida, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, vice Christopher A. Padilla, resigned.
David B. Sandalow, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (International Affairs and Domestic Policy), vice Karen Alderman Harbert, resigned.
Miriam E. Sapiro, of the District of Columbia, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice John K. Veroneau, resigned.
Peter S. Silva, of California, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Benjamin Grumbles, resigned.
M. Patricia Smith, of New York, to be Solicitor for the Department of Labor, vice Gregory F. Jacob, resigned.
Mary L. Smith, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Nathan J. Hochman, resigned.
Mathy Stanislaus, of New Jersey, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Susan P. Bodine, resigned.
Rhea S. Suh, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice R. Thomas Weimer, resigned.
Cass R. Sunstein, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, vice Susan E. Dudley.
Neal S. Wolin, of Illinois, to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, vice Robert M. Kimmitt, resigned.
Robert O. Work, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, vice Dionel M. Aviles, resigned.
  