
    The President intends to nominate Richard Henry Jones to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Kuwait. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has held the post of U.S. Ambassador to Kazakhstan since October of 2000. He served as Ambassador to Lebanon from 1996 to 1998 and served as the Director of the Office of Egyptian Affairs from 1993 to 1996. He has held a variety of posts both at the Department of State and abroad and has received several awards including a Distinguished Service Honor Award. Originally from Nebraska, he is a graduate of Harvey Mudd College and received a Master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin.
The President intends to nominate James G. Roche to be Secretary of the Air Force. He is presently Corporate Vice President and President of the Electric Sensors and Systems Sector of the Northrop Grumman Corporation. He has served with Northrop Grumman Corporation since 1984 in a variety of posts. Before joining the private sector, Roche served as Democratic Staff Director for the U.S. Senate Committee on Armed Services from 1983 to 1984 and served at the State Department as Principal Deputy Director of the Policy Planning Staff. He was a senior professional staff member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence from 1979 to 1981, and served as Assistant Director of the Office of Net Assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense from 1975 to 1979. Roche is a twenty-three year veteran of the U.S. Navy, received an undergraduate degree from the Illinois Institute of Technology, a Master's degree from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School and a doctorate from Harvard Gradate School of Business.
The President intends to nominate Thomas E. White to be Secretary of the Army. He is currently the Vice-Chairman of Enron Energy Services. He has served as Chairman and CEO of Enron Operations Corporation and as Chairman and CEO of Enron Power Corporation since joining Enron in 1990. After 23 years, White retired from the U.S. Army as a Brigadier General. He served as Executive Assistant to General Colin Powell while he served as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1989 to 1990 and served as Director of the Armor/Anti-Armor Special Task Force in the Office of the Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army. He is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College and the War College.
The President intends to nominate Gordon England to be Secretary of the Navy. He is presently the Executive Vice President of General Dynamics. He has served with General Dynamics since 1980, excepting four years when he served as President of Lockheed Fort Worth, as a Program Manager for Amecom (Litton Industries) and as CEO of GRE Consultants. He has held several positions at General Dynamics including Director of Avionics, President of the Land Systems Division and President of General Dynamics Fort Worth. England is a graduate of the University of Maryland and received a M.B.A. from Syracuse University.
  