
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Anyone who has ever taken part in sports or other athletic activities knows that doing so is not only fun but also a wonderful way to achieve greater physical fitness. Today there are exciting sports and athletic opportunities to match virtually every personal interest and ability, from running, racquetball, fencing, and skiing to swimming, soccer, aerobic dance, and golf -- just to name a few.
Whether they engage in periodic workouts or in favorite individual and team sports -- or perhaps all three -- Americans who exercise regularly enjoy a host of benefits. In addition to enhancing one's physical strength and agility, athletic activity helps to alleviate many of the effects of stress and aging. People who participate in sports and other forms of exercise also enjoy the profound sense of satisfaction and self-confidence that come from meeting a challenge. In a special way team sports enable participants to develop valuable communication skills, as well as a rewarding sense of cooperation and fellowship.
As more and more Americans discover these and other advantages of regular athletic activity, our communities and Nation benefit as well. Because physically fit persons generally have more energy and stamina, greater athletic activity among our population contributes to greater productivity and performance in the workplace. Because an active, healthy life-style can help to prevent coronary disease and other health problems, increased public participation in sports can also help to keep medical costs down.
Recognizing the many benefits of physical fitness to individuals and to the Nation, I have joined with Arnold Schwarzenegger, Chairman of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, in declaring the 1990s the "Fitness Decade." Just as it is never too early to nurture good habits in one's children, it is never too late for adults to reap the rewards of regular exercise; hence, we are calling on Americans of all ages to commit to get fit. Everyone can benefit from regular exercise, and everyone can find a sport or other physical activity that meets his or her abilities and interests. This month is a splendid opportunity for all those who have not yet done so to take the first step toward healthier, fuller lives through participation in sports and other forms of exercise.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1991 as National Physical Fitness and Sports Month. I urge all Federal, State, and local government agencies and the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  