
    Philadelphia, PA–African American community leaders from across Pennsylvania today voiced their support for Hillary Clinton's Urban Agenda and urged voters to support her on April 22nd.
Hillary's agenda for lifting up America's cities provides education and opportunity to youth in urban cities; encourages more economic opportunity; invests in urban areas; fights crime and violence; tackles poverty; and rebuilds crumbling physical infrastructure. Members of the African American community are praising Hillary Clinton for taking the lead in addressing the issues that are of great concern in urban communities.
"Urban areas have suffered under the past eight years of George Bush and it is time to elect a President who has a plan for all Americans," said Philadelphia City Councilwoman Blondell Reynolds Brown. "Hillary Clinton has produced a serious and thoughtful urban agenda with plans to invest in our cities, create greater opportunities for our children, and rebuild our urban infrastructure. She is the best candidate to specifically address the issues that directly impact urban communities."
Hillary Clinton discussed her urban agenda - http://hillaryclinton.com/feature/cities/- Friday, April 11th, at the West Philadelphia YMCA. The urban agenda serves as a plan to bring all American cities into the 21st century and reestablish a real partnership between cities and the federal government. To date, Senator Clinton is the only candidate to directly address the issue of urban violence with an aggressive crime fighting plan that will cut homicides in half.
"Hillary Clinton has a plan to provide better education and greater future for our youth. She has proposed a Youth Opportunity Agenda to bring new hope and possibilities to young people in our inner cities," said Gary Horton, Member of the Erie School Board. "This is why I am supporting Hillary Clinton, she has a proven record of standing up and fighting for the underserved youth in America and she has a solid plan to continue the fight when she gets to the White House."
To read more about Hillary Clinton's crime policy agenda click the following link. http://www.hillaryclinton.com/news/release/view/?id=7033
PA African American Leadership Supporting Urban Agenda:

Elton Armady, Student Leader, Penn State, Erie
Autumn Cooper, Executive Director, Heinz-Menaker Senior Center, Harrisburg
Caesar Deluverea, Community Activist, Harrisburg
Aubrey Dillon, Retired Educator, Erie
Kevin Easterling, Community Activist, Lehigh Valley
Gwendolyn Galloway, Community Healthcare Provider, Erie
Scot Galloway, Public Safety Worker, Erie
Lawanda K. Goodwine, CEO&Owner, PACTSA Youth Development Corporation, Erie
Amos Goodwine, Jr., CEO & Owner, Self Help Associates Consulting Group, Erie
The Honorable Gary Horton, Erie School Board, Erie
Howard Wayne Horton, Community Activist, Erie
The Honorable Rubye Jenkins-Husband, Erie City Council, Erie
Clare Jones, Former NAACP President, Greater Harrisburg, Harrisburg
Melanie Jones, Community Activist, Harrisburg
Jerry Mondesire, NAACP President, Philadelphia
Mayor Michael Nutter, Philadelphia
Tonya Payne, City Councilmember, Pittsburgh
Blondell Reynolds-Brown, City Councilmember, Philadelphia
Evelyn Richardson, Retiree, Allegheny County Democratic Club, Pittsburgh
Former Mayor John Street, Philadelphia
Marian Tasco, City Councilmember, Philadelphia
Gwendolyn White, Community Activist and Women's Advocate, Erie
Louise Williams President, Lancaster City Council, Harrisburg
Silvia Wilson, Pittsburgh Federation of Teachers, Pittsburgh

  