
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
Pursuant to section 203 of the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) (19 U.S.C. 3202), I wish to inform you of my intent to designate Ecuador as a beneficiary of the trade-liberalizing measures provided for in this Act. Designation will entitle the products of Ecuador, except for products excluded statutorily, to duty-free treatment for a period ending on December 4, 2001.
Designation is an important step for Ecuador in its effort to fight against narcotics production and trafficking. The enhanced access to the U.S. market provided by the ATPA will encourage the production of and trade in legitimate products.
My decision to designate Ecuador results from consultations concluded in January 1993 between my Administration and the Government of Ecuador regarding the designation criteria set forth in section 203 of the ATPA. Ecuador has demonstrated to my satisfaction that its laws, practices, and policies are in conformity with the designation criteria of the ATPA. The Government of Ecuador has communicated on these matters by letter to the Office of the United States Trade Representative and in So doing has indicated its desire to be designated as a beneficiary.
On the basis of the statements and assurances in Ecuador's letter, and taking into account information developed by the United States Embassy and through other sources, I have concluded that designation is appropriate at this time.
I am mind fid that under section 203(e) of the ATPA, I retain the authority to suspend, withdraw, or limit the application of ATPA benefits from any designated country if a beneficiary's laws, policies, or practices are no longer in conformity with the designation criteria. The United States will keep abreast of developments in Ecuador that are pertinent to the designation criteria.
My Administration looks forward to working closely with the Government of Ecuador and with the private sectors of the United States and Ecuador to ensure that the wide-ranging opportunities opened by the ATPA are fully utilized.
Sincerely,
BILL CLINTON
  