
    Gen. Petraeus Says Military Action Is "Necessary" For Success In Iraq
"Considering that Gen. Petraeus actually says improved security is necessary for political reconciliation in Iraq, it is disappointing that Democrats continue misrepresenting the words of the Commanding General they voted unanimously to confirm. The President looks forward to meeting with Congressional leaders from both parties this week to craft a troop funding bill he can sign."

  - White House Deputy Press Secretary Dana Perino, 4/29/07
  

    Sen. Feingold's misleading claim: "I think Senator Reid was talking about exactly what General Petraeus said, which is that a military strategy here is not working and it's not going to work." (ABC's "This Week," 4/29/07)

Last Week, Gen. Petraeus actually said: "As I noted during my confirmation hearing, military action is necessary but not sufficient. We can provide the Iraqis an opportunity but they will have to exploit it." (Multi-National Force - Iraq Commander Gen. David Petraeus, Press Briefing, The Pentagon, 4/26/07)


Gen. Petraeus: "The situation is, in short, exceedingly challenging, though as I will briefly explain, there has been progress in several areas in recent months despite the sensational attacks by al Qaeda, which have, of course, been significant blows to our effort and which cause psychological damage that is typically even greater than their physical damage." (Multi-National Force - Iraq Commander Gen. David Petraeus, Press Briefing, The Pentagon, 4/26/07)
Gen. Petraeus: "And I again note that we are really just getting started with the new effort." (Multi-National Force - Iraq Commander Gen. David Petraeus, Press Briefing, The Pentagon, 4/26/07)
Gen. Petraeus: "Success will take continued commitment, perseverance and sacrifice, all to make possible an opportunity for the all-important Iraqi political actions that are the key to long-term solutions to Iraq's many problems. Because we are operating in new areas and challenging elements in those areas, this effort may get harder before it gets easier." (Multi-National Force - Iraq Commander Gen. David Petraeus, Press Briefing, The Pentagon, 4/26/07)


President Bush has consistently emphasized the importance of political and economic progress in Iraq: "...[T]here has to be political progress and economic progress, along with military progress, in order for [Iraq's] government to succeed." (President George W. Bush, Remarks On The War On Terror, East Grand Rapids, MI, 4/20/07)


President Bush: "A successful security strategy in Baghdad requires more than just military action." (President George W. Bush, Press Conference, The White House, 2/14/07)





  