
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, good afternoon. It's my great honor, on behalf of the President and the First Lady, to welcome you all to the White House. This is a distinguished group of American leaders, governors and members of Congress, and members of our Cabinet, and we're grateful to have you all here.
You know, for nearly 100 days, President Trump has been delivering on the promises that he made to the American people. The President has been fighting for American jobs every single day since he was elected, putting renewed emphasis on American energy, cutting through a mountain range of red tape from the last administration. And today, the administration outlined the President's vision for tax reform which will include one of the largest tax cuts for individuals and businesses in the history of this country. (Applause.)
Thanks to the President Trump's leadership, more than 500,000 jobs have been created in 2017 alone. Businesses and consumers are more confident than they have been in years, and by some measure, for decades. It is truly extraordinary.
In a word, President Trump has simply been in the promise-keeping business since Inauguration Day. He signed 28 bills into law, the most of any President since 1947, and he'll have signed some 30 executive orders in his first 100 days, including the action today.
And today the President is actually delivering on one more of his promises to the American people. Since day one, President Trump has been working tirelessly to uphold the Constitution and restore the proper balance between the states and the federal government. And that's been especially true with the President's focus on education.
Now as a former governor myself, I've always believed, as the President does, that education is a state and local function, and that decisions in education are best made by parents and teachers and local administrators. The decisions over our children's school should be made by parents and local administrators, not by politicians or unelected bureaucrats in a far, distant capital.
The President believes the same thing, and the efforts that he will take today through this executive order will continue that process of empowering our families, empowering our states to ensure that every child in America has access to a world-class education.
And so with a grateful heart, I say, on behalf of the 45th President of the United States and on behalf of all those gathered here today, it is my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you the President of the United States, President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
  