
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Maria Lombardo - Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation
•      William Sisk – Member, Committee for Purchase from People Who are Blind or Severely Disabled
•      Steven L. VanRoekel - Federal Chief Information Officer and Administrator, Office of Electronic Government, Office of Management and Budget.
President Obama said, "I am grateful these accomplished men and women have agreed to join this Administration, and I am confident they will serve ably in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dr. Maria Lombardo, Appointee for Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation
Dr. Maria Lombardo is the project coordinator for the Spotlight Teacher Training Project and the ESL Licensure Coordinator at the University of Massachusetts in Boston. Prior to her current position, she served as the Education Director for the National Italian American Foundation from 1981 until 2001. Dr. Lombardo increased the foundation's now multi-million dollar scholarship fund, initiated their grant program, and provided technical assistance to organizations and colleges seeking to bolster their cultural education programs. Dr. Lombardo has also conducted over 50 conferences on the Holocaust and authored a book, A Camp Without Walls. She was awarded Educator of the Year by the Association of Italian American Educators, and the Marisa Bellisario International Award in her home country of Italy, for which she served as a representative of Calabria. Dr. Lombardo received her B.S. from Bridgewater State University, her M.A. from Northeastern University, and her doctoral degree from Boston University.
William Sisk, Appointee for Member, Committee for Purchase from People Who are Blind or Severely Disabled
William Sisk is the Assistant Commissioner in the Office of General Supplies and Services for the Federal Acquisition Service of the General Services Administration (GSA). In his current position, he leads GSA's acquisition of a wide range of commodities and services used by Federal agencies and the disposal of personal property. Mr. Sisk has over 20 years experience with the GSA. He began his career in the Southeast Sunbelt Region in 1990 and served in various management positions including Director of GSA's Southeast Distribution Center, Deputy Assistant Regional Administrator, and Assistant Regional Administrator. In 2007, he was permanently selected as the Regional Commissioner for the Federal Acquisition Service where he represented GSA's Assisted Acquisition Services, Fleet Management, Network Services, Personal Property and the Customer Accounts and Research Division. Mr. Sisk graduated from The Citadel with a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration.
Steven L. VanRoekel, Appointee for Federal Chief Information Officer and Administrator, Office of Electronic Government, Office of Management and Budget
Steven L. VanRoekel is currently the Executive Director of Citizen and Organizational Engagement at the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). Before moving to USAID in 2011, he served as Managing Director of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), where he oversaw all operational, technical, financial, and human resource aspects of the agency. He also led the FCC's efforts to introduce new technology and social media into the agency. Mr. VanRoekel worked at Microsoft Corporation from 1994 to 2009, most recently as the Senior Director for the Windows Server and Tools Division. He received a B.A. in Management of Information Systems from Iowa State University.
  