
    Pool Reports by Philip Wegmann, RealClearPolitics 



Sent:
Reports:




April 28, 2023 09:35

In-Town Pool Report #1: Brunch Lid Until 2:00PM
Good morning. And happy Friday. The White House has called a brunch lid until 2:00PM. 


April 28, 2023 14:38

In-Town Pool Report #2: Ceremony Begins
The Air Force Falcons entered the East Room first. President Biden followed shortly afterward to healthy applause.
The trophy is on the left next to a helmet, jersey, and football emblazoned with President Biden's name.
Biden gives a shoutout to Gen. Milley but jokes "he played hockey." Remarks are ongoing.
The White House passes along the following:
The Second Gentleman Rep. Don Davis (NC-01) General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff  General Charles Brown, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force  General David Thompson, Vice Chief of Space Operations
Air Force Academy Leadership Lieutenant General Richard Clark, Superintendent Amy Clark, Spouse of Lieutenant General Clark Nathan Pine, Director of Athletics Jennifer Block, Executive Director of Athletic Programs Kevin Anderson, Associate Athletic Director Troy Calhoun, Head Football Coach
Air Force Academy Falcons Players and Coaches Marc Bacote, Assistant Coach Jake Campbell, Assistant Coach Evan Hanberry, Assistant Coach Roger Hayhurst, Assistant Coach Tim Horton, Assistant Coach Charlie Jackson, Assistant Coach Brian Knorr, Assistant Coach Kenneth Lamendola, Assistant Coach Alex Means, Assistant CoachGary Mossop, Assistant Coach Kale Pearson, Assistant Coach Will Quillman, Assistant Coach Brett Skene, Assistant Coach Taylor Stubblefield, Assistant Coach Mike Thiessen, Assistant Coach Nick Toth, Assistant Coach EJ Whitlow, Assistant Coach Elizabeth Worthington, Assistant Coach Anthony Wright, Assistant Coach Cadet Haaziq Daniels, Team Captain Cadet Bradley Roberts, Team Captain 2nd Lieutenant Thadius Blackmon 2nd Lieutenant Elijah Brockman 2nd Lieutenant David Cormier 2nd Lieutenant Omar Fattah 2nd Lieutenant Chris Herrera 2nd Lieutenant DeAndre Hughes 2nd Lieutenant Colby Raphiel 2nd Lieutenant Vince Sanford 2nd Lieutenant Amari Terry Cadet Brendon Bentley Cadet Connor Carey Cadet Benjamin Jefferson Cadet Tracy Love Cadet Kyle Patterson Cadet Robert-Dayle Pescaia Cadet Jace Waters Cadet William Westerling Isaac Cochran
Run of Show The President Troy Calhoun, Head Coach of the Air Force Falcons Team Captains Cadet Haaziq Daniels and Cadet Brad Roberts present jersey
Background The Commander-in-Chief's Trophy is awarded to the service academy football team with the best overall win-loss record against the other service academies who have football teams (Army, Navy, and Air Force). It was first established in 1972, and the President typically invites the winning team to the White House to present them with the Trophy. For the 2022 football season, the winner of the Commander-in-Chief's Trophy is the United States Air Force Academy - The Air Force Falcons. The last time the Air Force Falcons received the Trophy was for the 2016 season. 


April 28, 2023 14:49

In-Town Pool #3: Ceremony Concludes
"Where I'm going, I may need that helmet," Biden joked when presented with an Air Force Falcon helmet at the conclusion of the ceremony.
He did not respond to a shouted question about Ukraine.
POTUS walked out of the East Room at 2:47. 


April 28, 2023 15:09

In-Town Pool Report #4: Lunch Lid Until 4:15PM
White House calls a lunch lid until 4:15PM 




Pool Reports below by Susan Crabtree, RealClearPolitics 



Sent:
Reports:




April 28, 2023 17:40

In-town pool report #5 - departure
On a soggy late Friday afternoon, the motorcade started rolling away from the south lawn at 5:39.
Headed to the Salamander hotel for a DNC reception.
Pooler was unable to see POTUS and FLOTUS leave the WH, but did spy a sprinkler on in the rain.


April 28, 2023 17:50

In town pool report #6 - arrival at hotel
Motorcade arrived at Salamander Hotel at 5:46 pm. Pool was escorted to the lobby bar with no POTUS or FLOTUS sighting. Holding at the bar now until further notice.


April 28, 2023 17:54

In town pool report #7 - accompanying staff
The WH passes this list along…Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route to the Salamander Washington D.C. Hotel:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President Jen O' Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director 


April 28, 2023 19:17

In-town pool report #8 - awaiting remarks
Pool was ushered into the ballroom at 7:04 pm …awaiting remarks. I'll send quotes asap.
There's roughly a dozen tables of 10 people each.
White House sent along this list:
Participating in a photoline with the President and the First Lady at the Salamander Washington D.C. Hotel:
Senator Tom Carper (DE) Senator Bob Casey (PA) Senator Chris Coons (DE) Governor Gavin Newsom (CA) Governor Wes Moore (MA) Governor Phil Murphy and First Lady Tammy Murphy (NJ) Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL) Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02) Rep. Sharice Davids (KS-03) Rep. Lauren Underwood (IL-14) Rep. David Trone (MD-06) Rep. Veronica Escobar (TX-16) Rep. Maxwell Frost (FL-10)
Pool will send 


April 28, 2023 19:51

In Town travel pool report #9 - departure from hotel
POTUS delivered remarks for roughly five minutes and received a standing ovation afterward.  Pool was immediately escorted out of the hotel and into vans - headed back to the WH at 7:47 pm.
Quotes to come asap.


April 28, 2023 20:03

In Town travel pool report #10 - back at WH and lid
Pool arrived back at the WH at 7:52 and a lid was called at 7:59.
Quotes still to come – no mention of Trump specifically in Pres. Biden's remarks, though he did blast MAGA Republicans. 


April 28, 2023 20:45

In town pool report #11 -- top-line remarks
POTUS spoke for roughly 5 minutes:
Here are the top lines.
He thanked the people in the room, governors and big DNC supporters, and asked them for their continued support for his re-elect in 2024.
"Here's the bottom line. It's very simple: We need you. Our democracy needs you because this is about our freedoms. MAGA Republicans are trying to take us backwards, but together we're not going to let them do it.
We must finish this job. Look, let's keep growing the economy from the middle out to the bottom up, and let's protect a woman's right to choose and codify Roe v. Wade."
Biden said it's important to protect Social Security and Medicare for people "who have paid into to it their whole lives."
"You know we've got a lot done, but there's so much more to do. And I'm here to help I know we can do it. I really do. Just like we did in 2020. Remember 2020? When everybody had written us off, and you folks, you folks in this room, you knew we could do it ,and we did. You raised significant amounts of money to allow us to compete.
And remember 2022, the midterm elections, when we were supposed to get our clock cleaned. The Red Wave is coming? Give me a break. Because of your help, it never happened. … We're going to do it again in 2024 together."
Biden received a standing ovation at the end of his remarks.
I'll send the beginning of his remarks in the next email. 


April 28, 2023 20:58

In town pool report #12 - extended remarks
DNC Chairman Jaime Harrison addressed the crowd first and then introduced POTUS.
"Now folks, how about the news this week?
"I can't be more excited to gather today as we celebrate this week's announcement that President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris are running for reelection," he said to cheers and applause.
"Four years ago, President Biden declared his candidacy for president – by stating that we are in a battle for a soul of this nation. My friends, with so much on the line and so much more left to do…we've got to finish the job by re-electing Pres. Biden and re-electing Vice President Harris."
POTUS then walked onto the stage with Bruce Springsteen's "We take care of our own" playing in the background.
Biden thanked "all of you who have had my back through all of it, and are here tonight…because you really, really did a great job. And I think it sounds like you're ready to do it again," he said to cheering and applause.
"Folks, we've already accomplished a lot after being told we wouldn't be able to get anything done, remember in 2020?…But with the help all of you here, and many of my colleagues in the House and Senate, we've generated 12 million brand new jobs in two years, more than any single president did in a four-year term."
"We passed the American Rescue Plan, the most aggressive economic recovery plans since Franklin Delano Roosevelt…," Biden said, adding that Democrats also passed the bipartisan infrastructure bill, "the biggest one since Eisenhower," and "the most significant investment in manufacturing and research and development in American history."
He said that included $400 billion in private investment in manufacturing and clean energy, creating tens of thousands of jobs.
He also touted his role in passing the most "transformational investment in our climate in history," which he said is going to reduce carbon emissions by 1 billion tons by 2030, and "we're on track for net zero emissions by 2050 worldwide."
"We've reduced the cost of insulin from $100 to $35 a month….no senior is going to have to pay more than $2,000 for the totality of all the drugs they need, including expensive cancer drugs that cost $10 – $12 – $14,000 a year."
"Folks, we passed the most significant legislation to reduce gun violence in 30 years…put the first black woman on the Supreme Court."
Biden touted his role in putting "more black women on the federal circuit court than all three previous presidents combined."
On Foreign Policy:
"I don't think it's an exaggeration to say we've re-established American leadership in the world," he said, noting that "Putin thought he was going to break NATO down with the invasion of Ukraine."
But, "we restored Americans standing on the world stage."
All of that, he said, he managed to get down "with the help of you just in two years."
"Imagine how much we can do. I'm here tonight to ask for your help to help me finish the job."
Please see #11 pool report for the rest of his remarks, which were made after these, at the end of the address.
That's all for tonight – hope you have a great rest of your evening. 



  