
    "Our moral duty to the taxpayer requires us to make our Government leaner and more accountable."– President Donald J. Trump
A GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: For too long the Washington swamp worked to serve itself, but President Donald J. Trump is reforming the Government to serve the American people.

President Trump implemented tough ethical standards to ensure his Administration works for the American people and not itself.

President Trump introduced tough new lobbying standards for political appointees, including a five-year ban on lobbying and a lifetime ban on lobbying for foreign countries.
President Trump donated his first quarter salary to the National Park Service, following through on his promise to the American people.


President Trump is keeping his promise to the American people to reform the Government to better address their needs. President Trump:

Implemented a temporary Federal hiring freeze to prevent taxpayer dollars from financing unnecessary bureaucracy.
Directed his Administration to create a comprehensive plan to reorganize the executive branch.
Required executive branch agencies to eliminate two regulations for every one they issue.
Created the Office of American Innovation to streamline and improve Government for future generations.


President Trump's budget blueprint takes a sober look at how to responsibly spend taxpayer dollars and seeks to streamline government.

President Trump proposed the largest cut to non-defense spending since the Reagan Administration.


President Trump fulfilled his promise to the American people by nominating and, after Senate confirmation, appointing Neil Gorsuch as an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court.

ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ALL AMERICANS: President Trump has taken action to help marginalized communities past administrations have neglected.

After years of scandal and failing healthcare, President Trump has taken action to expand access to care for America's veterans.

For the first time, accurate and up-to-date wait times and quality-of-care information is easily available online.
Under President Trump, authorized appointments for veterans outside of VA facilities have increased by 42 percent.
The President signed an extension of the Veterans Choice Program, giving eligible veterans the option of seeking care from private physicians.
The Department of Veterans Affairs has expanded emergent mental health care access to an estimated 500,000 former service members with Other than Honorable (OTH) discharges.


President Trump created a commission and focused grants to tackle the opioid epidemic that has increasingly plagued our country. 
President Trump took action to prioritize Historically Black Colleges and Universities, after these critical institutions were marginalized in the previous administration.
Under President Trump's leadership, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has gone on a national listening tour, promoting accountability at HUD field offices to the citizens they serve.
Under President Trump and Secretary DeVos's leadership, the Administration has rolled back harmful regulations to ensure America's schools are helping students. 

A FOREIGN POLICY THAT PROMOTED ACCOUNTABILITY FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: President Trump's America First foreign policy restores the voice of the American people in world affairs.

President Trump is holding the U.N. accountable by calling out false and defamatory anti-Israel bias and forcing it to confront threats to the world's security. At the U.N., the United States is:

Removing a blatantly biased report against Israel.
Condemning Russia's support for the Assad regime and continued failure to live up to its commitment to end the conflict in eastern Ukraine.
Challenging Iran's launch of ballistic missiles.


President Trump is supporting our allies across the world, while making sure everyone is accountable to international obligations. The United States is:

Working with NATO members to boost their defense spending to meet their commitments.
Supported Montenegro joining the NATO alliance.


President Trump re-negotiated the F-35 fighter jet agreement, saving more than $700 million in taxpayer money while improving America's national security.

A PROMISE TO HOLD THE GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE: President Trump promised that he would drain the Washington swamp and restore accountability to Government.

President Trump: "Our moral duty to the taxpayer requires us to make our Government leaner and more accountable."
President Trump: "There is duplication and redundancy everywhere. Billions and billions of dollars are being wasted on activities that are not delivering results for hardworking American taxpayers."

  