
    History will record Barack Obama's years in office as one of the great American presidencies; there is no better partner in the battle for the soul of this nation, and no one I'd rather have standing by my side. Jill and I are so thankful to Barack and Michelle for their support — both politically and personally. Their friendship and the connection between our families has been a great gift.
Serving for eight years as President Barack Obama's vice president was among the greatest honors of my life.
When we took office in 2009, America and the world were in crisis — with our economy shedding hundreds of thousands of jobs a month. During that crisis, President Obama showed how a president should lead. By taking responsibility. By working with governors and mayors. By understanding the pain so many American families were feeling. By seeking to unify the nation in common purpose.
These are difficult times again for our country. We're facing a crisis even greater than what we experienced in 2009 and 2010. Lives are being lost. Our nation is shut down. Our way of life and our livelihoods are being challenged. Today, not only do we have a public health crisis, but our economy is rapidly descending into an economic crisis as well.
Once again, we need to restore the qualities of presidential leadership President Obama provided — and that is what I intend to do. To lead this nation. To unify this nation. To understand the fear, anxiety, and grief that all Americans are enduring — especially those who have lost loved ones to this virus. To recognize the heroism of so many Americans — including doctors, nurses, and health care workers; first responders, firefighters, and police; grocery store workers and delivery truck drivers. To work with the governors and mayors of this nation — not against them. To bring our nation together, united in common purpose.
President Obama understands, as I do, that we will come through this crisis stronger. And then we'll not only rebuild this nation — we will transform it.
  