
    Pool Reports by John Pacenti, Key Biscayne Independent 



Sent:
Reports:




April 21, 2023 12:36

VP travel pool report #1
VP landed at 12:36 p.m. at Signature Flight Support at Miami International Airport.


April 21, 2023 14:05

VP Travel Report #2
V.P. Harris travelled to South Florida with three Democrat members of the region's congressional delegation: U.S. Rep.'s Frederica Wilson, Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick and Jared Moskowitz.
Some residents lined the streets outside Miami International Airport to observe the motorcade.
After arriving on Air Force Two, Harris' first stop was an exclusive interview at Telemundo. Press pool did not observe the interview.
She will then head to the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine, Atmospheric and Earth Sciences on Virginia Key where she is expected to speak on the Department of Commerce's recommendation that $562 million be allocated to help protect communities against the impacts of climate change.
Harris will tour the Lirman Coral Lab, which is conducting reef restoration, and the University of Miami's hurricane simulator.


April 21, 2023 15:48

VP Travel Pool No. 3
At 3:47 p.m, Harris arrived at the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine, Atmospheric and Earth Sciences.
Miami — and thus the motorcade — is experience spotty rain.
She was escorted into the campus by Andrew Baker, professor of marine biology and ecology, and two recent graduates: Will Downs and Samantha Medina.
Prior to Harris' visit, the school readied to activate the hurricane simulator, which resembles a giant aquarium. The coral laboratory Harris is set to visit is akin to a a nursery with large tubs serving as incubators.
UM Rosenstiel researchers have been studying the slowing down of ocean currents, aquaculture to replenish and protect fisheries and how to repopulate dying coral reefs, among other areas of climate change.


April 21, 2023 18:11

VP pool Feed No. 4 resent
Once at Rosenstiel, unscheduled business changed her visit. The coral lab was scrapped and the professor/student tour was changed to them explaining the hurricane simulator.
Harris aplologized to Marine Biology and Ecology Professor for the improvisation.
Student Samantha Medina explained to Harris that the simulator is the only one on earth that can mimic Category 5 hurricane conditions.
"It looks intense but not that intense," Harris said.
Medina assured Harris that the wave simulator was only getting started.


April 21, 2023 18:55

VP Pool No. 5
Harris spoke at Rosenstiel (on Virginia Key) on the Biden Administration's commitment to spend $562 million to help make vunerable communities more resistant to climate change.
"This investment not only protects our environment but strengthens our economy," Harris said.
She said the environmental projects will employ landscape architects, engineers and construction workers.
She gave examples of some Florida projects the money will be going towards: protecting mangroves in nearby Miami Beach and restoring oyster beds in Pensacola Bay.
"All of this makes sense and it works and it very doable and within our grasp," Harris said.


April 21, 2023 19:02

VP pool feed No. 6
VP's plane leaves Signature Flight Support terminal at Miami International Airport at 7 p.m.


April 21, 2023 19:29

VP Pool Feed No. 7
Before heading to Miami International Airport to leave for Washington D.C., she made a stop at Doggi's Arepa Bar.
She was greeted by business owner Giovanni Esteves.
"I've been reading about you arepas forever and I wanted to come and get some," she said.
Esteves said his business is an example of an immigrant success story.
"This is America. That is why we came to this country — to work hard," said Esteves, who is from Venezuela.



  