
    Pool Reports by Meridith McGraw, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




April 1, 202011:05 

WH Pool Report #1 - Good morning and schedule
Good morning from a quiet White House. According to today's schedule, President Trump does not have any public events. At 5pm, the Coronavirus Task Force is holding an on-cam press briefing.
I'll try to catch any gaggles if they happen. This morning, Kellyanne Conway spoke to reporters after an appearance on Fox News (CSPAN link). Dr. Deborah Birx was interviewed on PBS, but quickly walked back into the White House after her hit.
Please reach out with any questions.
Thanks,Meridith
12:00PM THE PRESIDENT receives his intelligence briefingOval OfficeClosed Press2:30PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a phone call with military families on COVID-19 responseOval OfficeClosed PressBriefing Schedule5:00PM Members of the Coronavirus Task Force hold a press briefingJames S. Brady Briefing RoomOn Camera



April 1, 202012:32 

Pool Report #2 - Lunch lid until 2pm
A lunch lid was called until 2pm.



April 1, 202017:04 

WH Pool Report #3 - Briefing now at 5:30pm
The White House just announced the briefing will begin at 5:30pm.
Also, thank you to those who sent along their questions. I will try my best to ask them on your behalf.



April 1, 202017:47 

WH Pool Report #4 - Briefing begins, attendees on stage
President Trump walked out at 5:34pm to begin today's briefing.
Standing behind Trump from L-R are Coast Guard's Adm. Schultz, NSC's O'Brien, AG Barr, Def Sec Esper, Chairman of Joint Chiefs Gen. Milley, and Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Gilday.
Noting that VP Pence, Dr. Birx, and Dr. Fauci are not currently here in the briefing room, but Kellyanne Conway is sitting off to the side.
President Trump said he would first take questions on the announcements being made from the podium on the government's counter narcotics operations, and then will turn to the coronavirus itself.
Thanks,



April 1, 202018:24 

WH Pool Report #5 - VP Pence, Dr. Fauci, and Dr. Birx join
At 6:19p, the previous group of the AG, defense and national security officials, and Conway left the briefing room.
VP Pence, Dr. Birx, and Dr. Fauci, then entered and fanned out across the stage (social distancing!).
Acting Homeland Security Sec. Wolf is also sitting to the side of the room.



April 1, 202019:42 

WH Pool Report #6 - Lid
The White House called a travel/photo lid.
For those who sent questions, I'm passing the list along to tomorrow's print pooler.
Have a good night.



April 1, 202019:45 

WH Pool Report #7 - Brazil call readout
From Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil. President Trump and President Bolsonaro discussed efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. The two leaders noted the importance of a coordinated international response and continued partnership, including a commitment to working closely together through the G20. The leaders reiterated the significance of slowing the spread of the virus and protecting lives through sharing information, increasing preparedness, and cooperating on therapies and vaccine development. The two leaders also affirmed their continued commitment to aggressively safeguarding jobs and incomes, using all available tools to restore global economic growth. The President thanked Brazil for its ongoing assistance to help repatriate American citizens seeking to return home and praised the close relationship between the two countries as they continue to address COVID-19.




  