
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      D. Michael Bennett – Governor, Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service
•      Roberto R. Herencia – Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
•      Yvette Roubideaux – Director of the Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
President Obama said, "I am grateful these accomplished individuals have agreed to join this Administration, and I'm confident they will serve ably in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
D. Michael Bennett, Nominee for Governor, Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service
D. Michael Bennett is Senior Vice President of Information Management and Chief Information Officer of BAE Systems, a position he has held since 2010. Previously, Mr. Bennett was Vice President and General Manager of the Enterprise Solutions Business Area of BAE System's Information Solutions Line of Business. He worked at Northrup Grumman, ultimately becoming Vice President for Contracts, Pricing, Procurement and Risk Management for Northrop's Information Technology Sector in 1999. From 1980 to 1999, Mr. Bennett practiced law in various positions with Northrup Grumman, EDS Corporation, and the U.S. Department of Commerce. He serves on the Board of Visitors of the Howard University School of Business, Vice President of Duke University Alumni Association Board of Directors, and Chair of the Manna Ventures Board of Directors. In 2012, he received the Minority Business Leader Award from the Washington Business Journal. Mr. Bennett received a B.A. from Duke University and a J.D. from The George Washington University Law School.
Roberto R. Herencia, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
Roberto R. Herencia is the President and CEO of BXM Holdings, a position he has held since 2010. He was first appointed as a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation by President Obama in 2011. He has served as an independent director of SKBHC Holdings and its two subsidiary banks since 2010. Since 2011, Mr. Herencia has served as an independent director and Chairman of the board of First BanCorp and its subsidiary bank, FirstBank Puerto Rico. Between 2009 and 2010, Mr. Herencia was the President and CEO of Midwest Banc Holdings Inc. and Midwest Bank and Trust. Previously, he spent 17 years with Popular Inc. as Executive Vice President and as President of Banco Popular North America. Mr. Herencia received a B.S. from Georgetown University and an M.B.A. from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. 
Dr. Yvette Roubideaux, Nominee for Director of the Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
Dr. Yvette Roubideaux is currently the Director of the Indian Health Service (IHS) at the Department of Health and Human Services, a position she has held since 2009. Prior to this, Dr. Roubideaux worked at the University of Arizona from 1998 to 2009 in a number of roles, most recently as Assistant Professor in the College of Medicine's Department of Family & Community Medicine. Previously, Dr. Roubideaux worked in the IHS as a Medical Officer and Clinical Director on the San Carlos Indian Reservation and as a Medical Officer in the Gila River Indian Community. Dr. Roubideaux is a recipient of the American Diabetes Association's 2008 Addison B. Scoville Award for Outstanding Volunteer Service and the 2004 Indian Physician of the Year Award from the Association of American Indian Physicians. She is co-editor of the American Public Health Association's book entitled Promises to Keep: Public Health Policy for American Indians and Alaska Natives in the 21st Century. Dr. Roubideaux received a B.A. in Biology from Harvard University, an M.D. from Harvard Medical School, and an M.P.H. from the Harvard School of Public Health.
  