
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Jack Landman Goldsmith III of Virginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General (Office of Legal Counsel). Mr. Goldsmith serves as Special Counsel to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense. Although currently on leave, he also serves as Professor of Law at the University of Chicago Law School. Mr. Goldsmith recently accepted a position at the University of Virginia Law School. He earned his first bachelor's degree from Washington & Lee University and a second bachelor's degree from Oxford University. Mr. Goldsmith received his master's degree also from Oxford University and his J.D. from Yale Law School. He went on to earn his Diploma in Private International Law from The Hague Academy of International Law.
The President intends to nominate Paul Morgan Longsworth of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Non-Proliferation in the National Nuclear Security Administration at the Department of Energy. Currently Mr. Longsworth serves as Senior Policy Advisor to the Secretary for the United States Department of Energy. Mr. Longsworth previously served the United States Senate as Legislative Fellow for the Committee on Environment and Public Works followed by his service as a Professional Staff Member of the Committee on Armed Services. He also served as Technology Transfer Specialist for the United States Department of Energy Office of Environmental Management, Technology Exchange Division. Mr. Longsworth earned his bachelor's degree from Wichita State University.
The President intends to nominate Christopher A. Wray of Georgia, to be an Assistant Attorney General (Criminal Division). Currently, Mr. Wray serves as Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General for the Department of Justice. He previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Georgia, and was a Litigation Associate for the law firm of King & Spalding. He also served as a law clerk for Judge J. Michael Luttig of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circui t. He earned his bachelor's degree as well as his J.D. from Yale University.
  