
    Pool Reports by Tal Kopan, The Boston Globe 



Sent:
Reports:




April 9, 202315:08

In-town pool report 1: Good afternoon
Good afternoon from a glorious spring day in Washington. Happy Easter and/or Passover to all who celebrate.
I'm your pooler today for the President's return from Camp David, scheduled for 4:30 at Fort McNair. Pool is readying to head over there.
I'll be in touch with updates as they happen.



April 9, 202316:53

In-town pool report 2: M1 in the air / travelers
Marine 1 was wheels up from Camp David at 4:36 pm, per the White House.
Also:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One from Camp David en route to Fort Lesley J. McNair:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations



April 9, 202317:10

In-town pool report 3: Wheels down
M1 landed at 5:03 pm, after what I presume was the staff helicopter.
Biden and the First Lady departed at 5:05, Biden without a tie and Jill Biden in a knee-length floral dress, purple heels and purple blazer. They walked hand in hand to the limo without acknowledging the pool, Jill Biden gingerly stepping with her heels in the grass. They were followed by a family who pool believes to be Hunter Biden, Baby Beau, and a blonde woman.
We're rolling for the White House.



April 9, 202317:22

In-town pool report 4: return to White House /Lid
Motorcade made quick work of the streets with lights and sirens, going past Nats Park and crowds of on-lookers along the Mall and environs enjoying the splendid weather, taking photos as we passed.
Back at the White House at 5:18. Motorcade pulled into the North Lawn driveway due to setup for the Easter Egg Roll. Pool vans stopped outside the gate and we had no view of the president walking inside.
We have a lid at 5:21 — have a great evening!
White House advises one other traveler, and photogs have ID'd the woman with Hunter as his wife, Melissa.
Additional traveler:
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor




  