
    On Thursday, April 13, Vice President Kamala Harris will make a major infrastructure announcement on a project connecting Virginia to Washington, D.C. to close out the Biden-Harris Administration's Investing in America tour. Coinciding with the Vice President's event, Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg, White House Senior Advisor and Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu, and other Senior Administration Officials will fan out across the country to make infrastructure funding announcements in communities across the country.
The events will close out the Biden-Harris Administration's three-week, Administration-wide Investing in America tour, where President Biden, Vice President Harris, and over a dozen senior Administration Officials traveled to over 25 states across the country to highlight the impact President Biden's Investing in America agenda – including the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the American Rescue Plan – is having on communities across the country.
During the tour, Administration officials have highlighted how President Biden and Vice President Harris have unleashed over $435 billion in private sector manufacturing investments, the economy created over 12 million jobs, and the Administration funded 23,000 infrastructure projects across 4,500 cities and towns since they took office.
To make the infrastructure funding announcements on Thursday:

Vice President Harris will travel to Washington, D.C. to highlight a project connecting Virginia to the District of Columbia.
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg will travel to Albany, New York.
Senior Advisor and Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu will travel to Madison, Wisconsin.
Undersecretary of Transportation Carlos Monje will travel to San Antonio, Texas.
Federal Highway Administrator Shailen Bhatt will travel to Union County, South Carolina.
Deputy Federal Highway Administrator Andrew Rogers will travel to San Diego, California.

  