
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House)(Rep. Shuster, R-PA, and 15 cosponsors)
The Administration appreciates the House's bipartisan efforts to advance a long-term Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill in H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018. This bill further improves aviation safety by streamlining and improving the consistency of aviation safety activities, takes steps to continue the safe and secure integration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), and advances aviation infrastructure development and modernization. Specifically, the bill includes important provisions that reform FAA's certification processes by ensuring greater use of delegated authority and leveraging private sector expertise, and encourages partnering with the private sector to modernize our Nation's airports.
In its current form, the bill contains several provisions that run counter to the Administration's efforts to reduce regulatory burdens and that limit FAA's ability to manage its operations in a cost-effective manner. The Administration is concerned that language regarding international aviation agreements would interfere with the Executive's authority to interpret and implement such agreements.
The Administration appreciates the proposals in title VI in H.R. 4 to reform the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) disaster response and recovery programs, and make improvements in other areas of disaster assistance. The Administration is concerned that title VI will lead to significantly higher taxpayer spending for disaster programs in the medium term, but supports efforts to reduce disaster risk through pre-disaster mitigation and building greater State, local, tribal, and territorial capability. The Administration does not support weakening FEMA's ability to control costs, prevent duplicative Federal expenditures, and recover improper payments.
The Administration appreciates the House's commitment to passing a timely bill to reauthorize the FAA and looks forward to working with all Members to enact legislation that modernizes our aviation systems, appropriately strengthens the Government's ability to respond to and address UAS threats, reduces regulatory burdens, and protects taxpayer dollars.
  