
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 5
The President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom concerning the Northern Ireland peace process.
April 6
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the President's recent visit to Africa and the upcoming meeting of the heads of state of the world's leading industrialized democracies in Birmingham, United Kingdom.
In the afternoon, the President met with student-athletes and their sponsors in the Oval Office.
The President announced the nomination of Diane D. Blair to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The President appointed Tony Coelho, Everett M. Ehrlich, Gilbert F. Casellas, and Lorraine Green as members of the U.S. Census Monitoring Board.
April 7
In the morning, the President traveled to Kansas City, MO. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland to express his sympathies for the death of Mr. Ahern's mother.
In the afternoon, the President toured the Kansas City Jazz Museum and the Negro Baseball League Museum. In the evening, he traveled to Chicago, IL.
April 8
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dayton R. Duncan as Chair and Gerald E. Galloway, Jr., William L. Graf, Anthony P. Grassi, Debbie Jaramillo, Charles R. Jordan, Daniel Kemmis, David Olsen, Yolanda Rivera, Donald G. Sampson, Maria F. Teran, and P. Kay Whitlock as members of the American Heritage Rivers Initiative Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to nominate Vivian Lowery Derryck and Susan E. Rice as members of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation.
April 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Carrollton, KY, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President attended a dinner honoring Senator Mary L. Landrieu at a private residence.
The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes beginning on April 8 and continuing.
The President announced that he has amended the major disaster declaration for Georgia, declared March 11, to include seven additional counties hard hit by the severe storms and tornadoes.
In the late evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom to discuss the Northern Ireland peace process.
April 10
After midnight, the President had further telephone conversations on the Northern Ireland peace process with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom; Gerry Adams, leader, Sinn Fein; John Hume, leader, Social Democratic and Labor Party; Samuel R. Berger, National Security Adviser; James B. Steinberg, Deputy National Security Adviser; former Senator George J. Mitchell, independent chairman of the multiparty talks in Northern Ireland; Gerry Adams, again; David Trimble, leader, Northern Ireland Ulster Unionist Party; Prime Minister Blair, twice again; Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland; and Mr. Hume again.
In the afternoon, the President hosted a working lunch for President Fidel Ramos of the Philippines in the Map Room.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD, for the Easter holiday weekend.
  