
    To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1979, to consolidate certain foreign assistance activities of the United States Government. I am acting under the authority vested in me by the Reorganization Act, chapter 9 of title 5 of the United States Code, and pursuant to title III of the International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1978, which requires that I report to the Congress my decisions on reorganization in this area. The purposes of this reorganization are to make more coherent our economic policies and programs affecting the developing nations and to improve the effectiveness of United States foreign development activities.
This Nation is committed—not only in the interest of the people of developing countries, but in our own interest as well-to help those countries in their efforts to achieve better lives for their citizens. To this end, we conduct a number of bilateral development assistance programs, participate in a number of multilateral development assistance programs, and engage in a variety of other economic activities that affect developing countries.
When this Administration took office, United States support of international development suffered from four major problems. First, no single U.S. official was charged with responsibility for establishing a comprehensive and coherent strategy for our Nation's efforts in this field. Second, no agency or official had the authority to ensure that the various U.S. programs affecting development were consistent with each other or complemented the programs of the multilateral organizations to which we contribute. Third, none of the agency heads testifying before the Congress about his particular portion of our foreign assistance efforts was able to speak authoritatively for the program as a whole or for the Administration's overall development policies and priorities. Finally, because there was no authoritative spokesperson, developmental concerns were at times accorded insufficient weight in executive branch decision-making on trade, monetary, and other non-aid economic issues that affect developing nations.
.Just before his death a year ago, Senator Hubert H. Humphrey prepared a bill intended to solve these problems. Congressman Clement Zablocki introduced a similar measure in the House. Although the Congress took no action last year on the organizational provisions of the Humphrey-Zablocki bill, it directed me, in title III of the 1978 development assistance authorization act, to institute a strengthened system of coordination of U.S. economic policies affecting the developing countries, and urged me to create an agency with primary responsibility for coordination of international development-related activities.
In response to the Humphrey-Zablocki bill and the Administration's own analyses, I took a number of steps last year to strengthen aid coordination and improve the effectiveness of our development assistance programs. The Reorganization Plan transmitted with this message continues that process. It will provide stronger direction of U.S. policies toward the developing world, ensure a more coherent development strategy, promote the more effective use of the various U.S. bilateral instruments by which the U.S. can encourage economic and social progress in developing countries, and ensure that U.S. bilateral programs and the multilateral programs to which we contribute better complement each other.
This reorganization would create a new agency, to be known as the International Development Cooperation Agency (IDCA). IDCA would become a focal point within the U.S. Government for economic matters affecting U.S. relations with developing countries. Subject to guidance concerning the foreign policy of the United States from the Secretary of State, the IDCA Director would be the principal international development advisor to the President and to the Secretary of State. The Director would replace the AID Administrator in chairing the Development Coordination Committee. The IDCA Director would make recommendations to me concerning the appointment and tenure of senior officials of each component of IDCA, and would establish and control the budgets and policies of the Agency for International Development and the bilateral foreign assistance programs it administers, and of the Institute For Technological Cooperation, proposed in legislation transmitted to the Congress on February 26, 1979, which would support research and technological innovation to reduce obstacles to economic development.
The Overseas Private Investment Corporation, which insures and guarantees U.S. private investments in developing countries against certain hazards, would also be a component of IDCA, but OPIC's Board of Directors, which the IDCA Director would chair, would continue to set OPIC policy.
Each of these agencies would retain 'its individual identity and substantial day-to-day operating autonomy. A principal responsibility of the IDCA Director—who would be supported by a small staff— would be the achievement of consistency and balance among the policies, major programs, and budgets of the component agencies.
To help ensure that U.S. bilateral efforts and the programs of major multilateral development institutions better complement each other, the IDCA Director would participate in the selection of U.S. Executive Directors of multilateral development banks (World Bank Group, Inter-American Development Bank, Asian Development Bank and African Development Fund), and would advise these Executive Directors on development policy and proposed projects and programs. Additionally, IDCA would assume lead responsibility for budget support and policy concerning United States participation in those organizations and programs of the United Nations and the Organization of American States whose purpose is primarily developmental. These are the UN Development Program, UNICEF, the Organization of American States Technical Assistance Funds, the UN Capital Development Fund, the UN Educational and Training Program for Southern Africa, the UN/Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) World Food Program, the FAO Post-Harvest Losses Fund, and the UN Disaster Relief Organization.
The IDCA Director would be responsible for ensuring that development goals are taken fully into account in all executive branch decision-making on trade, technology, and other economic policy issues affecting the less developed nations, and would submit an annual development policy statement to the Congress. The Director would also prepare a comprehensive foreign assistance budget, which he would submit to the Office of Management and Budget after consulting with the Secretary of State, and would lead the Administration's presentation of that budget to the Congress.
When IDCA is established, I intend to delegate to it the principal authority for the bilateral development assistance program administered by AID (now vested in me by law, delegated to the Secretary of State, and redelegated to the Administrator of AID). Certain functions vested in me under the Foreign Assistance Act will continue to be delegated to the Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of Defense, or elsewhere; but most functions relating to the assistance program will be delegated directly to the IDCA Director, who will in turn redelegate these functions, as appropriate, to the Administrator of AID. I also intend to delegate to the Director of IDCA authority proposed to be vested in me to establish an Institute For Technological Cooperation; the IDCA Director would redelegate these functions, as appropriate, to IFTC.
The reorganization would increase program effectiveness through improved coordination, as requested in the 1978 authorization act. I estimate that it would achieve that goal with no increase in expenditures or personnel. After investigation, I have found that this reorganization is necessary to carry out the policy set forth in section 901(a) of title 5 of the United States Code. This plan abolishes one of the statutory officers that the President may appoint under section 624(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2384(a) ). No statutory functions are abolished by the plan. The provisions in this plan for the appointment and pay of the Director, Deputy Director, and Associate Directors of IDCA have been found by me to be necessary by reason of the reorganization and are at rates applicable to comparable officers in the executive branch.
This proposal constitutes the first major restructuring of the U.S. foreign aid program since the creation of the Agency for International Development in 1961. It will provide the United States with governmental machinery far better able to fulfill our commitment to assist people in developing countries to eliminate hunger, poverty, illness and ignorance. It responds to the mandate of the Congress. Let us work together to ensure its successful and effective implementation.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
April 10, 1979.
REORGANIZATION PLAN NO. 2 OF 1979
Prepared by the President and transmitted to the Senate and the House of Representatives in Congress assembled, April 10, 1979, pursuant to the provisions of chapter 9 of title 5 of the United States Code.
UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY
SECTION 1. Establishment of the United States International Development Cooperation Agency
There is hereby established in the executive branch an independent agency to be known as the United States International Development Cooperation Agency (hereinafter referred to as the "Agency").
SECTION 2. Director
The Agency shall be headed by the Director of the International Development Cooperation Agency (hereinafter referred to as the "Director"), who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall receive compensation at the rate prescribed by law for Level II of the Executive Schedule. Under the guidance of the President, the Director shall have primary responsibility for setting overall development assistance policy and coordinating international development activities supported by the United States. The Director shall serve as the principal advisor to the President and the Secretary of State on international development matters and shall report to the President and the Secretary of State. The responsibility of the Director for the exercise of the functions and authorities vested in or delegated to the Director or the Agency shall be subject to the guidance of the Secretary of State as to the foreign policy of the United States. The Director shall designate the order in which other officials shall act for and exercise the powers of the Director during the absence or disability of the Director and the Deputy Director or in the event of vacancies in both such offices.
SECTION 3. Deputy Director
The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, may appoint a Deputy Director of the Agency, who shall receive compensation at the rate prescribed by law for Level III of the Executive Schedule. The Deputy Director shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Director may from time to time prescribe and, in addition, shall act for and exercise the powers of the Director during the absence or disability of the Director or during a vacancy in such office.
SECTION 4. Associate Directors
The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, may appoint two Associate Directors of the Agency, who shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Director may from time to time prescribe and who shall receive compensation at the rate prescribed by law for Level IV of the Executive Schedule.
SECTION 5. Performance of functions
The Director may from time to time establish, alter, consolidate, or discontinue organizational units within the Agency, and delegate responsibility for carrying out any function or authority of the Director or the Agency to any officer, employee or unit of the Agency or any other officer or agency of the executive branch.
SECTION 6. Transfers of functions
(a) There are hereby transferred to the Director all functions and authorities vested in the Agency for International Development or in its Administrator pursuant to the following:
(1) sections 233(b), 296(e), 297(d), 298(c) (6), 299(d), 601 (a) through (d), and 624(f) (2) (c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2193(b), 2220a(e), 2220b(d), 2220c(c) (6), 2220d (d), 2351 (a) through (d), and 2384(f)
(2)(c));
(2) section 407 of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736a); and
(3) section 706 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1979 (49 U.S.C. 1518).
(b) There are hereby transferred to the Director all functions and authorities vested in the agency primarily responsible for administering part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or in its Administrator pursuant to sections 101(b), 119, 125, 531 (a)(2), 601 (e)(2), and 640B of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2151(b), 2151q, 2151w, 2346(a)(2), 2351(e)(2), and 2399c).
(c) There are hereby transferred to the Director all functions and authorities vested in the Secretary of State pursuant to the following:
(1) section 622(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, insofar as it relates to development assistance (22 U.S.G.
2382(c) ); and
(2) section 901 of Public Law 95-118 (22 U.S.C. 262g).
SECTION 7. Abolition
One of the positions that the President may appoint under section 624(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2384(a), 5 U.S.C. 5315(5)) is hereby abolished.
SECTION 8. Other transfers; interim officers
(a) So much of the personnel, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations and other funds employed, used, held, available, or to be made available in connection with the functions and authorities affected by the establishment of the Agency, as the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall determine, shall be transferred to the appropriate agency or component at such time or times as the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide, except that no such unexpended balances transferred shall be used for purposes other than those for which the appropriation was originally made. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide for terminating the affairs of any agency abolished herein and for such further measures and dispositions as such Director deems necessary to effectuate the purposes of this reorganization plan.
(b) Pending the initial appointment of the Director, Deputy Director, and Associate Directors of the Agency, their functions and authorities may be performed, for up to 60 days after section 1 of this reorganization plan becomes effective, by such individuals as the President may designate. Any individual so designated shall be compensated at the rate provided herein for the position whose functions and authorities such individual performs.
SECTION 9. Effective date
This reorganization plan shall become effective on July 1, 1980, or at such earlier time or times as the President shall specify, but not sooner than the earliest time allowable under section 906 of title 5 of the United States Code.
  