
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Americans have always enjoyed the outdoors and are fortunate to have a multitude of sports and recreational activities that serve to refresh the body and spirit. For many of our citizens, the most popular form of recreation is boating.
It is essential for those involved in recreational boating to recognize the paramount importance of safety in the operation of small craft. Boating offers a myriad of wonderful opportunities for the whole family, and these experiences can be enhanced by careful attention to rules of safety. In fact, it is the responsibility of boating participants to make sure they are fully conversant in all matters involving safety.
All Americans who utilize our waterways for recreational purposes should be well versed in water safety rules and techniques for their own protection and that of their friends and loved ones. I urge those who engage in recreational boating to take advantage of the many safe boating courses which are sponsored by governmental and private organizations. I particularly urge those who are inexperienced operators of small boats to enroll in these educational programs. Learning the fundamentals of safe boating will add to the potential pleasure and excitement of recreational boating.
Aware of the need for boating safety, the Congress enacted the joint resolution of June 4, 1958 (36 U.S.C. 161) as amended, requesting that the President proclaim annually a National Safe Boating Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning June 6, 1982, as National Safe Boating Week.
I invite the Governors of the states, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, and the Mayor of the District of Columbia to provide for the observance of this week.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 1st day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundredth and sixth.

RONALD REAGAN
  