
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Donald J. McConnell to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States to the State of Eritrea. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador McConnell has been serving as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Plans and Policy in the Bureau of Political-Military Affairs at the Department of State since 2000. He served as Deputy Assistant Secretary General for Political Affairs and Director of the Political Directorate at NATO Headquarters in Brussels from 1996 to 2000, and was Chief of Mission to Burkina Faso from 1993 to 1996. He has held a variety of other posts in both Washington, D.C., and abroad. Originally from Ohio, he received his undergraduate degree from John Carroll University, received a Master's degree from Stanford University and a Masters of Public Administration in international relations from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Stephen A. Cambone to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Most recently he served as Staff Director for the Commission to Assess U.S. National Security Space Management and Organization while also serving as the Director of Research for the Institute for National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University. Cambone held the position of staff director for the Commission to Assess the Ballistic Missile Threat to the United States in 1998 and was a Senior Fellow of Political-Military Studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies from 1993 to 1998. He is a graduate of the Catholic University and received both a Master's and Ph.D. from Claremont Graduate School.
The President intends to nominate Donald Cameron Findlay to be Deputy Secretary of Labor. He is currently a Partner with the law firm of Sidley and Austin in Chicago, Illinois, and served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Counselor to the Chief of Staff from 1991 to 1992. From 1989 to 1991 he served at the U.S. Department of Transportation as a Special Assistant to the Secretary. A Chicago native, he is a graduate of Northwestern University, received a Master's from Oxford University and received his law degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Lori A. Forman to be Assistant Administrator for the United States Agency for International Development for Asia and the Near East. She has served as the Director of the Japan Program for The Nature Conservancy since 1990 and is also a visiting professor at Keio University in Tokyo, Japan. She served at U.S. AID from 1983 to 1990 as a Program Officer where she coordinated the US-Japan aid project. Forman is a graduate of Augustana College in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
  