
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Ingrid A. Gregg – Member, Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation
•      Jim Henderson – Member, Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dr. Ingrid A. Gregg, Nominee for Member, Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation 
Dr. Ingrid A. Gregg is President and Trustee of the Earhart Foundation. Dr. Gregg joined the staff of Earhart Foundation in 1998 as a Program Officer and served as the Director of Programming before becoming the Foundation's President in 2004. She serves on the Board of Directors of the Citizens Research Council of Michigan, the Ann Arbor Advisory Board of the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, and the Academic Advisory Board for the Institute of Economic Affairs in London, England. She was elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 2010 and is a member of The Mont Pelerin Society. Dr. Gregg received a B.A. from Sarah Lawrence College and has a M.Sc. as well as a Ph.D. in History from the University of Edinburgh, Scotland.
Judge Jim Henderson, Nominee for Member, Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation 
Judge Jim Henderson is the County Judge/Executive for Simpson County, Kentucky, where he is now serving in his fourth term. In addition, Judge Henderson serves as Second Vice President of the Kentucky County Judge/Executive's Association and is also a member of its Executive Board and Legislative Committee. He is the current Chairman of the Barren River Area Development District Board and a current board member of the Barren River District Health Board. Judge Henderson is also Treasurer for the Community Action of Southern Kentucky Board of Directors. Judge Henderson received his B.A. from Western Kentucky University.
  