
    Today, a group of eight prominent Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) members announced they are endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States, including former national co-chairs of Senator Sanders' campaign, California Congressman Ro Khanna and Wisconsin Congressman and CPC Co-Chair Mark Pocan. New Mexico Congresswoman Deb Haaland, who co-chaired Senator Warren's campaign, also joined the CPC members in a statement backing Biden.
The progressive leaders highlighted how the "future of our democracy is at stake" under the leadership of Donald Trump, and said we need to elect Biden to "fight to restore decency, inclusion, and competency to the White House."
The Members of Congress issued the following press release:
California Congresswoman Barbara Lee and Progressive Members of Congress Endorse Joe Biden
Today, California Congresswoman Barbara Lee along with Members of Congress Katherine Clark (D-MA), Deb Haaland (D-NM), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Andy Levin (D-MI), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), and Jamie Raskin (D-MD) released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"We are proud to announce our endorsement of Vice President Joe Biden for President. As strong progressive Democrats who supported different candidates or did not support any candidate during the primary for the Democratic nomination, we recognize that the future of our democracy is at stake.
"President Donald Trump has demonstrated repeatedly and most recently in his disastrous response to COVID-19 that we need a president who tells the truth, and who can unify the country.
"This will not be an easy victory. Voter suppression is real and in response to the health crises, more barriers have been imposed. We will work with our constituencies to organize, mobilize and help unify our party to reclaim the White House in November. The threat of a second presidency of Donald Trump requires all of us to support Vice President Joe Biden. Now more than ever we must fight to restore decency, inclusion and competency to the White House.
"We are not simply endorsing Vice President Joe Biden today. We are pledging to initiate a wave of progressive organizing on issues we care about so passionately. Together we must turn the country towards a fundamentally new direction of equality, prosperity and justice under the strong and decent leadership of Vice President Joe Biden."
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  