
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Iowa Press Shop (515) 309-1990
Boston, MA - Romney for President today announced its Scott County Leadership Team, which includes current and former elected officials, and long-time local party activists.
Governor Romney will speak at a Scott County Romney for President campaign reception tonight in Bettendorf.
"This is an experienced, motivated team of individuals, and I am pleased to welcome them to Governor Romney's campaign," said Gentry Collins, Iowa Campaign Manager. "I look forward to working with them in Scott County to share Governor Romney's message of limited government and change in Washington. Their experience and support will be valuable to our campaign."
Chairing the campaign in Scott County will be former House District 85 candidate Roby Smith.
"Governor Romney is a strong, conservative leader who has continually overcome the obstacles before him in order to make our country a better place to raise a family," said Smith. "I share his conservative principles, and believe that if we are going to see true change in Washington, Mitt Romney needs to be our next president."
The Romney For President Scott County Leadership:
Former House District 85 Candidate Roby Smith - Chair: Roby and his wife Kari reside in Davenport. Roby graduated from Concordia University in Seward, NE, with a B.S. in Business Administration and a minor in Communication. He and Kari belong to Trinity Lutheran Church. He was the Republican nominee for Iowa House District 85 in the 2006 election.
State Representative Linda Miller: Miller was first elected to the Iowa House, District 82, in 2006. Earlier this month, Romney for President announced her as part of the campaign's Legislative Leadership Team.
Former 1st District Congressional Candidate Brian Kennedy: Kennedy is the former Chairman of the Republican Party of Iowa, managed Governor Branstad's 1994 campaign and assisted in Lamar Alexander's presidential campaign. In 2006, Kennedy ran for the 1st Congressional District Republican nomination. Most recently, he chaired Senator Bill Frist's VOLPAC.
Greg Adamson: Adamson is a retired Lt. Col. in the Army, and a retired Bettendorf Police Captain. He spent seven years on the Bettendorf Park Board, and also has served four years as a Scott County Supervisor. A lifelong resident of the Quad Cities, he and his wife Sandra have three children and six grandchildren.
Carol Crain: Crain has been active in Republican politics since 2000, when she helped organize the Bush for President Campaign in Scott County, and volunteered on Jim Nussle's Congressional campaign. She is an active member at St. Paul the Apostle Catholic Church, and is the Americanism Chair of the Scott County Republican Women.
Jason Gordon: Gordon has eight years experience in the Davenport District Offices of both Congressman Jim Leach and Congressman Jim Nussle. A long-time resident of Scott County, Gordon has been involved in multiple local elections.
Paul Janecek: Janecek is a former Statehouse candidate, and currently Co-Chairs the Scott County Republican Party. He is Commander of Chapter 2 of DAV, and is past state Commander of DAV. He is Vice President of Fejevary Zoological Society, and is active in CASI. He is also active in Scott County Right to Life.
Vincie Metcalf: Vincie is a long-time resident of Scott County, and is a very active participant in the Scott County Republican Party. She was a Metro Field Coordinator for the Forbes' 2000 Presidential Campaign. She also volunteers for the Bettendorf School System.
Jane Murphy: Murphy worked in Congressman Jim Leach's office for 15 years. She has been very active in the local Republican Party, and has assisted many campaigns.
  