
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that U.S. Senator Wayne Allard (R-CO) has endorsed his campaign for President of the United States.
"Senator Allard's record of leadership and commitment to change make him a valuable addition to my campaign team. In Congress, he has fought to restrain spending while working to ensure that Americans are safe at home and abroad. Senator Allard understands, as I do, that we must bring innovation and transformation to Washington if we are to meet the new generation of challenges facing our country today," said Governor Romney.
Senator Allard joins Senators Bob Bennett (R-UT), Jim DeMint (R-SC) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) among Governor Romney's supporters in the U.S. Senate.
"After reviewing Governor Romney's impressive resume and having the opportunity to visit one-on-one with him about his vision of innovation and change for America, I am proud to announce my endorsement of him," said Senator Allard. "Governor Romney will bring a much needed breath of fresh air to Washington, something the country really desires."
Background On Senator Wayne Allard:
Serving His Eleventh Year In The United States Senate, Senator Allard Is A Conservative Leader In Washington. Throughout his career, Senator Allard has been committed to cutting taxes, reducing the deficit, returning power to state and local governments and assuring American security. He has been a leader in promoting traditional marriage and sponsored the Marriage Protection Amendment that would define marriage as a union between a man and a woman. He is a member of the Appropriations, Budget, Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, Banking, and Housing and Urban Affairs Committees. Senator Allard is also founder of the Senate Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus. He is currently the Chairman of the Senate Space Caucus. He formerly served in the U.S. House of Representatives, the Colorado State Senate and is a trained veterinarian.
  