
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
April 8
In response to a request from the State of Maine, the White House Work Group on the Maine Indian land claims and Presidential Counsel Robert Lipshutz announced that an extension of time to respond to the Passamaquoddy and Penobscot Tribes' proposal for settlement of Maine land claims has been granted. The extension will run until May 10, 1978.
April 9
The President returned to the White House after a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
April 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown and members of the President's Commission on Military Compensation, who submitted the Commission's report to the President;
—the Cabinet;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—members of the House Science and Technology Committee.
The President attended a portion of the meeting of the executive board of the Asia Foundation in the Roosevelt Room at the White House.
April 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—members of the congressional energy conference committee to discuss energy legislation.
April 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Republican House members of the energy conference committee to discuss energy legislation;
—Democratic members of the House Ways and Means Committee to discuss tax policy.
April 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—a group of consumer advocates. The President attended a portion of the luncheon for the finance council of the Democratic National Committee in the State Dining Room at the White House
The President attended a reception for the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers in the State Dining Room at the White House.
April 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for Trade Negotiations;
—Democratic National Committee Chairman John C. White;
—representatives of the lumber industry from Oregon and Idaho.
The President attended a portion of the meeting of the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations in the Roosevelt Room at the White House.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  