
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 29
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
March 30
The President met at the White House with Mr. and Mrs. Harry Metrinko of Olyphant, Pa., parents of Michael J. Metrinko, who is being held hostage in Iran. March 31
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative William J. Hughes of New Jersey;
—the National Security Council;
—Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate and House of Representatives.
April 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan and members of the House Conference Committee on the energy mobilization board;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison.
April 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, John P. White, Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the President;
—Mr. Moore;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President.
In an Oval Office ceremony, the President presented the American Cancer Society's Courage Award to Otto Graham, Athletic Director of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy.
The President participated in a briefing on administration policies and programs given for Members of the Senate in the East Room at the White House.
April 3
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Mr. Moore;
—representatives of retail food and drug chains;
—Secretary Miller, Paul Volcker, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Mr. Schultze, and Mr. Kahn;
—the University of Louisville basketball team, 1980 NCAA champions.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
The President has signed a determination that the provision of Export-Import Bank financing to the People's Republic of China would be in the national interest.
The White House announced that at the President's invitation, Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira of Japan will pay an informal visit to Washington April 30-May 1. The Prime Minister will confer with the President and other administration officials. Following his stay in Washington, the Prime Minister will visit Mexico and Canada.
  