
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Luis E. Arreaga, Ambassador to the Republic of Iceland, Department of State
•      Rose M. Likins, Ambassador to the Republic of Peru, Department of State
•      Jonathan Woodson, Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs), Department of Defense
President Obama said, "I am confident that these skilled and dedicated individuals will be tremendous assets to my administration as we continue the important work of the American people. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
Luis E. Arreaga, Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Iceland, Department of State
Luis Arreaga is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the rank of Minister-Counselor. He currently serves as the Director of the Office of Recruitment, Examination and Employment in the Bureau of Human Resources. He previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Panama, U.S. Consul General in Vancouver, Canada and as director of the Executive Secretariat Staff at the U.S. Department of State in Washington, D.C. He has also served as Deputy Director of the State Department's Operations Center and Special Assistant to the Under Secretary for Political Affairs. Other overseas postings include United States Mission to the United Nations in Geneva, the United States Embassy in Spain, and the Agency for International Development Missions in Peru, El Salvador, and Honduras. He is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee where he received a PhD in economics and a Masters Degree in Management.
Rose M. Likins, Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Peru, Department of State
Rose Likins is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service. She currently serves as the Deputy Director of the Foreign Service Institute. She was previously Dean of the Foreign Service Institute's School of Professional and Area Studies. She also served as the U.S. Ambassador to El Salvador. Washington assignments include Honduras Desk Officer, Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary of State, Executive Assistant to the Under Secretary for Global Affairs, Director of the Department's Operations Center, Deputy Executive Secretary of the Department and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs. Overseas posts include Consular Officer at the U.S. Consulate General in Monterrey, Mexico, Chief of the political section at the U.S. Embassy in Asuncion, Paraguay and Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Sofia, Bulgaria. She received a BA in Spanish and International Affairs from Mary Washington College.
Jonathan Woodson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs), Department of Defense
Dr. Jonathan Woodson is currently an Associate Professor of Surgery and Associate Dean at Boston University School of Medicine and a senior attending vascular surgeon at the Boston Medical Center. He chairs the Boston University Medical Center Institutional Review Board for Human Research. He is also an Adjunct Assistant Professor of Surgery at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. Dr. Woodson holds the rank of Brigadier General, United States Army, Reserve and has supported several Army Medical Department missions including Advanced Trauma Life Support Training (for active and reserve forces), military-civilian medical programs in Central America, and air medical evacuation missions in Central America. Dr. Woodson is currently assigned as Assistant Surgeon General for Reserve Affairs, Force Structure and Mobilization in the Office of the Surgeon General and also serves as Deputy Commander of the Army Reserve Medical Command. His prior military assignments include deployments to Saudi Arabia (Operation Desert Storm), Kosovo, Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. He has also served as a Senior Medical Officer with the National Disaster Management System, where he responded to the September 11th attack in New York City. Dr. Woodson's military awards and decorations include the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star Medal, and the Meritorious Service Medal (with oak leaf cluster). Dr. Woodson is a graduate of the City College of New York (Magna Cum Laude) and New York University School of Medicine.
  