
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals, appoint one individual, and designate one individual:
The President intends to nominate Albert A. Frink, Jr., of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Manufacturing and Services). Mr. Frink currently serves as Executive Vice President and Co-Founder of Fabrica International, a carpet manufacturing company in Santa Ana, California. Mr. Frink started the company in 1974. He also served on the Textile Advisory Board at the Department of Commerce and the Board of Directors for the Latino Coalition.
The President intends to nominate Suedeen G. Kelly, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for a five-year term expiring June 30, 2009. Ms. Kelly currently serves on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Previously, she was a Professor of Law at the University of New Mexico School of Law. While on leave from the law school, Ms. Kelly served as Counsel to the California Independent System Operator. She also served as a Fellow at the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. She earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Rochester and her J.D. from Cornell Law School.
The President intends to nominate Jon D. Leibowitz, of Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring September 25, 2010. Mr. Leibowitz currently serves as Vice President of Congressional Affairs for the Motion Picture Association of America. He previously served as Democratic Chief Counsel and Staff Director for the U.S. Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Business Rights and Competition. Mr. Leibowitz earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin and his J.D. from New York University.
The President intends to nominate Patrick P. O'Carroll, Jr., of Maryland, to be Inspector General of the Social Security Administration. Mr. O'Carroll currently serves as Acting Inspector General at the Social Security Administration, where he previously served as Deputy Inspector General for Investigations. Earlier in his career, Mr. O'Carroll worked in the Office of Inspection at the United States Secret Service. He earned his bachelor's degree from Mount Saint Mary's College and his master's degree from The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate David M. Stone, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security (Transportation Security Administration). Currently, Mr. Stone serves as Acting Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration at the Department of Homeland Security. He previously served as Federal Security Director at the Los Angeles International Airport. Prior to this position, Mr. Stone served as Director for Environmental Protection, Safety and Occupational Health for the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. He earned his bachelor's degree from the U.S. Naval Academy and masters' degrees from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, the U.S. Naval War College and Salve Regina College.
The President intends to nominate Allen Weinstein, of Maryland, to be Archivist of the United States. Dr. Weinstein currently works at the International Foundation for Elections Systems as Senior Advisor for Democratic Institutions and Director of its Center for Democratic Initiatives. He previously served as President of The Center for Democracy in Washington, D.C. Earlier in his career, Dr. Weinstein was a Professor at Boston University, Georgetown University and Smith College. He earned his bachelor's degree from Columbia College and his master's and Ph.D. from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Benjamin H. Wu, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Technology Policy. Mr. Wu currently serves as Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology. Previously, he served as Counsel for the U.S. House Committee on Science's Technology Subcommittee and as Counsel for the U.S. House Committee on Science's Investigations and Oversight Subcommittee. Mr. Wu earned his bachelor's degree from New York University and his J.D. from the University of Pittsburgh.
The President intends to appoint Stewart Simonson, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Public Health Emergency Preparedness at the Department of Health and Human Services. Mr. Simonson currently serves as Special Counsel to the Secretary at Health and Human Services, where he previously served as Deputy General Counsel. Earlier in his career, Mr. Simonson served as Corporate Secretary and Counsel at the National Railroad Passenger Corporation. He earned his bachelor's degree and J.D. from the University of Wisconsin.
The President intends to designate Alicia R. Castaneda, of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Federal Housing Finance Board.
  