
    "We will have two simple rules when it comes to this massive rebuilding effort, buy American and hire American" – President Donald J. Trump
NEEDED REFORM TO SUPPORT AMERICAN WORKERS: Rules associated with America's trade deals and immigration policies unfairly place American companies and workers at a disadvantage.

Unfair Procurement Rules Work Against American Companies: A February 2017 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) suggests the United States is not getting its fair share of the global government procurement market through the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA).

Data from 2010 – the last year available – shows that while foreign-owned firms obtained $837 billion in contracts from the United States Government, American-owned firms received just $381 billion from the next five largest countries with which we have trade agreements.


Unfair Visa Rules That Harm American Workers: H-1B visas are supposed to bring the highest skilled and paid labor to the United States, but according to studies, 80% of the approved applications were for the two lowest wage levels allowed.

Currently, companies routinely abuse the H-1B visa program by replacing American workers with lower paid foreign workers.



A BUY AMERICAN AGENDA: President Donald J. Trump is taking action to enforce laws promoting American industry.

Today, President Trump signed an executive order promoting American industry and protecting it from unfair competition.
This Executive Order targets the abusive use of waivers and exceptions that undermine "Buy American" laws meant to promote taxpayer money going to American companies. This Executive Order:

Instructs every agency and department to conduct comprehensive assessment aimed at cracking down on weak monitoring, enforcement, and compliance efforts to strengthen Buy American policies. 
Targets waivers and exceptions that have allowed foreign goods unfair advantages in U.S. government procurement.
Orders that America's involvement in the WTO's Agreement on Government Procurement and other trade deals be reviewed to ensure they meet the President's standards.
For the first time, the Buy American bidding process must take into account unfair trade practices.
Promotes American-made steel by affirming the "melted and poured" standard for steel production in the United States.



A HIRE AMERICAN AGENDA: President Trump is making sure the immigration system isn't abused to displace hard-working American workers for cheaper foreign labor.

President Trump's Executive Order also takes steps to stop the abuse of the immigration system and protect American workers. This Executive Order:

Calls on the executive branch to fully enforce the laws governing the entry of foreign workers into the U.S. economy, to promote rising wages and more employment.
Directs federal agencies to propose reforms to the H-1B program in order shift the program back to its original intent and prevent the displacement of American workers.



KEEPING HIS PROMISE TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: President Trump promised that Buy American - Hire American would be a signature foundation of his Administration.

In his Joint Address to Congress, President Trump promised that "our national rebuilding" "will be guided by two core principles: buy American and hire American."
Then President-elect Trump: "We will have two simple rules when it comes to this massive rebuilding effort, buy American and hire American."
On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump vowed that "the American people will come first once again."

  