
    This is a time for us to solve problems. This is not a time for us to be attacking people, we should be attacking problems. And if I'm president, I will stop the attack on fellow Americans. I'll stop the attack on people and start attacking the problems that have been looming over this country." — Mitt Romney
Fox and Friends
Fox News
April 19, 2012
Click Here To Watch The Video
STEVE DOOCY: "Clearly, Governor, the President is making a pitch for independents and I saw in one of the recent Gallup polls, you're beating him with independents. How are you going to outdo him in that department?"
MITT ROMNEY: "Well, by showing a record as opposed to rhetoric. The President has always been good at saying things that sound wonderful, but you know, we now have not just his words, but his record. We've seen for three and a half years the policies of Barack Obama play out. And as they played out, we've seen he has not been able to end the high level of joblessness. He has not been able to see rising incomes. As a matter of fact, incomes have gone down during his term. He's not been able to turn around the housing market. In fact, housing prices have still gone down, foreclosures, 2.8 million, a record number of foreclosures. The President's record is not one we'd like to see for another four years. I think the American people recognize we're not better off four years after Barack Obama came into office. We're worse off. And despite the flowery rhetoric, the record is terrible and we need someone who can get the country working again with rising incomes and bright prospects for our kids."
STEVE DOOCY: "Speaking of rhetoric, he had some fiery rhetoric pointed at you yesterday. He said ‘unlike some people, I wasn't born with a silver spoon in my mouth.'"
MITT ROMNEY: "Well, you know, the President is really taking aim at anybody he can find these days. In fact, in my case, I'm certainly not going to apologize for my dad and his success in life. He was born poor. He worked his way to become very successful despite the fact that he didn't have a college degree, and one of the things he wanted to do was provide for me and for my brother and sisters. I'm not going to apologize for my dad's success, but I know the President likes to attack fellow Americans. He's always looking for a scapegoat, particularly those [who] have been successful like my dad, and I'm not going to rise to that. This is a time for us to solve problems. This is not a time for us to be attacking people, we should be attacking problems. And if I'm president, I will stop the attack on fellow Americans. I'll stop the attack on people and start attacking the problems that have been looming over this country."
  