
    Under the authority of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), the President has issued an Executive Order blocking the property of certain persons in connection with the conflict in Sudan's Darfur region and further authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to designate and block the property of additional persons that are contributing to the conflict in Darfur.
The order immediately blocks all property and interests in property of the targeted persons. It also prohibits U.S. individuals and companies from engaging in any transaction or dealing with the targeted persons. As a result, these persons will not be able to access any assets that they might have in the United States and U.S. financial institutions will not be able to provide any financial services to them.
The Executive Order implements in the United States the international sanctions imposed on these individuals pursuant to U.N. Security Council Resolutions (UNSCR) 1591 and 1672, which were adopted on March 29, 2005 and April 25, 2006, respectively. UNSCR 1672 imposes the measures called for in UNSCR 1591 to sanction four specific individuals responsible for committing heinous crimes on the people of Darfur.
The Executive Order and the President's accompanying Message to Congress make clear that those who commit violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in Darfur, or are responsible for the continuation of violence against civilians and sexual violence against women and girls, will be dealt with aggressively.
The U.S. Government carefully reviews information relating to potential targets for designation to ensure that sufficient information is available to establish a reasonable basis for determining that those persons meet the criteria set forth in the Executive Order and to ensure the effective implementation of the sanctions imposed on them. The U.S. Government will continue to gather and review information regarding possible targets for designation under the Executive Order, including members of the Government of National Unity (GNU) and the Darfur rebel groups.
These sanctions are aimed at those responsible for heinous actions being committed in Darfur. The United States will continue to work with its international partners to provide humanitarian assistance, support human rights, and bring peace to Darfur.
  