
    
  Texas Congressman, intellectual godfather of the tea party movement and his U.S. Senator son—elected with its backing—to appear with Ted Cruz

LAKE JACKSON, Texas - 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul announced today that he and his son, U.S. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, will hold a major tea party rally in Austin, Texas.
The rally, which is free and open to the public, will take place on the South Steps of the Texas State Capitol onSunday, May 6th beginning at 2:00 p.m. To RSVP for the event, please click here.
Ron Paul's tea party rally is being sponsored by the Tea Party Express, a national organization whose six simple principles the Drs. Paul support. Also speaking at the rally will be special guests Ted Cruz, Republican candidate for U.S. Senate in Texas, and Tea Party Express Chair Amy Kremer.
Ron and Rand Paul both are by trade physicians, with the younger Paul an accomplished eye surgeon and his father a retired prolife OB/GYN who personally delivered more than 4,000 babies. In 2010, the 12-term Congressman from Texas' son Rand was elected to the Senate in an upset, tea party-led victory in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Today both Drs. Paul are the nation's premier advocates for Washington reform consistent with the vision of our founders, who cautioned against the dangers of a federal government run amok.
"The nation already witnessed history twice when a sitting U.S. Senator - Rand Paul - campaigned for his father - Ron Paul - for the presidency. It occurred ahead of the Ames Straw Poll where Ron Paul was statistically tied for first place, and again during a daylong whistle-stop tour the Pauls held prior to the Iowa Caucus," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"One day this rally will occupy a special place in our history books when the Paul family and tea party are credited with restoring American government to its constitutional limits. How soon this recognition comes is up to voters," added Mr. Benton.
Event details are as follows. Time is Central.
Sunday, May 6, 2012
2:00 p.m.
Rep. Ron Paul & Sen. Rand Paul
Tea Party Rally sponsored by Tea Party Express
Texas State Capitol - South Steps
1100 Congress Avenue
Austin, TX 78701
For a map of the location, please click here. To RSVP for the event, please click here.
  