
    Today, 31 Indiana leaders endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States, citing his character, experience, and record of protecting Indiana's manufacturing jobs. The Indiana Black Legislative Caucus also announced its support for Vice President Biden.
"Throughout his public life, Joe Biden has been a voice for the little guy and working-class Americans," said former Congressman Lee Hamilton of Bloomington. "As our country looks to recover from this pandemic, there's nobody better to lead us than Joe Biden. He's steered us through an economic recovery before and will work tirelessly to make sure our economy works for all Americans – not just those at the top. Joe also has the experience on the global stage that our country desperately needs to restore our standing in the world. Joe has a bold vision for the future, and I'm proud to support him as we look to beat Donald Trump in November."
"I'm proud to support Joe Biden for president because Joe's values are Hoosier values," said Indiana Senate Minority Leader Tim Lanane from Anderson. "Joe knows what it means to struggle to get by. Growing up as part of a working-class family in Scranton, Joe learned that a job was about a lot more than a paycheck. He knows that we need to do more to ensure that working men and women can provide for their families and live the American Dream. After four years of chaos from Donald Trump, I know Joe will provide the strong, steady leadership our country needs."
"When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse, it was Barack Obama and Joe Biden who were there to rescue millions of jobs across the country and right here in Indiana," said Indiana State House Democratic Leader Phil GiaQuinta from Fort Wayne. "Now, we need a president who values the dignity of work and that work ethic that makes the Hoosier state great. Joe also knows that access to affordable healthcare should be a right in this country – not just a privilege for the few. I know Joe has what it takes to beat Donald Trump and am proud to offer him my support."
"I'm supporting Joe Biden because I know him and he knows us," said Cordelia Lewis Burks, Vice Chairwoman of the Indiana Democratic Party from Indianapolis. "I supported Joe Biden even before he announced his campaign, because after four divisive years of Donald Trump, there's no one more prepared than Joe to bring our country together and confront the immense challenges ahead of us. Joe knows more than anybody what it takes to bring our economy back from a recession. He can restore our standing in the world and command respect from our allies. And Joe will also fight to protect Social Security and Medicare from partisan attacks – working to grow our social safety net, not shrink it. Joe is a man of empathy and character, and I look forward to working with my fellow Hoosiers to elect him as President of the United States."
The full list of Indiana leaders endorsing Vice President Biden includes:

The Indiana Black Legislative Caucus
Lee Hamilton, former Member of Congress from Bloomington
Tim Lanane, Indiana State Senate Minority Leader from Anderson
Phil GiaQuinta, Indiana State House Democratic Leader from Fort Wayne
Cordelia Lewis Burks, Vice Chairwoman of the Indiana Democratic Party from Indianapolis
Kathy Davis, former Lieutenant Governor of Indiana
Edward DeLaney, Indiana State Representative from Indianapolis
Vanessa Summers, Indiana State Representative from Indianapolis
Carey Hamilton, Indiana State Representative from Indianapolis
John Bartlett, Indiana State Representative from Indianapolis
Robin Shackleford, Indiana State Representative from Indianapolis
Matt Pierce, Indiana State Representative from Bloomington
Terry Goodin, Indiana State Representative from Austin
Chris Chyung, Indiana State Representative from Dyer
Pat Boy, Indiana State Representative from Michigan City
Carolyn Jackson, Indiana State Representative from Hammond
Vernon Smith, Indiana State Representative from Gary
Sheila Klinker, Indiana State Representative from Lafayette
Sue Errington, Indiana State Representative from Muncie
Ryan Hatfield, Indiana State Representative from Evansville
Earl Harris Jr., Indiana State Representative from East Chicago
B. Patrick Bauer, Indiana State Representative from South Bend
David Niezgodski, Indiana State Senator from South Bend
Vop Osili, President of the Indianapolis City Council
Christina Hale, former State Representative from Indianapolis
John Gregg, former Speaker of the Indiana House
Derek Camp, President of the Indiana Young Democrats
Elise Shrock, President of the Indiana Democrats Latino Caucus
Kip Tew, former Indiana Democratic Party Chair and Obama for America Indiana Chair
Ann DeLaney, former Indiana Democratic Party Chair
Daniel Parker, former Indiana Democratic Party Chair
Josh Owens, former Indiana Gubernatorial Candidate

Biden for President has previously announced support from prominent Indiana leaders including Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Congressman Pete Visclosky, and former Senator Joe Donnelly. Biden for President has also announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
National unions representing a range of other workers and professions have also endorsed Biden, including the International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), National Education Association (NEA), United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), American Federation of Teachers (AFT), American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (IW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), Operative Plasterers' & Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA), and International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), and the International Longshoremen's Association (ILA).
The health and safety of our staff, supporters, and the general public is Biden for President's number one priority. During this pandemic, we are calling on all voters to follow social distancing guidelines to slow the spread of COVID-19. For this primary election, all Indiana voters have the option to vote by mail if they choose – a request for a mail ballot must be completed by 11:59 PM local time on May 21. Learn more and request a ballot by clicking here.
  