
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals and designate three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Joyce A. Barr, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ms. Barr currently serves as the Counselor for Management Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Earlier in her career, she served as Administrative Officer at the U.S. Embassy in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan. Ms. Barr earned her bachelor's degree from Pacific Lutheran University, her first master's degree from Harvard University, and her second master's degree from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate William R. Brownfield, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Brownfield currently serves as Chief of Mission to the Republic of Chile. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs. Earlier in his career, Ambassador Brownfield served as Counselor for Humanitarian Affairs in Geneva, as well as assignments in Argentina, El Salvador, and Venezuela. He earned his bachelor's degree from Cornell University.
The President intends to nominate June Carter Perry, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Lesotho. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ms. Perry currently serves as Director of Social and Humanitarian Affairs for the State Department's Bureau of International Organization Affairs. She previously served as a Diplomat in Residence at Howard University. Earlier in her career, Ms. Perry served as the Deputy Chief of Mission in Madagascar and in the Central African Republic. She earned her bachelor's degree from Loyola University Chicago and her master's degree from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to nominate Charles P. Ries, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Greece. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Ries currently serves as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary at the State Department's Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs. He previously served as Minister-Counselor for Economic Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in London, England. He earned his bachelor's degree and master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate R. Barrie Walkley, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Gabonese Republic and to the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Walkley currently serves as Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in the Republic of Guinea. He previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Prior to this position, Ambassador Walkley served as Public Affairs Officer in Islamabad, Pakistan and as Policy Officer in the United States Information Agency's Near Eastern Affairs Bureau. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of California at Santa Barbara, his first master's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles, and his second master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to nominate Edward Brehm, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 13, 2007.
The President intends to designate JoAnn Johnson, of Iowa, to be Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration Board.
The President intends to designate Jack Martin, of Michigan, to be Acting Director of the Selective Service System.
The President intends to designate Linda Morrison Combs, of North Carolina, to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Transportation.
  