
    "Four years ago at the Democratic National Convention, then-candidate Barack Obama said that Democrats measure progress by whether people can find a job and provide for themselves and their families. This year, when President Obama gives his convention speech in North Carolina, we're going to hold him accountable for his record: look at what he accomplished versus what he said he would accomplish. Are you better off than you were four years ago — the last time President Obama gave a convention speech?" —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
In 2008, President Obama Spoke At The Democratic National Convention, Promising To Uphold A "Different Measure Of What Constitutes Progress In This Country":
Candidate Obama, In 2008: "We Democrats Have A Very Different Measure Of What Constitutes Progress In This Country. We Measure Progress By How Many People Can Find A Job That Pays The Mortgage..." OBAMA: "You see, you see, we Democrats have a very different measure of what constitutes progress in this country. We measure progress by how many people can find a job that pays the mortgage, whether you can put a little extra money away at the end of each month so you can someday watch your child receive her college diploma. We measure progress in the 23 million new jobs that were created when Bill Clinton was president..." (Barack Obama, Remarks To The Democratic National Convention, Denver, Colorado, 8/28/08)
But Don't Expect President Obama To Deliver The Same Message This Year In North Carolina, Which Is Suffering Under President Obama's Failed Economic Policies:
Under President Obama, North Carolina's Unemployment Rate Increased From 9% In January 2009 To 9.9% Today. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/15/12)
During President Obama's Time In Office, North Carolina Has Lost 47,800 Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/15/12)


    North Carolina's Job Losses Under President Obama Are More Than Twice The Capacity Of The Time Warner Cable Arena, Where The 2012 Democratic National Convention Will Be Held. (Time Warner Cable Arena Website, www.timewarnercablearena.com, Accessed 4/17/12)
  

North Carolina Currently Has 463,983 Unemployed Workers, An Increase Of Nearly 13 Percent From When President Obama First Took Office. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/15/12)
UNC-Chapel Hill's Global Research Institute Estimated North Carolina's 2011 Rate For Unemployment, Underemployment And Marginally-Attached Workers At 17.9%. "Other measures of the labor market in North Carolina tell a similar story. For example, the labor underutilization rate -the unemployed, people working part-time but preferring full-time work, as well as individuals marginally attached to the labor force (discouraged workers and "conditionally interested" workers) - averaged 17.9 percent during 2011." (Peter A. Coclanis and Daniel P. Gitterman, Op-Ed: "Hardship Lingers In North Carolina," The Charlotte News Observer, 3/12/12)
And What Else Will President Obama Want To Avoid Talking About In His North Carolina Speech? Gas Prices And Health Care Costs:
Under President Obama, North Carolina's Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled From $1.76 Per Gallon In January 2009 To $3.89 Per Gallon Today. (AAA Website, www.aaa.com, Accessed 4/12/12)
President Obama's Latest Budget Cuts Military Health Care Funding By $12.9 Billion Over The Next Five Years, Resulting In "Higher Enrollment Fees" And Increased "Pharmacy Copayments" For Veterans. "In the next fiscal year, the military has outlined a $1.8 billion cut as part of a projected $48.7 billion health care budget covering 9.6 million people. The cuts would total $12.9 billion over five years. To offset the loss, retirees would pay higher enrollment fees based on how much they earn through their military pensions. Retirees and active-duty family members would pay more for pharmacy copayments, too." (Barrie Barber, "Military Retirees Could See Increase In Health Insurance Costs," Dayton Daily News, 3/30/12)


    North Carolina Is Home To Approximately 800,000 Veterans. "Several states that will be heavily contested next year have a significant military presence. Florida, home to a number of military installations, has more than 1.6 million veterans. Virginia and North Carolina, which Obama carried in 2008, both have about 800,000 veterans, and Colorado has more than 400,000." (Ken Thomas, "Obama Angling For Votes From Vets," The Associated Press, 12/13/11)
  

Employers In North Carolina Have Projected Health Care Premiums To Rise By 5.2% In 2012. "Mercer, a human-resource consulting company in Charlotte, annually tracks health-insurance charges nationwide. The survey of 86 North Carolina employers — all with at least 10 employees — found an average projected premium increase of 5.2 percent over 2011 costs." (Richard Craver, "Employee Health Care Costs Going Up In 2012," Winston-Salem Journal, 11/15/11)
  