
    "I usually don't agree with anything that Joe Biden says, but in 2007, he did say something which I did agree with then, and I agree with now. He said Barack Obama was not ready to be president. He was absolutely right then and the country is paying a huge expense for the fact that Barack Obama was not prepared to be president, he didn't have the experience to be president, and, frankly, didn't have the will to make the tough decisions that a president has to make." — Former New Hampshire Governor John Sununu
Former New Hampshire Governor John Sununu, State Senate Majority Leader Jeb Bradley, and John Stephen
"Welcome To New Hampshire, Vice President Biden" Press Conference Call
April 12, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "Welcome To New Hampshire, Vice President Biden" Press Conference Call:
JOHN SUNUNU: "I'm just thrilled that Vice President Biden is coming to New Hampshire. Every time he shows up, it gives us a really visible opportunity to talk about the tremendous failures of the Obama/Biden administration. I usually don't agree with anything that Joe Biden says, but in 2007, he did say something which I did agree with then, and I agree with now. He said Barack Obama was not ready to be president. He was absolutely right then and the country is paying a huge expense for the fact that Barack Obama was not prepared to be president, he didn't have the experience to be president, and, frankly, didn't have the will to make the tough decisions that a president has to make."
...
JEB BRADLEY: "I find it really interesting that Vice President Biden is coming to the Live Free or Die State — a state that has neither a broad-based income tax or a broad-based sales tax — with his message that it's time to raise taxes. The reason that New Hampshire has fared relatively better off in this terrible recession is because we're not a ‘tax-happy' state with no income and no sales tax. So, Vice President Biden's call to raise taxes on small business owners is exactly the wrong prescription for how to get our economy back on track."
...
JOHN STEPHEN: "The president has done nothing to create an environment that cultivates jobs. He has done nothing other than to destroy our ability in this country and in the state of New Hampshire to create the environment that is conducive to meaningful job creation. What we have heard from President Obama and the Vice President is more of the same. More about raising taxes, creating more government, and destroying jobs. In New Hampshire, we pride ourselves on a low tax environment. Low taxes and low spending. Welcome to New Hampshire, Vice President Biden."
  