
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Trauma is a significant public health problem that merits serious attention. The United States Department of Health and Human Services reports that traumatic injuries claim the lives of more than 180,000 Americans each year. Many thousands more are severely or permanently disabled. In addition to inflicting untold pain and suffering upon victims and their families, traumatic injuries also exact a high price from our Nation in terms of health care costs and lost productivity.
While each of us is a potential trauma victim, young Americans and senior citizens are at especially high risk. Traumatic injuries kill six times as many children as cancer, which is the next leading cause of death in children. Traumatic injuries -- most often suffered in motor vehicle collisions -- cause four out of five deaths among teenagers and young adults. Among persons 75 years of age or older, the death rate due to falls is nearly 12 times the rate in the general population.
Although these statistics are alarming, the vast majority of traumatic injuries result from hazards that can be reduced or prevented. All Americans need to learn more about the conditions and behaviors that can lead to traumatic injuries. By identifying and avoiding risks -- in the home, in the workplace, at play, and on the road -- we can lead healthier, safer lives.
When trauma does occur, however, proper medical care and rehabilitation also play an important role in reducing deaths and disability. Effective treatment begins with access to emergency services and hospitals that are capable of providing the high level of care needed by trauma victims. Optimal treatment includes rehabilitation programs and follow-up services that facilitate the fullest possible recovery.
Across the country health care professionals, educators, industry leaders, and government officials are working together with concerned citizens to promote greater awareness of traumatic injuries and to encourage the adoption of measures to prevent them. This month we recognize the importance of their efforts.
The Congress, by Public Law 101-471, has designated May 1991 as "National Trauma Awareness Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1991 as National Trauma Awareness Month. I urge all Americans to observe this month with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  