
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
April 17
The President returned to the White House after a weekend stay at Camp David, Md., where he held meetings with members of the Cabinet and White House staff.
The President met at the White House with:
—Senator S. I. Hayakawa of California;
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal and members of the Ad Hoc Committee on Tax Reform. The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a reception and country music concert for officers, directors, and members of the Country Music Association.
April 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—leaders of the National Student Lobby and the National Student Association;
—Adm. Startsfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall, Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger, and representatives of labor and management who negotiated a nationwide agreement for nuclear powerplants.
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of North Dakota as a result of severe storms, ice jams, snowmelt, and flooding, beginning about March 11, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
April 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Representative Michael J. Harrington of Massachusetts;
—Anne Wexler, Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for Regional Affairs;
—Senator James Abourezk of South Dakota and John Grits, a Cherokee Indian from South Dakota, who presented the President with his painting of an Indian chief;
—members of the American Legion Auxiliary, who presented the President with the 1978 Buddy Poppy;
—George M. White, Architect of the Capitol;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
The White House announced that Anne Wexler, Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for Regional Affairs, will be joining the White House staff as an Assistant to the President.
The President has appointed Herbert J. Cohen, Assistant Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the Labor Department's Employment Standards Administration as a member of the Committee for Purchase from the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped.
The President has appointed James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, as a member of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross.
April 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representatives Al Ullman, Joe D. Waggonner, Jr., and Dan Rostenkowski of the House Ways and Means Committee, to discuss tax reform;
—a group of Congressmen to discuss Federal civil service reform;
—Senator Dale Bumpers of Arkansas;
—David Rockefeller, chairman of the board of the Chase Manhattan Bank;
—Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, Secretary of Commerce Juanira M. Kreps, and a group of business leaders, to discuss inflation;
—Secretary Blumenthal.
April 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Secretary Blumenthal, Mr. Moore, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and a group of Congressmen, to discuss tax reform;
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., Peter G. Bourne, Special Assistant to the President for Health Issues, and Mr. Eizenstat;
—Dr. Schultze;
—representatives of the National Committee for an Effective Congress;
—Representative Stephen L. Neal of North Carolina, Roger Powers, president of Keep America Beautiful, Inc., Robert Timberlake, artist, and Iron Eyes Cody, actor;
—Richard G. Hatcher, mayor of Gary, Ind.
  