
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate A. Paul Anderson of Florida to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2007. Mr. Anderson currently serves as Vice President for Government Relations at JM Family Enterprises, Inc. He previously served as Director of Corporate Affairs and Assistant to the President of Hvide Marine, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Earlier in his career, he served as Press Secretary for former United States Congressman Connie Mack and as Special Assistant to former United States Senator Paula Hawkins. Mr. Anderson earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Florida.
The President intends to nominate David Hall of Massachusetts to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for the remainder of a three-year term expiring July 13, 2005. Dr. Hall is a Professor of Law at the Northeastern University School of Law. He is also the former Provost of Northeastern University and served as Dean of the School of Law from 1993 through 1998. Dr. Hall is a graduate of Kansas State University and received his M.A. and J.D. from University of Oklahoma. He went on to earn his L.L.M. and S.J.D. from Harvard University.
The President intends to appoint three and nominate three individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation:
The President intends to appoint Eric Ivan Cantor of Virginia, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring December 12, 2008.
The President intends to appoint Robert Cortez Scott of Virginia, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 3, 2008.
The President intends to appoint James Harvie Wilkinson III of Virginia, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 3, 2006.
The President intends to nominate David Wesley Fleming of California, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 29, 2007.
The President intends to nominate Jay Phillip Greene of Florida, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring November 17, 2005.
The President intends to nominate John Richard Petrocik of Missouri, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 27, 2008.
The President intends to appoint Vernon Benjamin Sauer of Georgia, to be United States Representative of the Sabine River Compact Administration. Mr. Sauer is the owner of Sauer Hydrologic Engineering, Inc. and earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas.
  