
    The President today announced that he will nominate William J. White, of Cambridge, Mass., to be a member of the Board of Directors of the New Community Development Corporation. White is executive director of the Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency in Cambridge.
The Board of Directors of the New Community Development Corporation consists of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, five persons appointed by the Secretary of HUD, and one person nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate, who is then designated General Manager of the Corporation and serves as its chief executive officer. The Corporation carries out a program of grants, loans, and loan guarantees to assist new communities.
White was born in Cambridge on December 18, 1926. He attended Suffolk University in Boston and Babson Institute in Wellesley. He served in the U.S. Navy in the Pacific theater during World War II.
From 1950 to 1961, White was president and owner of a real estate firm in Natick, Mass. From 1961 to 1965, he was executive director of the Brokers' Institute and Multiple Listing Service of the Greater Boston Real Estate Board.
He was president of White-Bison and Co., a small real estate company in Boston, from 1965 until 1969, when he became executive director of the Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency. At MHFA, he was responsible for creating and administering the first mixed-income housing program in the Nation. He also developed a program for financing the rehabilitation of deteriorated properties.
White has been a guest lecturer at Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the University of Massachusetts. He is a member of the Brokers Institute and chairman of the Greater Boston Real Estate Board.
White is chairman of the Governor's Task Force on Bank Disclosure and a member of the Governor's Advisory Committee on Civil Rights. He also serves on the Mayor's Citizens Housing Advisory Committee, the board of directors of the Council of State Housing Agencies, and the Housing and Urban Growth Task Force of the National Urban Coalition.
  