
    "When Vice President Biden heads to the West Coast today, he'll get to witness firsthand the damage caused by the Obama Administration's failed economic policies. After more than three years of broken promises, the people of California and Arizona recognize that the Obama economy has only resulted in more job losses, skyrocketing gas prices, and an ongoing housing crisis in both states." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today, Vice President Biden Heads West For Two Days Of Campaign Events In Arizona And California:
Vice President Biden Will Attend Campaign Fundraisers In Phoenix, Los Angeles, And Santa Barbara. "Vice President Biden attends campaign fundraisers in Phoenix and Los Angeles. ... Vice President Biden attends a campaign fundraiser in Santa Barbara, Calif." (Emily Goodin, "The Week Ahead: Congress Returns From Two-Week Recess," The Hill, 4/16/12)
What Won't You Hear From Vice President Biden When He Stops In California And Arizona? Any Discussion Of President Obama's Failed Housing Policies:
Arizona Led The Nation In Foreclosures Last Month, While California Had The Third-Highest Foreclosure Rate In The Country. "After 62 straight months, Nevada is no longer the top state for foreclosure rates. RealtyTrac reports Arizona had the highest rate in March, with the Silver State in second place and California third." (Tate South, "Nevada Out Of Top Foreclosure Spot," CBS-Las Vegas, 4/12/12)
California And Arizona Are Among The States With The Highest Number Of Children Who Live In Homes That "Were Lost To Foreclosure Or Are At Risk Of Being Lost." "Not surprisingly, the impact on children is greatest in states that were hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis. In Nevada, almost 1 in 5 children lived or live in owner-occupied homes that were lost to foreclosure or are at risk of being lost ... Elsewhere, the percentages fall to 15% in Florida, followed by 14% for Arizona and 12% for California." (Julie Schmit, "Report Estimates 8 Million Children Hurt By Foreclosures," USA Today, 4/18/12)
Housing Experts Have Noted That "Every Program" From President Obama "Has Fallen Far Short Of Goals." "‘Every program has fallen far short of goals. I can't think of one that's been largely successful,' says John Dodds, director of the Philadelphia Unemployment Project, a non-profit that's been involved in foreclosure prevention for decades." (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs?," USA Today, 12/12/11)

President Obama's Latest Housing Program — Meant To Target States Like California And Arizona — Is No Different. "A $7.6 billion Obama administration program that targets areas especially suffering from the housing crisis is falling short, with the government spending only about 3% of money set aside for ‘underwater' mortgage borrowers and other problems, a watchdog report said. ... Under the Hardest Hit program, states like California, Nevada and Arizona focused on aiding ‘underwater' homeowners, or those who owe more on their properties are worth." (Alan Zibel, "Inspector General Hits Obama Admin's ‘Hardest Hit' Housing Program," The Wall Street Journal, 4/12/12)

Vice President Biden May Want To Fill Up The Tank Before Heading West, As Both States Are Suffering From Skyrocketing Gas Prices:
Gas Prices In California Have More Than Doubled During President Obama's Time In Office — Increasing From $2.05 Per Gallon In January 2009 To $4.22 Per Gallon Today. (AAA Daily Fuel Gauge Report, www.aaa.com, Accessed 4/18/12)

California Has The Third-Highest Gas Prices In The Nation. "California, with the nation's third-most expensive gas behind Alaska and Hawaii, is home to 15 of the 20 metropolitan areas with the highest gas prices." (Yousur Alhlou, "States With Highest Gas Prices Back Obama," San Francisco Chronicle, 4/9/12)


Santa Barbara — Where Vice President Biden Will Stop On Friday — Has Some Of The Highest Gas Prices Of Any City In America. "San Francisco ranked fourth as of Friday with an average price of $4.35 per gallon, behind Santa Barbara, Chicago and Honolulu." (Yousur Alhlou, "States With Highest Gas Prices Back Obama," San Francisco Chronicle, 4/9/12)

Under President Obama, Arizona's Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled — From $1.79 Per Gallon In January 2009 To $3.87 Per Gallon Today. (AAA Daily Fuel Gauge Report, www.aaa.com, Accessed 4/18/12)
The People Of California And Arizona Are Struggling To Find Work In The Obama Economy:
California's Unemployment Rate Has Been Above 10% Every Month Since February 2009 And Is Currently At 10.9%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/18/12)


    In Los Angeles — Where Vice President Biden Will Hold An Event Today — The Unemployment Rate Is 13.3%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/18/12)
  



    More Than 2 Million California Workers Are Out Of A Job. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/18/12)
  



    During President Obama's Time In Office, Nearly 340,000 Californians Have Lost Their Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/18/12)
  

Under President Obama, Arizona's Unemployment Rate Has Increased From 8.3% To 8.7%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/18/12)


    Under President Obama, Over 78,000 Arizonans Have Lost Their Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, Accessed 4/18/12)
  

  