
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint eight individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate James R. Keith, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Malaysia. Mr. Keith, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as the Deputy Special Representative on Avian and Pandemic Influenza in the Bureau of Democracy and Global Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as the designated Chief of Mission in Hong Kong. Mr. Keith received his bachelor's degree from the College of William and Mary.
The President intends to nominate Nancy J. Powell, of Iowa, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Nepal. Ms. Powell, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as the National Intelligence Officer for South Asia at the National Intelligence Council. Prior to this, she served as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, she served as the Ambassador to the countries of Pakistan, Ghana and Uganda. Ms. Powell received her bachelor's degree from the University of Northern Iowa.
The President intends to nominate Stephen A. Seche, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Yemen. Mr. Seche, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as the Diplomat-in-Residence at the Center on Public Diplomacy at the University of Southern California. Prior to this, he served as the Deputy Chief of Mission in Damascus, Syria. Earlier in his career, he served as the Country Director for the Office of Lebanon, Jordan, and Syria Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. Mr. Seche received his bachelor's degree from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
The President intends to nominate James K. Glassman, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 8/13/07 and an additional three-year term expiring 8/13/10. The President also intends to nominate Mr. Glassman to be Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
The President intends to appoint William Hogarth, of Florida, to be a United States Commissioner to the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (Government Representative), for an additional three-year term.
The President intends to appoint Todd T. Semonite, of Vermont, to be the Federal Member of the Delaware River Basin Commission (Delaware, New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania), and to be the Federal Member of the Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Maryland, New York, and Pennsylvania).
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations for four-year terms:
Jennifer Dunn, of Washington
Terry D. Growcock, of Wisconsin
Herbert Fisk Johnson, of Illinois
James W. Owens, of Illinois
Sidney Taurel, of Indiana
William Gerald Walter, of Pennsylvania
  