
    MINNEAPOLIS, MN — Today, the Amy for America presidential campaign announced several additional top hires and a highly renowned team of advisors who will help lead the campaign's efforts to deliver Amy's positive economic agenda to voters across the country.
Tim Hogan, Communications Director - Before joining Amy for America, Tim Hogan was the National Press Secretary and Director of Campaign Communications at The Hub Project, a progressive advocacy organization. In 2016, Tim served as a Rapid Response Spokesman for Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign and ran press operations in Nevada, Arizona and Kentucky during the Democratic Primary. In Congress, in addition to serving as Communications Director for Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) and Congressman Steven Horsford (NV-04), he also worked as an intern for his home state Senator, Amy Klobuchar, in 2009. Over the years Tim has managed and advised multiple local, state, and federal campaigns: from individual state legislative runs to advising organizations like Forward Majority that focus on statehouse races across the country.
Lucinda Ware, National Political Director - Lucinda-Marie Ware spent the past cycle as a Partner at a Democratic media firm (SWAY) that specializes in the production of content for TV, radio, digital and general consulting. Lucinda helped guide SWAY's clients from coast to coast, working with first-time and experienced candidates alike to chart a path to electoral victory, while providing strategic guidance to some of the country's most influential labor unions, non-profits and businesses. During the 2018 cycle, Lucinda managed a candidate portfolio of six states and over twenty races across local, state and federal landscapes. Prior to joining SWAY, Lucinda served as Outreach Director for Mayor Pete Buttigieg's DNC chairman campaign, Political Director for Senator Van Hollen's successful U.S. Senate campaign, Director of Civic Engagement for Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, and Regional Field Director for the Maryland Lieutenant Governor (now-Congressman) Anthony Brown.
Anjan Mukherjee, Research Director - Anjan Mukherjee joins Amy for America after serving as the Research Director at the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee. Prior to that, Anjan was the Research Director at the League of Conservation Voters. He also led research efforts for Sen. Chris Coons's 2014 re-election campaign, and was a research associate at the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee before that.
Mike McLaughlin, National Field Director - Mike McLaughlin joins the Amy for America team after managing one of the most expensive House races in the country in 2018, leading to the defeat of 15-term incumbent Dana Rohrabacher in Orange County, California. Mike previously organized for the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor party in 2010 and has worked to elect Democrats across the country in states like Iowa, Virginia, Hawaii and Pennsylvania.
Kelsi Browning, New Hampshire Communications Director - Kelsi joins Amy for America having most recently served as National Communications Director for Paul Davis' campaign in Kansas' second congressional district, a targeted, top-tier DCCC red-to-blue race. Prior to that, she worked as Communications Director on Steve Farley's campaign for Arizona Governor. In 2016, Kelsi spent time in the battleground state of Pennsylvania as a Regional Press Secretary for Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign. She also spent time in various roles on Capitol Hill, as well as at public affairs firm SKDKnickerbocker.
Pete Giangreco, Senior Advisor - Pete has been a longtime political advisor to Sen. Klobuchar, including helping to become the first woman elected to the U.S. Senate from Minnesota in 2006. In 2008, Pete served as lead direct mail consultant to Obama for President during the Democratic primary season, and served as Deputy Director of Polling and Paid Media for OFA in the general election. In that capacity, Pete helped create the first Internet testing of direct mail pieces pioneered by the Obama campaign. In 2012, Pete was lead creative on direct mail that swept the presidential Pollie awards for Obama for America 2012. As a partner at The Strategy Group, Pete has pioneered targeting and research techniques that have made his direct mail some of the most effective in the country, and has advised dozens of Democratic campaigns at all levels of government.
Fred Yang, Research Advisor - Fred Yang is a partner with Hart Research Associates and founding principal of its political division—Garin-Hart-Yang Research Group. Fred has achieved a reputation for providing insightful analysis in his approach to political survey research, and for his hands-on involvement with his clients' campaigns. Campaigns & Elections magazine has singled him out for "his ability to master the local nuances of a race." And Capitol Hill's newspaper, Roll Call, named him as one of 10 Democratic consultants on its list of "Consultants Who Make A Difference." Fred counts several U.S. senators as his clients and is also the pollster for numerous members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Fred has been a regular contributor to network and cable television news programs such as MSNBC's "MTP Daily," and part of NBC News coverage of the national election returns since 2008.
Roy Temple, Media Advisor - Co-founder of GPS Impact, Roy Temple is a veteran political, public affairs and digital strategist. Roy has served as a chief of staff to both a governor and a U.S. Senator. He has served on the digital and/or strategy teams for Governor Mel Carnahan, Senator Jean Carnahan, Governor Bob Holden, Senator Sherrod Brown, Senator Al Franken, Governor Tom Wolf, Governor Roy Cooper and for Priorities USA. Roy has also assisted with crisis communications, including for natural disasters, plane crashes, recount litigation and political "scandals." Roy has been tapped to participate in debate prep for a wide variety of candidates and in the process has had the opportunity to debate Governor Mel Carnahan (playing Senator John Ashcroft), Senator Al Franken, Robin Carnahan and Jason Kander (playing Senator Roy Blunt), Governor Bob Holden (playing Senator Claire McCaskill), Brad Ellsworth (playing Senator Dan Coats) and Senator Sherrod Brown (playing Senator Mike DeWine). Temple is a former Chair of the Missouri Democratic Party and is a licensed attorney.
Jay Howser, Media Advisor - Jay Howser is currently a partner at GPS Media. Jay has created and produced campaign advertising for nearly a decade. As a Senior Vice President at Shorr Johnson Magnus, Jay was a key part of electing Democratic candidates in tough races for U.S. Senate, Congress, Governor, and Attorney General. Jay also helped lead the firms' work over the years for independent expenditures efforts for the DGA, DSCC, DCCC, House Majority PAC and Senate Majority PAC. Jay has also managed campaigns across the country, including those of Sen. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana; Sen. Chris Dodd of Connecticut; and Rep. Brad Ellsworth of Indiana. Initially one of the Democratic Party's top opposition research minds, Jay worked for Vice President Al Gore; Senators Bob Graham of Florida; Claire McCaskill of Missouri; and Paul Wellstone of Minnesota.
Andi Johnson, Media Advisor - Andi Johnson is currently a partner at GPS Media and comes to the Amy for America team with over 30 years of experience crafting some of the best political advertising campaigns in the country. Andi was previously a partner at Shorr Johnson Magnus, where she directed the creative process and contributed to the media strategy for a long list of clients, including U.S. Senators Bob Casey, Dick Durbin and Patrick Leahy, Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf, Senate Majority PAC, House Majority PAC, the DCCC and DSCC. On a national level, Andi was a member of the media team for President Obama in 2008, and Priorities USA in 2012 and 2016.
In the last two weeks, Klobuchar has announced several top hires in New Hampshire and Iowa, including New Hampshire State Director Scott Merrick, New Hampshire Deputy State Director Sondra Milkie, New Hampshire Political Director Ben Ernst, Iowa State Director Lauren Dillon, Iowa Campaign Chair Andy McGuire, Iowa Political Director Jamie Woods, Iowa Organizing Director Andrew Nelson, Iowa Deputy Organizing Director Andrew Larabee, Iowa Press Secretary Courtney Rice and Iowa Digital Media Manager Alli Peters.
  