
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 23
In the morning, the President attended an all-day Cabinet meeting at Blair House.
April 25
At a White House ceremony, the President's intention to nominate Aileen Adams as the Director of the Office for Victims of Crime at the Department of Justice was announced.
April 26
The White House announced the President has invited Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao of India to the White House for an official working visit on May 19.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of Illinois and ordered Federal funds be released to help individuals and families in that State recover from severe storms, heavy rain, and flooding which began on April 9.
The President announced the establishment of the United States Committee for the 50th Anniversary of the United Nations, to be chaired jointly by Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Ambassador Madeleine Albright.
April 27
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Irvine, CA, where he was joined by Hillary Clinton at the El Toro Marine Corps Air Station. They then went to Yorba Linda, CA, where they attended funeral services for President Richard Nixon at the Richard Nixon Library and Birthplace.
April 28
In the early morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gary N. Kimble to be Commissioner of the Administration for Native Americans in the Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services.
April 29
In the morning, the President had lunch with chief executive officers. In the afternoon, the President met with American Indian and Native Alaskan tribal leaders on the South Lawn at the White House.
The President announced the appointment of Keith Boykin as a Special Assistant to the President and Director of Specialty Press for the White House Office of Media Affairs and Ken Chitester as the Director of News Analysis for the White House.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of Texas and ordered Federal funds be released to help individuals and families in that State recover from severe storms and tornadoes which began on April 25.
  