
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

World Health Day, which marks the founding of the World Health Organization, serves to remind us that good health is a priceless commodity, which all the world's people should have the opportunity to enjoy throughout their life span.
The theme for World Health Day, 1985, "Healthy Youth: Our Best Resource," is particularly appropriate this year, which has been selected by the United Nations as International Youth Year. Today's youth represent a tremendous potential for society. In all countries, rich and poor, this group is the healthiest age group of all and is far better educated than preceding generations. They have survived the infectious diseases of childhood, such as measles, whooping cough, and polio. But they are also the most vulnerable to lifestyle practices that threaten later adulthood—poor food habits, cigarette smoking, abuse of alcohol and drugs, and inadequate exercise. It is our responsibility as parents and teachers to educate our youth on the importance of avoiding harmful drugs, practicing good safety measures, maintaining a proper diet, and getting regular exercise.
Furthermore, on World Health Day, the United States is pleased to join its fellow members of the World Health Organization in promoting healthy growth, and in pledging our continued support for efforts to improve the health of people throughout the world.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 50, has designated the week of April 1 through April 7, 1985 as "World Health Week" and designated April 7, 1985 as "World Health Day," and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these events.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning April 1 through April 7, 1985, as World Health Week, and April 7, 1985 as World Health Day. I call upon all of the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities and by practicing the lifestyles that promote good health.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  