
    Spots Include Testimonials from Governor Rendell & Mayor Nutter, Biographical Spot Highlighting Hillary's Ties to PA, Spanish Language Ad
The Clinton campaign today announced five television ads that will air in different cities throughout the Keystone State beginning today. The five ads - "Get it Done," "Spectacular," "Scranton," "Falling Through" and "Nuestra Amiga" - include testimonials from Governor Ed Rendell and Mayor Michael Nutter, as well as a biographical spot highlighting Hillary's ties to Pennsylvania.
The ads highlight Hillary's ability to get the job done as president - her commitment to jumpstarting our economy, standing up for the middle class, and bringing quality, universal health care to all Americans. "Nuestra Amiga," a Spanish language ad, highlights Hillary's understanding of the Latino community and the problems it faces.
View "Get it Done" here.
View "Spectacular" here.
View "Scranton" here.
View "Falling Through" here.
View "Nuestra Amiga" here.
Following are the scripts for the ads:
"Get It Done" (Philadelphia Market)
TV :30
Mayor Nutter: I know. You want to know why I'm supporting Hillary.
Easy.
She gets it... and she gets the job done.
As mayor, I know that's what we need from a President. We don't have a minute to waste.
Hillary's got the depth and breadth of experience to really help folks get jobs, put more cops on our streets, educate our kids, reduce the dropout rate, and invest in our communities.
I know Hillary and I know she cares about us.
She'll get the job done right now.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
"Spectacular" (Philadelphia Market)
TV :30
Governor Rendell: It's gonna take a fighter to get us out of the mess this country's in. And that's what Hillary Clinton has always been-a fighter. A doer.
She's got what it takes to revitalize our economy, create jobs, cut taxes for the middle class, and to bring affordable healthcare to all of us.
I've known Hillary for fifteen years. She's spent her life standing up for people. When she believes something has to be done, she just won't quit.
She'll be a spectacular president.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
"Scranton" (Scranton Market)
TV :30
Hillary Clinton: This is me in Scranton, where my father was raised, and my grandfather worked in the lace mill.
Every August, we'd pile into the car and head to our cottage on Lake Winola.
There was no heat, or indoor shower-just the joy of family.
I was raised on pinochle and the American dream.
I still have faith in that dream
It's just been neglected a little.
We all need to dream it again
And I promise.we will.
I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
"Falling Through" (Harrisburg, Johnstown/Altoona, Pittsburgh, and Erie Markets)
TV :30
Hillary Clinton: The Bush economy is like a trapdoor.
Too many families are one pink slip, one missed mortgage payment, one medical diagnosis away from falling through and losing everything.
The oil companies, the predatory student loan companies, the insurance companies and the drug companies, have had seven years of a president who stands up for them.
I intend to be a president who stands up for all of you.
I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
"Nurstra Amiga" (Our Friend - as translated from Spanish) (Philadelphia Market)
TV: 30
Our voice and our vote will elect the next President of the great country.
Our candidate is Hillary Clinton because she respects our culture and understands the problems that affect our community.
Millions of Hispanic families live with the fear of not having health insurance.
The economic crisis and the cost of living are of concern to all of us.
Hillary is our friend and will help us.
Let's vote for Hillary on April 22nd and we will have a better life.
We are with you!
I'm Hillary Clinton and I approve this message.
  