
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate C. Steven McGann, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Fiji Islands, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, and the Kingdom of Tonga and Tuvalu. Mr. McGann, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Director for Australia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Maritime Security Coordinator in the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Office of Assistance for Asia and Near East in the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration. Mr. McGann received his bachelor's degree from Claremont McKenna College and his master's degree from the Industrial College of the Armed Forces.
The President intends to nominate Christine O. Hill, of Georgia, to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Congressional Affairs). Ms. Hill currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Legislative Affairs at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prior to this, she served as Director of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs for the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC). Earlier in her career, she served as a Military Legislative Assistant to Senator Elizabeth Dole. Ms. Hill received her bachelor's degree from the United States Air Force Academy and her master's degree from Troy State University.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey Leigh Sedgwick, of Massachusetts, to be Assistant Attorney General (Office of Justice Programs) at the Department of Justice. Dr. Sedgwick currently serves as Acting Assistant Attorney General (Office of Justice Programs) and Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics at the Department of Justice. Prior to this, he served as an Associate Professor at the University of Massachusetts - Amherst. Dr. Sedgwick received his bachelor's degree from Kenyon College. He received his master's degree and PhD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate T. Vance McMahan, of Texas, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the United Nations General Assembly during his tenure of service as the United States Representative on the Economic and Social Council to the United Nations.
  