
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House)
(Rep. Gordon (D) Tennessee and 32 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly supports the continued development of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education programs that are focused on improving the Nation's competitiveness. However, the Administration has concerns with H.R. 362 in its current form for several reasons. Especially problematic are the dramatic increases in authorization levels, particularly for programs too new to have been rigorously evaluated for success in meeting their stated goals. The Administration also strongly objects to the provision of the bill that creates a pilot program that would fund construction and maintenance of high school science laboratories, an activity that is not an appropriate role of the Federal government.
Also, the Administration is concerned that the bill expands existing STEM education programs that have not been proven effective and creates new STEM education programs that overlap with existing Federal programs. In its soon-to-be-released report, the Academic Competitiveness Council has identified 105 existing STEM education programs spending over $3 billion annually, including 45 programs that support training of STEM teachers, and found that very few of these programs demonstrated evidence-based effectiveness. Given this, the Administration believes it is premature to expand or begin new STEM education programs that do not have a plan in place for rigorous, independent evaluation or are duplicative of existing Federal programs.
Specific provisions of the legislation of major concern are:
Authorization levels. H.R. 362 authorizes appropriations for National Science Foundation (NSF) programs at levels that far exceed the current funding and anticipated programmatic increases expected as part of the 10-year doubling plan in the President's American Competitiveness Initiative.
Laboratory Science Pilot Program. H.R. 362 would establish a new pilot grant program to improve laboratories and provide equipment and instrumentation to improve STEM teaching at the secondary school level. NSF programs already support the acquisition of laboratory equipment when that equipment is linked to the development and implementation of novel curricula, professional development, or teaching methods. In contrast, the routine purchase of consumable supplies should remain the responsibility of the recipient institution or local education agency. Similarly, the Administration believes it is inappropriate for Federal funds to be used to support construction, renovation, or maintenance of physical facilities that are the responsibility of State and local educational agencies.
Graduate Degree Programs. H.R. 362 would require development of master's degree programs for in-service math and science teachers. The Administration believes that this provision should be modified to specify that the master's degree programs should be in a STEM field, because few STEM master's degree programs allow for part-time enrollment or are scheduled around the typical academic calendar of an in-service teacher. The Administration strongly opposes the use of NSF funds under this program to support the acquisition of basic computer and networking equipment because it is well beyond NSF's traditional and appropriate role and mission.
Robert Noyce Scholarships. While the Administration supports the programmatic changes to the Robert Noyce Scholarships for prospective elementary and secondary school math and science teachers, this program is not yet mature enough to evaluate its impact on the efficacy or retention rate of program graduates. It is therefore inappropriate to greatly expand this program at the levels authorized in H.R. 362.
Curricular Materials Panel. H.R. 362 would require the convening of a National panel of experts to collect effective teaching materials for elementary and secondary school math, science, and technology, and to recommend development of new materials in areas where effective materials do not exist. The recommendations would not be considered a mandate of specific K-12 curricula. This provision is partially duplicative of the work of the National Mathematics Advisory Panel, which has already been conveyed by Executive Order of the President to identify materials and practices that are proven effective for mathematics instruction. This panel will report its findings in early 2008. In addition, the What Works Clearinghouse, established by the Department of Education's Institute of Education Sciences, is already engaged in an ongoing review of elementary and middle school curriculum-based interventions to identify which programs are effective based on rigorous scientific evidence.
  