
    Opportunity for All Americans: Today, Hillary discusses her own approach to the presidency that will expand opportunity for all Americans at the Newspaper Association of America's Annual Conference in Washington, DC.
New Ad in the Keystone State: Hillary supporters speak out against Sen. Obama's small town America comments in a new TV ad that will air in Pennsylvania...From supporters: "I'm not clinging to my faith out of frustration and bitterness...I find that my faith is very uplifting...The good people of Pennsylvania deserve a lot better than what Barack Obama said...Hillary does understand the citizens of Pennsylvania better." [Watch here.]
"A Can't-Miss Event for Clinton Supporters" in Bristol, PA: Yesterday in Bristol, PA "[t]he gymnasium was filled with red, white and blue signs that read '˜Hillary Rocks,' '˜Letter Carriers for Hillary' and '˜Hillary for President.'...'˜The economy is the worse I've ever seen it,' the Bristol resident said. '˜Oil prices are bad. She's the one who can do something about that. I've always been a Clinton supporter. They haven't let me down.'" Read more.
PA Endorsement Watch: Hillary received the endorsement of Allentown Mayor Ed Pawlowski, earning her the endorsement of mayors from Pennsylvania's "three largest cities": "I support her candidacy and ask Democratic voters in Allentown to do the same." Read More.
MT Endorsement Watch: "Yellowstone County Commissioner Bill Kennedy says he is endorsing Hillary Rodham Clinton...[Kennedy said:] '˜In Montana, going to church or going hunting is part of our heritage, not something we '˜cling to' out of bitterness or frustration...Sen. Obama showed a real disconnect with rural Montana. It might work to look down on us from San Francisco, but it won't sell when he comes back to Montana.'" Read more.
Save The Date: Hillary will appear on Comedy Central's "The Colbert Report" on Thursday. The program will be broadcasted from Philadelphia and will air at 11:30pm ET. Read More.
In Case You Missed It: West Virginians aren't happy with Sen. Obama's characterizations about the people who live in America's small towns. Read More.
  