
    Previewing Today: Tonight, Hillary participates in ABC's Philadelphia Democratic Primary Debate. Earlier today, she delivers remarks to the Building Trades National Legislative Conference.
In Case You Missed It: The front page USA Today article is headlined: "Obama tied to lobbyists, but boasts of not taking money." Read more.
First Hundred Days: Yesterday, Hillary told the Newspaper Association of America: "Starting from Day One, the Bush-Cheney era will be over in name and in practice" and outlined her plan for the first 100 days of the presidency. Read more and more.
Pennsylvania Mayors for Hillary: Over 100 Pennsylvania mayors endorsed Hillary yesterday, citing her "Pennsylvania roots and commitment to Pennsylvania values." Read more and more.
Speaking Out: In a letter yesterday, mayors across Indiana wrote to Sen. Obama and said his comments "demeaned the values of small Midwestern towns." The mayor of Oak Hill, WV said: "I think that [Sen. Obama's comment] characterizes the fact he is out of touch with West Virginia, and many other states — the Heartland of America." The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review says Sen. Obama's "‘bitter' pill is going to be tough to swallow...What Obama dished out was a cold, stinging slap, and not just to Pennsylvanians but to Americans across the country." Read more, more and more.
Tar Heels for Hillary: The campaign announced 1,500 North Carolina women for Hillary yesterday. Gladys Graves, former president of the North Carolina Association of Editors and Hillary supporter, said, "[Hillary] is an intelligent and caring woman and we need someone like that in the White House." Read more.
Stronger Against McCain: A new Rasmussen survey of likely Florida voters shows Hillary leading the state against Senator McCain...The same poll shows Senator McCain would beat Senator Obama in that state by 15 points (53-38). Read more.
FL Voices Count: In an interview with the St. Petersburg Times, Hillary said voters in FL are "tired of being disenfranchised. They saw a Democrat deprived of a congressional seat in 2006 because mysteriously thousands of votes weren't counted. They saw problems in the '04 election. And everybody remembers 2000...We're Democrats. I thought we believed in counting votes." Read more.
Tax Day Test: "For all of Sen. Obama's rhetoric about the need for tax return transparency, you'd think he'd have released all of his tax records. Guess again... Sen. Obama has refused to release his tax returns for 1997, 1998 and 1999, even though he was in public life as a state senator during those years. During this period of time, Sen. Obama was accepting contributions from special interest lobbyists, PACs and even directly from corporations." Read more.
Stretch on Ethics Reform: Politifact reports on a new ad airing in PA that "Obama claims he was the driving force in the Senate on ethics reform. We find he was a player but not the quarterback...This new ad both exaggerates the role Obama played in the debate, and fails to put the new ethics law in any sort of context." Read more.
  