
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Missouri Governor Matt Blunt and House Speaker Rod Jetton have endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Governor Blunt and Speaker Jetton have been strong advocates for Missourians on fiscal issues, traditional values and economic growth.
"Governor Blunt and Speaker Jetton have been a powerful voice on the issues that matter most to the people of Missouri, and I am honored to have them as part of my team," said Governor Romney. "Like Matt and Rod, I believe we must reduce the burdensome taxes and regulations holding our businesses back, demand greater accountability and efficiency from government and rise to meet the new generation of challenges facing our nation in the 21st century."
Endorsing Governor Romney, Governor Blunt said, "Mitt Romney's strong conservative principles are right for America. He is a strong leader and a proven problem solver - in private business, the Olympics, and as Governor. Governor Romney lives the American values that we cherish. I believe he has a great vision for the future of the United States."
Joining Governor Blunt, Speaker Jetton said, "Governor Romney is a strong conservative leader who will restore fiscal discipline in our nation's capital. As Governor, he fought for traditional marriage and against tax increases that would have made it harder for businesses to grow. He has the values and the vision that are needed to keep America strong."
Background On Governor Matt Blunt And Speaker Rod Jetton:
Governor Matt Blunt Became Missouri's 54th Governor In 2004. Prior to his election as governor, Matt Blunt served as an active duty Naval Officer, as a member of the Missouri General Assembly and as Missouri's 37th Secretary of State. Governor Blunt has signed meaningful litigation reform to address a health care crisis that was driving doctors out of the state and also implemented significant regulatory reforms that will lower costs for small business owners. He also submitted a balanced budget to the Missouri General Assembly that contains a significant increase in funding for public schools without an increase in existing taxes or the imposition of new taxes on Missouri's working families.
Rod Jetton Was Elected To The Missouri House Of Representatives In 2000 And Became House Speaker In 2005. A Missouri native, Jetton graduated from Southwest Baptist University in Bolivar. In 1996, he became the youngest-ever elected member of a Missouri county commission. A former Marine Corps Officer who served in Bosnia and Somalia, he founded a real estate business that showed him how difficult his state's business climate had become for small business owners. A member of the Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business, he has been a strong advocate for reduced taxes and regulation. In 2000, Jetton won a seat in the Missouri House of Representatives and was chosen as Speaker in 2005.
  