
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals and appoint two individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Anita K. Blair, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. Ms. Blair currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Military Personnel Policy and Total Force Transformation. Prior to this, she was President of the Independent Women's Forum. Earlier in her career, she served as Chairman of the Congressional Commission on Military Training and Gender-Related Issues. Ms. Blair received her bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and her JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Anne E. Derse, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Azerbaijan. Ms. Derse, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, most recently served as a Director for Bio Defense Policy at the Homeland Security Council at the White House. Prior to this, she served as Minister Counselor for Economic Affairs at the United States Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq. Earlier in her career, she served as Minister Counselor for Economic Affairs at the United States Mission to the European Union in Brussels, Belgium. Ms. Derse received her bachelor's degree from Macalester College and her master's degree from the Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate Robert S. Ford, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria. Mr. Ford, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Political Affairs Counselor in Baghdad, Iraq. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Manama, Bahrain. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief of the Political and Economic Section in Yaounde, Cameroon. Mr. Ford received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from the Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate Mark V. Rosenker, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, for a two-year term. General Rosenker currently serves as Acting Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, and has served as a Member of the Board and Vice Chairman since 2003. Prior to that, he served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Military Office. A Major General in the U.S. Air Force Reserve, General Rosenker began his service in the U.S. Air Force in 1969. He is the recipient of the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal and previously served on the American Battle Monuments Commission. General Rosenker earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland.
The President intends to nominate Leslie V. Rowe, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and the Republic of Vanuatu. Ms. Rowe, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in Nairobi, Kenya. Prior to this, she served as Consul General in Bangkok, Thailand. Earlier in her career, she served as Counsul General in Lisbon, Portugal. Ms. Rowe received her bachelor's degree from Washington State University and a master's degree from Northeastern University. She later received a second master's degree from Tufts University.
The President intends to nominate Daniel S. Sullivan, of Alaska, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs. Major Sullivan is currently on military leave from the National Security Council where he recently completed service as a Strategic Advisor and Special Assistant to the Commander US Central Command in Tampa, Florida. Prior to being recalled to active duty service, he served as a Director in the International Economics Directorate for the National Security Council and National Economic Council at the White House. Earlier in his career, he was a business attorney and served as a judicial law clerk on the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and on the Supreme Court of the State of Alaska. Major Sullivan received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University. He also received his master's degree and JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy:
Craig J. Duchossois, of Illinois, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2008
Robert Pacheco, of California, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2007
  