
    "My Administration is embracing a new spirit of innovation that will make life better for all Americans." --President Donald J. Trump
A GLOBAL 5G LEADER: Thanks to President Donald J. Trump, America is now leading the global race to deploy secure and reliable 5G.

The United States is a world leader in global 5G readiness.
The United States now leads the world with by far the most secure and reliable commercial 5G deployments, with 5G trials in multiple cities.
America also leads the world in availability of critical high- and low-band spectrum for wireless, allowing for high-speed and high-capacity applications.
We must build on these advantages through innovation and investment in America's mid-band spectrum and wireless cell site infrastructure.

EMPOWERING THE WIRELESS INDUSTRY: President Trump's policies empower the wireless industry to innovate and invest in America's 5G capabilities, further bolstering our economy and creating millions of jobs.

President Trump's historic tax cuts and deregulatory actions have created incentives for the wireless industry to invest in 5G technology.

According to a recent study, America's wireless industry plans to invest $275 billion to deploy 5G networks, creating 3 million new jobs and adding $500 billion to our economy.


Since November 2018, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has auctioned 1,550 megahertz of spectrum to be used by commercial wireless providers for 5G.

A third spectrum auction set for December will be the largest in American history, offering 3,400 megahertz of spectrum to wireless providers for 5G.


The American private sector is leading the way on deployment of secure and reliable 5G through commercial trials.
The Trump Administration is lowering regulatory barriers to deployment, resulting in increased investment in 5G infrastructure.
The President is committed to efficient spectrum use and spurring private-sector investment in 5G.

AMERICA FIRST – TO 5G: President Trump is ensuring that America wins the global race to 5G and remains the world leader in information and communications technology.

Last year, President Trump signed a memorandum on "Developing a Sustainable Spectrum Strategy for America's Future," enabling us to secure America's leadership in 5G and beyond.
The Administration is developing a National Spectrum Strategy focused on more effective and efficient spectrum management that will allow America to reach the full potential of 5G.

The National Spectrum Strategy will ensure a balanced approach to spectrum management to support critical government services and future spectrum uses.


To ensure rural America is not left behind, the FCC aims to create a new $20.4 billion Rural Digital Opportunity Fund that will extend high-speed broadband to 4 million homes and small businesses.
The United States is working internationally on telecommunication security principles that will foster reliable 5G network and supply chain development.

  