
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 16
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned from a weekend stay at Camp David, MD.
April 18
The President announced his intention to nominate Ira S. Shapiro for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Senior Counsel and Negotiator in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.
April 19
The President announced his intention to appoint Art Trujillo and Rick Reyes as members of the Advisory Council of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission established under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
April 20
The President announced his intention to nominate Larry C. Napper, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador to Latvia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lawrence Palmer Taylor, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador to Estonia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter Tomsen, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador to Armenia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jenonne Walker to be Ambassador to the Czech Republic.
The President announced his intention to nominate R. Grant Smith, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador to Tajikistan.
The President announced the appointment of Panamanian citizens Fernando Cardoze, Moises Mizrachi, Emmanuel Gonzales Revilla, and Jorge Ritter as members of the Board of the Panama Canal Commission.
April 21
In the morning, the President traveled to Havre de Grace, MD. Following his arrival, he met with individuals at the Duck Decoy Museum who are working to protect the environment.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President met with U.S. Ambassador to Burundi Robert Krueger.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding, February 15-20.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick Nickolas Theros, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service and class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador to the State of Qatar.
The President announced his intention to nominate A. Peter Burleigh, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service and class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as well as to the Republic of Maldives.
The President announced his intention to appoint Frederick Calhoun James and Huel D. Perkins to the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities.
The President announced his intention to appoint Helen Roth to the Advisory Committee to the White House Conference on Aging.
The President announced his intention to reappoint the following members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation:
—Senator Dennis DeConcini;
—Jerry M. Hultin;
—James B. Nutter;
—Harriet Woods.
  