
    Billings, MT - Montana for Hillary recently hired three Montanans to fulfill key roles in her Montana campaign. Lena Belcourt of Rocky Boy will serve as Indian Affairs Coordinator, Kate Downen of Great Falls as Communications Director and Walter Schweitzer will serve as Senior Advisor to the campaign's in-state effort.
Belcourt, a Chippewa Cree Tribal member, is a health policy analyst and consultant who advises elected Tribal Leadership in their in local, state and national policymaking. In 2004 Belcourt served on then Governor-Elect Schweitzer's transition team as a policy advisor, and in 2005 she was detailed by the Chippewa Cree Tribe to the Office of the Governor of Montana, serving as the Governor Schweitzer's Policy Advisor on Health and Disability. Belcourt also staffed Alvin Windy Boy, Sr., former Chairman of the Chippewa Cree Tribe, on his health policy agenda. Belcourt lives on the Rocky Boy Reservation in north central Montana.
Belcourt intends to make Indian healthcare a focus of her work for Montana for Hillary.
"We as Indians have been left out of the American dream by our lack of access to accessible, affordable healthcare. I believe in accessible, quality healthcare for Montana Tribes and I know that Hillary Clinton will work her hardest to make it a reality."
Kate Downen of Great Falls joins Montana for Hillary as Communications Director. Downen graduated from CM Russell in 1998, has a bachelor's degree in English from the University of Notre Dame and was press secretary on Jon Tester's successful U.S. Senate campaign in 2006. She spent several years in Montana's Flathead Valley working on regional economic development issues and worked as NewWest.Net's Flathead Valley editor.
"I couldn't be happier to be home, working with a team of people who really understand and care about Montana issues. Our lives and our families are here, and we're passionate about electing a candidate who will work hard in the interest of all Montanans."
Walter Schweitzer, Senior Advisor to the campaign, is a third-generation Montana farmer and rancher. Schweitzer has worked as an agriculture consultant around the world and has volunteered on several campaigns, including his brother Governor Brian Schweitzer's campaigns. Schweitzer was born in Great Falls and farms and ranches near Geyser.
"It's important to Montana that Hillary Clinton be elected President. I know she can turn our economy around and get us out of the Iraq war," Schweitzer said.
They join Matt McKenna of Bozeman, who has been serving as state director since early April.
  