
    WASHINGTON, DC — Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•     General Larry R. Ellis, USA (Ret.) — Member, American Battle Monuments Commission
•     Howard Z. Borin — Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
•     Grace Tsao-Wu — Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
President Obama said, "These dedicated and accomplished individuals will be valued additions to my Administration as we tackle the important challenges facing America. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
General Larry R. Ellis, USA (Ret.), Appointee for Member, American Battle Monuments Commission
General Larry R. Ellis, USA (Ret.) has been President and CEO of VetConnexx, LLC since 2013, a company that provides career opportunities for veterans based in Atlanta, Georgia. He is also President and CEO of ESSE, LLC, a facilities management consulting company. He was President and CEO of Point Blank Solutions, Inc. from 2005 to 2009. General Ellis served in the Army from 1969 to 2004, and achieved the rank of Four Star General in 2001. He served in numerous command and leadership positions in the United States, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Germany, South Korea, and Vietnam. He is a member of the University System of Georgia Board of Regents, the Morgan State University Board of Regents, and the Armed Forces Benefit Association. His awards include the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Army Distinguished Service Medal, the Bronze Star Medal, and the NAACP National Service Award. General Ellis attended the U.S. Army War College and received a B.S. from Morgan State University and an M.S. from Indiana University.
Dr. Howard Z. Borin, Appointee for Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
Dr. Howard Z. Borin is a Board Certified Pediatrician. He most recently worked as Physician in Charge at the Nemours Hospital for Children satellite office in Delaware from 2007 to 2012. From 1997 to 2007, Dr. Borin was the Physician in Charge for the first outreach program for the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Prior to that, Dr. Borin ran his own pediatric practice from 1971 to 1997. From 1970 to 1971, Dr. Borin was a Registrar at the Hospital for Sick Children of Great Ormond Street in London, England. Dr. Borin completed his residency at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. He was named among the Best Doctors in America by Best Doctors, Inc. from 2007 to 2012, and has been ranked numerous times as among the Top Doctors in Delaware by Delaware Today Magazine. Dr. Borin received a B.A. and an M.D. from Indiana University.
Grace Tsao-Wu, Appointee for Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
Grace Tsao-Wu is currently a Partner at Laudi Vidni, a position she has held since 2009. From 1994 to 2014, Ms. Tsao-Wu was the founder and owner of her own business, Tabula Tua. She is on the board of One Million Degrees, an organization that empowers low-income, highly motivated community college students to succeed in school, work, and life. She is also on the advisory board of the Chinese American Service League. Prior to this, Ms. Tsao-Wu worked for Kraft Foods from 1990 to 1993 and Price Waterhouse from 1983 to 1988. Ms. Tsao-Wu received a B.S. from the University of California, Berkeley and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
  