
    President Bush Sends Congress Legislation To Implement U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement, Urges Bipartisan Support
"For the last 16 months, we've worked with congressional leaders to set a schedule for the consideration of the Colombian free trade agreement. While we'll continue to work closely with Congress, the need for this agreement is too urgent – the stakes for our national security are too high – to allow this year to end without a vote. By statute, Congress has 90 legislative days to complete action once I transmit a bill implementing this agreement. Waiting any longer to send up the legislation would run the risk of Congress adjourning without the agreement ever getting voted on."
– President George W. Bush, 4/7/08
For Over A Year, The President And His Administration Have Reached Out To The House And Senate Leadership To Build A Bipartisan Path For Consideration Of The Agreement:


55: The Administration led Congressional delegations to Colombia for 55 Members of Congress so they could see the country's progress first-hand.


144: Administration officials have delivered remarks educating the public about the benefits of free trade to U.S. workers in at least 144 cities throughout the United States.


444: Since August 2007, cabinet and sub-cabinet officials have held at least 444 free trade agreement-related meetings or phone calls with Members of Congress including:


265: At least 265 meetings with Democrats.


179: At least 179 meetings with Republicans.


27: At least 27 meetings or calls with Democratic Congressional leadership.



160: USTR consulted with Congress 160 times in the run-up to and during negotiations as required by Trade Promotion Authority (TPA).

The U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement Has Received Overwhelming Support From Outside Sources:


54: There have been 54 former high-ranking government officials, both Democrats and Republicans, who have signed letters supporting the Colombia trade agreement along with other free trade agreements.


100: Newspapers have published approximately 100 op-eds and editorials favoring one or all of the pending agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea and the free trade agreement with Peru.


  