
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Advisory Council on Vocational Education. The President also announced his intention to designate Edward D. Miller as Chairman.
Edward D. Miller would succeed Patricia Knox. He is president and chief executive officer of Future Business Leaders of America in Washington, D.C. He was born July 5, 1934.
Betty Breaux would succeed Carol S. Gibson. She is currently chairman, English Department, Northwestern Junior High School in Zachary, La. She was born December 11, 1929.
Vernon Broussard would succeed William A. Stembridge, Jr. He is associate dean, School of Education, University of Southern California in Los Angeles. He was born January 30, 1934.
James H. Buford would succeed Jack B. Reihl. He is senior vice president of the International Management and Development Group, Ltd., in Washington, D.C. He was born June 2, 1944.
John L. Davis would succeed Rose Fong Chao. He is an associate circuit court judge in Decatur, Ill. He was born May 25, 1942.
Joanne M. Dwyer would succeed Ray Majerus. She is currently a guidance counselor and placement director at Crawford County Area Vocational Technical School in Meadville, Pa. She was born June 18, 1939.
Gladys S. Eddy would succeed Elaine R. Jones. She is an assistant professor, Department of Administration Management and Teacher Education at Colorado State University in Fort Collins, Colo. She was born December 25, 1915.
George W. Fellendorf would succeed Thomas P. Glynn. He is president of the Fellendorf Association in Washington, D.C. He was born September 11, 1925.
James W. Griffith would succeed John P. Lipton. He is director of development at Texas State Technical Institute in Waco, Tex. He was born November 5, 1927.
Reuben T. Guenthner would succeed Patricia Vasquez. He is deputy State director, State Board for Vocational Education, in Bismarck, N. Dak. He was born August 5, 1934.
Jean Hanson would succeed Alphonse Jackson. She is currently president, American Vocational Association, University of Minnesota, in St. Paul. She was born May 9, 1942.
Caroline E. Hughes would succeed Rae Marie Levis. She was a member of the National Advisory Council on Vocational Education in 1971-1981. She resides in Cushing, Okla., and was born April 3, 1921.
Elizabeth Joan Kenney would succeed John Rowlett. She serves on the Nevada State Board of Education. She resides in Las Vegas, Nev., and was born December 29, 1929.
Edward Lamontagne would succeed Samuel Bernstein. He is a vocational counselor for handicapped students at Saint Joseph College in West Hartford, Conn. He was born August 4, 1952.
Byrl R. Shoemaker would succeed Christine Long. He is executive director, Vocational and Career Education and Food Service, for the State of Ohio. He resides in Columbus, Ohio, and was born October 5, 1918.
Kenneth M. Smith would succeed John Erwin. He is president and chief executive officer, International Management and Development Group Ltd., in Washington, D.C. He was born April 5, 1949.
Calvin Stephens would succeed Roman Pucinski. He is president and chief executive officer of the Dallas Minority Business Center in Dallas, Tex. He was born February 11, 1945.
  