
    "We already knew about the Obama Rule — the insistence on raising taxes to support more spending and even bigger government. Now we have the Biden Rule, which is the Vice President's repeated equation of higher taxes with patriotism. Americans know that our taxes are already too high and that Washington spends too much money. In November, they will have the chance to tell the Obama Administration that enough is enough." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Yesterday, Vice President Biden Echoed His 2008 Comments That Higher Taxes Are Patriotic:
The Vice President Said That Higher Taxes Are A "Patriotic" Duty. BIDEN: "I often point out, wealthy people are just as patriotic as poor people. They're just as patriotic as middle-class people. And I think they know — I think they know they should be doing more." (Vice President Joe Biden, Campaign Event, Exeter, NH, 4/12/12)


    Watch Video Here
  

In 2008, Candidate Biden Also Said That Higher Taxes Were "Patriotic." "Democratic vice presidential candidate U.S. Sen. Joe Biden said Thursday that people earning more than $250,000 should ‘be patriotic' and pay more taxes. ... ‘It's time to be patriotic,' said Biden. ‘Time to be part of the deal. Time to help get America out of the rut.'" ("Biden: Wealthy Paying Taxes 'Patriotic'," United Press International, 9/18/08)


    Watch Video Here
  

FLASHBACK — Criticism Of Candidate Biden's Comments About Tax Increases And Patriotism:
Panama City [FL] News-Herald: "Perhaps A More Patriotic Act Would Be For Biden And His Cohorts In Washington To Spend The Tax Dollars They Have More Responsibly, So They Don't Burden The Nation With A Mountain Of Debt." (Editorial, "Patriot Games," Panama City (Florida) News-Herald, 9/18/08)
Northwest Florida Daily News: "Where In The World Did [Biden] Come Up With His Definition Of Patriotism?" (Editorial, "The Dubious Patriotism Of High Taxes," Northwest Florida Daily News, 10/7/08)
Las Vegas Review-Journal: "There's Nothing Patriotic About Punishing Success." (Editorial, "Be 'Patriotic': Pay More," Las Vegas Review-Journal, 9/24/08)
The Wall Street Journal: "As For Patriotism, Maybe The Young Joe Biden Missed School The Day The Boston Tea Party Was Being Taught." (Editorial, "God, Patriotism And Taxes," The Wall Street Journal, 9/22/08)
  