
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, appoint nine individuals and designate three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Harvey S. Rosen of New Jersey to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Rosen is currently a Professor of Economics at Princeton University. Prior to this he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Tax Analysis for the Department of Treasury. Mr. Rosen earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan. He went on to earn his master's degree and his Ph. D. from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Rick A. Dearborn of Oklahoma to be Assistant Secretary of Energy for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs. Currently, Mr. Dearborn serves as Legislative Director for Senator Jeff Sessions. He has previously served on the Senate Steering Committee as Chairman Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison's Director of Strategy and Floor Operations. Mr. Dearborn earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Oklahoma.
The President intends to appoint Glenn Dale Steil of Michigan to be a Member of the National Selective Service Appeal Board.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee:
The President intends to appoint James F. Albaugh of Missouri to represent The Boeing Company.
The President intends to appoint Frank Ianna of New Jersey to represent AT&T.
The President intends to appoint Richard C. Notebaert of Colorado to represent Qwest Communications International Inc.
The President intends to appoint Hector de Jesus Ruiz of Texas to represent Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
The President intends to appoint Patricia F. Russo of New Jersey to represent Lucent Technologies.
The President intends to appoint Stratton D. Sclavos of California to represent VeriSign, Inc.
The President intends to appoint Susan Spradley of Texas to represent Nortel Networks.
The President intends to appoint John W. Stanton of Washington to represent Western Wireless, T-Mobile USA.
The President intends to designate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the National Capital Revitalization Corporation.
The President intends to designate Kathryn Donaldson Baker of the District of Columbia for a four-year term beginning July 15, 2003.
The President intends to designate W. Ronald Evans of the District of Columbia for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 14, 2005.
The President intends to designate Joseph Reyes of Maryland for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 14, 2006.
  