
    Pool Reports by Alexander Roarty, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




April 6, 202309:54

In-town pool report #1 -- Biden calls Johnson, Gov. Parson
Good morning from a balmy Washington. I'll be you in-town pooler today.
White House passes along this note about the president calling Brandon Johnson, mayor-elect of Chicago:
Yesterday, President Biden spoke to Mayor-elect Brandon Johnson and congratulated him on his victory in the Chicago mayoral election.
Last night, the President also spoke with Governor Mike Parson from Missouri regarding the severe weather storms impacting the state. President Biden emphasized the Administration's commitment to providing resources to respond to immediate needs and long-term rebuilding.



April 6, 202309:55

In-town pool report #2 Brunch lid
We have a brunch lid until 12:30.
A reminder of today's schedule:
EDT
10:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
11:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingOval OfficeClosed Press
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to Fort Lesley J. McNairNorth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool (Gather 3:45 PM – Stakeout Location)
4:20 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Fort Lesley J. McNair en route to Camp DavidFort Lesley J. McNair, Washington, DCIn-Town Travel Pool
Briefing Schedule
1:00 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre



April 6, 202310:19

Pool Note -- Kirby to join briefing
White House passes along:
NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing today.
Briefing is slated to start at 1 p.m.



April 6, 202313:26

In-town pool report #4 -- Biden drops by Investing in America Cabinet meeting
Note: there has still been no official update to the White House schedule today
Passing this along from the White House:
President Biden dropped by an Investing in America Cabinet meeting hosted by Chief of Staff Jeff Zients. The President thanked members of his Cabinet and his Administration for implementing his historic economic agenda and delivering for hardworking families – including implementing the Inflation Reduction Act, the CHIPS and Science Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the American Rescue Plan – and for their participation in the ongoing three-week long Investing in America tour.
Members of the Investing in America Cabinet meeting included:

Secretary Deb Haaland, Department of the Interior
Secretary Tom Vilsack, Department of Agriculture
Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce
Acting Secretary Julie Su, Department of Labor
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation
Secretary Granholm, Department of Energy Jennifer
Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education
Administrator Isabel Guzman, Small Business Administration
Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget
Jeff Zients, White House Chief of Staff
Anita Dunn, Senior Advisor to the President
Natalie Quillian, White House Deputy Chief of Staff
Susan Rice, White House Domestic Policy Advisor
Louisa Terrell, Director of Legislative Affairs
Jen Klein, Executive Director of the White House Gender Policy Council
Lael Brainard, Director of the National Economic Council
Evan Ryan, White House Cabinet Secretary
John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation
Gene Sperling, Senior Advisor and American Rescue Plan Coordinator
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor and Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator
Heather Boushey, Chief Economist of the Investing in America Cabinet
Ali Zaidi, National Climate Advisor




April 6, 202313:29

In-town pool report #5 -- two-minute warning for briefing
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



April 6, 202313:35

In-town pool report #6 gathering for departure
pooler has been instructed to gather for the president's departure. the briefing remains ongoing



April 6, 202313:50

In-town pool report #7 motorcade rolling
Motorcade is rolling at 1:50 from the North Grounds of the White House. Pool glimpsed POTUS briefly as he walked toward the Beast.



April 6, 202314:01

In-town pool report #8 arrival fort McNair
Motorcade arrived at its destination Fort Lesley J. McNair at 2:00.
Uneventful ride over from the White House.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Fort Lesley J. McNair:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor
Biden was initially scheduled to leave for Fort McNair at 4, and for Camp David at 4:20.



April 6, 202314:08

in-town pool report #9 Marine One liftoff / no questions
Biden boarded Marine One at 2:02. He did not stop to take questions from the press during the short walk from the motorcade to the chopper.
Pool spotted Biden kneeling to the ground to pick a small flower (maybe a dandelion) on his way to Marine One, which he gave to FLOTUS.
Marine One lifted off at 2:05 for Camp David.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One from Fort Lesley J. McNair en route to Camp David:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security AdvisorJordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady



April 6, 202315:03

in-town pool report #10 — briefing ends
The briefing ended at 3:02.
Pooler made it back to the WH from Fort McNair while the briefing was ongoing.



April 6, 202315:36

In-town pool report #11 -- Biden arrival at CD / lid
From the White House:
The President and the First Lady arrived at Camp David at around 2:42PM.
As of 3:34, we have a lid. Everyone enjoy your day




  