
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The United States is firmly linked with other nations in the global economy by mutually beneficial international trade. Exports now account for more than 16 percent of the total value of all goods produced in this country. Two of every five acres of farmland produce for export, and one of every eight jobs in manufacturing depends on overseas trade. Indeed, four of every five new manufacturing jobs are export-related.
As the world's largest trading Nation, the United States has much to gain from the continued expansion of world trade and much to lose if it is diminished. As a country that has been built on economic freedom, America must be an unrelenting advocate of free trade.
As an integral part of the marketplace, the free flow of goods and services across international borders serves to raise the living standards and promote the well-being of people throughout the globe. It inspires private initiative and the entrepreneurial spirit which leads to more open markets, greater freedom, and serves as a boon to human progress. In an interdependent world made smaller by modern communications, free trade is even more essential for the continued economic growth and advancement of both industrialized and developing nations. America must not be tempted to turn to protectionism, but lead the way toward freer trade and more open markets where our producers and training partners can compete on a fair and equal basis.
Despite the high volume of our international trade, we still are far from matching the international sales efforts of our leading competitors. Only ten percent of our firms export, and only seven percent of our gross national produce finds its way into foreign markets—less than half the percentage of our major trading partners.
In this increasingly interdependent world, American business must focus more of its efforts on exporting our goods and services. A promising new tool is now available to increase export participation: the Export Trading Company Act of 1982. This law will help American businesses, particularly small and medium-sized companies, to organize themselves for stronger export efforts with considerably less hindrance by government regulation.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 22, 1983, as World Trade Week, and I invite the people of the United States to join in appropriate observances to affirm the enormous potential international trade has for creating jobs and stimulating economic activity in this country, as well as for generating prosperity the world over.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 7th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  