
    The White House today announced that Deesha Dyer has been promoted to Special Assistant to the President and Social Secretary. She currently serves as Deputy Director and Deputy Social Secretary. Deesha was selected from among an abundance of well-qualified candidates for her passion and dedication to opening the doors of the White House, most notably engaging students from communities across the country. Prior to this role, Dyer worked as Deputy Director and Hotel Program Director in the White House Office of Scheduling and Advance, the same office where she originally came to the White House as an intern in 2009.
"Deesha shares our commitment to a White House that reflects America's history, highlights our culture, and celebrates all Americans. Michelle and I look forward to working with her in this new role as we welcome visitors from across the country and around the world to the People's House," the President said.
"I am incredibly honored to continue serving the President and First Lady in my new role as White House Social Secretary," said Deesha Dyer. "I am constantly inspired by the openness, diversity, and traditions of this Administration and I look forward to leading the talented Social Office team as we further the goals and priorities of the President and First Lady throughout these last two exciting years in office."
"From the day Deesha started in the Social Office nearly two years ago, she impressed me with her passion, creativity, public-mindedness and relentless competence," said First Lady Michelle Obama. "Since then, whether helping flawlessly execute state dinners, or going the extra mile to open the White House to people who never dreamed they would walk through these doors, Deesha has worked tirelessly to truly make the White House the "People's House." I am thrilled that she has agreed to continue her service as our Social Secretary."
Biography of Deesha Dyer
Deesha Dyer was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and raised in both Philadelphia and Hershey, where she attended the Milton Hershey School. Dyer currently serves as Deputy Director and Deputy Social Secretary of the White House, a role which she has held for nearly 2 years. She started at the White House in 2009, at the age of 31, as an intern in the Office of Scheduling and Advance. She was hired full-time in 2010 as Associate Director for Scheduling Correspondence and was promoted to Deputy Director and Hotel Program Director. In her role, Deesha traveled with the President and First Lady working on press, lodging and site logistics. In 2013, she was promoted into her current position as Deputy Director and Deputy Social Secretary.
Before starting her career in government, Dyer concurrently held several private sector positions. She was an assistant at Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust from 2001 to 2010 where she served on the PREIT Charitable Board. From 2003 to 2010, Dyer was a freelance journalist covering East Coast hip-hop culture for several media outlets, including The Philadelphia Citypaper. Dyer has also maintained a long-standing commitment to community advocacy in several roles, including her role working with young adults at the Youth Health Empowerment Project, as creator of a hip-hop AIDS program based in Philadelphia, as a CARE advocacy volunteer and as a board member at Action AIDS.
In addition to her role at the White House, Deesha currently volunteers with the homeless community in Washington, DC, and serves as a mentor for a global empowerment program for young girls in Philadelphia. She also serves as a mentor in the First Lady's mentee program. At the age of 29, Dyer returned to college to obtain her associates degree in Women's Studies from the Community College of Philadelphia.
  