
    "This President cannot run on his record. The irony of this is that he is going to be in Tampa to talk about jobs where Florida has over 9% unemployment. This President has done nothing to create or promote the creation of private sector jobs in this country, let alone the state of Florida." — Rep. Dennis Ross
Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, Rep. Dennis Ross, and Speaker Designate Will Weatherford
"Welcome To Florida, President Obama" Press Conference Call
April 13, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "Welcome To Florida, President Obama" Press Conference Call:
REP. MARIO DIAZ-BALART: "You know, it's actually, I have to admit, a little ironic the President is kind of now trying to talk up trade when we know the reality. The reality is, you know, I created the Colombia Caucus in the House of Representatives and the purpose was to try to promote [the] free trade deal with Colombia. And we had one obstacle and one obstacle alone. And the reason it took five years to get done was because the first three years Speaker Pelosi refused to allow it to go to the floor and then President Obama was holding it back. And we were pushing and pushing and pushing it hard and, again, the only reason that it took this long was because of President Obama, to satisfy his buddies and his people that supported him, I guess, for whatever political reason he may have had. But the reality is he held it back for two-and-a-half years of his administration. And in that time, the United States lost, I mean, an incredible amount of market share of business and, frankly, it meant the loss of jobs. I mean in agriculture sales alone to Colombia, we lost over a billion dollars. So, again, it's ironic that now this President is out there trying to take credit for something that he frankly held back, was not supportive of and something that was obviously initiated by President Bush."
...
REP. DENNIS ROSS: "This President's record will be probably his Achilles heel, which is why he cannot run on it. We look at his budget. This President talks about how we need to now cut our spending and control our budget. Yet his own budget, his own budget in the House and in the Senate didn't get one Democratic vote. This President cannot run on his record. The irony of this is that he is going to be in Tampa to talk about jobs where Florida has over 9% unemployment. This President has done nothing to create or promote the creation of private sector jobs in this country, let alone the state of Florida."
...
SPEAKER DESIGNATE WEATHERFORD: "Floridians are tired and they are looking for a president who will provide a vision for America and is willing to fight for it. It is abundantly clear that the Obama experiment has failed. It has failed at just about every level....The only legacy I seem to be able to find on trade is that maybe his legacy will be the continuance of the overreliance on foreign oil because he refuses to look at things like the Keystone pipeline or has someone who has put...politics over policy and principle."
  