
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Cofer Black, a former top counterterrorism official at the Central Intelligence Agency and State Department, has joined his campaign for President of the United States. Black will serve as Senior Adviser for counterterrorism and national security issues.
"I am pleased to welcome Cofer Black to our campaign. He has a long and impressive career dedicated to making America safer and more secure in the world," said Governor Romney. "Our country faces a new generation of challenges and Black's experience at the forefront of our nation's counterterrorism efforts will be a tremendous asset."
Joining Romney for President, Cofer Black said, "Our country faces grave threats from abroad - threats that will require us to change our thinking, institutions and strategy if we are to prevail. Governor Romney sees clearly the threat in front of us and will give our military and intelligence professionals the tools and leadership they need to ensure that America remains strong, free and prosperous."
Background On Cofer Black:
Cofer Black Is A Former Top Counterterrorism Official With More Than 30 Years Experience. Black is Chairman of Total Intelligence Solutions. Beginning in February 2005, he became Vice Chairman of Blackwater USA and CEO of The Black Group. Black was the United States Department of State Coordinator for Counterterrorism with the rank of Ambassador at Large from December 2002 to November 2004. In this role, he was the point person for the U.S. government's international counterterrorism policy in the first term of the Bush administration. Prior to joining the State Department, Black had a distinguished 28-year career in the Directorate of Operations at the Central Intelligence Agency. During his CIA career, Black served six foreign tours in field management positions and served as Task Force Chief in the Near East and South Asia Division, Deputy Chief of the Latin America Division and Director of the CIA Counterterrorism Center.
  