
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




April 26, 2023 11:52

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 1 - arrival at the National Gallery
Good morning from the National Gallery's East Building on the National Mall. I will be your print pooler for this morning's event with Dr. Biden and Mrs. Kim.
The duo entered the gallery at 11:47 a.m.
"Well hello, how are you. Jill Biden," FLOTUS said to the trio of curators after taking a moment to gaze at some of the paintings with Mrs. Kim.
Mrs. Kim was asking questions through a translator as pool left.
This modernist gallery features 10 Rothkos - and was chosen because Dr. Biden and Mrs. Kim are both fans of the late artist's work. Overall, the collection includes 12 Rothkos.
Pool was pulled at 11:50 a.m.
A reminder that the second stop is closed press and then the pool will rejoin Dr. Biden and Mrs. Kim as they conclude the tour.
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY:
On?Wednesday, April 26th?at?11:30 AM ET,?as part of the State Visit, First Lady Jill Biden will host Mrs. Kim Keon Hee, First Lady of the Republic of Korea, at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in celebration of their shared appreciation of the arts and the continuing friendship between the two countries.
Before this State Visit, the First Lady and Mrs. Kim previously met at the spousal program during the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Summit in June 2022.
This will be Dr. Biden's first visit to the National Gallery of Art as First Lady. Throughout the visit, Dr. Biden and Mrs. Kim will meet with and be guided by the following leadership and curators of the National Gallery of Art.

Kaywin Feldman, Director of the National Gallery of Art 
Harry Cooper, Senior Curator and Head of Modern Art 
Adam Greenhalgh, Associate Curator, Mark Rothko: Works on Paper  

 During the visit, they will tour the Mark Rothko: The Classic Paintings gallery, which opened in 2016 and consists of 12 paintings. This portion of the visit will be covered by a brief pool spray.
On the second tour stop, Dr. Biden and Mrs. Kim will visit the Mark Rothko: Paintings on Paper, an upcoming exhibition that will open later this year in November 2023. This exhibition brings together more than 100 of Rothko's most compelling paintings on paper, many on view for the first time. This portion of the visit will be closed press.
Afterwards, Dr. Biden and Mrs. Kim will depart the National Gallery of Art. This departure will be covered by a pool spray.
About the National Gallery of Art  The National Gallery of Art, founded as a gift to the nation, serves as a center of visual art, education, and culture. The National Gallery's collection of more than 150,000 paintings, sculpture, decorative arts, photographs, prints, and drawings spans the history of Western art and showcases some of the triumphs of human creativity. 


April 26, 2023 12:51

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 2 - National Gallery departure
FLOTUS and Mrs. Kim reappeared after walking through a second Rothko exhibit that has yet to open to the public - hence why press was not permitted to accompany them.
From the East Wing:
During the second stop, Dr. Biden and Mrs. Kim were also joined by Christopher Rothko, son of the late Mark Rothko, and his wife Lori Cohen.
They walked out into the museum's spacious atrium at 12:45 p.m.
Dr. Biden and Mrs. Kim walked out with Kaywin Feldman, the first female director of the National Gallery. Feldman pointed out some displays in the atrium and Dr. Biden gave her a hug.
"Magnificent. Beautiful," Dr. Biden said to pool's question about the exhibits.
They departed the museum at 12:47 p.m. Dr. Biden got into the motorcade at 12:50 p.m. We're rolling as of 12:50 p.m.
We're now headed to the International Summit of the Teaching Profession. That event is open press, but your pooler will send out any notable highlights.
I've uploaded some photos here:
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/lr5g4yvw2q9xt53/AAB4P9b0L4ZlHtjb7Lh6yutya?dl=0 


April 26, 2023 13:35

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 3 - ISTP23 speech
FLOTUS slipped into the downstairs ballroom of the downtown D.C. Hamilton Hotel around 1:13 p.m. as the Baltimore-based Yorkwood Elementary School choir was performing, accompanied by Education Secretary Cardona. She clapped as they concluded their performance – which included one student playing a recorder.
She came back onstage with Cardona at 1:21 p.m. to kick off the program.
Cardona introduced Dr. Biden as "the greatest adviser to the president but also a colleague to us educators," and remarked how she'll bring papers to grade onboard the military planes when they travel together.
Dr. Biden started her remarks at 1:26 p.m. and wrapped up at 1:33 p.m.
She departed the stage at 1:33 p.m. – we're headed shortly to the White House. That's it from me!
From the East Wing – though I made some tweaks as she spoke, so it should be accurate.
Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill Biden at the 2023 International Summit on the Teaching Profession
Washington, D.C.
*** Thank you, Secretary Cardona. Miguel, you lead our Department of Education with so much heart, and it's wonderful to see you representing it to the world. Thank you for all that you do.
It's an honor to meet all of you and help welcome you to our nation's capital.
The students of the United States, just like the young people of your nations, are the greatest resource we have. They will lead us into the future and reimagine what our planet can do.
That's why, like so many of you, we are committed to making sure education works for all students.
As some of you know, I continue to teach at Northern Virginia Community College, just a few miles from here. My students come from every walk of life, and many – I would say most - from around the world. They're veterans, first-generation students, and refugees.
They're determined and resilient. They're curious and kind. They work hard and dream of building a better life for themselves, their families, and their community.
But it's not always easy. They face so many challenges, from food insecurity to child care to mental health. And those became so much worse during the pandemic. The isolation and fear, losing jobs and security, even people they loved.
For me, it was difficult to know how to help when I couldn't read their body language through a screen or pull them aside after class.
We found ways to get through it together, and I saw such incredible resilience and strength in each one of them. Today, so much has changed, has gotten better. But recovery isn't always the same as healing.
Throughout the world, young people are wrestling with their mental health. And it's up to us to give everyone the understanding and support that they need. Here in the United States, that's one of our top priorities.
I always knew that my husband Joe would be a great education President, because he knows the importance of education in students' lives.
I mean he's lived with me for 48 years!
In his campaign, he promised that we would have a Secretary of Education who comes from a public-school classroom, someone who knows what it's like to sit with a child who is struggling, who's felt the joy of seeing their eyes light up when an idea finally falls into place. Miguel brings just that experience.
I'm going to clap for Miguel.
And Joe is investing in our schools and teachers like never before.
He understands that kids need an early start, as well as support after they graduate from high school. That's why the Biden education pathway starts with high-quality universal preschool and continues through high school, preparing students for college and careers, no matter where they live. It bridges the gap between education and work, connecting learning to careers that pay well.
We're making incredible progress. But there are still challenges ahead.
Just this last Monday, one of my favorite days, we honored our National Teacher of the Year and our State Teachers of the Year at the White House, and I'm so excited to see many of many of you joining us today. Thank you!
Miguel and I had the chance to hear their stories. And they told us about the obstacles they face. They shared amazing stories of triumph and innovation and what makes them hopeful for the future.
And we are eager to listen and learn from all of you as well. Many of you have faced similar challenges and built successful systems to address them. I hope that you'll share your stories with us, whether that's through your work here in DC or in your home countries.
This work matters. Education matters. You know this - It changes lives.
And when we commit to building an education system that works for all, schools and communities are stronger. Teachers have the support they need to reach students where they are. Parents don't have to worry that their children are being left behind, and kids grow and learn every day.
So to all of the educators with us now: Never underestimate the power of what you do.
Right now, someone out there is a better thinker because of you. Someone is standing a little taller because you helped her find the confidence that she needed.
Someone is working a little harder because you pushed him to try. And someone is kinder because you showed her what that meant. Someone is braver because you helped him find his courage.
I hope you have a fantastic conference. And I look forward to seeing what we can do for our students around the world, together.
Thank you.



  