
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate ten individuals, appoint twelve individuals, recess appoint four individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration. The President today also announced that he has appointed one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Charles L. English, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. English, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Director of the Office of Career Development and Assignments in the Bureau of Human Resources at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of South Central European Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Zagreb, Croatia. Mr. English received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University.
The President intends to nominate Miriam K. Hughes, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federated States of Micronesia. Ms. Hughes, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as United States Deputy Representative to the Economic and Social Council of the United States Mission to the United Nations. Prior to this, she served as Director of the Office of Policy, Public and Congressional Affairs in the Bureau of International Organization Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, she served as Chief of the Consular Section in Mexico City. Ms. Hughes received her bachelor's degree from Barnard College.
The President intends to nominate Cameron P. Munter, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Serbia. Dr. Munter, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in Prague. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Provincial Reconstruction Team in Mosul, Iraq. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Warsaw. Dr. Munter received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and his PhD from Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate Robert B. Nolan, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Lesotho. Mr. Nolan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Director of the Office of Career Development and Assignments in the Bureau of Human Resources at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of Performance Evaluation in the Bureau of Human Resources at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Principal Officer in Monterrey. Mr. Nolan received his bachelor's degree from Villanova University.
The President intends to nominate John L. Withers II, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Albania. Dr. Withers, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, previously served as Director of the Operations Center at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Office of North Central European Affairs at the Department of State. Dr. Withers received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University, his master's degree from McGill University and his PhD from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Robert M. Couch, of Alabama, to be General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Couch currently serves as Acting General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and as President of the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae). Prior to this, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of New South Federal Savings Bank. Earlier in his career, he served as General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer of First Commercial Bancshares, Inc. Mr. Couch received his bachelor's degree and his JD from Washington & Lee University.
The President intends to nominate Michael J. Kussman, of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary for Health at the Department of Veterans Affairs, for a four-year term. Dr. Kussman currently serves as Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Health at the Department of Veterans Affairs. On August 12, 2006 he assumed the role of Acting Under Secretary for Health at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief of Patient Care Services at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Dr. Kussman retired from the United States Army in September of 2000, having reached the final rank of Brigadier General. Dr. Kussman received his bachelor's degree and his MD from Boston University. He also received his master's degree from Salve Regina University.
The President intends to nominate Peter B. McCarthy, of Wisconsin, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Management) and upon appointment designate Chief Financial Officer. Mr. McCarthy previously served as Deputy Managing Director of the Institute of International Finance. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Vice President and Area Head of Bank One and Vice President and Division Head of Chase Manhattan Bank. Mr. McCarthy received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and his master's degree from Southern Methodist University.
The President intends to nominate Dennis R. Schrader, of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator for National Preparedness, Federal Emergency Management Agency at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Schrader previously served as Director of the Maryland Governor's Office of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as Vice President of Project Planning and Development at the University of Maryland Medical System. Mr. Schrader received his bachelor's degree from General Motors Institute and his master's degree from the State University of New York at Buffalo.
The President intends to nominate Michael G. Vickers, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense (Special Operations/Low Intensity Conflict, and Interdependent Capabilities). Mr. Vickers currently serves as Senior Vice President for Strategic Studies at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. Prior to this, he served as an Operations Officer at the Central Intelligence Agency. Earlier in his career, he served as a Special Forces Officer with the United States Army. Mr. Vickers received his bachelor's degree from the University of Alabama and his master's degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to appoint Jeffrey Scott Wilpon, of New York, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council for a five-year term expiring 01/15/12.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations for two-year terms:
Calvin M. Dooley, of California
Edward Charles Emma, of Wisconsin
John Engler, of Michigan
William Eldridge Frenzel, of Virginia
Nicholas Giordano, of Virginia
Mark Raymond Kennedy, of Minnesota
Scott Klug, of Wisconsin
James Winston Morrison, of Virginia
Stephen Withrow Sanger, of Minnesota
Jose Antonio Villamil, of Florida
James L. Ziemer, of Wisconsin
The President intends to recess appoint the following individuals:
Andrew G. Biggs, of New York, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security
Susan E. Dudley, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the Office of Management and Budget
Sam Fox, of Missouri, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belgium
Carol Waller Pope, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
The President has appointed Mark Carew Treanor, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/30/09.
  