
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House)(Rep. Goodlatte, R-VA, and 61 cosponsors)
The Administration supports passage of H.J. Res. 2, referring to the States for ratification a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The amendment would require that Federal Government outlays not exceed receipts in any year unless authorized by legislation passed by three-fifths of the House and Senate. The amendment would impose similar supermajority requirements for legislation increasing the limit on Government debt held by the public, and would require any legislation increasing revenues to be approved by majority roll-call votes. Finally, the bill recognizes the importance of exceptions for spending in times of military conflict.
In his Fiscal Year 2018 and 2019 budget proposals, President Donald J. Trump has proposed trillions of dollars in spending reductions to non-defense programs that would reduce our deficits and debt, while ensuring that our military has the resources it needs to keep our Nation safe. These reductions eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse, and abolish numerous programs that have failed to deliver promised outcomes to the American people.
While President Trump recently signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Omnibus), into law in order to secure a much-needed historic investment in our military and other priorities, such as rebuilding our infrastructure and combatting the opioid crisis, the Administration strongly believes that the non-defense discretionary spending in the Omnibus demanded by some members of Congress is a threat to the fiscal stability of our Nation. Instead of raising taxes on the American people to pay for more Government spending, the Administration believes we should put in place long-term constraints on the growth of Government.
In addition to supporting H.J. Res. 2, the Administration will continue pursuing other common-sense mechanisms to reduce Federal spending, including constitutionally sound authority for the President to eliminate wasteful line-item appropriations, as well as rescissions of unnecessary spending using existing authorities.
  