
    Yesterday, President Biden visited Cummins power generation facility in Fridley, Minnesota as part of his "Investing in America" tour. During the visit, the President discussed how his economic agenda is helping power our clean energy economy while bringing supply chains back to the United States and creating good-paying jobs.
Alongside the visit, Cummins announced investments of over $1 billion to expand manufacturing across North Carolina, Indiana, and New York to produce low- and zero- carbon engines which will power the heavy trucking industry and create hundreds of new jobs. This comes on top of the announcement Cummins made last October that for the first time, the company would manufacture electrolyzers—a critical input in the clean energy supply chain—at its Fridley facility that President Biden visited, a move they attributed directly to the Inflation Reduction Act.
During the visit, President Biden underscored that these types of investments could be at stake if Congressional Republicans get their way and repeal the Inflation Reduction Act and slash funding for manufacturing, innovation, and research.
See coverage below:

Star Tribune:President Joe Biden highlights economic agenda in Minnesota visit[Jessie Van Berkel and Hunter Woodall, 4/3/23]
"Federal investment attracts private investment. It creates jobs and industries, and it demonstrates we're all in this together. And that's what today is all about," Biden said Monday. "I'm here to talk about what we're doing to invest in America, invest in Minnesota, and the progress we've made in building an economy from the middle out and the bottom up."
[…] "These are big manufacturing jobs. These are big transformations. And all of those things are happening with an American workforce and American innovation across this country. This is America building back better than ever and creating jobs," [Governor] Walz said.
Minnesota Public Radio (MPR):Biden touts clean energy spending, jobs in Minnesota visit[Mark Zdechlik, 4/3/23]
President Joe Biden said his efforts to secure federal funding for clean energy projects are creating thousands of Minnesota jobs and encouraging private investment in manufacturing, while at the same time helping to reduce emissions that are causing the climate to change. […] The Biden administration noted Minnesota has added more than 185,000 jobs since early 2021. Biden also pointed to 182 projects funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure law and said private companies have committed to spending more than $2 billion to expand or build new facilities.
[…] And the president drew a contrast with Republicans and warned of not increasing the nation's debt limit. "This ain't your father's Republican Party," he said, noting that he has worked with Republicans in the past. "Based on what we know so far, their plans would explode the deficit, increasing it by more than $3 trillion over the next 10 years.
The Republic (Indiana):Energy of the future: Biden tours Cummins facility in Minnesota as company announces $1 billion investment in engine manufacturing network[Andy East, 4/4/23]
Coinciding with the president's visit, Cummins announced plans to invest more than $1 billion across its engine manufacturing network in Indiana, North Carolina and New York to upgrade facilities to support fuel agnostic engine platforms that will run on low carbon fuels, including natural gas, diesel and eventually hydrogen.
Biden's visit was part of his "Investing in America" tour, which seeks to highlight the impact of legislation passed last year, including the Inflation Reduction Act, CHIPS and Science Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the American Rescue Plan, according to a statement from the White House.
The congressional delegation representing Columbus — Rep. Greg Pence, R-Indiana, Sen. Todd Young, R-Indiana, and Sen. Mike Braun, R-Indiana — largely opposed the four bills, according to congressional records. […] Cummins, however, said the bills "played a key role" in the company's decision to manufacture products in the U.S.
Spectrum:In Minn., Biden touts economic progress: 'If we invest in America, we can change the country's future'[Justin Tasolides, 4/3/23]
President Joe Biden on Monday visited engine and alternative power manufacturer Cummins in Minnesota, part of his nationwide "Investing in America" tour highlighting investments in infrastructure, manufacturing and job creation.
[…] The visit coincides with the company's announcement of a more than $1 billion investment across their domestic engine manufacturing network in New York, North Carolina and Indiana. The funding is aimed at upgrading their facilities so they can manufacture low- to zero-carbon engines, which will help decarbonize the country's trucking fleet.
WCCO (CBS Minnesota, MN):President Biden brings "Investing in America" tour to Twin Cities business[4/3/23]
President Joe Biden made a stop in the Twin Cities Monday, visiting a business the White House says will be key in the future of green energy. […]It's part of his "Investing in America" tour. During his remarks, Biden spoke about how his Investing in America agenda has lead to an innovation and clean energy boom.
Biden's administration said since he took office, companies have invested more than $2 billion across Minnesota. The investments include Xcel Energy's $575 million plans to build the largest solar farm in Minnesota and Bobcat's plans to build a new construction equipment assembly plant outside of Minneapolis, bringing on 100 new employees.
The president's visit also coincided with a big announcement from Cummins […] Cummins is set to announce it is investing over $1 billion at its sites in Indiana, North Carolina and New York to upgrade those facilities so they can manufacture low- to zero-carbon engines that will be used in its trucks across the country.
KARE (NBC Minneapolis, MN):President Biden highlights jobs, clean energy in Minnesota visit[David Griswold and the Associated Press, 4/3/23]
President Joe Biden paid a visit to Fridley on Monday afternoon as part of his ongoing nationwide "Investing in America" tour. Biden visited Cummins Power Generation Facility after it was announced last fall that the plant would start manufacturing electrolyzers in the U.S. for the first time, devices that use electricity to split water into hydrogen and oxygen to produce clean hydrogen, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.
The company announced in conjunction with the Democratic president's visit that it's investing more than $1 billion in its U.S. engine manufacturing network in Indiana, North Carolina and New York to update facilities so they can produce low- to zero-carbon engines.
KSTP (ABC Minneapolis, MN): Biden touts clean energy, jobs in Fridley[KSTP, 4/3/23]
President Joe Biden made a stop in Fridley on Monday, the second in his "Investing in America" tour. [..] Biden stopped at Cummins Power Generation facility, which makes about half of all engines on the road for medium and heavy-duty trucks.
The president highlighted the fact that, since the beginning of his administration, companies have committed to invest more than $2 billion across the state of Minnesota. Cummins Power also announced a $1 billion investment to upgrade their facilities across the nation so they can manufacture low to zero-carbon engines.
KMSP (Fox Minneapolis, MN): President Biden visits Fridley to tout economic agenda[FOX 9 Staff, 4/3/23]
Biden discussed how his economic agenda has led to the strongest job growth in history. Cummins, which produces both diesel and alternative fuel engines and generators, announced a $1 billion investment in renewable energy nationwide, thanks in part to tax credits received as part of the Inflation Reduction Act.
KAAL (ABC Rochester, MN):Biden celebrates clean energy, jobs in Fridley[Mayzie Olson, 4/3/23]
"The plan is to invest in America in a literal sense, not oversees in America. Invest in ourselves, and its working," explained Biden. Many of those projects seen in southern Minnesota "Residents in Austin, Minnesota are finally gonna get that new bridge across i-90, folks across Minnesota are finally gonna see EV infrastructure reach some maturity so that we can continue to sell EV cars, create opportunities, reduce carbon emissions," Governor Tim Walz said.
KFGO Radio (Fargo-Moorhead, ND/MN): Biden makes Minnesota stop to promote investment agenda[Paul Jurgens, 4/3/23]
President Joe Biden came to suburban Minneapolis on Monday to tour a clean energy technology manufacturer as part of his effort to highlight his investment agenda before an expected reelection campaign. […] According to the White House, Biden's economic plan has led to $2.7 billion in federal funding for roughly 182 infrastructure projects across Minnesota, including transportation projects and better access to cleanwater.
Forum News Service:On Minnesota visit, Biden touts job creation from big spending bills[Alex Derosier, 4/4/23]
In remarks at a Twin Cities metro factory Monday, April 3, President Joe Biden said he's determined to reestablish the U.S. as a leading manufacturer and touted his economic agenda's positive effects on job growth and the domestic clean energy industry.
Cummins, an engine and power supply manufacturer, has chosen the facility in Fridley to produce electrolyzers — devices used to produce hydrogen for use in clean energy. It's the company's first such facility in the U.S. and is expected to create 100 new jobs. […] Tony Satterthwaite, the company's senior vice president, said bills Biden signed into law such as the more than $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill and the Inflation Reduction Act are encouraging the development of clean energy technology in the U.S.
Minnesota Spokesman Recorder: Biden visits Twin Cities to tout green investments[H. Jiahong Pan, 4/3/23]
President Biden visited the Twin Cities on Monday to tour a manufacturing plant in Fridley, and tout his investment that addresses climate change in his attempt to make the United States the leader in clean energy manufacturing.
The plant, run by engine manufacturer Cummins, announced a new line of hydrogen engines in March and is converting 100,000 square feet of their assembly lines to produce electrolyzers, which shocks water with electricity to produce hydrogen. Cummins says the investment is made possible because of increasing demand and the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), as well as their goals to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2050.
Local News Digital (Southern Indiana): President Biden visits Cummins, company invests $1B in U.S. manufacturing[4/3/23]
President Joe Biden visited Cummins in Fridley, Minnesota on Monday as part of his administration's Investing in America Tour. Coinciding with the visit, Cummins announced that in addition to recent investments in Fridley, the company is infusing more than $1 billion across its U.S. engine manufacturing network in Indiana, North Carolina, and New York.
  