
    Campaign staff sign agreement with Campaign Workers Guild (CWG) that was swiftly recognized by campaign management
SAN ANTONIO, TX (April 9, 2019) – On Thursday, April 9, 2019, the presidential campaign for former Obama Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Mayor of San Antonio, Texas, Julián Castro, announced that its workers had officially formed a union, following Secretary Castro's first-in-the-field pledge to support unionization of his staff. After campaign staff unanimously signed cards with the Campaign Workers Guild (CWG), the Julián for the Future campaign management swiftly recognized the union, per a neutrality agreement reached with the CWG.
"From the first days of his exploratory committee, in December 2018, Secretary Castro committed to supporting his campaign staff in efforts to unionize," said Campaign Manager Maya Rupert. "Unions are essential protections for workers, including campaign workers, and the teams of people who work to elect out leaders should do so with the protections of union organizing. Our campaign is extremely proud to be the first presidential campaign to take this step with the Campaign Workers Guild, and we look forward to bargaining in good faith."
"Secretary Castro takes a backseat to no one when it comes to supporting his staff," said union member and Deputy National Press Secretary Sawyer Hackett. "He was the first candidate to pledge to pay interns $15/hour, the first to put together a staff manual with a strong sexual harassment policy, and he was the first to support his staff forming a union to ensure the employees of his campaign are not left behind in advancing his vision for the future of our nation. I'm proud to announce that our campaign has availed ourself of that support and formed a recognized union with the Campaign Workers Guild."
CWG Executive Council Member Sarah Willenbrink-Sahin added "The Campaign Workers Guild is thrilled to represent the workers on Julián for the Future. We share a devout commitment to true, sustainable, progressive change in our industry and our country. We look forward to meeting with management at the bargaining table and making the policies we believe should be standard a reality for Castro workers."
  