
    AT a time when all Americans are being asked to conserve energy, it is imperative that their Government set an example in this effort. I have established energy conservation goals for Federal departments and agencies which are even more ambitious than those being asked of the general public. The results thus far have been most encouraging. We must provide the same responsible Government leadership to the use of land and other natural resources in meeting our energy needs.
In my January 23, 1974 energy message to the Congress, I stressed again the necessity for streamlining the site selection process for energy facilities. The availability of potential sites, of course, resolves around the general issue of land use. Therefore, on the basis of recommendations by the Federal Property Council, I am announcing three actions to be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable environmental laws and zoning regulations, which will ensure that our Nation's energy requirements are considered in Federal land use decisions.
First, I am directing the Administrator of the General Services Administration to review all pertinent Federal regulations to determine the need for amendments ensuring that GSA and the Federal agencies and departments consider energy implications in building design, building management, land acquisition, and land disposal actions. Working with the Federal Energy Office and other appropriate agencies, GSA shall submit proposed amendments within 90 days to the Federal Property Council for review.
Second, I am directing the Administrator of the General Services Administration to consider the need for energy sites for power plants, storage areas, or refineries in the disposal of surplus Federal property under existing laws and regulations. The need for energy sites should be given careful consideration as an end-use objective for the sale of surplus Federal land at fair market value.
Third, I am directing the Chairman of the Federal Property Council, upon receiving from the Administrator of the Federal Energy Office an assessment of the supply and demand factors of energy facilities in both the short and long run, to initiate a study to determine what other initiatives the Federal Government might take to (a) identify potential energy sites on Federal land, and (b) investigate the feasibility of using such sites for energy purposes.
This new initiative will become an integral part of Project Independence. The Federal Property Council's leadership has been outstanding in the Legacy of Parks program, through which 400 surplus Federal properties covering 62,000 acres have been made available for parks and recreation. I am confident that the Council, working with the other agencies, can build on this experience and play an important role in our national effort to achieve the capability for energy self-sufficiency.
  