
    Political Courage: The Pittsburgh-Tribune Review endorsed Hillary: "Clinton is far more experienced in government ...She has a real voting record on key issues. Agree with her or not, you at least know where she stands instead of being forced to wonder...Political courage is essential in a president. Clinton has demonstrated it; Obama has not." Read more.
Superdelegate Gains: Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) announced his support for Hillary, noting that "throughout the 1990s, Senator Clinton...had a proven record of economic growth and higher wages for America's working families." Read more.
Poll Watch: Hillary regained the lead in the Gallup Poll Daily tracking poll. She currently holds a slim lead over Sen. Obama who led by 11 points only a week ago. Read more.
Negative Attacks Against Hillary: Comm. Dir. Howard Wolfson released a memo yesterday responding to the Obama Campaign being on the attack in the last weekend of the PA primary: "A major theme of Sen. Obama on the stump is that Hillary Clinton is running a negative campaign based on "slash and burn politics" and that he represents a break from that kind of politics. In fact, in just the last 48-hours, Sen. Obama has flooded airwaves, radio, phone lines and mailboxes with negative and false attacks against Hillary." Read more.
In Case You Missed It: Sen. Obama is attacking Hillary Clinton about health care in a television advertisement with claims that have been widely discredited by experts...Hillary swiftly responded yesterday in York, PA: "I just heard that my opponent has put up an ad attacking my health care plan, which is kind of curious, because my plan covers everybody and his leaves out 15 million people – just leaves them out in the cold." Read more.
Previewing Today: Hillary continues counting down to the PA primary with "Solutions for Pennsylvania" rallies in Bethlehem, PA, Johnstown, PA, and State College, PA.
On Tap in PA: Hillary continues to barnstorm Pennsylvania in the final days of the primary. She hosts "Solutions for Pennsylvania" rallies in Scranton and Pittsburgh. On Primary Day, she will host an "Election Night Celebration" in Philadelphia.
Office Openings: "Gen. Jack Yeager, former commander of the state's Army National Guard, spoke to supporters and volunteers who gathered at Clinton's new [West Virginia] headquarters at 191 Summers St. to celebrate the opening"...The campaign also opened a new office in Terre Haute, IN. Read more and more.
If You Read One Thing Today: "In PA., Late Deciders Could Lift Clinton" Read More.
  