
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. Castor, D-FL, and 224 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly opposes passage of H.R. 9, which prohibits the use of funds to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and directs the President to develop a plan for the United States to meet its nationally determined contribution under the Agreement.
H.R. 9 is inconsistent with the President's commitment to put American workers and families first, promote access to affordable, reliable energy sources and technologies, and improve the quality of life for all Americans. On June 1, 2017, the President announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement and to end implementation of the United States' nationally determined contributions. In the announcement he stated: "The Paris Accord would undermine our economy, hamstring our workers, weaken our sovereignty, impose unacceptable legal risks, and put us at a permanent disadvantage to the other countries of the world." Implementation of the nationally determined contribution put forward by the United States under the Paris Agreement would entail billions of dollars in costs and put millions of American jobs at risk, including those in energy-intensive industries, while other countries did not take on similarly stringent commitments. Despite the enormous domestic costs, under the Agreement emissions are expected to continue to grow internationally, including in countries that are major economic competitors of the United States, placing our country at a competitive disadvantage.
American ingenuity and innovation have made the United States a world leader in supplying affordable, abundant, and secure energy, both domestically and to our allies, while also reducing emissions and improving air quality and public health. The United States has had the largest absolute decline in energy-related carbon dioxide emissions among all countries since 2000, according to the International Energy Agency. From 2005 to 2017, our energy-related carbon dioxide emissions declined 14 percent, according to the United States Energy Information Administration, even as global emissions grew by 21 percent. The Administration supports a strong economy and access to affordable, reliable energy. These are integral to advancing clean and efficient technologies through innovation, the development of modern resilient infrastructure, and protecting our environment.
H.R. 9 would also interfere with the President's constitutional authority to conduct foreign relations, including the authority to withdraw from an executive agreement.
Accordingly, if H.R. 9 were presented to the President, his senior advisors would recommend that he veto the bill.
  