
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 12
In the morning, the President traveled to Barksdale Air Force Base, LA. Later, he met with tornado victims from Shreveport, LA, at Hoban Hall.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, he met with congressional leaders in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Delmond J.H. Won to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jody L. Williams to serve as a member of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission.
The White House announced that the President spoke on April 10 to United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan concerning the situation in the Balkans.
April 13
In the evening, the President had dinner with President Jose Maria Aznar of Spain in the Yellow Oval Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert J. Einhorn to be Assistant Secretary for Nonproliferation at the State Department.
April 14
The President announced his intention to appoint Rita Bass, Norma Lee Funger, Mary French (Muffy) Moore, and Yeni Wong as members to the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Carolyn S. Brody, J. Carter Brown, Eden Donohue Rafshoon, and Harry G. Robinson III to the Commission on Fine Arts.
The President announced the appointment of Arnold Donald, Carolee Friedlander, James Kelly, and John Sandner as members of the President's Export Council.
The President also announced his intention to appoint William Crowell as a member of the President's Export Council.
April 15
In the morning the President traveled to San Francisco, CA, and in the evening, he traveled to Detroit, MI.
The President announced his intent to nominate Joseph F. Baca and Robert N. Baldwin as members of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute.
April 16
In the evening, the President traveled to Boston, MA. Later, he attended a Majority 2000 dinner at a private residence in Westin, MA. Later, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intent to nominate John R. Hamilton to be Ambassador to Peru.
The President announced his intention to nominate Frank Almaguer to be Ambassador to Honduras.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald W. Keyser for the rank of Ambassador as Special Negotiator for Nagorno-Karabakh and New Independent States Regional Conflicts.
  