
    We are honored tonight by the visit of Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands, and His Royal Highness the Prince of the Netherlands.
I can't tell you how much I appreciate the fact that we have with us what I like to refer to as the fairy Queen. We had the fairy Princess with us the time before, before she became the Queen of England.
We appreciate the fact that our friendship with the Netherlands has been long and lasting.
The largest bay on the North American Continent is named for a Dutchman, and his name was Hudson. One of the most beautiful rivers in the country--I say one of the most beautiful, not the most beautiful, necessarily--is named for this same Hendrik Hudson.
The Dutch made a great contribution to the settlement of this great Nation of ours, and the Dutch also made a great contribution after we became a great nation, because they were willing to invest their money in this country of ours--and did--for its development.
They put on a point 4 program long before I was old enough to know what it meant. They built railroads, ranches, buildings--one of the greatest apartments in this area of Washington was built by Dutch capital.
We are grateful for that. We want to show our gratefulness, and we have been trying to show that by the fact that we were--and are--willing to help free Europe recover and meet the world menace east of Poland.
We have succeeded, to some extent in getting that done. We have stopped them at every perimeter in which they have made the attempt to make slaves out of their neighbors.
We have a different situation here on this western continent. The United States is credited with being at this time one of the strongest nations in the history of the world. It has neighbors on the south. It has neighbors on the north. Those neighbors are not afraid of us. They don't think we are going to try to take them over, or make them colonies, or make them a part of our own territory. They are cooperative neighbors.
We hope to see the whole world set up on that basis someday--and I think we will.
And one of the great assets in our efforts to get that done is the great country that these lovely people represent.
I am glad they are here. I hope they will enjoy themselves. I hope they will take back a good opinion of this Nation of ours, and that when they go home they will feel more friendly to us than when they came--if that is possible.
It is a very great pleasure to have you here, Your Majesty, and Your Royal Highness. I hope you will enjoy yourselves. You are very welcome.
  