
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

In the Nation's ongoing fight against crime, statistics tell only part of the story. More than a violation of the law, every crime is a violation of the rights, property, person, or trust of another human being. Thus, behind every tally of offenses ranging from misdemeanors to aggravated felonies are innocent victims -- individuals and families who must be recognized in the administration of justice.
Almost 35 million Americans become victims of crime each year. In addition to the physical scars and the financial losses that many suffer, crime victims experience emotional trauma as well. Their self-confidence is shaken; their sense of security shattered.
Since 1982, when the President's Task Force on Victims of Crime helped to focus greater public attention on the rights and needs of these individuals, great progress has been made in efforts to assist crime victims and their families. Indeed, a nationwide movement led by thousands of concerned citizens -- many of them crime victims themselves -- has helped to promote timely restitution and healing for victims of crime. Working, at the grass-roots level to provide counseling and support, a wide range of professionals and volunteers are helping these individuals to recover what losses they can and to reclaim their sense of dignity and security.
Nearly every State, as well as the Federal Government, has passed legislation to ensure the fair treatment of crime victims. The Crime Control Act of 1990 set forth, for the first time, a Federal Crime Victims' Bill of Rights. Forty-five States also have a Crime Victims' Bill of Rights to ensure that victims' needs are considered during criminal proceedings.
Almost every State, as well as the Federal Government, also supports programs to compensate and to assist victims of crime. These programs are financed, for the most part, not by innocent taxpayers, but by convicted offenders through criminal fines and penalties.
Recognizing the suffering of victims and their families, we are also committed at the Federal level to crime prevention. Earlier this year I proposed the Comprehensive Violent Crime Control Act of 1991, which, if enacted, will strengthen our Nation's criminal justice system and ensure that those who threaten the lives of others are held accountable for their actions. We must also continue to educate the public about ways to minimize their risk of victimization.
Through public and private efforts at the national, State, and local level, we are making great strides in the fight against crime and in the effort to ensure fair, compassionate treatment of victims and their families. This week, let us gratefully recognize all those who work, often as volunteers, in behalf of crime victims: law enforcement officers, health care professionals, attorneys, counselors, members of the clergy, and countless other concerned citizens. Let us also honor all those who are working to win the fight against crime and reaffirm our determination to uphold America's promise of liberty and justice for all.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 16, has designated the week of April 21 through April 27, 1991, as "National Crime Victims' Rights Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of April 21 through April 27, 1991, as National Crime Victims' Rights Week. I urge all Americans to join in honoring those who work in behalf of crime victims and their families. I also encourage all Americans to learn about ways that they can help to prevent crime and to assist its victims in their communities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 22nd day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  