
    Today, six Georgia lawmakers including Baldwin County Commissioner Emily C. Davis, DeKalb County Commissioner Larry Johnson, and State Representative David Dreyer endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"If the crisis we are currently living through has taught us anything, it's how much we need Joe Biden's experience and empathetic leadership in the White House," said Baldwin County Commissioner Emily C. Davis. "We don't have to question where Joe's heart is or where he stands. He says what he means and he means what he says. With Joe Biden as President of the United States we can trust we will always get the truth from the Oval Office."
"Joe Biden will be a champion for the urban centers of America, helping us create a renaissance in some of our most impoverished neighborhoods that will bring opportunity and hope with it," said DeKalb County Commissioner Larry Johnson. "Joe also understands that access to affordable and quality healthcare is a right not a privilege. He will make our dream of insuring the uninsured a reality in America."
"I've known Joe Biden for over 10 years. Every time I meet him, I'm struck by how he genuinely cares for people," said State Representative David Dreyer. "Now, more than ever, we need Joe Biden's determined leadership. His resilience, compassion, and unique ability to build consensus are the exact qualities we need in order to tackle the urgent issues we are facing today. I know Joe, I trust Joe, and I support Joe because he will be a president for all of us."
Today's new endorsements include:

Baldwin County Commissioner Emily C. Davis
Atlanta City Councilman Andre Dickens
State Representative David Dreyer
Dekalb County Commissioner Larry Johnson
Dekalb County Commissioner Lorraine Cochran Johnson
State Representative Josh McLaurin

These endorsements add to the growing momentum Joe Biden has established in Georgia. They join more than 80 Peach State endorsers including Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, Congressman Sanford Bishop, Congressman Hank Johnson, Congresswoman Lucy McBath, Former Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates, and other state legislators and community leaders.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
The health and safety of our staff, supporters, and the general public is Biden for President's number one priority. During this pandemic, we are calling on all voters to follow social distancing guidelines to slow the spread of COVID-19. Voters who were not registered to vote in time for the March 24 primary may register to vote by April 20 and participate in the May 19 primary. Learn more at joebiden.com/voter-guide.
  