
    "I mean this is a president who so misrepresents the policies and proposals of our party and of myself as well and then fails to acknowledge the mistakes and the errors in his own record. It's just astonishing to listen to him. I think the American people will have plenty of time to hear the charges and the counter-charges and with the time they're going to have, they're going to recognize that what the President is saying about us is absolutely inaccurate and what he's saying about himself misrepresents the reality of his record. There's no question that under this president, this recovery has been the most tepid, the most weak, the most painful, since the beginning of our recorded economic history." — Mitt Romney
"The Sean Hannity Show"
April 3, 2012
Click Here To Listen To Mitt Romney Discuss President Obama's Failure To Take Responsibility For His Many Failures
Sean Hannity: "So here he is. This is pretty much the M.O. for the election: scare the living daylights out of the American people when Republicans realize that financially, as a matter of simple math that if we don't deal with entitlements we are going to become Greece."
Mitt Romney: "Yeah, I'll tell you, listening to him reminds me of that old line—it was probably a Churchill line—which is ‘If you'll stop lying about my record, I'll stop telling the truth about yours.' I mean this is a president who so misrepresents the policies and proposals of our party and of myself as well and then fails to acknowledge the mistakes and the errors in his own record. It's just astonishing to listen to him. I think the American people will have plenty of time to hear the charges and the counter-charges and with the time they're going to have, they're going to recognize that what the President is saying about us is absolutely inaccurate and what he's saying about himself misrepresents the reality of his record. There's no question that under this president, this recovery has been the most tepid, the most weak, the most painful, since the beginning of our recorded economic history. And I'm including the Great Depression. I saw a report yesterday in the Wall Street Journal which laid out the rate of growth in our economy post-this downturn and it has been a slower recovery that even that which occurred during that which occurred during the years of the Great Depression. This is a president whose policies have made it harder for us our economy to recovery and that means more Americans are suffering, particularly those at the ‘bleeding edge' if you will, single moms for instance. Thirty percent of single moms are in poverty today. This presidency has failed."
  