
    Previewing Today: Hillary hosts a "Solutions to Bring Our Troops Home" town hall with Rep. Joe Sestak in Radnor, PA and a conversation with Maya Angelou in Winston-Salem, NC.
Conversations with Families: Yesterday, Hillary shared the stage with her mother and daughter in Haverford, PA, discussing issues facing families. Read more and more.
In Case You Missed It: Paul Krugman says Senator Obama's assertion about Americans from small towns "was mostly if not entirely wrong." Read more.
Block Party: Outside the Mayfair Diner, Hillary hosted a Philadelphia, PA block party: "‘She's for the working person,' said George Dolbow, a 45-year-old glazier and member of Local 252 of the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades. He came to the diner with his 16-month-old, 140-pound St. Bernard, Jagger, who sported several Hillary stickers." Read more.
Youth Support in PA: A volunteer at the University of Pittsburgh says "Mrs. Clinton's commitment to people motivates her." In a Teen Voter's Guide, another young supporter says: "Hillary Clinton's combination of innovative plans and government experience make her the best candidate for an environmentally friendly America." Read more, more, and more.
‘Energized' in Indiana: One Hillary supporter describes an afternoon canvassing in Terre Haute. By the end of the day, "just knowing the extent of Hillary's support warmed my heart," she said. Read more.
Tar Heels for Hillary: During the "Women's Day of Action" tour in North Carolina, one supporter "displaying a wide variety of homemade Hillary signs" says he has spent "up to eight hours a day" volunteering during the past weeks. Read more.
Oregon for Hillary: Campaign Chairman Terry McAuliffe opened five offices across Oregon in the last two days. He blogs about meeting "enthusiastic supporters...ready to take action for Hillary." Read more.
By the Numbers: With one month to go before the Kentucky primary, a new Survey USA poll shows Hillary leading Senator Obama in the state by 36 points (62-26). Read more.
The Colbert Report: Hillary made a visit to the Colbert studio last night, helping Stephen fix some technical difficulties. Watch here and read more. [Watch here.]
On Tap: Tomorrow, Hillary hosts "Solutions for Pennsylvania" events in California, PA and McKeesport, PA.
  