
    The American people have launched the greatest mobilization of our society since World War II, deploying every scientific, governmental, medical, and military resource to defeat the virus. --President Donald J. Trump
GETTING SUPPLIES TO THE FRONTLINES: President Trump is moving heaven and earth to make sure our healthcare workers on the frontlines have the supplies they need.

Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) deliveries coordinated or currently being shipped by FEMA and HHS:

38.2 million N95 respirators
32.6 million surgical masks
5.5 million face shields
4.7 million surgical gowns
30.3 million gloves
212,000 coveralls
8,600 medical station beds


Ventilators provided or shipped so far from the Strategic National Stockpile and the Department of Defense:

More than 10,800 nationwide
4,400 to New York
1,558 to New Jersey
700 to Michigan
600 to Illinois
470 to Maryland
400 to Louisiana


FEMA launched Project Air Bridge to expedite imports of critical PPEs.

More than 40 Air Bridge flights have taken place as of April 14.


28 million tablets of Hydroxychloroquine have been shipped across the country from the Strategic National Stockpile.

MOBILIZING THE PRIVATE SECTOR: President Trump is mobilizing the full resources of the private sector to respond to the coronavirus.

Ford and GE Healthcare are working to produce 50,000 ventilators over the next 100 days to help with the coronavirus response.
The Administration is working with Philips to double its production of ventilators by May.
The Administration reached an agreement with 3M to deliver 55.5 million N95 masks each month in the coming months, for a total of 166.5 million masks.
Honeywell has doubled its production of N95 masks and aims to increase production fivefold.
Apple is using its supply chain to produce 1 million plastic face shields a week.
Companies like MyPillow, Brooks Brothers, Hanes, Fruit of the Loom, Jockey, Ralph Lauren, and others are using their production lines to produce PPE.
Numerous companies from all industries, including Salesforce, Marathon Petroleum, Tesla, Google, Walmart, Home Depot, and many more, have donated supplies and resources.
UPS and others have donated shipment services to get supplies where they need to go.
Spirits manufacturers like Bacardi, Pernod Ricard, Jack Daniels, La Crosse, and Anheuser Busch are pitching in to produce hand sanitizer.

  