
    President Bush Today Announced His Intention to Nominate Three Individuals to Serve in His Administration
The President intends to nominate James Franklin Jeffrey to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Albania. Jeffrey is presently the Deputy Chief of Mission in Ankara, where he has served since 1999. He was previously Deputy Chief of Mission in Kuwait. Mr. Jeffrey's domestic assignments include service at the Department of State's Bureau of European Affairs, Office of Regional Political-Military Affairs, the Near Eastern Bureau's Office of Peace Process and Regional Affairs. He has served overseas in Tunis, Tunisia; Sofia, Bulgaria; Adana, Turkey; and Munich, Germany. A former member of the U.S. Army, Jeffrey received a bachelor's degree from Northeastern University and a Master's degree from Boston University.
The President intends to nominate Roel C. Campos to be Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 5, 2005. Mr. Campos is currently the Senior Vice President and General Counsel of El Dorado Communications, Inc., in Houston, Texas. From 1989 to 1995, he practiced law with Richman, Lawrence, Mann, Greene, Arbiter, as well as Rudin, Appel and Rosenfeld in California. From 1985 to 1989, Campos served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the District of California, and from 1979 to 1985, he practiced corporate, securities and banking law in Los Angeles. Campos is a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy, UCLA School of Management and Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Harvey Jerome Goldschmid to be Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission for remainder of a five-year term expiring June 5, 2004. He is currently the Dwight Professor of Law at Columbia University, and has been a member of the Columbia faculty since 1970. In 1998 and 1999, Goldschmid took a leave of absence from Columbia and served as General Counsel to the S. E. C., and received the Chairman's Award for Excellence for his service. A New York native, he received both his undergraduate and law degrees from Columbia University.
  