
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Charles H. Bronson has endorsed his campaign for President of the United States.
"I am tremendously pleased to welcome Commissioner Bronson to our campaign team here in Florida," said Governor Romney. "As a fifth-generation Floridian and leader of the largest state Department of Agriculture in the country, Commissioner Bronson's support and counsel will be invaluable in this critical state. We both agree that it is time to bring needed change to Washington, change that will only happen with innovation and transformation."
Commissioner Bronson joins a strong and growing organization in Florida, which includes a Steering Committee comprised of accomplished and respected state leaders and a Statewide Finance Team of more than 80 successful business and community leaders. The Florida Steering Committee is led by former Lt. Governor Toni Jennings, former Speakers of the House Allan Bense and John Thrasher, former Chairman of the Republican Party of Florida Al Cardenas and U.S. Congressman Tom Feeney.
"Governor Romney's fresh and optimistic vision for our country, combined with his record of action as a businessman, President of the 2002 Winter Olympics and Governor of Massachusetts, has convinced me he is the right choice to tackle the new set of global challenges we face," said Commissioner Bronson. "Instead of typical campaign rhetoric, Governor Romney has proposed clear, bold and innovative solutions for our future based on conservative principles, including plans to strengthen our military, protect American taxpayers, bring fiscal discipline back to Washington and encourage the use of cleaner, more efficient energy sources. Governor Romney is the right choice for Florida and the right choice for America."
Background On Commissioner Charles H. Bronson:
Charles H. Bronson is the Commissioner of the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Bronson manages the largest state Department of Agriculture in the country, with more than 3,700 employees. Initially appointed to the position in May 2001, Bronson was elected to the post in November 2002, and re-elected in November 2006. Additionally, Bronson serves on the Florida Cabinet, is a member of the Governor's Council on Efficient Government and a former President of the Southern Association of State Departments of Agriculture.
Bronson received a Bachelor of Science degree in agricultural education, animal and meat sciences from the University of Georgia in 1972. He worked in the fertilizer, chemical and sod business and managed the family's cattle business in Central Florida. A certified law enforcement officer, Bronson served as a Miami-Dade and Brevard county reserve deputy. He was elected to the Florida State Senate in 1994 and reelected in 1998. He served as chairman of both counties' legislative delegations and chairman of the Senate's Agriculture and Consumer Services Committee and its Natural Resources Committee. He has received numerous honors and awards including an FFA Honorary National Degree for outstanding personal commitment, a Nature Conservancy Legislative Leadership Appreciation Award, a Florida Farm Bureau Legislative Award, and both Florida Sheriff's and Florida Police Chief Association's Legislative Awards.
  