
    The Reviews Are In: After last night's debate in Philadelphia, Hillary was described as "the winner," having a "strong presence,' and "in her element." Read more.
State of the Race: Howard Wolfson and Phil Singer assess the State of the Race on a 10am ET conference call with reporters this morning.
Previewing Today in PA: Hillary and Chelsea host a conversation with families in Haverford, PA and host a Block Party outside the Mayfair Diner in Philadelphia. Hillary also appears on Comedy Central's the Colbert Report at 11:30pm ET tonight.
Young Democrats For Hillary: The editorial board of University of Pennsylvania's The Daily Pennsylvanian endorsed Hillary. "Clinton...is ready to lead this nation now. A successful champion for change...[she] has the ability to turn policy into reality." Read More.
On The Air In Indiana: The Clinton campaign unveiled a new ad in Indiana that highlights Hillary's commitment to protect American defense manufacturing jobs. [Watch here.] Read more. [Watch here.]
Endorsement Watch: The Operative Plasterers' and Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA) endorsed Hillary. OPCMIA President Pat Finley said: "We need a leader with Hillary Clinton's ability to turn around the economy and rebuild the middle class." Salsa icon Willie Colon also endorsed Hillary: "Clinton is more qualified than any other candidate to represent residents of Puerto Rico. '˜Hillary has been on the side of our families for over 35 years.'" Read more and more.
Speaking Out: Darrin McCormick, Mayor of Williamson, WV, described Sen. Obama's comments about Americans in small towns as "demeaning" and "fe[lt] like all Americans will feel the same way." Read More.
In Case You Missed It: "ABC News' Teddy Davis and Talal Al-Khatib Report: Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., maintained at Wednesday's ABC News debate in Philadelphia that his handwriting does not appear on a 1996 questionnaire stating support for a ban on the manufacture, sale, and possession of handguns. The Democratic presidential frontrunner made this claim even though a copy of the original document suggests otherwise." Read more.
On Tap: Hillary will visit North Carolina on Friday to participate in a conversation with Dr. Maya Angelou at Wake Forest University in Winston Salem.
  