
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Every day, thousands of men, women, and children are murdered, raped, robbed, beaten, or abused. They are the innocent victims of crime in the streets, towns, and homes of America.
Fortunately, crime victims in this country are not left alone to try to recover from the physical, emotional, and financial distress of victimization. Thousands of dedicated Americans are working tirelessly at the Federal, State, and local levels to provide comfort and financial assistance and to advocate for fair treatment. These advocates help the innocent victims of crime to recover from the trauma of victimization and to navigate the often emotionally difficult criminal justice process. "National Crime Victims' Rights Week" provides a special opportunity for us to demonstrate our appreciation to these selfless advocates and to renew our commitment to the needs and rights of crime victims.
Much has been accomplished during the past two decades to institutionalize victims' rights in this country. Bills of rights have been enacted at the Federal level and by 49 State governments to codify certain essential protections for victims. All 50 States now have crime victim compensation programs. Federal assistance under the Victims of Crime Act continues to supplement State crime victim compensation programs, support programs that provide direct assistance to crime victims, establish assistance for Native Americans who have been victimized, and provide training to increase the sensitivity of criminal justice practitioners to the special needs of crime victims.
While these gains are significant, there is still much that must be done to combat the crime trends that further threaten our communities. We must continue to work together to prevent crime and to protect ourselves, our families, and our fellow Americans from violence. We must work to provide opportunity where despair reigns. We must work together to ensure that hardened criminals who prey upon the innocent receive punishment commensurate with the harm -- physical, emotional, and financial -- that they have inflicted. And we must continue to work together to ensure that the innocent victims of crime receive the services they need and fair treatment by our Nation's criminal justice system.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 62, has designated the week of April 25 through May 1, 1993, as National Crime Victims' Rights Week and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of April 25 through May 1, 1993, as National Crime Victims' Rights Week. I urge all Americans to join in honoring those who work in behalf of crime victims and their families and to commit themselves to working together with their neighbors for safer streets, safer schools, and brighter tomorrows for all our citizens.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  