
    Members Of Congress
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA): "As I said this morning, Mike Pompeo is a great choice for Secretary of State, and I'm glad the Senate has confirmed him."
Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-TN): "Mike Pompeo is one of the most outstanding nominees we could have for Secretary of State. I strongly supported his confirmation today, and I look forward to him serving our nation." 
House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA): "From North Korea's nuclear threats to Iran's aggression, Mike's confirmation as Secretary of State comes at a critical time for U.S. foreign policy. In times such as these, it's clear that we need a stronger, more vibrant State Department to work with and lead our other national security agencies. I'm confident Secretary Pompeo will steer the Department in the right direction, and I look forward to partnering with him to advance America's interests overseas."
Sen. Doug Jones (D-AL): "After meeting with Director Pompeo, reviewing the record of his confirmation hearings, and speaking with others with expertise in national security and diplomacy, I believe he has the skills required to meet the weighty and urgent demands facing our State Department today.... In his role at the CIA, Mr. Pompeo has demonstrated the ability to be an effective manager and operator on the world stage. I also believe his perspective having worked in the intelligence community will be valuable given the national security challenges he would face as Secretary on day one."
Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA): "I'm pleased the Senate has confirmed Mike Pompeo to lead the State Department, where he will have an important opportunity to bolster U.S. diplomatic leadership, provide purposeful direction for the department, and boost the morale of our dedicated Foreign Service officers... Given his experiences as CIA director, Mike Pompeo possesses critical knowledge of how to best leverage our assets at a significant moment in history, especially as our country continues to face threats from North Korea."
Sen. David Perdue (R-GA): "Mike Pompeo is highly qualified and will make our country proud as Secretary of State. Through years of service to our country, he has gained a deep understanding of the complex threats we face across the globe. President Trump is coming up on a critical meeting with North Korea and will need top-notch counsel as he tackles the challenges presented by ISIS, Iran, and our multifaceted relationships with China and Russia. Mike Pompeo is the right man for the job. President Trump and the American people will be well-served with him as our chief diplomat."
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL): "I applaud today's Senate confirmation of Director Mike Pompeo to be Secretary of State. Based on his experience as CIA Director, an Army officer, a congressman, and his proven leadership on national security matters, he is eminently qualified to serve as our nation's top diplomat. It is a shame that his nomination encountered partisan headwinds at a time when the U.S. and our allies face mounting national security threats. I look forward to working him and I am confident that he will successfully advance U.S. interests abroad, including the promotion of democracy, human rights, and the rule of law."
Sen. Todd Young (R-IN): "I am glad the Senate has voted to confirm Mike Pompeo as Secretary of State. The Senate prioritized our national security by filling our nation's chief diplomat position with a highly qualified individual to help tackle our complex international challenges. I look forward to working with him to prioritize effective diplomacy and the security of our country."
Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA): "In a time when we are facing serious international challenges, from Russian meddling, to North Korean saber-rattling, to an increasingly assertive China, it is essential that the President have a qualified Secretary of State who he trusts on the job. Mike Pompeo unquestionably understands the international challenges we face and is more than capable of doing the job. When I talk to our allies, they are anxious to see him on the job."
Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS): "Mike will represent American ideals and values backed by the strength of leadership of the free world... As our nation's most senior diplomat, Mike will be forthright, forceful and thoughtful. He will give the president and the Congress candid counsel. He will be a man of his word."
Sen. Angus King (I-ME): "By any recent standard, Mike Pompeo is qualified by education and experience for this job. He graduated from West Point, served his country honorably in the Army, graduated from Harvard Law School, has business experience, and served three terms in the U.S. House of Representatives. Most recently, and most importantly, he has served as the Director of the CIA, a job which requires a high level of engagement with leaders around the world on difficult and often contentious issues and also involves managing a large, diverse, and complex organization."
Sen. Roger Wicker (R-MS): "As the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, a former member of Congress, a West Point graduate at the top of his class, and an editor of the Harvard Law Review, no one can dispute Mike Pompeo's qualifications to serve as our next secretary of state. President Trump has confidence in the secretary-designate, and he deserves a national security team he trusts to carry out his agenda."
Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO): "Mike Pompeo is eminently qualified to serve as our nation's top diplomat. That's why the Senate voted to #ConfirmPompeo as our Secretary of @StateDept."
Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK): "As America faces grave threats from around the world, especially with the rise of China and Russia, I am confident that Mike Pompeo is the right choice to serve as our next Secretary of State. We share a commitment to strengthening American leadership and diplomacy around the world so our allies can trust us and our enemies will fear us once again."
Sen. James Lankford (R-OK): "I've known Mike since 2011. He has served our country as a US Representative from Kansas, as an officer in the United States Army, the director of the CIA, and as a businessman. He is a hard-working, dedicated public servant who will serve our nation well at the U.S. Department of State."
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC): "I'm pleased that Mike Pompeo has been confirmed as our new Secretary of State. He is a highly qualified and incredibly competent choice – who enjoys the President's closest confidence. He will be an outstanding Secretary of State at a time of international upheaval and opportunity."
Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC): "We need a Secretary of State with a strong, clear vision for the United States and our role in the world. During his time in Congress and as CIA Director, Mike Pompeo has shown he is the man for this job. With several critical diplomatic issues currently moving forward, from Iran to North Korea, I am confident that Mike will provide the best possible counsel and direction for the President."
Sen. John Thune (R-SD): "As the director of the CIA, a former member of Congress, and graduate of West Point and Harvard Law School, Director Pompeo is beyond qualified to serve as our nation's top diplomat. At a time when our country faces a wide range of global threats, I have the utmost confidence that he will continue to help lead the United States in the right direction."
Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD): "After weeks of political gamesmanship from our Democrat colleagues, the Senate today confirmed Mike Pompeo to be Sec. of @StateDept. He will do an excellent job as our chief diplomat at this critical time in our nation's history."
Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN): "Mike Pompeo is trusted by the president, and his experience as CIA Director, Congressman, and Captain in the U.S. Army demonstrates that he is qualified to be Secretary of State. Now more than ever, the State Department needs a strong leader who has the confidence of President Trump to take on the many challenges our nation faces abroad, and Director Pompeo is the right person for this important role."
Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX): "The next Secretary of State will play a vital role in the negotiations in North Korea. In fact, as we know now, Mike Pompeo has already taken the initial steps laying the groundwork and the foundation for what we all hope will be a successful negotiation on the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. So those are some of the reasons why I strongly supported Mike Pompeo's nomination to lead the State Department, and I hope our colleagues will somehow find a way to overcome this reflexive opposition to everything the President has proposed and their hyper partisan response every time the President proposes either a nominee or some policy provision."
Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT): "Great news for the United States and our diplomatic efforts around the world."
Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI): "Mike Pompeo's distinguished track record of service to our country was recognized today by a majority of my colleagues. It is disappointing Senator Baldwin and so many Senate Democrats abandoned Senate tradition and put partisan politics ahead of supporting the confirmation of such a well-qualified individual to be our nation's top diplomat."
Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "Big news! Mike Pompeo will serve our nation tremendously well as our Secretary of State!"
Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA): "Congratulations to Mike Pompeo on his confirmation as Secretary of State."
Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA): "Congratulations to our new Secretary of State Mike Pompeo! I wish him and @realDonaldTrump all the best as they address the many challenges facing our country and the world."
Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO): "I applaud today's Senate confirmation of Mike Pompeo as our new Secretary of State. Having served with Mike, I have no doubt Mike's years of experience and strategic approach to sensitive issues will serve America well internationally."
Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL): "Congratulations to my friend Mike Pompeo, our new Secretary of State. Mike is a strong, diplomatic leader who will advance our mission and our role in the international community. I'm confident he will serve the American people, the President and our country proudly at the U.S. Department of State."
Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI): "Congratulations to @HouseCommerce alum Mike Pompeo on being confirmed as America's 70th Secretary of State!"
Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM): "I congratulate Mike Pompeo on being confirmed as the new Secretary of State! I look forward to his leadership in this distinguished role."
Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY): "I cannot think of anyone in our country who is better suited for this critical position at this important moment in our nation's history. Secretary Pompeo was first in his class at West Point, a great colleague in the House of Representatives, and an exceptional CIA Director. He's intelligent, competent, qualified, talented, and has the potential to be one of the best Secretaries of State in our nation's history."
Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC): "Congratulations to my friend, Mike Pompeo, for being confirmed as our next Secretary of State. He is going to do great work on behalf of the American people!"
Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN): "Congratulations to my former colleague Mike Pompeo for clearing the Senate to be our next Secretary of State. We know you will represent our country's interests effectively, and support @realDonaldTrump's agenda to strengthen America's presence abroad."
Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX): "Congratulations to my friend and former colleague Mike Pompeo on his confirmation as Secretary of State! He served his constituents well in Congress, the American people well at the CIA & will serve our nation well at @StateDept!"
Advocacy & Policy Organizations
Atlantic Council Scowcroft Center Deputy Director for Strategy Matthew Kroenig: "Now that he is confirmed, Pompeo can begin leveraging his experience and relationships to reinvigorate the Department of State. It is disappointing that the U.S. Senate couldn't muster stronger bipartisan support for such a qualified candidate. Compare his fifty-seven to forty-two vote to the vote tallies of recent secretaries of state: John Kerry (ninety-four to three); Hillary Clinton (ninety-four to two); Condoleezza Rice (eighty-five to thirteen); and Colin Powell (unanimous voice vote)."
Hudson Institute President and CEO Ken Weinstein: "Thrilled that @HudsonInstitute friend Mike Pompeo confirmed as Secretary of State. A dynamic and strategic leader."
Hudson Institute Senior Fellow Rebeccah Heinrichs: "A great pick for Sec State at the right time."
  