
    Book of essays on ending poverty edited by Edwards, Marion Crain, and Arne L. Kalleberg
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – "Ending Poverty in America: How to Restore the American Dream," a collection of essays discussing new, innovative ideas about how to fight poverty, is released to bookstores today. The book is edited by Senator John Edwards, Marion Crain and Arne L. Kalleberg. Edwards has called poverty "the great moral issue of our time," and has worked hard to expand opportunities for all Americans. During the past two years, he served as the Director of the Center on Poverty, Work and Opportunity at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In addition to co-editing the book, he also wrote the conclusion.
"This volume is a collection of some of the best ideas from some of the nation's most creative thinkers, activists, and community leaders for addressing the greatest moral challenge facing the country," wrote Edwards. "Our challenge is to take the best ideas and the most innovative thinking and couple them with the determination and commitment to put them into action so that we as a nation can finally end the plague of poverty."
"Ending Poverty in America" brings together the best and brightest minds from the academic and activist communities to discuss the root causes of poverty and to present creative, concrete ideas about how to address those causes and end poverty in America. Solutions to ending poverty focus on making work pay, helping people build assets and strengthening families and communities. The book is also meant to shine a spotlight on the issue of poverty and spark a national dialogue about what we can do as a nation to end it. Contributors include Americans from all walks of life and from both sides of the political aisle.
The book is published by The New Press in conjunction with The Center on Poverty, Work and Opportunity at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Edwards is former Director of The Center on Poverty, Work and Opportunity; Crain is the current Director of The Center on Poverty, Work and Opportunity; and Kalleberg is a Kenan Distinguished Professor of Sociology and the Senior Associate Dean for Social Sciences in the College of Arts and Sciences at UNC.
Contributors include:


Michael S. Barr
Jared Bernstein
Anita Brown-Graham
Carol Mendez Cassell
Martin Eakes
Michel Ferber
Richard B. Freeman
Angela Glover Blackwell
Jacob S. Hacker
Harry J. Holzer
Secretary Jack F. Kemp
Sara McLanahan
Ronald B. Mincy
Katherine S. Newman
Melvin L. Oliver
Peter Orszag
Dennis K. Orthner
Hillard Pouncy
Hugh B. Price
Ruston Seaman
Michael Sherraden
David K. Shipler
John Karl Scholz
Thomas M. Shapiro
Michael Sherraden
Beth Shulman
David Spickard
Michael A. Stegman
Elizabeth Warren
William Julius Wilson

  