
    "NATO leaders are meeting this week in Bucharest. The meeting will address a number of issues crucial to American security and the future of the alliance, specifically NATO's mission in Afghanistan, expanding peace and stability in Europe through further enlargement, and relations with Russia.
"Today, America needs institutions like NATO as much as ever. We need an alliance that is strong and undivided. One that works together to share burdens in facing the common risks we face in the new century in the Balkans, in Afghanistan, and elsewhere. To build this alliance for the 21st century, we need to strengthen NATO and our relations with Europe, be clear with Russia about our strong differences while pursuing areas of strategic importance, and solidify the alliance to meet new challenges such as the ongoing mission in Afghanistan.
"There are three crucial litmus tests for the success of this week's NATO summit meeting.
First, I believe our NATO allies should extend invitations to the three countries in the Western Balkans -- Albania, Croatia, and the Republic of Macedonia - as part of a larger strategy to stabilize the Western Balkans after Kosova's independence. I support those invitations provided these countries fulfill the same requirements met by previous new allies, and hope that outstanding issues are resolved. In the 1990s, NATO opened its doors to new members to help lock in democracy and security in Europe's eastern half, and that work must continue.
"Second, both Georgia and Ukraine have made clear their desire to anchor themselves firmly in the trans-Atlantic community through membership in NATO. Both have made real progress and are seeking an affirmation of Western support through a Membership Action Plan (MAP). I enthusiastically support the extension of MAP to both Ukraine and Georgia in Bucharest.
"Third, the NATO summit must yield tangible benefits for success on the forgotten front line in Afghanistan. Today, we lack a coherent diplomatic strategy and an integrated political, economic, and military plan to prevail. NATO must play its proper role in Afghanistan. Individual nations should move to eliminate restrictions they have placed on their forces operating in Afghanistan. Countries unable to contribute more forces should increase assistance to Afghanistan.
"The other important issue this summit must address is Russia. Here, too, we have failed to craft a strategy that stands up for our values and our interests, while engaging Russia in a serious way on a long list of disagreements. The list of problems that we need to resolve with Russia has gotten far too long. But we will not be able to address them by trying to run Russia out of the G-8, as some have suggested. There is only one way to solve these problems, face to face, with Russia's new leaders hearing the same resolute message from America and its closest allies.
"When America and Europe work together, global objectives are within our means. As President, I will work with allies to finish the job of expanding peace in Europe by anchoring new democracies to the west while orienting NATO to handle challenges outside of Europe. I will forge a new approach to Russia that protects both our values and interests.
"I will work with my European counterparts to create the broader framework that ties together the soft and hard power of NATO and the European Union to create the kind of comprehensive strategies we need. I will make Afghanistan the priority it should have been from the beginning, and provide the leadership and broader strategy required to prevail in that critical conflict.
"Finally, I will build a NATO that is open to and capable of working together with other regional institutions to address new challenges. The next President will have a chance to reach out across the Atlantic to a new generation of leaders. As President, I will reestablish our traditional relationship of confidence and trust with Europe as NATO prepares to mark its 60th anniversary in 2009."
  