
    Pool Reports by Hans Nichols, Axios 



Sent:
Reports:




April 27, 202210:20

WH Pool 1: Pool is gathering for our first movement
Good morning. Pool is now walking to the vans to head up to the National Cathedral for former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's funeral. Remarks are scheduled for 11am and are slated to be streamed. POTUS is expected to speak for approximately 15 minutes, per a WH official.



April 27, 202210:52

WH Pool 2: Motorcade is rolling from WH at 1051
Will update on arrival.



April 27, 202211:01

WH Pool 3: motorcade has arrived at Cathedral
Pool did not see POTUS enter.



April 27, 202211:13

WH Pool 4: Traveling with the President
Traveling with the President to former Secretary of State Madeline Albright's funeral, per a WH official:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentSusan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy AdvisorAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsJen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorJon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation CoordinatorDr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for European Affairs, National Security CouncilStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning



April 27, 202211:18

WH Pool 5: Attendees, per a WH official
Attendees and participants for the funeral service for former Secretary of State Madeline Korbel Albright include:
Officiating Clergy

The Right Reverend Mariann Edgar Budde, Bishop, Episcopal Diocese of Washington
The Very Reverend Randolph Marshall Hollerith, Dean, Washington National Cathedral
The Reverend Canon Rosemarie Logan Duncan, Canon for Worship, Washington National Cathedral

Committal Clergy

The Reverend Virginia K. Gerbasi, Rector, St. John's Episcopal Church, Georgetown, Washington, D.C.
The Reverend John R. Unger II, St. John's Episcopal Church, Harpers Ferry, West Virginia

Tributes

The Honorable Joseph R. Biden, Jr., Forty-Sixth President of the United States
The Honorable William J. Clinton, Forty-Second President of the United States
The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton, Sixty-seventh U.S. Secretary of State

Officials attending include

Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense
Denis McDonough, Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Avril Haines, Director of National Intelligence
Bill Burns, CIA Director
Jake Sullivan, National Security Advisor
Samantha Power, USAID Administrator
General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
John Kerry, U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate and former U.S. Secretary of State
Lael Brainard, Federal Reserve Vice Chair
David Cohen, CIA Deputy Director

Former officials include

Barack Obama, Former President
Michelle Obama, Former First Lady
Al Gore, Former U.S. Vice President
Condoleezza Rice, Former U.S. Secretary of State
Ash Carter, Former U.S. Secretary of Defense
Chuck Hagel, Former U.S. Secretary of Defense
Bill Cohen, Former U.S. Secretary of Defense
Robert Ruben, Former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury
Jacob J. Lew, Former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury
Eric Holder, Former U.S. Attorney General
Carol Browner, Former Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Thomas Pickering, Former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations

Congressional Leaders

Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives
Steny Hoyer, House Majority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives
Mitch McConnell, Senate Minority Leader
A large bipartisan group of U.S. Senators and House of Representatives

Secretary Albright's daughters will speak in birth order (Anne and Alice are identical twins)

Anne K. Albright, Judge, Maryland Court of Special Appeals
Alice P. Albright, Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation an independent U.S. Government development agency working to reduce global poverty through economic growth
Katharine M. Albright, President and Chief Executive Officer of Safe & Sound, a San Francisco-based children's advocacy organization dedicated to preventing child abuse and reduce its devastating impact

Readers

Winifred S. Freund, Wellesley College Class of 1959
Rabbi David N. Saperstein, Former United States Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom
The Honorable Wendy R. Sherman, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State
The Honorable Condoleezza Rice, Sixty-sixth U.S. Secretary of State and a student of Secretary Albright's father, Josef Korbel, at the University of Denver

Intercessors

Suzanne A. George, Chief of Staff at the U.S. State Department
The Honorable Susan E. Rice, Assistant to the President and the Director of the U.S. Domestic Policy Council, The White House

Pallbearers

Former members of Secretary Albright's Diplomatic Security Service and protective detail from her time as both U.S. Ambassador to the UN and as Secretary of State.

Honorary Pallbearers

A. Katherine Silva, known as Kathy Silva, sister of Secretary Albright
John J. Korbel, brother of Secretary Albright
The Honorable María Eugenia Brizuela de Ávila, former Foreign Minister of El Salvador (1999-2004).
James S. Crown, Chairman of the Aspen Institute Board of Trustees
The Honorable Thomas A. Daschle, Chair of the National Democratic Institute (NDI)
Dr. John J. DeGioia, President of Georgetown University
Jacob M. Freedman, Chief of Staff to Secretary Albright
Paula A. Johnson, M.D., President of Wellesley College
Maria A. Ressa, Nobel Peace Prize recipient
Dan K. Rosenthal, Managing Principal of Albright Stonebridge Group
George C. Rowland, Senior General Services Officer in the Secretary of State's Executive Office
Elaine K. Shocas, Chief of Staff to Secretary Albright at the U.S. Department of State
The Honorable Dan Sullivan, Chair of the International Republican Institute (IRI)
Bill Woodward, Co-author
Ambassador Michael Žantovský, Executive Director of the Vaclav Havel Library and Former Czech Ambassador to the United States

Ushers

Former teaching assistants of Secretary Albright's classes over the past 20 years at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service (SFS) at Georgetown University

Guest Musicians

Chris Botti, Trumpet
Herbie Hancock, Piano
Judy Collins, Vocals




April 27, 202211:31

WH Pool 6: As you can see on TV, attendees are masked
Per a WH official, the family asked for all funeral attendees and press to remain masked for the duration of the service.



April 27, 202211:44

WH Pool 7: Correction — it is Former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin
Spelling was incorrect in the list provided by the WH. Thanks to the reader who caught the typo.



April 27, 202213:50

WH Pool 8: Motorcade departed the Cathedral grounds at 1:49
Pool did not see POTUS leave the Cathedral.



April 27, 202214:02

WH Pool 9: POTUS returns to WH and enters oval at 1:59
Other WH officials entered the West Wing via the Colonnade.



April 27, 202214:07

WH Pool 10: Lunch lid until 3 PM
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



April 27, 202215:06

WH Pool 11: Two minute warning to briefing
Was called like 60 seconds ago...



April 27, 202216:05

WH Pool 12: Pool is in the East Room awaiting POTUS
The Teachers of the Year event is scheduled for 4pm and should begin momentarily.



April 27, 202216:17

WH Pool 13: Teacher of Year Event has commenced
Remarks are being carried live.



April 27, 202217:11

WH Pool 14: Questions were shouted at event's conclusion
Biden appeared to answer a shouted question on how he secured the release of Trevor Reed:
"I did it."
How?
"I raised it three months ago."
Your print pool was not in a great position to witness and record this exchange. Biden was closer to the cameras so when we're out of the East Room I will attempt to get better audio.



April 27, 202217:33

WH Pool 15: Travel photo lid and full exchange with CNN's Kaitlan Collins
First, we have a travel photo lid.
Second, here's the exchange the president had with CNN as he was leaving the East Room through the center door, out into the F0yer. Print pool had been sequestered in the northern half of the room, so thanks to Kaitlan for sharing her iPhone video. Transcribed as follows.
CNN: "Mr. President, how did Trevor Reed's release happen given the invasion and what's going on?
Biden: "Say again."
CNN: "Were you surprised that Trevor Reed was released, given the invasion?"
Biden: "I did it. I raised it."
CNN: "How? How though?
Biden: "It was three months ago."
CNN: "What does it signal?"
Biden then walked away.




  