
    Pool Reports by Jessica Floyd, TheGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




April 13, 202111:47

VP Pool #1 - Good Morning/Pooler tested
Good morning from the White House.
Your pooler for the roundtable event on Black Maternal Health Care with Vice President Kamala Harris and Ambassador Susan Rice has been tested and awaits the pool gather expected at 12:10.
Officials from White House say four Black women are slated to speak at the event.
More details to follow, but in the meantime feel free to send me any questions you may have.



April 13, 202112:24

VP Pool Report #2 - Attendees and Background info
The pool departed for the roundtable at 12:13. Along the way, the White House shared with your pooler addition background details on the run of show, as well as a Presidential Proclamation and a Factsheet addressing the crisis of Black maternal mortality. The Proclamation recognizes Black Maternal Health Week, and highlights the work of President Biden and Vice President Harris on the issue. This is the first-ever presidential Proclamation for Black Maternal Health Week.
Participants at the Vice President’s event

Ambassador Susan Rice, Director, Domestic Policy Council
Heather Wilson, Executive Director and Founder of Kennedy's Angel Gowns
Erica McAfee, Founder and CEO of Sisters in Loss
Donna Trim-Stewart, Impacted Mother, Caregiver
Dr. Elizabeth A. Howell, MD, MPP, Chair of the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania




April 13, 202112:35

VP Pool Report #3 - event begins
While the pool waited for the VP to enter the South Court, at 12:33, she overheard laughter and an enthusiastic Vice President Kamala Harris greet presumably roundtable participants who are in person on White House grounds.
Shortly after the pool was called into the theater at 12:34 as the roundtable began. This event is being livestream on the White House website.



April 13, 202112:41

VP Pool Report #4 - color on the roundtable
Just to add color and give a snapshot of the room, the VP's spokeswoman, Symone Sanders was in attendance.
During the opening remarks, Amb. Susan Rice emphasized the sisterhood of Black women as she discussed the issue of maternal mortality that disproportionately impacts the population.
"We wanted to hear directly from sisters, like sisters who understand what this tragedy and trauma means, so that we can address these racial disparities in maternal health and ensure that women are treated with dignity and respect and kindness."



April 13, 202112:47

VP Pool Report #5 - VP Comments on Daunte Wright
"Before we get started I do want to address the killing of Daunte Wright," said Vice President Harris. "He should be alive today."
The Vice President called for "justice and healing" and said "law enforcement must be held to the highest standards of accountability."
More tk on the roundtable on Black maternal health.



April 13, 202113:29

VP Pool Report #6 - Event ends + background information
The event ended at 1:28.
An attendee to note is Donna Trim-Stewart, who lost her daughter, a former Capitol Hill staffer who died a week after childbirth.
Throughout the event, the Vice President focused on the importance of doulas through the pregnancy process and access to aftercare for women who just delivered.




  