
    To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith for the consideration of the Congress an Agreement between the United States and the United Nations concerning a loan of $65,000,000, without interest, to be made by the United States to the United Nations to finance the construction of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations in the United States. I also enclose a letter from the Acting Secretary of State regarding this Agreement.
The decision of the United Nations to locate its permanent headquarters in the United States was made pursuant to an invitation unanimously extended by concurrent resolution of the Congress on December 10 and 11, 1945. The specific site for the headquarters was chosen in December 1946. The United Nations is still operating in makeshift temporary headquarters. It is essential, not only for the effective operation of the United Nations, but for the continued prestige and leadership of the United States, as host to the United Nations, that adequate physical facilities be promptly furnished for the conduct of its business.
During the course of the Second Regular Session of the General Assembly in New York last fall, it appeared that, in view of the critical dollar shortage confronting most of the Members of the Organization, the only satisfactory way of providing for the prompt construction of the permanent home for the United Nations was a loan by the United States. In view of this fact and taking into consideration the economic and financial advantages that would accrue to the United States from this project, I authorized Ambassador Warren R. Austin, as Representative of the United States to the United Nations, to state that I would request the Congress to approve the making of a $65,000,000 interest-free loan for this purpose. This loan would be repaid in annual installments from the ordinary budget of the United Nations, according to an agreed schedule of repayments. This offer was accepted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on the express understanding that it was subject to the approval of the Congress.
It is my hope that the Congress will carefully consider this proposal and grant its approval. The construction of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations will be tangible evidence to the world that the United States is supporting to the full the institution to which the peoples of all nations are looking as their best hope for freedom from the fear of war.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
  