
    Today, Iowa Democratic Party Women's Caucus Chair and former Executive Director of the Iowa Democratic Party Jean Hessburg endorsed Senator Kamala Harris for President. Hessburg previously served as Director of the Nevada Caucus in 2008 and as Legislative Director for Congressman Dave Nagel (D-IA).
"In her first election for U.S. Senate, Kamala Harris won all but four counties in California. She has won every single race she has entered because she fights to win. She supports middle-class working women and men, she's a friend of labor, and she understands the struggles of everyday Americans. She has fought hard for public schools, the right of women to make their own health care decisions, and immigrant and LGBTQ rights. She will keep working until we once again live in an America filled with hope and promise. I support Senator Kamala Harris for all of these reasons and for a bigger and brighter future for my children," Hessburg said.
"I am so proud to have Jean's endorsement," Harris said. "As the Chair of the Iowa Democratic Party Women's Caucus, she knows that electing record numbers of women to the statehouse and in Congress in 2018 was no accident. When we stand together, support great candidates and work hard, we can make our government look like the people it serves. Women will be a deciding voice in the 2020 Iowa Caucuses and I will do all I can to earn their support."
Hessburg will join Harris later today at an Emerge Iowa House Party in Des Moines to celebrate the women candidates who ran and won in Iowa over the last few years, and look forward to 2020. Emerge Iowa recruits and trains women to run for office across the state.
Harris is running a campaign that is organizing and reaching out to Iowans in every corner of the state. Earlier this month, she announced she raised $12 million from 218,000 unique contributions across the country, showing her early strength and giving her the resources to reach more Iowans. In March, Harris' campaign announced she has supporters in all 99 Iowa counties and released a widely praised policy to give Iowa teachers a $12,200 raise by the end of her first term.
  