
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Richard A. Hauser to be General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. He is currently a partner with the law firm of Baker and Hostetler and previously served as Deputy White House Counsel from 1981 to 1986. He was appointed by President Reagan and reappointed by President Bush to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation and held the position until April 1996. He served in the Justice Department from 1971 to 1975 as an attorney advisor to the Deputy Attorney General and as Deputy Director of the Office of Justice Policy and Planning. He is a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Miami School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Jenna Dorn to be Federal Transit Administrator within the Department of Transportation. She is currently the President of the National Health Museum and from 1991 to 1998 was Senior Vice President of the American Red Cross. She served as Assistant Secretary of Labor from 1989 to 1991and held several positions at the Department of Transportation from 1983 to 1987 including Associate Deputy Secretary and Director of the Office of Commercial Space Transportation. Originally from Nebraska, Dorn is a graduate of Oregon State University and received a Master's in Public Administration from the University of Connecticut.
The President intends to nominate Allen Frederick Johnson to be Chief Agriculture Negotiator for the Office of the United States Trade Representative with the rank of Ambassador. He is presently the President of the National Oilseed Processors Association. He served as the Executive Director of the Iowa Soybean Association from 1988 to 1991 and at the same time was Executive Director of the Iowa Soybean Promotion Board. He is a former Legislative Aide to Senator Charles Grassley and an Iowa native. He is a graduate of George Mason University and received a Master's degree and M.B.A. from Stanford University.
  