
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 23
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton helped plant a tree on the South Lawn in memory of those killed or injured in the Oklahoma City bombing. They then traveled to Oklahoma City, OK.
Following their arrival in the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton went to the State Fair Grounds Arena where they met with members of search and rescue teams. Later in the afternoon, they met with families affected by the bombing.
In the evening, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN.
April 24
In the morning, the President met with community college students at the Minneapolis Convention Center.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Des Moines, IA, where he met with the editorial board of the Des Moines Register.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lannon Walker to be Ambassador to Cote d'Ivoire.
The President announced his intention to nominate David C. Litt to be Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Alan Williams for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as the Special Coordinator for Cyprus.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mosina H. Jordan to be Ambassador to the Central African Republic.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald K. Steinberg to be Ambassador to Angola.
April 25
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sandra J. Kristoff for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as U.S. Coordinator for Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Frank E. (Sam) Maynes as the U.S. Commissioner of the Upper Colorado River Commission.
The President named the following individuals to serve as delegates to the White House Conference on Aging: Fidel Aguilar, Frank Alexander, Samuel Amorose, Lena Archuleta, Norma Asnes, Judy Basham, Theressa Burns, Shirley Cagle, Helen Carlstrom, Amelia Castillo, George Chassey, Harvey Cohen, Victoria Cowell, Erica Goode, Pauline Gore, Helene Grossman, Harry Guenther, Richard Gunther, Lars Hennum, Sherrye Henry, Peggy Houston, Laura Hyatt, Theresa McKenna, Matthew McNulty, Herbert McTaggart, Cecil Malone, Rose Marie Meridith, Wesley Parrott, Madeline Parsons, Nancy Peace, Charlie Peritore, Frederick Perkins, Mike Rankin, Linda Rhodes, Kay Ryder, Janice Schakowsky, Lynn Williams Shipp, Eleanor Slater, Alan Solomont, Viston Taylor, Norman Vaughan, Fredda Vladeck, Diana Wiley, Norma Wisor, and Ken Worley.
April 26
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton attended funeral services for Alan G. Whicher, a Secret Service agent killed in the Oklahoma City bombing, at St. Patrick's Catholic Church in Rockville, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate David W. Burke as Chairman and Edward E. Kaufman, Tom C. Korologos, and Bette Bao Lord as members of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the International Bureau of Broadcasting.
The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma City, OK, following the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building on April 19, making Federal aid available to affected individuals in Oklahoma County.
April 27
In the morning, the President met with Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev of Russia. Following the meeting, he had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard J. Stern to the National Council on the Arts.
The President announced his intention to nominate William H. LeBlanc III to the Postal Rate Commission.
April 28
The President announced his intention to reappoint the following members to the Federal National Mortgage Association:
—William M. Daley;
—Thomas Leonard;
—John R. Sasso;
—Jose Villarreal.
The President announced his intention to appoint Susan Albert Loewenberg and William E. Morgan as members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Prison Industries Corporation.
  