
    The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed as items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements.
Released March 27 [xiii]*
Transcript of videotaped remarks by the First Lady to Tracey Brown from Cape Town, South Africa
Released March 28
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry, NSC Senior Director for African Affairs Joseph C. Wilson IV, NSC Director for African Affairs Erica Barkes-Ruggles, and U.S. Trade Representative for Africa Rosa Whitaker on the President's visit to Africa
Fact sheet on the Ronald H. Brown Commercial Center in Johannesburg, South Africa
Released March 29
Transcript of remarks by Press Secretary Mike McCurry on the President's bilateral meeting with President Masire of Botswana
Statement by the Press Secretary: Radio Democracy for Africa Released March 30
Advance text of remarks by Chief of Staff Erskine B. Bowles to the Center for National Policy
Released March 31
Transcript of a press briefing by National Security Adviser Samuel Berger on the President's farewell meeting with President Masire of Botswana
Transcript of a press briefing by NSC Senior Director for Environmental Affairs David Sandalow on the President's roundtable discussion with African environmentalists
Fact sheet: Environment Roundtable
Announcement of nomination for U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California
Released April 1
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Mike McCurry and National Security Adviser Samuel Berger on the President's visit to Africa
Transcript of a press briefing by NSC Senior Director for African Affairs Joseph C. Wilson IV on the President's bilateral meeting with President Diouf of Senegal
Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's support for legislation to create the Presidential Advisory Commission on Holocaust Assets in the United States (S. 1900)
Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance for Minnesota
Statement by the Press Secretary: Arms Embargo Against Belgrade
Transcript of a press briefing by Gen. James Jamerson, Deputy Commander in Chief, U.S.-European Command, on the African Crisis Response Initiative (ACRI)
Fact sheet: African Crisis Response Initiative (ACRI)
Fact sheet: African Center for Security Studies
Fact sheet: Safe Skies for Africa Initiative
Announcement of nomination for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
Released April 2
Announcement of nomination for U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Louisiana
  