
    Entering the final four days of campaigning, Hillary supporters go door to door, make phone calls to Get Out the Vote on Primary Day
PHILADELPHIA, PA – The Clinton campaign in Pennsylvania kicked off an aggressive Get Out the Vote operation today as it gears up for the April 22 Democratic Primary. ,p>Deploying an extensive, statewide ground organization, thousands of volunteers are canvassing, going door to door, manning phone banks, and holding visibilities on street corners and high-traffic areas across the Keystone State from now until the Tuesday election. The campaign will be reaching millions of people by phone and visiting over a million homes throughout Pennsylvania. Hundreds of out of state volunteers will come into the state by plane, car, and train to help Pennsylvania for Hillary in their efforts.
"We have built a strong, experienced staff and volunteer base that will work to get out the vote for Hillary on April 22," Pennsylvania for Hillary State Director Mary Isenhour said. "We are running a robust, aggressive operation in every corner of Pennsylvania and we will continue to talk to voters about how Hillary Clinton is most prepared to be Commander-in-Chief."
While experienced staffers and volunteers go out into the community, Hillary will continue to criss-cross the Keystone State, discussing with Pennsylvanians the issues important to them, such as restoring the economy, ending the war in Iraq and providing affordable universal health care. President Clinton and Chelsea Clinton will also fan the state to talk about how Hillary will rebuild the economy and restore the nation's standing in the world.
To help spread Hillary's message, surrogates from around the nation will flood Pennsylvania, talking about how Hillary is best ready to lead on day one in the White House. Endorsers and surrogates like Congressman Joe Crowley (NY), Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Senator Bob Menendez (NJ), Director Rob Reiner, Ohio Governor Ted Strickland and others will knock on doors, make phone calls, and hold and attend events to reach out to voters and urge their support for Hillary.
  