
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Christopher A. Masingill, Federal Co-Chair, Delta Regional Authority
•      Mary Minow, Member, National Museum Library Services Board
•      Catherine E. Wotecki, Under Secretary for Agriculture for Research, Education and Economics, Department of Agriculture
President Obama said, "I am grateful that such talented individuals have chosen to serve in my administration at this important time for our nation. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint Renée Mauborgne to serve as a Member of the Presidential Advisory Board on Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Her bio is below.
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
Christopher A. Masingill, Nominee for Federal Co-Chair, Delta Regional Authority
Mr. Masingill is currently serving as Governor Mike Beebe's Recovery Implementation Director for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act as well as the Director of Intergovernmental Affairs, which acts as the official liaison between the Governor's office and the federal delegation, federal agencies and the National Governors Association. He is also the Governor's chief policy advisor to the Arkansas Economic Development Commission and Arkansas's official Designee and Alternate on the U.S. Delta Regional Authority's board of directors. Before that, he served the Governor as his 2006 gubernatorial campaign manager. Prior to working for Governor Beebe, Mr. Masingill was Representative Mike Ross's District Director and also served as Senator Blanche Lincoln's Special Projects Assistant during Congress's establishment of the Delta Regional Authority. Mr. Masingill has also been active in professional and community organizations including previously serving as an executive officer on the Arkansas Economic Developers Association Board of Directors and is currently a member of the Friends of Small Business Advisory Board for the Arkansas Small Business and Technology Development Center. He also serves as a reserve deputy sheriff for Garland County, Arkansas.
Mary Minow, Nominee for Member, National Museum Library Services Board
Ms. Minow is an attorney, consultant, and a former librarian and library trustee. She has made presentations and consulted for libraries and library associations in over 25 states on free speech, privacy, and copyright issues. She manages the Stanford Copyright and Fair Use website, and founded the LibraryLaw blog. Ms. Minow teaches digital copyright as an adjunct at the San Jose State School of Library Science and at the Simmons Graduate School of Library and Information Science. She serves on the board of the Electronic Privacy Information Center and she chairs the Intellectual Freedom Committee of the California Library Association. She is past chair of the Cupertino Library Commission and past president of the California Association of Library Trustees and Commissioners. She is coauthor with Tomas Lipinski of The Library's Legal Answer Book. Ms. Minow earned her Bachelor of Arts degree from Brown University, her master of library science degree from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, and her law degree from Stanford University.
Catherine E. Wotecki, Nominee for Under Secretary for Agriculture for Research, Education and Economics, Department of Agriculture
Dr. Catherine E. Woteki currently serves as Global Director of Scientific Affairs for Mars, Incorporated, where she manages the company's scientific policy and research on matters of health, nutrition, and food safety. From 2002-2005, she was Dean of Agriculture and Professor of Human Nutrition at Iowa State University. Dr. Woteki served as the first Under Secretary for Food Safety at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) from 1997-2001, where she oversaw U.S. Government food safety policy development and USDA's continuity of operations planning. Dr. Woteki also served as the Deputy Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics at USDA in 1996. Prior to going to USDA, Dr. Woteki served in the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy as Deputy Associate Director for Science from 1994-1996. Dr. Woteki has also held positions in the National Center for Health Statistics of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (1983-1990), the Human Nutrition Information Service at USDA (1981-1983), and as Director of the Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Sciences (1990-1993). In 1999, Dr. Woteki was elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, where she has chaired the Food and Nutrition Board (2003-2005). She received her M.S. and Ph.D. in Human Nutrition from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (1974). Dr. Woteki received her B.S. in Chemistry from Mary Washington College (1969).
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key administration post:
Renée Mauborgne, Appointee for Member, Presidential Advisory Board on Historically Black Colleges and Universities
Renée Mauborgne is the Co-Director of the INSEAD Blue Ocean Strategy Institute and Affiliate Professor of Strategy at INSEAD, the world's second largest business school located in Fontainebleau, France. Prior to this, she held the title of the INSEAD Distinguished Fellow of Strategy and Management and Senior Research Fellow also at INSEAD. Professor Mauborgne is a Fellow of the World Economic Forum at Davos. She is the recipient of numerous awards including the Nobels Colloquia Prize for Leadership on Business and Economic Thinking 2008 and the Eldridge Haynes Prize, awarded by the Academy of International Business and the Eldridge Haynes Memorial Trust of Business International, for the best original paper in the field of international business. Professor Mauborgne is the co-author of the international bestseller Blue Ocean Strategy (Harvard Business Press), which is being published in 42 languages. She has published numerous articles on strategy and managing the multinational which can be found in: Academy of Management Journal, Management Science, Organization Science, Strategic Management Journal, Administrative Science Quarterly, Journal of International Business Studies, Harvard Business Review, and Sloan Management Review.
  