
    "I'm proud to have earned the support of Senator Ron Johnson," said Mitt Romney. "Ron's life-long experience as a successful manufacturer and job creator brought him to Washington in 2011. His understanding and focus on our debt and deficits, and pointed questioning of administration officials, has quickly gained Ron the respect of colleagues and the appreciation of hard working Americans. Republican Senate Leader, Mitch McConnell, appointed Ron to develop a joint agenda with House Republicans and the Republican Presidential nominee. I look forward to working with Ron during the campaign to develop that agenda, and after the election, to reverse the disastrous policies of Barack Obama."
Click Here To Watch Wisconsin Senator Ron Johnson Endorse Mitt Romney for President
NBC's Savannah Guthrie: "And joining me live from Milwaukee is Wisconsin's freshman Republican Senator Ron Johnson. He was elected with strong Tea Party support in 2010. And until this morning has remained uncommitted in the Republican presidential race. So Senator, I know you're here to break news this morning. Throw your support behind a candidate. So, without further ado, who will you be supporting?"
Senator Ron Johnson: "Mitt Romney and good morning, Savannah. I'm the business guy from Oshkosh, Wisconsin. I have 33 years' experience in the private sector. I've been in Washington now for 15 months. I certainly understand a big part of our problem is the fact that this president and members of his administration have no private sector experience whatsoever. And Governor Romney has 25 years of experience in the private sector, plus, he has executive experience in government. And I never did intend to endorse anybody but I've had the opportunity to meet with Governor Romney over the last couple weeks, have long phone conversations with him. I've come away from those conversations fully convinced that Governor Romney is the person to lead our party, to lead our nation. He fully understands the gravity of our financial situation. He's dedicated toward solving those problems. He is ready, willing and able to lead this nation, unlike President Obama. So today I'm happy to announce my full support and my endorsement of Governor Romney to be the next President of the United States. I'm looking forward to working with Governor Romney and his team in my new role. I've been asked by Leader McConnell to lead an effort, coordinate our agenda and our message in the House, the Senate, with our presidential candidate, so that we can communicate to the voters of America, the very clear choice in our approach. We actually want to rely on the private sector. We know that it's freedom in the free market system versus President Obama's approach, growing government, growing government intrusion in our lives. I'm looking forward to making sure that President Obama is a one-term president."
Background on Senator Ron Johnson:
Ron Johnson spent 31 years building a successful manufacturing business that makes and markets its products across America and exports to two dozen nations. In May of 2010, Ron Johnson ran for U.S. Senate, won the Republican nomination and defeated 3 term Democrat incumbent Russ Feingold in a state that had not elected a Republican to the U.S. Senate since 1986.
  