
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced a growing finance team of Executive Committee members, State Finance Chairs and Co-Chairs, and industry leaders who will help lead Mayor Giuliani's fundraising and grassroots efforts.
"Our team is proud to welcome these respected leaders in the Republican Party, business community, and financial industry, to help lead our fundraising efforts," said Roy Bailey, National Finance Chairman. "They will help continue to build support and ensure our campaign has the necessary resources to communicate Mayor Giuliani's positive message and results-driven record around the country."
Giuliani Presidential Executive Committee Members
Bill Simon, Executive Committee Member & California State Finance Chair
Bill Simon is one of the California Republican Party's most prominent and energetic leaders who, after many years as a supporter of Republican causes and candidates, entered the political arena in 2001 as a candidate for Governor of California. Since his gubernatorial campaign, Bill has remained an active participant and commentator on public policy issues, appearing on Fox News Channel, MSNBC, CNN, and many other state and national television and radio programs.
Paul Singer, Eastern Regional Finance Chairman
Paul Singer is general partner of Elliott Associates, L.P., a New York-based global trading firm. He is a member of the Board of Fellows of Harvard Medical School, a member of the boards of the Jewish Institute for National Security Affairs and of Commentary Magazine, and is on the Board of Advisors of the James Madison Program in American Ideals and Institutions at Princeton University. He is also a Trustee of the Manhattan Institute.
Ambassador Peter Terpeluk, Jr., Executive Committee Member for the Mid-Atlantic Region
Peter Terpeluk, Jr. has recently returned to the American Continental Group as Chairman after serving as the U.S. Ambassador to Luxembourg for three and one half years. Ambassador Terpeluk has been an extremely active leader in both Bush Administrations and the Reagan Administration during which he served as Acting Deputy Administrator in the U.S. Small Business Administration and led trade missions to the United Kingdom, Russia, and China.
Ken Langone, Executive Committee Member and New York City Finance Chair
Ken Langone is the founder, Chairman and CEO of Invemed Associates LLC., an investment banking and brokerage company located in New York City and the cofounder of the Home Depot, Inc. He is chairman of the board of trustees of New York University Medical School and Hospital, a member of the board of trustees of New York University and Vice Chairman of the Board of Overseers of N.Y.U. Stern School of Business. Ken also serves on the board of the Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation, The New York Philharmonic, The Ronald McDonald House of New York, and the Robin Hood Foundation.
T. Boone Pickens, Executive Committee Member for the Southwest Region
T. Boone Pickens, legendary oilman and one of America's best-known entrepreneurs, has been actively involved in Republican politics for four decades. Pickens served as chairman for Gov. Bill Clements' campaign, chairman of the GOP President's dinner-which raised a then-record amount of money for House and Senate races, was a staunch Ronald Reagan supporter, both during the president's political career and as a major contributor to his presidential library, and has contributed more than $5 million to a wide range of Republican causes.
Thomas O. Hicks, Sr., Executive Committee Member & Texas State Finance Chair
Thomas O. Hicks is Chairman and CEO of Hicks Holdings LLC, a Dallas-based private investment firm whose sports ownership includes the Texas Rangers Baseball Club, the Dallas Stars Hockey Club, 50% interest in the American Airlines Center, and a 50% interest in Liverpool FC, an English Premiership Club.
Giuliani Presidential State Finance Team
Linda Maynor, Alabama State Finance Co-Chair
Linda Maynor works as a Legislative Consultant for Balch & Bingham LLP in Huntsville, Alabama, as a part of the Firm's Governmental Affairs Practice Group. Linda has served as Finance Chair to the Alabama Republican Party, was selected by Governor Bob Riley to serve on his Education Spending Commission, and was appointed by Governor Riley to serve on the Alabama Certificate of Need Board.
Jim Wilson, Alabama State Finance Co-Chair
Jim Wilson is Chairman and CEO of Jim Wilson & Associates, LLC, a multi-faceted, multi-million dollar corporation. He currently serves on the Board of Trustees at The University of Alabama System, UAB Health System Board, and the President's Cabinet at The University of Alabama; and is a member of the board of directors for the Alabama Shakespeare Festival; the American Sports Medicine Institute; American Liver Foundation, Alabama Chapter; Business Council of Alabama; and Metro YMCA.
Barron Thomas, Arizona State Finance Chair
Barron Thomas, an Arizona aviation and real estate businessman, began in politics by fundraising for Ronald Reagan's 1984 re-election campaign. In addition to fundraising, Barron co-hosted Ronald Reagan's Republican Convention luncheon in Dallas and founded the Young Eagles branch of the Republican Eagles in 1984 and was a Bush-Cheney '04 "Pioneer" and "Ranger".
Mary Smith, Colorado State Finance Co-Chair
Ms. Smith, an active volunteer on the Colorado and national political scene, is one of the Colorado Statesman's 'Fifty for the Future' and is the newly elected Chairman of Denver County Republicans. Ms. Smith was noted as a Bush-Cheney '04 "Maverick" and "Pioneer".
Douglas R. Korn, Connecticut State Finance Chair
Douglas R. Korn is a private equity investor who resides in Greenwich CT. Mr. Korn has invested in and served as director of numerous private and public companies since entering private equity in 1987. Mr. Korn has become increasingly involved in national Republican politics in recent years including on behalf of Bush-Cheney '04.
Frank A. Ursomarso, Sr., Delaware State Finance Chair
Frank A. Ursomarso, Sr. was President Ronald Reagan's first director of communications and Deputy Assistant to the President. Appointed in 1981, he worked with Press Secretary Jim Brady to organize and staff White House and Cabinet press and communications operations. He is a retired member of the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission, Pennsylvania Securities Commission and the Pennsylvania Horse Racing Commission.
Dirk Van Dongen, District of Columbia State Finance Chair
Dirk Van Dongen is President of the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors (NAW). Mr. Van Dongen was Vice Chairman of the 1994 and 1995 GOP President's Dinners, and of the 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000 Republican National Committee Galas, is Past-Chairman of the RNC Majority Fund, was Chairman of the Business Advisory Committee, 1989 Inaugural Committee; Co-Chairman, Business Groups for Bush-Quayle ‘88; Chairman, Association Executives for Bush-Quayle ‘88 and ‘92; a Senior Advisor to Bush-Quayle ‘92; and, Chairman of Free Enterprise '92 and '94. He was also a member of the Bush-Cheney National Finance Committee in 2000 and 2004.
Joseph Graham Fogg, III, Florida State Finance Chair
Mr. Fogg is Chairman and CEO of Westbury Partners, a private venture capital firm. Long active in Republican politics, Mr. Fogg currently serves as Finance Chairman for Republican Congressman Connie Mack. Mr. Fogg has served as National Finance Chairman for Bill McCollum for U.S. Senate, Steve Forbes for President, Bob Dole for President, National Vice Chairman for Phil Gramm for President and New York City Finance Chairman for Rumsfeld for President. Mr. Fogg was also a member of the Bush for President Team 100 Executive Committee in 1998.
Ronald J. Gidwitz, Illinois State Finance Chair
Ronald J. Gidwitz is a co-founder of GCG Partners and in 2006 was a candidate for Governor of Illinois. He has served as Chairman of the Illinois State Board of Education, the Economic Development Commission of the City of Chicago, the Board of Trustees of the City Colleges of Chicago, and the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Gidwitz also serves as a Governor of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, and the chairman of the Illinois Jobs Coalition.
Carl Brizzi, Indiana State Finance Chair
Carl Brizzi served as Senior Council for the United States House of Representatives, and in 2002 was elected Prosecutor in 2002 for Marion County, whose jurisdiction includes Indianapolis, Indiana. He was re-elected in 2006.
Michael David Epstein, Maryland State Finance Co-Chair
Michael Epstein is the President of Sensormatic Security Corporation and is a partner in BECO Management. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, and is a member of the Board of Directors of the Republican Jewish Coalition.
Elaine Pevenstein, Maryland State Finance Co-Chair
Elaine Peventstein served as the assistant Campaign Manager for the Ehrlich for Congress Committee from 1996 to 2000. In 2001 and 2002 she served as Deputy Campaign Manager of the Bob Ehrlich for Maryland Committee, raising a record $10 million to elect Bob Ehrlich as Maryland's first Republican governor in 36 years. Additionally, during this time Elaine was involved with fundraising for President George W. Bush's 2000 and 2004 campaigns through the Bob Ehrlich for Maryland Committee and the Republican National Committee. Currently she is the Director for the Bob Ehrlich for Maryland Committee, a position she served in during the last reelection cycle.
John C. Reith, Maryland State Finance Co-Chair
John C. Reith is a member of the Business Development Team for Baltimore-based Brown Advisory. Prior to joining Brown Advisory, John was a Co-Chairman and Finance Director for the Ehrlich for Maryland Committee and served as the Finance Director for Governor Ehrlich's 2002 and 2006 campaigns where he raised in excess of $45 million.
Ambassador Richard Egan, Massachusetts State Finance Chair
Richard J. Egan is the Founder and Chairman Emeritus of EMC Corporation, an S&P 500 company. He has served as Director of the Massachusetts High Technology Council and Business Roundtable, Director of the New York Stock Exchange Advisory Board, and founder of the Hopkinton Technology for Education Foundation. Ambassador Egan served as United States Ambassador to Ireland 2001-2003, presenting his credentials to the President of Ireland at Aras an Uachtarain in, Dublin, on September 10, 2001. He raised money for President Bush in 2000 and was a Bush-Cheney '04 "Ranger".
Wheelock Whitney, Minnesota State Finance Chair
Previous Vice President, Chairman of the Board and CEO of J. M. Dain & Company, Wheelock Whitney was President of the Investment Bankers Association of America, the largest trade association in the securities industry. Whitney was the Republican nominee for U.S. Senator in 1964, was the Independent-Republican nominee for Governor of Minnesota in 1982, State Chairman of Governor Arne Carlson's campaign from 1990 to 1999, and in 2006 served as Finance Chairman for Governor Pawlenty's success re-election campaign.
Steve Kupka, Nebraska State Finance Chair
Steve Kupka is a managing partner at Blackwell Sanders. Steve has been actively involved in Nebraska politics serving as campaign manager and chief of staff to former Omaha Mayor Hal Daub, running for US Congress in the 2nd District, and playing an active role in fundraising and grassroots efforts for Bush Cheney 04.
Michael Gooch, New Jersey State Finance Chair
Michael Gooch is Founder, Chairman and CEO of GFI Group, Inc. He is a member of the Board of Trustees of Monmouth University in Monmouth County NJ, and a Member of the Board of the Count Basie Theatre Foundation in Red Bank NJ.
Ambassador Anthony Gioia, West New York State Finance Co-Chair
In 1995, Ambassador Gioia was appointed to the Board of the New York State Urban Development Corporation, the state's lead economic development agency. After serving as the Ambassador to the Republic of Malta for four years, Gioia was appointed Chair of the Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation's Board of Directors 1995 and also served as co-chair to Italian American's for Judge Alito through his Supreme Court confirmation process at the request of the White House.
David L. Ulrich, West New York State Finance Co-Chair
David L. Ulrich is CEO of Ulrich Development Company which specializes in both the preservation of landmark buildings and the development of new office construction. Mr. Ulrich was previously the President and CEO of Ulrich & Company and a commissioner of the Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority, and is a current director at Greater Buffalo Savings Bank. He has long been active in Republican Party politics.
Jim Culbertson, North Carolina State Finance Chair
Jim Culbertson was Chairman of Mizell for Congress in 1984 and 1988, Finance Chairman for Dole for Senate in 2002 and North Carolina Finance Chairman for Bush for President in 2004. He was Co-Chairman for 2005 Inaugural Finance Committee and for the North Carolina Finance Committee for Bush for President in 2000. He was a member of the Ford for President Committee, Broyhill for Senate Committee in 1986, Martin for Government Committee in 1984 and 1988, and Bush for President Committee in 1992. Currently he serves as RNC Finance Chair for North Carolina.
John W. Kessler, Central Ohio State Finance Chair
John W. Kessler is Chairman of The New Albany Company, a residential and commercial development company located in Columbus, Ohio. Mr. Kessler is also a member of the Board of Directors for several public companies, including JP Morgan Chase & Co. and Abercrombie & Fitch, and also serves on the Boards of the Columbus Municipal Airport Authority and The John Glenn Institute.
John DiLorenzo, Oregon State Finance Co-Chair
John DiLorenzo is a partner at Davis Wright Tremaine LLP and Co-Chair of the government relations practice. DiLorenzo is widely recognized across the state of Oregon for his work; winning awards such as "Super Lawyer," Law & Politics, in 2006 and "Best of the Bar," Government Law, Portland Business Journal in 2005.
Mitchell Morgan, Pennsylvania State Finance Co-Chair
Mitchell Morgan is President and CEO of Morgan Properties. Mr. Morgan is the Past President of the Apartment Association of Greater Philadelphia, and sits on the following Boards: Advisory Board of the Samuel Zell and Robert Lurie Real Estate Center at the Wharton School, Board of Visitors Fox Business School, Board of Visitors Temple Law School, Temple University Trustee, Federation Housing Board, Board of Royal Bank and the American Cancer Society-Hope Lodge Site Selection Co-Chairman.
Manuel N. Stamatakis, Pennsylvania State Finance Co-Chair
Manuel N. Stamatakis is president and CEO of Capital Management Enterprises, a financial services and employee benefit consulting company. During Governor Ridge's administration, Mr. Stamatakis served as chair on the Pennsylvania IMPACCT (Improve Management Performance and Cost Control Task Force) Commission, the Delaware River Port Authority (DRPA) and the PATCO Transit Authority, Team Pennsylvania Ambassador Program. In 2004, he was a Bush Cheney '04 "Ranger".
Malcolm E. McGuire, Rhode Island State Finance Chair
Malcolm McGuire's career on Wall Street is long and distinguished with firms like Boettcher and Co., E.F. Hutton, Kidder Peabody, and Prudential-Bache and for the last 20 years Malcolm has been President of CCRI, a national consulting organization to the domain of emerging technology and growth companies.
Barry Wynn, South Carolina State Finance Chair
Barry Wynn is President of Colonial Trust Company. He served as the former Chairman of the South Carolina Republican Party from 1989 until 1993, participated on the National Finance Committees for Presidents George Bush 1988 and George W. Bush 2000 and 2004, and served as the state's Co-Chairman for George W. Bush in the 2000 and 2004 election cycles.
James H. Lee, Texas State Finance Vice Chair
James H. Lee is the president and founder of JHL Capital Securities, LLC, an institutional broker-dealer in Houston. Appointed by the Texas Governor, Mr. Lee serves as a member of the board of trustees of the Teacher Retirement System of Texas and in President Bush's Administration as a member of the U.S. Small Business Administration's National Advisory Council. Mr. Lee was a Pioneer and Maverick for Bush-Cheney '04, a Team 100 Member of the RNC, a Member of Texas Governor Rick Perry's Century Council, a Patriot for U.S. Senator John Cornyn, and on the finance team for U.S. Congressman Michael McCaul.
Chuck Warren, Utah State Finance Chair
Chuck Warren is President of Capitol Strategies, LLC, a public affairs and crisis communication company located in Las Vegas, Nevada and Casa Bella Development, LLC, a real estate development and construction firm located in Salt Lake, Utah. Mr. Warren is senior strategist for First Class Education and served on state finance committees for former presidential campaigns such as Lamar Alexander and current President George Bush. He has raised money for numerous current and former Members of Congress, Straight Talk Express PAC, and former Senator George Allen's Senate Campaign. Mr. Warren also assisted with the GOTV effort for President Bush in Florida in 2004.
Jerry W. Kilgore, Virginia State Finance Chair
Jerry Kilgore, former Attorney General of Virginia, is a partner in and chair of Williams Mullen's Multistate Corporate Compliance & Public Policy Group. Mr. Kilgore served on the Executive Committee for the National Association of Attorneys General, co-chaired the Prescription Drug Abuse Task Force, chaired the Republican Attorneys General Association, and served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Virginia during the Reagan and H.W. Bush Administrations.
Giuliani Presidential Industry Leaders
Carl Icahn and Gail Icahn, Private Equity Industry Leaders
Carl C. Icahn's principal occupation is as an investor and fund manager of his affiliated entities. In 2005, Mr. Icahn became a director of Blockbuster Inc., a publicly traded provider of in-home movie rental and game entertainment and in 2006, Mr. Icahn became the chairman of the board of ImClone Systems. Since 1978, Gail Icahn has served in various executive capacities at Icahn & Co., Inc., and serves on the boards of charitable entities, most notably The Foundation for a Greater Opportunity, which focuses on the education of underprivileged children; Children's Rescue Fund, providing transitional housing to mothers and children: and the Randall's Island Sports Foundation
Mel M. Immergut, Law Industry Leader
Mel Immergut is Chairman of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP and has been a partner in the Firm's Corporate Department since 1980 and Chairman of the Firm since 1995. He serves as Vice Chair of the Legal Aid Society and on the Columbia Law School Board of Visitors. He is additionally is a member of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation Advisory Council, a Member of the Partnership for New York City and a Member of the United States Southern Command Advisory Board. Mr. Immergut is a Fellow of the New York Bar Foundation and a recipient of The Jewish Theological Seminary Simon H. Rifkind Award.
Wilbur Ross, Industry Leader
Wilbur Ross may be the best-known turnaround financier in the U.S., having been involved in the restructuring of over $200 billion in assets around the world. In 1999, Korean President Kim Dae Jung awarded Mr. Ross a medal for his help during nation's 1998 financial crisis. Earlier, President Clinton appointed him to the Board of the U.S.-Russia Investment Fund, and he served as privatization advisor to New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. Mr. Ross serves on the Executive Committee of the New York City Partnership and of the Japan Society.
James S. Turley, Accounting Industry Leader
James S. Turley is Chairman and CEO of Ernst & Young, one of the largest professional services organizations in the world with approximately 114,000 people in 140 countries. Jim was named Metropolitan New York Area Managing Partner of Ernst & Young LLP in 1998, was appointed Deputy Chairman in 2000 and became Chairman & CEO in July 2001.
John Wren, Media/PR/Advertising Industry Leader
John Wren is President and CEO of Omnicom Group advertising, the world's #1 corporate media services conglomerate, with advertising, marketing, and public relations operations serving some 5,000 clients in more than 100 countries. He was President of Diversified Agency Services (DAS), a division of Omnicom Group, prior to becoming President and CEO of Omnicom.
  