
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
April 22
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Minnesota as a result of severe storms, ice jams, snowmelt, and flooding, beginning about March 13, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President declared an emergency for the State of Arkansas because of the impact of tornadoes which struck Lonoke County on April 17.
April 24
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Cabinet;
—Senators Frank Church of Idaho and Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland to express his thanks for their efforts on behalf of the Panama Canal Treaty;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Fumihiko Togo, Japanese Ambassador to the United States;
—Attorney General Griffin B. Bell, Benjamin R. Civiletti, Acting Deputy Attorney General, and Robert J. Lipshutz, Counsel to the President;
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal and Representatives Barber B. Conable, Jr., of New York and Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, to discuss tax reform;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President informed the United States International Trade Commission of his decision to disapprove the Commission's determination concerning certain welded stainless steel pipe and tube.
April 25
The President met at the While House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator Dick Clark of Iowa and Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy;
—Democratic members of the House Committee on the Post Office and Civil Service to discuss civil service reorganization;
—Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois;
—Mr. Moore;
—Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan.
The President has declared an emergency for the State of Mississippi because of the impact of tornadoes which struck widespread areas of the State on April 17. The President has declared an emergency for the State of Alabama because of the impact of tornadoes which struck widespread areas of the State on April 18.
April 26
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Congressional Black Caucus;
—George Meany, president of the AFL-CIO;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Admiral Turner, and Senators Birch Bayh of Indiana and Walter D. Huddleston of Kentucky;
—Representative Harley O. Staggers of West Virginia and Nancy L. Riffle,
Strawberry Queen of West Virginia;
—Senator Mike Gravel of Alaska, Guy Stringurn, representing the Organization for Management of Alaska Resources, and Mary Jo Evans, representing the Valdez, Alaska, chamber of commerce;
—Charles O. Jordan, National Educational Administrator of the Year, and Mrs. Ardis Morton, Educational Secretary of the Year;
—Mrs. Carter;
—Senator James R. Sasser of Tennessee;
—Alan K. Campbell, Chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission, Kenneth Blaylock, president of the American Federation of Government Employees, and Tom Donahue, assistant to the president of the AFLCIO.
It has been agreed upon through consultations that Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, will visit the People's Republic of China from May 20 to May 23. In accordance with the Shanghai Communiqué of February 1972, Dr. Brzezinski will engage in consultations with Chinese leaders. Dr. Brzezinski will also visit Tokyo and Seoul for consultations with leaders in Japan and the Republic of Korea.
The President is recommending to the Democratic National Committee, at the suggestion of Chairman John C. White, that Chief of Protocol Evan S. Dobelle be named to the position of treasurer of the Democratic Party. The President, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, will name Mrs. Evan Dobelle to the position of Chief of Protocol.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1976 "Annual Report of the Secretary of the Interior Under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969," which contained reports of activities of the Mining Enforcement Safety Administration and the Bureau of Mines.
April 27
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—members of the House Committee on the Post Office and Civil Service to discuss civil service reorganization;
—Ambassador at Large Arthur J. Goldberg;
—Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger and Representatives James C. Corman of California and Charles B. Rangel of New York;
—Representative Henry S. Reuss of Wisconsin.
Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda of Japan will visit Washington May 13 for talks with the President, the Secretary of State, and other officials of the executive and legislative branches.
April 28
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Vance, Secretary Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week).
The President is appointing the Kraft, Special Assistant to the President for Appointments, as Assistant to the President.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  