
    To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, I transmit herewith the 1988 Partial Revision of the Radio Regulations (Geneva, 1979), signed on behalf of the United States at Geneva on October 6, 1988, and the United States statement as contained in the Final Protocol. I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Department of State with respect to the 1988 Partial Revision.
The 1988 Revision constitutes a partial revision of the Radio Regulations, to which the United States is a party. The primary purpose of this revision is to update the existing Regulations to guarantee for all countries equitable access to the geostationary-satellite orbit and the frequency bands allocated to space services. The revised Regulations are consistent with the proposals of and positions taken by the United States at the Second Session of the World Administrative Radio Conference on the Use of the Geostationary-Satellite Orbit and the Planning of the Space Services Utilizing It (ORB - 88).
At the time of signature, the United States joined 20 countries in submitting a statement in response to a statement by Colombia and Ecuador concerning claims of sovereign rights over segments of the geostationary-satellite orbit. The specific statement, with reasons, is given in the report of the Department of State.
The 1988 Partial Revision entered into force on March 16, 1990, for governments which, by that date, had notified the Secretary General of the International Telecommunication Union of their approval thereof.
I believe the United States should become a party to the 1988 Partial Revision, which provides new means and greater flexibility in securing access to the geostationary-satellite orbit and the frequency spectrum allocated to space services. It is my hope that the Senate will take early action on this matter and give its advice and consent to ratification.
George Bush
The White House,
April 2, 1992.
  