
    Mr. President, Mrs. Kaunda, Kaweche Kaunda, distinguished guests:
Let me say that Mrs. Ford and I are extremely delighted to have you, Mr. President, your family, and your distinguished guests with us here this evening. It has been a great pleasure for me to talk to your lovely wife and to know of your delightful family. And on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself, we extend and wish to you our very, very best.
Your visit to Washington is a mark of friendship that has existed between our two nations since Zambia gained her independence in 1964.
America knows and respects you, Mr. President, but also I should say we know that in the modern history of Zambia and the history of Kenneth Kaunda, they are inseparable. Your moral and intellectual leadership guided your country to independence, and for that we praise you.
Your leadership has made your young nation an example of respect and admiration throughout the world. The American people join me in saluting you for your accomplishments, your dedication, and your wisdom in a controversial and difficult world. We ask that you convey to your people in Zambia our admiration for them and for you and our greetings.
Mr. President, we have been following developments in southern Africa with great, great interest. For many years the United States has supported self-determination for the peoples of that area, and we continue to do so today.
We view the coming independence of Mozambique, Angola, and the island territories with great satisfaction, just as we viewed the independence of Guinea-Bissau just last year.
May I say, Mr. President, America stands ready to help the emerging countries, the emerging nations, and to provide what assistance we can. And we know, Mr. President, that these new states will continue to look to you for wise, wise counsel as they build to nationhood in the future.
Much still remains to be done in southern Africa. In this connection, Mr. President, we welcome your commitment to change through peaceful negotiations and understanding between the parties concerned, rather than through recourse to violence.
We deeply believe that patient diplomacy will bear great fruit, and we promise our continued efforts and our support as you seek, with others, to resolve these problems at the conference table.
Mr. President, in my April 10 speech to the Congress and to the American people, I noted that America is developing a closer relationship with nations of Africa, and I said that Africans must know that America is a true and concerned friend, reliable both in word as well as in deed.
Your visit, Mr. President, coming so soon after that occasion, is most timely for all of us. I hope that you will take back to your countrymen and to all Africans our renewed pledge of friendship.
Our wide-ranging discussions, Mr. President, this afternoon after my return from some of our historic celebrations of our 200th, or Bicentennial anniversary covered matters of common interest and concern, and it confirmed the relationship between your country and my country.
There is, however, one area, Mr. President, of mutual interest which we tacitly did not discuss. I have since found, tonight, from your lovely wife, that we have a close and intimate interest in a special area. I understand that you do enjoy playing golf. [Laughter]
I feel sure, Mr. President, that our common problems, nationally, internationally, bilaterally, on some occasion in the future can best be resolved by a little competition on the links. [Laughter] I intend to make an honest effort to see if our friendship can't be broadened by such an experience.
So, I say to you, Mr. President, and to your lovely wife and your son and your colleagues here this evening, let me propose a toast to you, to the Republic of Zambia, and to the continuing excellent relations between our two countries.
To you, Mr. President, and to your Republic and to your wonderful people.
  