
    
  Indiana Pastors: "Ted Cruz Stands for Principles"

HOUSTON, Texas - Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsements of more than 50 Indiana faith and family leaders, many of them clergy, in the Hoosier state. New supporters include the leaders of top pro­-family organizations, the Indiana Pastors' Alliance, and dozens of pastors. Catholic Vote, a national Catholic civic organization, endorsed Cruz last month.
"Ted Cruz speaks with clarity and conviction on the whole range of issues important to Hoosiers," said Curt Smith, President of the Indiana Family Institute. "We believe that America's greatness flows from her strong families, vibrant communities of faith, and commitment to religious liberty, and Ted Cruz is especially focused on these concerns. In Ted Cruz we see a strength and resolve which has become rare in American public life. Ted Cruz's core beliefs align well with Hoosiers' core beliefs and key concerns. But even more importantly, it is obvious that Ted Cruz will not compromise his values or principles when he is serving as our president."
"As a pastor, I appreciate the way Ted Cruz stands for principles instead of political expediency," said Ron Johnson, Executive Director of the Indiana Pastors' Alliance. "Ted Cruz is the only true outsider who has actually functioned as a leader, demonstrating in the Senate that he does what he says he will do. I've let my congregation know of my personal and public endorsement for Ted Cruz, and I have contacted all the pastors I know, encouraging them to join me in supporting Ted Cruz. People of faith have a biblical mandate ­- and a privilege -­ to elect men and women of integrity to public office."
"Ted Cruz is an unrelenting defender of unborn children and their mothers," said Cathie Humbarger, Vice President of Indiana Right to Life. "For those of us who have invested our lives in fighting for the civil rights issue of our day, this is our moment. A vote for Ted Cruz is a vote for women and the unborn!"
"We always encourage people to vote their values," said Micah Clark, Executive Director of the American Family Association of Indiana. "We encourage people of faith to look at a person's record. Ted Cruz is the only truly pro-­life, pro­-family, and pro-­religious freedom candidate for president, from either party. Ted Cruz is a true conservative champion for change."
"I am honored to earn the support of these leaders," said Ted Cruz. "Hoosiers want a president they can trust. They are eager to see sanity restored in Washington, and our message of jobs, freedom, and security is resonating. Carly Fiorina and I look forward to bringing common sense Hoosier values to Washington."
Cruz has earned the endorsement of the following Indiana clergy members and faith leaders:
Pastor Brent Arnold, The Local Church
Kevin Baird, Field Director, Indiana Pastors' Alliance
Pastor Peter Baugh, Dayspring Baptist Church
Josh Bertsch, Youth Minister, Trinity Evangelical Church, pro-­life activist
Pastor Daniel Binkley, Senior Pastor, North Manchester Missionary Church
Monica Boyer, President, Indiana Liberty Coalition
Pastor Garry Brackett, Executive Pastor, Grace Assembly of God
Pastor Wendell Brane, Trinity Evangelical Church
Pastor Timothy Bushong, Trinity Evangelical Church
Pastor Jerel Clanney, Victory Baptist Church
Micah Clark, Executive Director, American Family Association of Indiana
Pastor Jim Decamp, Retired Army Chaplain
Pastor Larry Delon, Smyrna Missionary Baptist
Elder Thomas Dettmer, Trinity Evangelical Church
Pastor Bob Dickey, Good Hope Baptist Church
Pastor Ron Garner, Bethel Church
Pastor Lawrence Gember, St. James Lutheran Church
Pastor Ed Groover, Bible Baptist Church
Pastor Curtis Hall, Maranatha Baptist Church
Pastor Kent Harting, Jamesville UME
Cathie Humbarger, Executive Director, Allen County Right to Life, Vice President,
Indiana Right to Life
Dr. Ronald Johnson, Executive Director, Indiana Pastors' Alliance, Senior Pastor, Living
Stones Church
Steven Jones, President, Missionary Church Inc.
Pastor John Jordon, First Baptist Church
Minister Gerald Kelley
Pastor Brian Kemp, First Baptist Church Kentland
Debi Ketron, Director of Government Affairs, Indiana Association of Home Educators
Pastor Johnny Kincaid
David Lantz, Former State Director, Indiana Christian Coalition, author, public speaker
Pastor Eddie Lapina, First Baptist Church of Hammond
Ryan McCann, Director of Operations, Indiana Family Institute
Pastor Donald Meyer, Church of the Nazarene
Pastor Timothy Morbitzer, Victory Christian Fellowship
Pastor Randall Morris, Shadeland Baptist Church
Pastor Scott Mosley, Grace Christian Church of Albion
Elder John Nelson, Trinity Evangelical Church
Pastor John Nichols, Senior Pastor, Victory Independent Baptist Church
Pastor Jason Oxendine, Executive Pastor, Heartland Christian Center
Minister David Parry, Church of God
Evangelist Andrew Phipps, Author and Speaker
Pastor Andy Price, BBB Church
Pastor Russell Reahard, South Pleasant U.M. Church
Pastor Kevin Scott Robertson, Mill Creek Baptist Church
Pastor Anthony Robles, Harvest Time Bible Church
Pastor Jerry Ross, Blessed Hope Baptist Church
Edward Russ, President, Faith Music Missions
Pastor Stephen Russ, Boeke Road Baptist Church
Dr. Peter Scaer, Professor, Concordia Theological Seminary
Pastor Rick Smail, New Life Church
Curt Smith, President, Indiana Family Institute
Pastor Wallace Thornton, Independent Nazarene Church
Eric Turner, Former Speaker Pro Tempore, Indiana House of Representatives, Associate
Trainer, Equip
Charles Ware, President, Crossroads Bible College
State Representative Timothy Wesco, Pastor, Calvary Baptist Church
Minister Alan Wojtrowiak, Former Pastor, Victory Christian Fellowship
*Titles and affiliations of all endorsers are provided for identification purposes only.
  