
    First Lady Melania Trump and Second Lady Karen Pence traveled to Fort Bragg to honor members and families of the United States Armed Forces. Secretary of the Army Dr. Mark Esper accompanied them.
Upon arrival, Mrs. Trump and Mrs. Pence were met by General Michael Garrett, Commanding General, United States Army Forces Command, and Mrs. Garrett. Other greeters included Mrs. LaCamera, wife of Lieutenant General Paul LaCamera, XVIII Airborne Corps; Major General Brian McKiernan, Deputy Commanding General, XVIII Airborne Corps; Mrs. Albertson, wife of Command Sergeant Major Charles Albertson, XVIII Airborne Corps; Lieutenant General Francis Beaudette, Commanding General, United States Army Special Operations Command, and Mrs. Beaudette.
The First Lady and Second Lady met with commanders of the United States Army Special Operations Command, observing elite capability demonstrations and learning more about the unique community.
In honor of Month of the Military Child, Mrs. Trump and Mrs. Pence attended a student assembly at Albritton Middle School on Fort Bragg. The Mid-Atlantic District Superintendent, Fort Bragg Community Superintendent, and School Principal welcomed Mrs. Trump and Mrs. Pence. The Albritton Middle School chorus performed a welcoming song before Mrs. Trump and Mrs. Pence took questions from the student body.
Prior to departure, Mrs. Trump delivered remarks to an audience of military members and their families. The First Lady thanked the base for a wonderful visit, recognizing all the military personnel that work hard to keep our country safe.
"Today was an incredibly impactful visit," said First Lady Melania Trump. "The United States Military is a national treasure and I am so grateful to all the hard working men and women who serve. Thank you to Fort Bragg for welcoming us and letting us inside this tight-knit and admirable community of true heroes."
FULL REMARKS BELOW
Thank you Mrs. Pence for that kind introduction.
Good afternoon, everyone. It is great to be with you and it is an honor to be here at the home of the Airborne and Special Operations Forces.
I have had the pleasure of being able to visit many military bases and each of those visits is a reminder of the cost of the freedoms that we enjoy here in the United States.
Our country is unlike any other in the world. Founded in a deep-rooted spirit of true democracy, our military has always defended our country against hatred and injustice, protecting our families and fellow citizens, as well as those suffering from oppression around the world. It is with great admiration and pride that I stand before you to thank you for your service.
I would like to recognize some of our most elite units operating at Fort Bragg: Thank you to the US Army Forces Command, the 18th Airborne Corps, the United States Special Operations Command, the Joint Special Operations Command, the U.S Army Reserve Command, the 82nd Airborne Division, and the Air Force contingent.
Together you provide our nation with the world's most capable military forces and stand ready to respond anywhere in the world at a moment's notice.
I would also like to take a moment to recognize elements of the 18th fires brigade who (just this weekend) deployed to the Middle East and Afghanistan. On behalf of this country, the President and I stand with each man and woman in uniform serving to defend all of us. Our prayers and our thoughts are with all those serving overseas. Thank you for all you do.
To all the spouses here, my heart and appreciation goes out to you. With readiness as the top priority at Fort Bragg, I'm sure there is nothing more difficult to bear than to watch a loved one leave the safety and comfort of home to fight in dark and dangerous places around the world. My husband and I extend our deepest gratitude and heartfelt thanks for the sacrifices that your families make for the protection of our country.
This month we recognize military children and their important role in our country. They are our future leaders and I can think of no better place to inspire leadership than among the military community. The strength of this community is visible in its recovery efforts from the devastating effects of Hurricane Florence last year. I want to say thank you to all those who responded during that great time of need.
It has been an incredible experience visiting Fort Bragg and seeing the special capabilities of our military. I am honored to be First Lady of this great Country. May God Bless you, your families and may God Bless the United States of America.
  