
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted March 31
Nora M. Manella, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Mariana R. Pfaelzer, retired.
Submitted April 1
Timothy B. Dyk,
of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Glenn L. Archer, Jr., retired.
Submitted April 2
Rosina M. Bierbaum, of Virginia, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Jerry M. Melillo, resigned.
Diane D. Blair, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2004 (reappointment).
Rita R. Colwell, of Maryland, to be Director of the National Science Foundation for a term of 6 years, vice Neal F. Lane.
Eric S. Edelman, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland.
Nancy Halliday Ely-Raphel,
of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Slovenia.
Frank E. Loy,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Under Secretary of State, vice Timothy E. Wirth, resigned.
Edward L. Romero, of New Mexico, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Spain.
Bernard Daniel Rostker, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Frederick F.Y. Pang, resigned.
Richard Nelson Swett, of New Hampshire, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Denmark.
Ralph E. Tyson, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Louisiana, vice Marcel Livaudais, Jr., retired.
Jeanne E. Scott, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Richard H. Mills, retired.
John C. Truesdale, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board for a term of 4 years, vice Frederick L. Feinstein, resigned.
  