
    This Tax Day, President Donald J. Trump and Members of Congress are highlighting the benefits of historic tax cuts and reforms for American families and businesses.
PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP IN USA TODAY: America's Economy Is Back and Roaring and Its People Are Winning
"Tuesday is a day hardworking Americans may dread more than any other. Tax Day. A day that individuals and families, small business owners and part-time workers struggle to conquer a burdensome, complex and extremely unfair tax code to determine how much money they owe the government. But we are changing Tax Day for Americans across the country. This is the last year Americans will fill out outdated, complicated tax forms. In the years ahead, because I signed one of the largest tax cuts in history and the most sweeping tax reform in a generation, many Americans will complete their taxes on a simple, single sheet of paper."
SPEAKER PAUL RYAN (R-WI) AT FOX NEWS: Tax Day Isn't Usually a Day to Celebrate. This Year Is Different
"Filing taxes is something that fills most of us with dread. We do the costly, complicated chore and can't wait to move on. It's usually not a day to celebrate. But this year, for a change, there is good news. Thanks to the recently enacted 'Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,' this is the last time you will have to file your taxes under the old, outdated system. What does this mean for middle-income families? In short, more money and less hassle."
HOUSE WAYS AND MEANS COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN REP. KEVIN BRADY (R-TX) IN USA TODAY: After April 17, Goodbye to the Old, Broken Tax Code. Hello, Economic Revival.
"On Tuesday, April 17, we Americans file our taxes — for the last time — under the old, broken tax code. Yes, for the last time. Goodbye and good riddance to that outdated, monstrosity of a tax code that took too much of your money, sent our American jobs overseas, and kept our economy so slow many workers didn't see a pay raise for a decade or more. Going forward, Americans should all take comfort knowing that this time next year they'll file under the new, modern tax code that lowers taxes for families and local businesses — and leapfrogs America to the lead pack among the world's tax codes."
SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN SEN. ORRIN HATCH (R-UT) IN THE DAILY HERALD: Tax Day 2018: Out with the Old, In with the New
"To this day, I still think of spring as the perfect time to say, out with the old, in with the new. Looking back on the past four-plus decades I've spent in politics, I can think of no better day for us to celebrate that same sentiment than today. After all, this tax day is the last time most of us will ever have to think about our old, outdated tax code. Next April 15, Americans will file under an updated tax code that prioritizes middle-class tax relief, higher wages and job creation instead of special interests."
SEN. DAN SULLIVAN (R-AK) IN ANCHORAGE DAILY NEWS: Relief for Alaskans on Tax Day
"Simply put, the tax bill is a major win for Alaska and for our country. The less money that Washington takes from the private sector, the more Alaskans can put toward creating business opportunities and hiring workers. The more money Alaskans have in their paychecks, the more they can save for their kids' college, pay off bills, take a much needed vacation, or circulate that money in our local economy."
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD) IN ARGUS LEADER: Out with the Old, In with the New
"Up until 2018, the only good news about Tax Day was the fact that we had 365 days until the next one. This year is a little different, though. There's plenty to celebrate, not the least of which is that 2018 is the last time you and your family will need to file your federal taxes under the old, burdensome system. It's out with the old, and in with the new. And not a moment too soon."
REP. MARKWAYNE MULLIN (R-OK) IN WASHINGTON EXAMINER: It's the End of the Tax Code as We Know It (and I Feel Fine)
"This year, Oklahomans can be glad that this is the last year they will have to file their taxes under the outdated tax code. Starting in 2019, Oklahomans can file their taxes on a simpler form and take advantage of a nearly doubled standard deduction."
REP. DANIEL WEBSTER (R-FL) IN DAILY COMMERCIAL: It's the Last Day of the Old Tax System
"It's hardworking Americans least favorite day — Tax Day. Good news is this is the last time you will have to file taxes under the old, unfair tax system. Thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed by Republicans in Congress and signed into law by President Trump, hardworking, middle-class families across Florida will finally keep more of their hard-earned money. Small businesses in our area will finally be free from oppressive tax rates that kept them from expanding and hiring."
REP. BRAD WENSTRUP (R-OH) IN THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER: Tax Cut Making a Real Difference in the Lives of Real Americans
"This is the last Tax Day under the old, burdensome tax code. Now that we're into 2018, workers are already seeing more money in their take-home pay, and next tax filing season will continue to reflect these improvements."
  