
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288 - 6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Camille Solberg, a prominent social conservative leader in Wisconsin, will be joining his campaign for President of the United States.
Solberg most recently served as President of the Wisconsin Coalition for Traditional Marriage where she led the successful ballot initiative to defend traditional marriage. This initiative passed with nearly 60% of the vote. She is currently a writer for the Wisconsin Christian News.
"I am proud to have Camille's support. For years, she has been a leader in defending traditional marriage and strengthening the American family. Every day, she continues to build on her impressive career of standing for sound conservative principles. I am glad that she has joined our team," said Governor Romney.
With today's announcement, Camille Solberg said, "Governor Romney has a strong record on the issues that matter most to social conservative voters. Facing unprecedented challenges to some of our most basic values, he acted to promote a culture of life, defend traditional marriage and strengthen the family. His is a record of action and a platform social conservatives can and are supporting. I am honored to be a part of his team."
Background On Camille Solberg:
Camille Solberg Is A Prominent Social Conservative Leader In Wisconsin And The Nation. She is a writer for the Wisconsin Christian News and served as the past President of the Wisconsin Coalition for Traditional Marriage. Solberg is a Commissioner on the Drug Free Communities Advisory Committee and has served on the Executive Committee of the Wisconsin Republican Party. In addition to her social conservative work, Solberg is a leader in Wisconsin's Hispanic community. In 2004, she served as the Bush-Cheney '04 Wisconsin Hispanic Coalitions Chair. She has been an adviser to the RNC Hispanic Advisory Committee and a Wisconsin Vice-Chair of the Hispanic National Republican Assembly. While active in her community, Solberg is also a freelance journalist and political correspondent.
  