
    This week, California Members of Congress Ted Lieu, Julia Brownley, and Mike Levin released the following statements endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"The greatest long-term threat to climate change laws, universal health care, and numerous other progressive policies is an ultra conservative Supreme Court," said Congressman Ted Lieu. "The greatest short-term threat is Donald Trump. This is why we need to rally around our amazing candidate, Joe Biden."
"There is no doubt that the American people need a leader who represents their values. Those values include lifting up the middle class, fighting to make sure we all have affordable, quality healthcare, taking on climate change, strengthening civil rights, reducing the unbearable weight of student loan debt, and especially important to me, supporting our nation's veterans," said Congresswoman Julia Brownley. "But we also need a leader who has the experience and strength of character to steer us through difficult times, by being honest with the American people and always putting their interests and well-being first. I enthusiastically endorse Joe Biden for President because he's the leader the country needs, now more than ever."
"Great leaders are forged in times of crisis. Today, America faces a crisis that has taken the lives and health of tens of thousands and has jeopardized the security of millions. The current occupant of the White House has profoundly and utterly failed that test of leadership. We desperately need change," said Congressman Mike Levin. "Time and time again Joe Biden has risen to the challenges we face as a nation. I have immense confidence in his integrity and effectiveness. Joe Biden will bring us together, for a more united, just and decent America. I am proud to endorse him to be our next President and pledge to do all in my power to ensure, not only his election, but the future of our country."
These endorsements build on the wide support for Joe Biden in California, which includes prominent leaders like Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg, San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo, Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia, Los Angeles County Supervisor and former Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard, Congressman Tony Cárdenas, Congressman Ami Bera, Congressman John Garamendi, Congressman Lou Correa, Congressman Jerry McNerney, Congressman Harley Rouda, Congressman Brad Sherman, Congresswoman Jackie Speier, Congressman Jared Huffman, Congressman Adam Schiff, and numerous others.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  