
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Andrew M. Saul of New York, to be Commissioner of Social Security, for the remainder of a six year term expiring January 19, 2019 and for an additional six year term expiring January 19, 2025. Mr. Saul is currently a partner with Saul Partners, L.P. His previous business positions include: Chairman of the Board of Cache, Inc., President of Brooks Fashion Stores, Inc., and President of BR Investors. His previous public service includes tenures as Chairman of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board and Vice Chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Presently, he is a Commissioner for Westchester County, New York. Mr. Saul's philanthropic involvement includes serving as Vice Chairman of the Mt. Sinai Health System in New York City, Vice Chairman of the Icahn School of Medicine at Mt. Sinai, a Trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and a Trustee for the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC. He is a former board member of the United Jewish Appeal Federation of New York. Mr. Saul is a graduate of the Wharton School of Finance at the University of Pennsylvania, and serves on its Board of Overseers.
Bonnie Glick of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development. Ms. Glick has served across public, private, and non-profit sectors for nearly three decades. She currently serves as the Deputy Secretary in the Maryland Department of Aging and began her career as a Foreign Service Officer in the Department of State, serving in the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, Ethiopia, Nicaragua, the State Department, and the White House. Following her diplomatic service, she spent twelve years with IBM managing accounts with USAID and the State Department. Ms. Glick previously worked in the non-profit sector as a senior executive bringing American corporate funding to international exchange programs. She received her M.B.A. from the University of Maryland, her M.A. in International Affairs from Columbia University, and her B.A. from Cornell University.
David Fabian Black of North Dakota, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 19, 2019. Mr. Black currently serves as the White House Senior Advisor at the Social Security Administration. He served as SSA's General Counsel from October 2007 until July 2015. From 2004 through 2007, he served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights. Mr. Black is a Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve where he deployed to both Afghanistan and Iraq in support of the Global War on Terrorism and earned a Bronze Star Medal. Mr. Black holds a J.D. from the University of Minnesota and a B.A. in political science, summa cum laude, from the University of North Dakota.
Frederick Perpall of Texas, as Small Business Member on the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 17, 2020.
Louis DeJoy of North Carolina, as Public Member on the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 17, 2020.
---
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to designate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
John F. Ring of the District of Columbia, has been designated Chair of the National Labor Relations Board.
  