
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Excerpt Of Governor Mitt Romney's Remarks (As Prepared For Delivery):
Governor Romney: "As our military men and women fight against violent, radical Jihadists in Iraq, the Democrats need to stop pleading for surrender. At last night's Democratic debate, and in yesterday's vote in the United States Senate, Democrats waved a white flag to our enemies and our troops."
Democrats On Iraq At Last Night's Debate:
Senator Clinton (D-NY): "[I]f The President Does Not Get Us Out Of Iraq, When I'm President, I Will." SEN. CLINTON: "[President Bush] is stubbornly refusing to listen to the will of the American people. He threatens to veto the legislation we passed, which has been something that all of us have been advocating for a number of years now. And I can only hope that he will not veto it. And I can only end by saying that, you know, if the president does not get us out of Iraq, when I'm president, I will." (South Carolina Democratic Party Debate, Orangeburg, SC, 4/26/07)
Senator Obama (D-IL): "We Were One Signature Away Or 16 Votes Away From Ending This War." SEN. OBAMA: "But look, we are one vote away – we were one signature away or 16 votes away from ending this war. One signature away. Now, if the president is not going to sign the bill that has been sent to him, then what we have to do is gather up 16 votes in order to override his veto." (South Carolina Democratic Party Debate, Orangeburg, SC, 4/26/07)
Representative Kucinich (D-OH): "We're Under No Obligation To Give George Bush Any Money At All." (South Carolina Democratic Party Debate, Orangeburg, SC, 4/26/07)
Former Senator Gravel (D-AK): Our Troops Are "Dying In Vain Right This Very Second." MR. GRAVEL: "And why not get out? What harm is it going to do? Oh, you hear the statement, 'Well, my God, these soldiers will have died in vain.' The entire deaths of Vietnam died in vain. And they're dying in vain right this very second. Do you know what's worse than a soldier dying in vain? It's more soldiers dying in vain, that's what's worse." (South Carolina Democratic Party Debate, Orangeburg, SC, 4/26/07)
Yesterday, Senate Democrats Voted To Set A Timetable For Withdrawal From Iraq:
The Senate Voted To Adopt The Emergency Supplemental Conference Report, Which Provides $124.2B In Funding And Sets A Fixed Timetable For Withdrawal From Iraq. "Adoption of the conference report on the bill that would provide $124.2 billion in fiscal 2007 emergency supplemental funding, as well as set a goal of redeploying most U.S. combat troops in Iraq by the end of March 2008, if the president can certify the Iraq government is meeting benchmarks, and by the end of 2007 if he cannot. The measure would provide $95.5 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, $6.9 billion for hurricane recovery and relief, $3.5 billion in crop and livestock disaster assistance and $2.25 billion for homeland security anti-terrorism programs. It also would raise the minimum wage to $7.25 per hour over two years and provide $4.8 billion in small-business tax incentives." (H.R. 1591, CQ Vote #147: Adopted (Thus Cleared For The President) 51-46: R 2-45; D 48-0; I 1-1, 4/26/07)
  