
    Today I am announcing the creation of two Cabinet-level bodies—the Economic Policy Council and the Domestic Policy Council—to assist me in the formulation and execution of domestic and economic policy. I will chair both Councils. These two Councils will replace the seven existing Cabinet Councils and the Senior Interagency Group-International Economic Policy. The new entities will streamline policy development and decisionmaking. Together with the National Security Council, they will serve as the primary channels for advising me on policy matters.
The Economic Policy Council will be composed of the Secretaries of State, Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor, the Director of Office of Management and Budget, the United States Trade Representative, and the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. It will provide advice to me concerning all aspects of national and international economic policy. The heads of the national security community departments and agencies and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs will participate in Council meetings whenever international policy or budget matters are discussed. In my absence the Secretary of the Treasury will serve as Chairman pro tempore.
The Domestic Policy Council will be composed of the Attorney General, the Secretaries of the Interior, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Transportation, Energy, and Education, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. It will provide advice to me on domestic and social policy. In my absence the Attorney General will serve as Chairman pro tempore.
The heads of nonmember departments and agencies will be invited to participate in either Council's deliberations whenever matters affecting their organizations are on the agenda. The Vice President and Chief of Staff will serve as ex officio members of both Councils.
The new, streamlined decisionmaking process enhances my commitment to Cabinet government. It will provide for added accountability and efficiency in formulating and implementing policy.
  