
    The Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today the support of Florida State Senator Michael Bennett. Bennett will help lead Florida's growing state team focusing his efforts on Sarasota county. He has served in the State Senate since 2002 and previously served one term in the Florida House of Representatives.
"Schooled by experience and seasoned by crisis, Rudy Giuliani has shown the kind of leadership that turned around a city, and rallied a nation, when it counted the most. He will bring that wisdom to the Presidency. Rudy already has a great deal of support in Florida, and I look forward to working with Attorney General McCollum and the rest of the Florida team," Bennett said.
Bennett is the latest in a growing list of State Representatives and Senators supporting Mayor Giuliani. A veteran who served four tours in Vietnam, Bennett is a leader in the Florida Senate, chairing such committees as the Senate Communications and Public Utilities Committee, and serves on an array of civic boards and committees.
"As a veteran, successful businessman, and community leader Senator Bennett is an important addition to the campaign and we're honored to have him on board," said campaign manager Mike DuHaime.
Florida State Senators Supporting Mayor Giuliani
Mike Fasano, representing District 11, Majority Whip
Dennis Jones, representing District 13, Former State Senate Majority Leader
Burt Saunders, representing District 37
Florida State Representatives Supporting Mayor Giuliani Rep. Thad Altman – Represents Dist 30 in Brevard County
Rep. Carl Domino – Represents Dist 83 in Palm Beach County
Rep. Greg Evers – Represents Dist 1 in Escambia, Okaloosa, and Santa Rosa Counties
Rep. Rich Glorioso – Represents Dist 62 in Hillsborough and Pasco Counties
Rep. Peter Nehr – Represents Dist 48 in Pasco and Pinellas Counties
Rep. Pat Patterson – Represents Dist 26 in Flagler and Volusia Counties
Rep. Juan Carlos "J.C." Planas – Represents Dist 115 in Miami-Dade County
Rep. Julio Robaina – Represents Dist 117 in Miami-Dade County
Rep. Juan C. Zapata – Represents Dist 119 in Miami-Dade County
Pinellas County Leaders Supporting Mayor Giuliani
Pinellas County Sheriff Jim Coats
State Representative Peter Nehr
State Representative Rich Glorioso
Pinellas County Commissioner John Morroni
Pinellas County Tax Collector Diane Nelson
Former Speaker Pro Tempore Leslie Waters
Former State Senator Curt Kiser
Mayor of Safety Harbor Andy Steingold
Mayor of Belleair Bluffs Chris Arbutine
Mayor of Oldsmar Jim Ronecker
Vice Mayor of St. Petersburg Beach Mike Finnerty
Tarpon Springs Mayor Beverly Billiris
Former Mayor of Reddington Shores J.J. Beyrouti
Commissioner of Safety Harbor James McCormick
Commissioner of Safety Harbor Joe Ayoub
Governor Crist Campaign Chair for Pinellas County Margie Milford
Member of the Pinellas County Juvenile Welfare Board John Millford
Vice President Pinellas County Veterans Liaison Counsel Anthony Rizzo
Florida State University Board of Governors Member Frank Harrison
University of South Florida Student Body President Barclay Harles
  