
    "Nearly four years after the Obama-Biden campaign told New Hampshire voters that ‘people don't want to hear politicians attack each other,' Vice President Biden is back in the state to do just that. And why has the Obama-Biden team resorted to a ‘nasty White House race'? They can't run on President Obama's failed record of high unemployment, soaring gas prices, and trillions of dollars in new debt and deficits." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
In 2008, Then-Candidate Barack Obama Campaigned In New Hampshire And Said Americans Didn't "Want To Hear Politicians Attack Each Other":
Candidate Obama, In A 2008 New Hampshire Event: "With The Economy In Turmoil And The American Dream At Risk, The American People Don't Want To Hear Politicians Attack Each Other." OBAMA: "With the economy in turmoil and the American Dream at risk, the American people don't want to hear politicians attack each other - you want to hear about how we're going to attack the challenges facing middle class families each and every day. You want to hear about the issues that matter in your lives." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Londonderry, NH, 10/15/08)
Today, The Obama-Biden Campaign Is Back In New Hampshire — But With A Distinctly Different Campaign Style:
Agence France Presse Headline: "Obama Team Signals Nasty White House Race" (Stephen Collinson, "Obama Team Signals Nasty White House Race," AFP, 4/10/12)
The Washington Post's Aaron Blake, On The Obama Campaign: "Already More Combative And Negative." "The national Republican Party this week sets out on a quest to label President Obama a ‘hypocrite,' seeking to contrast his 2008 message of hope and results with his 2012 campaign's already more combative and negative tone." (Chris Cillizza, "Can The Campaign Of ‘Hope' Go Negative?" The Washington Post, 4/9/12)
"It's An Unhappy And Intensely Negative Way To Run For Re-Election." "Romney's wealth will be the cornerstone of the Obama campaign strategy and he will do everything he can to cast Romney as the villain in this play — the heel who the audience will love to hate. It's an unhappy and intensely negative way to run for re-election, but given the state of the nation and voters views on his policies, it's Obama's best chance to hold the White House." (Chris Stirewalt, "Obama Looks To Make Romney The Villain," Fox News, 4/11/12)
And Why Is The Obama-Biden Campaign Resorting To A Campaign Tactic They Once Opposed? President Obama Doesn't Have A Record To Run On:
President Obama Did "Not Come Close" To Meeting His Pledge To Cut The Deficit In Half By The End Of His First Term. "The 2013 budget the president submitted today does not come close to meeting this promise of being reduced to $650 billion for fiscal year 2013. The president noted in that 2009 speech the Obama administration inherited a $1.3 trillion deficit. The deficit was similarly $1.3 trillion in 2011, is projected to be $1.15 trillion in 2012, and the president's budget claims it will be $901 billion in 2013." (Jack Tapper, "Obama's Broken Deficit Promise," ABC News, 2/13/12)
NBC's Chuck Todd, On President Obama's Energy Policies: "He's Made No Progress." TODD: "There is no issue that has been a, I guess, a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general. There's a lot of, we can come up with a lot of excuses as to why, but boy, it's just like you can't — he's made no progress." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)
"The Weaker-Than-Expected Jobs Figures Released On Friday Could Spell Trouble For President Obama's Reelection Bid." "The weaker-than-expected jobs figures released on Friday could spell trouble for President Obama's reelection bid. The Labor Department reported that the economy added 120,000 new jobs in March, falling well short of the more than 200,000 that had been expected." (Vicki Needham, "Weak March Jobs Report Could Spell Trouble For Obama's Reelection Bid," The Hill, 4/6/12)
  