
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Small business is the cornerstone of our free enterprise system and since the birth of this country has represented opportunity, independence, and the fulfillment of dreams for generations of Americans.
Combining the dynamic forces of individual initiative with an alertness to consumer needs, small business increases the flexibility of our economic system and is a leading source of innovation and technological advancement for much of our industry.
We are indebted to small business for its contributions to our success as a nation and dependent on its progress and vitality for our economic well-being. Small firms employ over half of the labor force and are leaders in employment creation and innovation; they also play an important role in expanding economic opportunities for women and minorities.
While small business is at the heart of our competitive system, it has been increasingly hobbled in recent years by excessive government regulation and taxation. We are currently addressing these problems through our programs for economic recovery. Our goal is to encourage the entrepreneurial spirit and to help usher in a new era of growth for small business. Toward that end, "The State of Small Business: A Report of the President," was sent to the Congress on March 1, 1982. It outlines key recommendations of this Administration.
Historically, small firms have enjoyed a special relationship with their communities. Now they not only will be leaders in the renaissance of their communities but also will be in the forefront of revitalizing the economy and bringing a new sense of direction to the American people.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning May 9, 1982, as Small Business Week. I call upon every American to join me in this tribute.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 5th day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixth.

RONALD REAGAN
  