
    Pool Reports by Thomas Burr, The Salt Lake Tribune



Sent:
Reports:




April 19, 202018:20 

Pool Report No. 1 -- two minute warning
The White House at 6:20pm announced a two minute warning for the briefing to begin.
Will send any off-camera color. As usual, there was a temp check at the gate and another in the briefing room.



April 19, 202018:29 

Pool Report No. 2 -- briefing begins
The briefing began at 6:28. POTUS and VPOTUS are at the podium.
Also here: The FDA's Dr. Hahn, HHS asst secretary Adm. Brett P. Giroir, and Seema Verma.



April 19, 202018:53 

Pool Report No. 3 -- Cuomo clip
In case you couldn't see it on the live feed, the president played a clip of NY Gov. Cuomo appearing on MSNBC, saying the federal government was a "great partner."
The clip ended and POTUS, standing off to the side on the riser, said he thought there was more to show -- about ventilators.
"They left out the good part," Trump said. "Good job fellas."



April 19, 202019:59 

Pool Report No. 4 -- briefing ends
The briefing ended at 7:57pm.
A few pieces of color that may have not appeared in the livestream/camera view:
At one point an aide delivered a note with what appeared to be handwritten remarks on it. The second part of Cuomo's TV clip played after that.
The second question POTUS took was from an OANN reporter who was standing in the back of the room and did not have a seat. He called on her again later.
At one point while Seema Verma was speaking, POTUS leaned down and whispered something to Dr. Hahn, who then left to go into lower press and returned a few minutes later.
When not speaking, VP Pence stood to the right side of the podium and Verma, Hahn and Giroir sat in the seats to the left of the riser.



April 19, 202020:02 

Pool Report No. 5 -- lid
Travel photo lid called at 8:01pm.



April 19, 202020:27 

Pool Report No. 6
Passing on from the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. President Trump and President Erdogan discussed the latest efforts to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and reopen global economies. The leaders also discussed critical regional and bilateral issues.--



April 19, 202021:09 

Pool Report No. 7
Passing on from the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with His All Holiness Bartholomew, Archbishop of Constantinople-New Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch. The President expressed his best wishes and prayers for a blessed Easter, particularly during this challenging time, to His All Holiness and to all Orthodox Christians celebrating around the world. The President thanked His All Holiness for the Orthodox Church's charitable response to the coronavirus pandemic.



April 19, 202022:46 

Pool Report No. 8
Passing on from the WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Rodrigo Duterte of the Republic of the Philippines. President Trump expressed his solidarity and offered additional assistance to the Philippines as it continues to battle the COVID-19 pandemic. Both leaders agreed to continue working together as long-time allies to defeat the pandemic, save lives, and restore global economic strength. President Trump also expressed condolences for the loss of 11 Philippine soldiers recently killed while fighting Abu Sayyaf terrorists in Sulu. The two leaders also discussed how the United States and the Philippines can continue building upon the strong and enduring economic, cultural, and security ties binding the two nations.




  