
    Mr. Consul General Kim, President Park, ladies and gentlemen:
I am delighted to be able to join President Park on this occasion, not only because I share his pleasure in this meeting, but because this occasion tells us so much of our past and our future. Today we had a most pleasant and productive discussion.
When I say us, I mean all the peoples of the Pacific who are determined to live as independent nations and free human beings.
You Americans here tonight of Korean descent know that this State has demonstrated to the rest of our Union--and to the entire world, for that matter--that America's concern for human dignity reaches out across the Pacific as well as across the Atlantic.
Our ties across the Pacific go back a long way--at least a century and a quarter--to the time when we became involved in China and then a little later in Japan. But it is only in the past 27 years that we have learned that the destiny of the United States is--once and for all--bound up with the fate of the peoples of Asia and the Pacific.
Until the end of the Second World War, we in America gave little thought to the history and the problems of our neighbors in Korea.
Then, suddenly, we found ourselves caught up--as we have with many other peoples--in Korea's emergence from colonialism to independence.
Through no fault of their own, the people of Korea have had to bear more suffering and challenge than any other nation emerging from colonialism--with the possible exception of the people of Vietnam.
Together we have seen through a terrible war and a period of uncertainty and confusion. Together we have had the privilege of sharing in the adventure of a new nation moving forward in a miracle of progress.
These ties--these memories--are important. They are as much a part of our history as they are of Korea's.
But, equally important is the fact that this new nation and this free South Korea of whom President Park is the spokesman--and a very able one--is now helping to build a new structure of cooperation in Asia.
As we face now in Vietnam--hopefully-a movement from war to peace, I wish to tell all of you, my fellow citizens--and you, my dear friend, President Park--what I deeply believe.
I deeply believe that this Nation will continue to play its part in helping to protect and to develop the New Asia.
I deeply believe that my successor--whoever he may be--will act in ways that will reflect America's abiding interest in Asia's freedom and in Asia's security.
The commitments of America in Europe and Asia--all made by Congresses and Presidents before my administration--are colorblind. They run with the security of the Nation and with our basic human values. They will remain firm in the years ahead.
Because we know that peace among our neighbors of Asia is just as important to America as peace among our neighbors in Europe. Dignity, independence, and freedom are universal aspirations of men--east and west, north and south.
The days are long gone when Americans could say that Asians are not our kind of people. People who love peace and freedom-whatever their color or their religion or their national origin--are our kind of people. The fight against racism and bigotry knows no international dateline.
We wish to see Asia--like Europe--take an increasing responsibility for shaping its own destiny. And we intend and we mean to help it do so.
We look-eagerly, even impatiently--to the day when the real battle of Asia can be joined with all of our resources:
--the struggle against poverty and hunger, illiteracy and disease;
--to increase the supply of food and to assist those who are trying to plan the size of families;
--to exploit to the hilt the fantastic possibilities for developing the Mekong Valley, and all the other great conservation works of this continent. In these works of peace the United States of America will take its fair share along with the other responsible nations of the industrial world.
And in their benefits and in their development all the nations of Southeast Asia should participate--not just our present allies--but North Vietnam and all human beings in that great region who long for freedom and dignity and liberty.
America will remain the friend and the ally and the partner of Europe.
But America will also remain the friend and the ally and the partner of free men in Asia.
This is my faith. This is my belief. This is my judgment.
I came here tonight to salute that great and gallant leader of the Korean people whose friends of Korean descent have gathered here, to say that we applaud your leadership, we admire your progress, and we in America feel that we are not only an Atlantic nation, but we are equally a Pacific nation.
In this part of the world, almost two-thirds of all humanity live. If that is what we are interested in--and that is all that really justifies our survival, a desire to better humanity-if that is what we are interested in, then it is going to take at least more than half of our efforts, and we pledge to you sincerely tonight those efforts.
Good night and God bless you.
  