
    
PROVIDENCE, R.I. – U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Sunday focused on climate change and other critical issues in a speech to more than 7,000 supporters two days before Rhode Island Democrats go to the polls.
The crowd here in the Ocean State, where climate change is a key issue, cheered Sanders' call for bold action to combat the planetary crisis.
He challenged Hilary Clinton to support his legislation for a tax on planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions. "Join me and impose a tax on carbon," Sanders said of legislation he has introduced in the Senate.
The push for a carbon tax gained new momentum with calls by World Bank and International Monetary Fund to discourage burning the fossil fuels that are blamed for rising worldwide temperatures, according to Sunday's New York Times. Sanders is the only candidate for president to back putting a price on carbon.
Rhode Island is one of five states holding primary elections on Tuesday. The Sunday morning rally was part of a weekend packed with campaign stops. The senator from Vermont was in Maryland and Delaware on Saturday. He was headed later Sunday to Connecticut and he will be in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia on Monday speaking to Pennsylvania supporters.

Earlier Sunday, Sanders said on CBS News' "Face the Nation" that he would carry the contest with Clinton through all of the remaining states and on to the Democratic National Convention this summer. "We are the future of the Democratic Party, so I'm very proud of where we are and we look forward to fighting this out through California."
He discussed his carbon tax proposal in the interview and also called for Democrats to embrace a Medicare-for-all health care system, tuition-free public colleges and universities, raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour and reforming the corrupt campaign finance system that props up a rigged economy.
Also on Sunday Sanders picked up the endorsement of the 35,000-member United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America. Peter Knowlton, the union's national president, called Sanders "the most pro-worker pro-union presidential candidate" in his lifetime.


  