
    MINNEAPOLIS, MN — Today, the Amy for America campaign announced several key hires that will lead and manage the campaign's operations in New Hampshire— State Director Scott Merrick, Deputy State Director Sondra Milkie and Political Director Ben Ernst. Klobuchar's New Hampshire team will focus on building a strong grassroots operation and talking to people across the Granite State about Amy's optimistic economic agenda.
Scott Merrick, New Hampshire State Director — As a native Granite Stater, Scott Merrick is excited to join Senator Klobuchar's presidential campaign and lead her efforts in his home state. Most recently, Scott was Vice President of Business Development for Athenium Analytics, a technology company based in Dover, NH. Prior to that role, he served as Deputy State Director for Senator Jeanne Shaheen. Scott also served as a NH State Representative from Coos County for five years and was an Assistant Majority Floor Leader during that time.
Sondra Milkie, New Hampshire Deputy State Director — Sondra Milkie comes to the Amy for America team with experience in campaign management and political consulting. Sondra recently managed a Congressional race in Maryland and served as a digital and a direct mail consultant at firms in Washington, DC. Prior to that, she spent several cycles in her home state of Wisconsin working on local and state legislative campaigns, eventually serving as Statewide Training Director for a Wisconsin based candidate recruitment and training organization. Sondra got her start in politics as a field organizer for the Obama for America campaign in 2008.
Ben Ernst, New Hampshire Political Director — Ben Ernst was most recently the Political Director for the New Hampshire Democratic Party. In 2018, he was the Campaigns Director for the New Hampshire State Senate Democratic Caucus, running its successful Red to Blue program to win a majority in the state. Ben also campaigned in Iowa, Nevada and Virginia for Secretary Clinton's presidential campaign, managed a city council race in New York, and worked on several legislative races and a gubernatorial race in his native state of Virginia.
  