
    
  'Conservative Unity Slate' of Paul-Santorum supporters demands voice ahead of, and at, Tampa

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — Colorado supporters of 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul have teamed up with former White House aspirant Rick Santorum supporters in a rejection of the status quo, counteracting moderate Mitt Romney's supporters in a battle over how the Centennial State will represent itself at the Republican National Convention in Tampa.
The move represents the diminished confidence of many Republican activists who are unhappy with Washington insiders' inflated pressure to coronate an establishment candidate rather than pursue a discussion over whether an authentic conservative will play a pivotal role at the summer's RNC.
Colorado Republicans split delegate votes between Romney, unified Paul and Santorum supporters
By Lynn Bartels
The Denver Post
Colorado Republicans are heading to their national convention with their most conservative delegation in years, as supporters for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum masterminded a stunning upset in electing delegates.
At the state convention in Denver today, Paul forces easily were the most vocal, adding their candidate's name at almost every opportunity. When Republicans sang "Hey, hey, hey, good-bye" to President Barack Obama, Paul backers changed the words to "Hey, hey, hey, Ron Paul."
The momentum was painful for Mitt Romney supporters, who had assumed when Santorum dropped out of the presidential race this week they'd have a much easier time in winning Colorado's delegate and alternate seats to the Republican National Convention in Tampa in August.
Instead, some of the Santorum's supporters united with Paul's backers to form the "Conservative Unity Slate" to win a slew of delegate slots. Four years ago, only one Paul supporter was elected to attend the national convention.
"This is a revolution," said Florence Sebern of Denver, an "unpledged" delegate who was wearing a Paul pin. She was part of the slate.
Slate supporters said they wanted to send a message to Romney about the importance of sticking to conservative values.
More than 800 Republicans — easily double the number who sought to attend the RNC in 2008 — ran for the 33 elected delegate and 33 elected alternate slots.
At congressional assemblies Thursday and Friday, Republicans elected 21 delegates and 21 alternates. Thirteen of the 18 winning delegates elected Friday were on the Paul/Santorum unity slate...
To read the full article online, please click here.
  