
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Our Nation is firmly rooted in the timeless ideals enshrined in our Constitution and so eloquently expressed in our Declaration of Independence: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." The success of our great experiment in self-government is testimony not only to the binding truth of these words, but also to the determination of those who have ever since struggled to uphold them. Dedicated to these ideals, the United States has grown and prospered. It has withstood the test of time and the bitter crucible of war, standing as a model of freedom and a source of hope for oppressed peoples around the world.
Each May 1, on Loyalty Day, we remember in a special way those Americans who have given their lives in defense of this country and the principles for which it stands. We also pay tribute to our veterans and current members of the Armed Forces; their bravery and desire to serve likewise reflect great love for others and genuine loyalty to the United States.
Throughout the year, these outstanding men and women -- and, indeed, Americans of all ages and from every walk of life -- express their loyalty to our country thorugh countless acts of patriotism and selflessness. By honoring their oath to uphold and defend the Constitution, military personnel, elected officials, and civil servants help to preserve our rich heritage of freedom. Students who recite the Pledge of Allegiance in school, and parents and educators who teach their children about our Nation's history and system of government, help to ensure that this heritage is ever strengthened and renewed.
Today, we remind ourselves that the principles upon which our Nation is founded are worthy of our abiding faith and fidelity. Our allegiance to this Nation is pledged freely -- indeed, proudly -- because it is allegiance to a noble ideal, one reaffirming the God-given dignity and worth of the individual and the freedom He has envisioned for each of us.
Over the years, our unwavering devotion to the principles of individual liberty and representative government has made the United States a light of hope and a place of refuge for millions of people around the world. We now take pride in knowing that the ideas planted on this soil more than 200 years ago continue to inspire brave hearts in other lands. In countries that once suffered under the heavy shadow of totalitarianism, freedom-loving men and women are beginning to enjoy the blessings of liberty and self-determination. Their triumph is a poignant reminder of the power of faith and the importance of our continued commitment to democratic ideals.
As we observe Loyalty Day, let us reaffirm our belief in the ideals enshrined in our Declaration of Independence and in our Constitution, so that we may continue to be one Nation under God, a Nation worthy of His continued mercy and favor. As Thomas Jefferson once noted: These principles form the bright constellation which has gone before us, and guided our steps thorugh an age of revolution and reformation. The wisdom of our sages and the blood of our heroes have been devoted to their attainment. They should be the creed of our political faith, the text of civil instruction, the touchstone by which we try the services of those we trust; and should we wander from them in moments of error or alarm, let us hasten to retrace our steps and to regain the road which alone leads to peace, liberty, and safety.
To foster loyalty and love of country, the Congress, by joint resolution approved July 18, 1958 (72 Stat. 369; has designated May 1 of each year as "Loyalty Day."
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 1990, as Loyalty Day and call upon all Americans and patriotic, civic, fraternal, and educational organizations to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies. I also call upon all government officials to display the flag of the United States on all government buildings and grounds on that day.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  