
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 7
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
The President met at the White House with his national security advisers.
April 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—President Leopold Sedar Senghor of Senegal.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 13th annual report on the Operation of the Automotive Products Trade Act of 1965.
April 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—professional baseball player Pete Rose, honorary chairman of the 1980 Savings Bonds Campaign, and Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Chairman of the Interagency Committee for the Purchase of United States Savings Bonds;
—Charles H. Pillard, president of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.
The White House announced that the President has appointed Charles L. Brown, chairman of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, as United States National Chairman for United Nations Day, 1980.
The White House announced that the President has signed an order which designates the Secretary of Labor and the Administrator of Veterans Affairs as members of the Federal Council on the Humanities.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Louisiana as a result of severe storms and flooding during the period March 26-31, which caused extensive property damage.
April 10
The President met at the White House with David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
The White House announced that at the request of the President, Vice President Walter F. Mondale will address the United States Olympic Committee House of Delegates in Colorado Springs, Colo., on April 12, when the delegates are expected to vote on the issue of U.S. participation in the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow.
April 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—representatives of the chemical industry;
—a group of editors and broadcasters (transcript will be printed next week);
—Air Force One pilot Col. Lester C. McClelland, who is retiring from the Air Force.
The President announced the appointment of Rebecca W. Hanmer, Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Region IV, as a Commissioner representing the Federal Government on the Ohio River Valley Water Sanitation Commission.
  