
    Manchester, New Hampshire – Building on its momentum in the state, the John Edwards for President Campaign announced today that prominent leaders from across New Hampshire have endorsed Senator John Edwards for President. These endorsers will join Edwards' New Hampshire Leadership Committee and help build a grassroots campaign across New Hampshire.
"I am honored to have the support of so many great New Hampshire leaders," said Edwards. "I plan to continue to campaign hard in New Hampshire and look forward to working with these leaders to strengthen our grassroots campaign here in New Hampshire, so every voter knows my plans for big, bold change for America."
Laurie McCray, a veteran activist from the Seacoast region endorsed Edwards saying, "We have proven over the last two years that building grassroots, 'outside-in' movements is the recipe for creating change in New Hampshire. I believe that the Edwards campaign is the next great example of this, and I am thrilled to be a part of the movement."
"My commitment to Senator Edwards is as strong today as ever," said former State Senator and Edwards 2004 State Director Caroline McCarley. "John Edwards has spoken with distinct clarity about the great moral issues of our time and his plans to address them, and I am honored to stand with him once more."
Edwards continues to gain strength in New Hampshire and is also the only Democratic candidate to receive endorsements from members of the New Hampshire State Senate.
The following New Hampshire leaders endorsed Edwards for President:


Sen. Peter Burling, NH Senate Deputy Majority Leader
Sen. Joe Foster, NH Senate Majority Leader
Sen. David Gottesman, NH Senate Deputy Democratic Whip
Rep. Linda Foster, NH House Deputy Speaker
Rep. Sharon Nordgren, NH House Finance Committee Chair (Div III)
Caroline McCarley, Former NH State Senator
Laurie McCray, Prominent Seacoast Progressive Activist
Paul Robitaille, Coos County Democratic Chair
Chris Sullivan, Concord Activist & Former US DOJ official
Rep. Don Brueggeman, NH State Representative
Rep. Jackie Cali-Pitts, NH State Representative
Rep. Claudia Chase, NH State Representative
Rep. Steve Destefano, NH State Representative
Rep. David Essex, NH State Representative
Rep. Patrick Garrity, NH State Representative, Firefighter
Rep. Joe Miller, M.D., NH State Representative, Doctor
Rep. Gary Richardson, NH State Representative
Rep. Rob Theberge, NH State Representative
Rep. Chuck Weed, NH State Representative, Professor at Keene State College
Bill Barry, Prominent Nashua activist & attorney
Elaine Belanger, Prominent North Country Activist
Will Boc, Former Dover Mayor and City Councilor
Jon Bresler, Concord Democratic Activist
Tenley & Peter Callaghan, Concord Democratic Activists & Attorneys
Chris Coates, Keene School Board, Former NH State Representative
Tim Decker, Immediate Past President, SEA NH, Juvenile Probation Officer in Manchester
Joe Donahue, Derry Town Chair & NE Carpenters Organizer
Lucy Hodder, Prominent activist, attorney, and advocate
Helen Honorow, Prominent activist and member of the State Board of Education
Harry Judd, Prominent Concord activist & attorney
Leo Lessard, Former State Senator
Chris Miller, Prominent Concord activist, psychologist
Jon and Sandy Mucci, Prominent Lakes Region Activists
Deb Nelson, Educator & Upper Valley Democratic Activist
Scott Pauls, Educator, Lebanon Planning Board
Maureen Raiche Manning, Prominent Manchester Activist, Former Vice Chair of the NH Democratic Party
Karen Ryan, Grantham Town Chair
Chris Seufert, Prominent Activist & Attorney
Elissa Stone, Prominent Environmental Activist, Small Business Owner
Kristin Sullivan, Prominent Activist
Tom Watson, Prominent Activist & Attorney
Rob Werner, Merrimack County Democratic Chair

  