
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Intergovernmental Advisory Council on Education. The President also announced his intention to designate Joseph C. Harder to be Chairman.
Joseph C. Harder has been serving as a State senator for Kansas since 1961. He resides in Moundridge, Kans., and was born February 1, 1916. He would succeed J. Glenn Schneider.
Roberta T. Anderson is currently serving as dean, School of Education, the University of South Dakota. She resides in Vermillion, S. Dak., and was born July 26, 1933. She would succeed Richard C. Gilman.
William S. Banowsky is president of the University of Oklahoma. He resides in Norman, Okla., and was born March 4, 1936. He would succeed Henry S. Commager.
Alan L. Cropsey is presently serving as a State representative for Michigan. He resides in DeWitt, Mich., and was born June 13, 1952. He would succeed Richard G. Hatcher.
Esther R. Greene has been serving as director of public affairs for the California Chamber of Commerce since 1975. She was born December 31, 1927, and resides in Sacramento, Calif. She would succeed Sandra K. Lucas.
Emlyn I. Griffith is an attorney at law in Rome, N.Y., where he resides. He was born May 13, 1923. He would succeed Ramon C. Cortines.
Manuel J. Justiz is presently director, Latin American programs in education, and assistant professor, department of educational administration, College of Education, at the University of New Mexico. He resides in Albuquerque, N. Mex., and was born December 26, 1948. He would succeed Wenda W. Moore.
Vance R. Kelly is serving as a State senator for New Hampshire. He resides in Londonderry, N.H., and was born March 26, 1941. He would succeed Lucille Maurer.
Joseph L. Knutson is president emeritus of Concordia College. He resides in Moorhead, Minn., and was born February 14, 1906. He would succeed William Shea.
Jacqueline E. McGregor is currently field director for the Senate campaign of Congressman Phil Ruppe in Michigan. She resides in Iron Mountain, Mich., and was born December 18, 1938. She would succeed Abraham Shemtov.
Norman A. Murdock is with Ahlrichs and Murdock Company, L.P.A., and commissioner for Hamilton County. He resides in Cincinnati, Ohio, and was born November 6, 1931. He would succeed Daisy W. Thaler.
Ralph J. Perk is with Ralph J. Perk and Associates in Cleveland, Ohio. He was mayor of Cleveland in 1971-1977. He resides in Cleveland and was born January 19, 1914. He would succeed Frank Rowe.
Dalton Sheppard, Jr., is serving as State representative for South Carolina. He is also president and owner of Credit-Data Corp. He resides in Columbia, S.C., and was born September 2, 1936. He would succeed Jessie M. Rattley.
Betty B. Sepulveda is an instructional consultant for language development in the office of curriculum for Denver Public Schools. She resides in Denver, Colo., and was born January 26, 1923. She would succeed Hiroshi Yamashita.
George N. Smith is superintendent of Mesa Unified Schools in Mesa, Ariz. He resides in Mesa and was born February 11, 1927. He would succeed Judith M. Owens.
James B. Tatum is president of Tatum Motor Co. in Anderson, Mo., where he resides. He was born July 24, 1925. He would succeed Robert L. Hardesty.
Harriet M. Weider is supervisor for the 2nd district for the Orange County Board of Supervisors. She resides in Huntington Beach, Calif., and was born October 7, 1920. She would succeed Robert Graham.
Gonzalo A. Velez is currently serving as national chairman of the Congress Of Filipino-American Citizens. He resides in West Orange, N.J., and was born October 26, 1941. He would succeed Andrew C. Phillips.
  