
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals, appoint twenty individuals, designate one individual, and upon appointment, designate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Robert Anthony Bradtke, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Bradtke, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, most recently served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as an Executive Secretary at the National Security Council. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in London, United Kingdom. Mr. Bradtke received his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame.
The President intends to nominate Dale Klein, of Texas, to be a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and upon appointment, designate Chairman, for a five-year term expiring June 30, 2011. Mr. Klein currently serves as Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs. Prior to this, he served as Vice Chancellor for Special Engineering Programs for the University of Texas System. At that time, he also served as Executive Director and Chairman of the Board of the Amarillo National Research Center. Mr. Klein received his bachelor's degree, master's degree and PhD from the University of Missouri at Columbia.
The President intends to nominate James B. Lockhart III, of Connecticut, to be Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Lockhart currently serves as Deputy Commissioner for the Social Security Administration. In this position he serves as the Agency's Chief Operating Officer, Secretary to the Social Security Board of Trustees, and a member of the Executive Committee of the President's Management Council. Prior to this, he served as Managing Director at NetRisk, Incorporated. Earlier in his career, he served as Executive Director of the Pension Benefits Guaranty Corporation and has held senior positions at National Reinsurance, Smith Barney, Alexander & Alexander and Gulf Oil. Mr. Lockhart received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board:
Paul Cherecwich, Jr., of Utah, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring September 14, 2009.
Donald V. Hammond, of Virginia (Federal Employee Representative), for the remainder of a five-year term expiring September 14, 2010.
Catherine G. West, of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring September 14, 2008.
Deborah L. Wince-Smith, of Virginia, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring September 14, 2010.

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, for a two-year term:
John Burke, of Wisconsin, and upon appointment designate Chairman
Dorothy Gay Richardson, of Florida, and upon appointment designate Vice Chairman
Denise Austin, of Virginia
James N. Baird, of Ohio
Paul Carrozza, of Texas
William Greer, of Michigan
T. L. Mitchell, of Texas
Charles H. Moore, Jr., of the District of Columbia
Catherine M. Baase, of Michigan
Kirk M. Bauer, of Maryland
Steven Bornstein, of California
Susan Lieberman Dell, of Texas
Lillian Greene-Chamberlain, of Maryland
Donna Richardson Joyner, of Texas
Edward R. Laskowski, of Minnesota
Elisha Nelson Manning, of Louisiana
Jerry V. Noyce, of Minnesota
Mary Lou Retton, of Texas
Andrew Roddick, of Texas
W. Edgar Welden, of Alabama

The President intends to designate James B. Lockhart III, of Connecticut, to be Acting Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
  