
    Philadelphia, PA – Today, Pennsylvanians for Hillary Clinton announced the formation of its statewide Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Steering Committee for Hillary which consists of dozens of LGBT leaders throughout the Keystone state. The steering committee will host a kick-off event at Woody's Bar and Grill on April 12th with special guest recording artist Sophie B. Hawkins.
The list of supporters reflects the diversity of the LGBT community which includes community leaders, elected officials, educators, healthcare professionals, and business owners.
"The LGBT community deserves a President who talks to our community and to the issues we care about," said Kevin Lee, Lansdowne Borough Councilman. "Hillary Clinton has a proven track record of doing that. As a Senator, Hillary Clinton worked with LGBT groups to develop the smart strategy that defeated the Federal Marriage Amendment and championed the Early Treatment for HIV Act. As a candidate, she continues to talk to the community. That matters to me, and it matters in this election."
"I am proud to be from Pennsylvania, I'm proud to be a Democrat, and I'm proud to support Hillary Clinton. She has always been a supporter of our community and even more importantly she is someone who has the experience, heart and intelligence that would make her someone I would be proud to have as President of the United States.," said Carson Kressley, actor, fashion expert, and host of Queer Eye for the Straight Guy.
Hillary has been a longtime ally of the LGBT community. She fought against the Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA) both times and has worked on legislation that would promote equality for LGBT Americans. As President, Hillary will work to ensure that gay and lesbian couples in committed relationships have the same legal rights and responsibilities as all Americans. She will also work to end discrimination in adoption laws, sign hate crimes legislation and ENDA into law, and put an end to the failed policy of Don't Ask, Don't Tell.
"I am proud to receive the support of such a dynamic group of leaders in the Pennsylvania LGBT community," said Clinton. "LGBT Americans have been a part of this campaign from the start and I look forward to continuing to work with the community in the Keystone state to ensure we end the divisive politics of the current administration. As President, I will do just that and will continue fighting for equality for all Americans."
Pennsylvania LGBT Steering Committee:

David Adamany
John Alchin
Toeknee Bailey
Autumn Bayles
Steve Black
Dan Brooks
John Casavecchia
Troy Cassel
Colleen Cooke
Geri Delevich
Romulo L. (Romy) Diaz Jr.
Julie Dickson
Steve Dorko
Brian J. Dorsey
Carl Engleke
Jim Epstein
Bill Gehrman
Renee Gilinger
Nachum Golan
Mel Heifetz
Tom Hess
Michael Hinson
Rob Hopkins
Harvey Hurdle
Joshua Jack
Michael Johnson
Marlene Kanuck
Sharyn Keiser
Brent Kintzing
Melissa Kolczynski
Carson Kressley
Chris Labonte
Kevin Lee
Steve Lucas
Brian McGuckin
Tom Miglino
Jim Mikula
Mark Mitchell
Carl Nelson
Rev. Eva O'Diam
Jon Oriole
Randall Palmer
Eric Poal
Mindy M. Posoff
Matthew Ray
Katrina Reichert
Eric Reid
Brad Richards
Michael Rickard
Pedro J. Rivera
Keith Robinson
Sandy Santello
Martin D. Sellers
Doug Shaps
Claire Shaw
Nurit Shein
James A. Simmons
Joseph Sinkus
Michael D. Soileau
Tami Sortman
Paul Steinke
Gary A. Van Horn, Jr.
JJ VanName
Brian Weiner
Michael Weiss
Frank Werner
TJ Wilson
Matthew Woodcock
Bruce Yelk
Kevin Yoder
David A. Zwifka

  