
    While President Obama blankets the airwaves in Ohio, Iowa, Nevada, and Missouri, he may want to answer some questions about his Administration's failed energy policies. After three years of promising change, the only thing that the President has delivered is gas prices twice as high as the day he took office." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
On President Obama's Magical Misery Stop In Ohio, Will He Answer Whether He Agrees With Vice President Biden That "Our Energy Policy Is The Best It's Ever Been"?
Under President Obama, Ohio's Gas Prices Nearly Doubled From $1.90 Per Gallon In January 2009 To $3.71 Per Gallon Today. (AAA Website, www.aaa.com, Accessed 4/12/12)
Vice President Biden: "I Think Our Energy Policy Is The Best It's Ever Been." REPORTER: "Gas prices are above $4.00 a gallon, you were asked this question, and you gave an answer. But there's a new commercial out that says "since Obama has become president, prices have nearly doubled. Four years in, should you all have a better energy policy in America?" BIDEN: "I think our energy policy is the best it's ever been." (WAVY-TV, 4/3/12)
On President Obama's Magical Misery Stop In Nevada, Will He Address The Repeated Criticism That He's Made "No Progress" On Energy Policies While Gas Prices Skyrocket?
Under President Obama, Nevada's Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled From $1.96 Per Gallon In January 2009 To $3.98 Per Gallon Today. (AAA Website, www.aaa.com, Accessed 4/12/12)
NBC's Chuck Todd, On President Obama's Energy Policy: "He's Made No Progress." TODD: "There is no issue that has been a, I guess, a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general. There's a lot of, we can come up with a lot of excuses as to why, but boy, it's just like you can't — he's made no progress." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)
The Washington Post's Nia-Malika Henderson: "He's Made No Progress." HENDERSON: "No, he's made no progress. I remember covering him on the campaign and he would talk about, you know, turning these manufacturing plants into wind turbine plants and it seemed to work then, but, you know, in terms of the reality and on the ground actually success during his presidency, absolutely none." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)
On President Obama's Magical Misery Stop In Iowa, Will He Address Whether He Still Thinks His Energy Policy Is Just A "Hodgepodge"?
Under President Obama, Iowa's Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled From $1.85 Per Gallon In January 2009 To $3.77 Per Gallon Today. (AAA Website, www.aaa.com, Accessed 4/12/12)
President Obama: "Our Energy Policy Still Is Just A Hodgepodge." OBAMA: "Our energy policy still is just a hodgepodge, and for all the progress we've made, we're not where we need to be in making sure that this is an energy-efficient economy that is running on all cylinders." (President Barack Obama, Remarks At DNC Event, Miami, FL, 6/13/11)
On President Obama's Magical Misery Stop In Missouri, Will He Address Whether He Still Supports A "Gradual" Increase In Gas Prices?
Under President Obama, Missouri's Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled From $1.68 Per Gallon In January 2009 To $3.70 Per Gallon Today. (AAA Website, www.aaa.com, Accessed 4/12/12)
In 2008, Obama Said He Would Have Preferred A Gradual Increase In Gas Prices To Help Shift To Alternative Energy Sources. HARWOOD: "As difficult as this is for consumers right now, is, in fact, high gas prices what we need to let the market work, a line incentive so that we do shift to alternative means of energy?" OBAMA: "Well, I think that we have been slow to move in a better direction when it comes to energy usage. And the president, frankly, hasn't had an energy policy. And as a consequence, we've been consuming energy as if it's infinite. We now know that our demand is badly outstripping supply with China and India growing as rapidly as they are. So..." HARWOOD: "So could these high prices help us?" OBAMA: "I think that I would have preferred a gradual adjustment. The fact that this is such a shock to American pocketbooks is not a good thing." (CNBC's "Your Money, Your Vote," 6/10/08)
  