
    Today, Wisconsin Congressman Ron Kind released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"I've known Joe Biden for a long time, and I know that there is no one with greater passion and integrity for serving others than Joe. Many people know Joe Biden, but more importantly, Joe Biden knows us. He knows our struggles and the challenges we face here in Wisconsin—affording our prescriptions, battling illnesses, protecting our retirements, and standing up for our farmers. He also knows a lot about getting knocked down and getting right back up again, he's a fighter, and our country needs his compassion and leadership. At a time filled with so much uncertainty, we need to come together to do what's best for our families, our communities, and our country. Joe Biden will be the President who does just that. When I mail in my ballot, I will be voting for Joe Biden."
In Wisconsin, Biden for President has announced more than 40 endorsements from leaders across the state – including former Governor Jim Doyle, former U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, Senate Democratic Leader Jennifer Shilling, Assembly Democratic Leader Gordon Hintz, and Milwaukee County Democrats Chair Chris Walton.
Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals. National unions representing a range of other workers and professions have also endorsed Biden, including the International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), National Education Association (NEA), United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), American Federation of Teachers (AFT), American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (IW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), Operative Plasterers' & Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA), and International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), and the International Longshoremen's Association (ILA).
The health and safety of our staff, supporters, and the general public is Biden for President's number one priority. Any registered Wisconsin voter may request a vote-by-mail ballot online. We encourage voters to take advantage of absentee ballots. Any registered Wisconsin voter may request a vote-by-mail ballot by email, fax or mail to their municipal clerk. A request for a vote-by-mail ballot must be made by Friday, April 3 at 5:00 PM CT and any ballot received by April 13 at 4:00 PM CT will be counted. Learn more at joebiden.com/voter-guide.
  