
    Yesterday, Vice President Harris traveled to Reno, Nevada to host a conversation about the fight to protect reproductive freedom, moderated by Reno Mayor Hillary Schieve and actress Rosario Dawson. In front of an audience of young people and elected leaders, the Vice President highlighted the Biden-Harris Administration's actions to protect reproductive rights and the role of young leaders in this movement. The Vice President delivered a similar message during a surprise stop at a rally in Los Angeles about protecting reproductive health care over the weekend.
On Monday, the Vice President delivered remarks and received a tour of the Los Angeles Cleantech Incubator to highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration is supporting entrepreneurs and building a clean energy economy that works for all.
Read more below:
Defending Reproductive Rights
The Nevada Independent: Kamala Harris visits UNR, talks reproductive health with Mayor Hillary Schieve [Carly Sauvageau, 4/18/2023]
Vice President Kamala Harris visited UNR Tuesday afternoon to talk to young people about abortion rights as the drug mifepristone's FDA approval was brought into question with the first major abortion case after the federal overturning of Roe v. Wade. […]
Harris called the mifepristone case a "political attack on our health care system and the integrity of that system." She also said President Joe Biden's administration is working with the Department of Health and Human Services to add more protections for those seeking abortions. […]
Harris, Schieve and Dawson encouraged young people to get involved in politics not just at a federal, but state and local level as well, referencing movements already happening among young people for reproductive health care rights and stricter gun laws.
"Some of the best movements in our country ... about the expansion of rights have been led by students," Harris said.
AP: Harris applauds Nevada abortion rights effort at Reno forum [Scott Sonner and Gabe Stern, 4/19/2023]
[…] "What you are doing at the statewide level is so important," she said during a forum on the University of Nevada, Reno, campus.
Harris said she met Tuesday with several state lawmakers who supported a resolution in the state Senate this week to amend Nevada's constitution to include abortion rights up to 24 weeks. […]
"Even though it's not in our backyard here in Nevada or in California, please lead in this movement and build up the energy and momentum to stand for our democracy and our foundational principles and the rights for people to make decisions about their own lives and not their government," Harris said.
The Reno Gazette Journal: Vice President Kamala Harris warns Reno audience of government overreach on abortion pills [Mark Robinson, 4/18/2023]
[…] No one wants the government "based on a political agenda" taking pills out of people's medicine cabinet. "That's your business with your doctor, right?" Harris said. […]
She wants the federal legislation passed to protect abortion access and "an individual's right to make decisions about their bodies." More than half of abortions are done with medication, "so if what's happening in this court is left to stand, it will in effect be a nationwide ban." […]
Harris said she wants them to remember – paraphrasing Coretta Scott King – that fights for civil rights, justice, equality and fairness must be won with each generation so they should remain vigilant and keep marching and fighting.
"This is not a time to throw up our hands," she said. "This is a good time to roll up our sleeves." […]
AP: Kamala Harris rallies as high court eyes abortion pill rules [Bobby Caina Clavan and Stefanie Dazio, 4/15/2023]
Vice President Kamala Harris on Saturday urged Americans to take action during "a critical point in our nation's history" as thousands of protesters demonstrated across the country against new limits to abortion rights making their way through the courts. […]
Harris made a surprise stop in Los Angeles at one of the rallies, where she called the latest upheaval over abortion rights a further incursion by conservatives into myriad "fundamental rights" many Americans thought they had. […]
Los Angeles Times: 'Stand up and fight': Vice President Harris surprises crowd at L.A. reproductive rights rally [Dakota Smith, 4/15/2023]
Vice President Kamala Harris urged demonstrators gathered in downtown Los Angeles to "stand up and fight" for their ideals following recent court rulings over reproductive rights that have divided the country. "When you attack the rights of women in America, you are attacking America," Harris said at a rally outside City Hall.
Harris' surprise appearance at the event was greeted with shrieks and applause from the crowd. The vice president, who was introduced by Mayor Karen Bass, talked about her recent trips overseas and warned that democracy was at stake at this "critical moment" in U.S. history. […]
Additional Coverage: 

East Bay Times: In Southern California, VP Kamala Harris calls for investing in diverse, clean energy entrepreneurs
Nevada Independent: VP Kamala Harris coming to Reno to discuss abortion
The Nevada: VP Kamala Harris coming to Reno to discuss abortion
NBC LA: LA's Reproductive Rights March Draws VP Kamala Harris, LA Mayor Karen Bass
2 News: Vice President Kamala Harris Discusses Abortion Rights in Reno
The Kansas City Star: Harris applauds Nevada abortion rights effort at Reno forum
KUNR: Vice President Kamal Harris urges youth-led movement for reproductive rights during Reno visit  

Investing in a New Clean Energy Economy
ABC 7: Harris visits Cleantech Incubator in Los Angeles to tout clean-energy economy [City News Service, 4/18/2023]
[…] Harris used Monday's visit to the Cleantech Incubator in the downtown Arts District to praise efforts to ensure that workers are trained in the type of skills needed to support a "clean energy economy." […]
Harris also met with entrepreneurs who have taken advantage of the incubator's services and start-up funding, while also meeting with graduates of the workforce training programs. […]
"I think we collectively as a community should also challenge ourselves when we are thinking about the jobs we are creating," she said. "We are creating a lot of jobs. ... I would challenge us to not just think of a title. I would challenge us to not just think of a degree, but define and advertise a job based on the skill the job requires.
"For the private sector, for the employers who are feeling challenged (wondering) 'is the workforce there?' The workforce will come if they're really clear about the skills they need to develop to do the job. And so let's think a little bit more about how we are defining the jobs based on the skill, because that will also then sneak to the educators to know what they should be teaching to meet the demand and the need."
Spectrum News: Harris tours LA clean-energy incubator, touts improved job training [Anna Albaryan, 4/18/2023]
[…] Harris also used Monday's visit to the Cleantech Incubator in the downtown Arts District to praise efforts to ensure that workers are trained in the type of skills needed to support a "clean energy economy." […]
Harris took a tour of the facility, focusing her discussions with LACI officials on clean energy and transportation projects, and efforts to increase access to such technologies in low-income and high-pollution communities. She also discussed the incubator's workforce training efforts for the industry. […]
Harris also met with entrepreneurs who have taken advantage of the incubator's services and start-up funding, while also meeting with graduates of the workforce training programs.
Watch More:

NBC4: In LA Visit, VP Harris Touts Clean Energy Tech

  