
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight, appoint six and designate one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate James J. Jochum of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Import Administration). He currently serves at the Department of Commerce as Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. Previously, Mr. Jochum served as Senior Manager for Government Relations with Accenture, where he specialized in international trade, financial services and technology issues. Prior to joining Accenture, he served as Majority Counsel for the U.S. Senate Banking Committee and as Trade Counsel and Legislative Director for Senator Charles Grassley. He graduated from the University of Iowa, where he went on to earn his law degree.
The President intends to nominate Peter D. Keisler of Maryland, to be Assistant Attorney General (Civil Division). He currently serves as Principal Deputy Associate Attorney General. Previously, Mr. Keisler was a partner with the firm Sidley, Austin, Brown & Wood and he served as law clerk to the Honorable Anthony M. Kennedy. Earlier in his career he served at the White House as Assistant Counsel and then Associate Counsel to the President. Mr. Keisler earned both his bachelor's degree and his law degree from Yale.
The President intends to nominate Robert D. McCallum of Georgia, to be Associate Attorney General, Department of Justice and has designated him Acting Associate Attorney General. He currently serves as Assistant Attorney General (Civil Division). Prior to joining the Department of Justice, he was a partner at the firm Alston & Bird, where his specialty was civil litigation with an emphasis on appellate practice, commercial and real estate litigation and insurance class action litigation. Mr. McCallum earned both his bachelor's degree and his law degree from Yale.
The President intends to nominate Richard J. O'Connell of Arkansas, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Arkansas, for a term of four years. Mr. O'Connell currently serves as President of O'Connell Investigative Associates, Inc. He previously served as a Special Agent with the FBI and as consultant and investigator for the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking and the Office of Independent Counsel. Mr. O'Connell is a graduate of San Francisco State University and the FBI National Academy.
The President intends to designate General Mark V. Rosenker of Virginia, to be Vice Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, for a two-year term. General Rosenker currently serves as a member of this Board. He previously served as an advisor for the Transportation Security Agency and as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Military Office. General Rosenker is a graduate of the University of Maryland.
The President intends to appoint Mack I. Whittle of South Carolina, to be a Member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences:
The President intends to nominate James Broaddus of Texas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring September 7, 2004.
The President intends to nominate Lane Carson of Louisiana, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring September 7, 2004.
The President intends to nominate Paul Pate of Iowa, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring September 7, 2003, and an additional three-year term expiring September 7, 2006.
The President intends to nominate Jose Teran of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring September 7, 2005.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science:
The President intends to appoint Denice Dee Denton of Washington, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2003.
The President intends to appoint Anne O. Krueger of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2005.
The President intends to appoint M. Susan Smith of Oregon, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2005.
The President intends to appoint Richard F. Thompson of California, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2005.
The President intends to appoint Neil deGrasse Tyson of New York, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2005.
  