
    White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus on NBC's Meet The Press: "[President Trump] is fulfilling his promises and doing it at breakneck speed."
CHIEF OF STAFF REINCE PRIEBUS: "First of all, if you look at the promises he made on immigration, you have border crossings down by 70%. You look at TPP, one of the first executive orders the President signed was getting out of TPP. You look at ethics, that was one of the bullet points. You had every employee of the West Wing signed an ethics pledge that said you're not going to lobby for five years after you leave this place, and you're never going to lobby for a foreign country. Look at Neil Gorsuch, first 100 days a Supreme Court justice is sworn in, first time since 1881. And if you just give me one minute, I won't drone on. But, this idea about major legislation not being passed within the first 100 days, Barack Obama had a prebaked stimulus package that started in October … passed in February, it was pre-baked. George Bush didn't get any major legislation until June. Clinton, August 10th. Bush 41, a year and a half later. Reagan, August 13th. Carter, 658 days after he took the office. Nixon, one year. Johnson, 225 days. Here is the deal, the President signed over 28 bills already. Health care may happen next week; it may not. We're hopeful it will. As far as border security, you said the military. We have right now in the CR negotiating one of the biggest increases in military spending in decades. So, he is fulfilling his promises and doing it at breakneck speed."
OMB Director Mick Mulvaney on Fox's Fox News Sunday: "We're talking about historic accomplishment by this administration in the first 100 days."
DIRECTOR MICK MULVANEY: "What I think folks don't realize is we've signed more legislation into law in the first 100 days than anybody in the last 50 years. We've put out more executive orders than any previous administration in the last 50 years and importantly, these are not creating new laws. Most of these are laws getting rid of other laws. Regulations getting rid of other regulations. We are reducing the role of government in your life during the first 100 days, and we are doing so on truly historic basis. Then you add Justice Gorsuch. No president has ever had a Supreme Court Justice confirmed in 100 days, and we're talking about historic accomplishment by this administration in the first 100 days..."
Attorney General Jeff Sessions on ABC's This Week: "The President is honoring his promise to end the lawlessness at the border."
ATTORNEY GENERAL JEFF SESSIONS: "I think the President is honoring his promise to end the lawlessness at the border. The first thing we need to do is to stop the additional flow of illegal people into our country. Many of these are involved in criminal enterprises, hauling drugs, and that kind of thing. We need to end that and then we have to wrestle what to do about people who have been here a long time. But, I would say that the President is honoring his commitments to the American people, to fix this border and we're going to stay at it. The Border Patrol is working very hard and so is the Department of Justice. We're going to back them up."
Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly on CNN's State Of The Union: "We're looking for bad men and women and we're doing that very, very effectively."
SECRETARY JOHN KELLY: "As I've said repeatedly, Dana, the illegal aliens that we're going after are not, if you will, simple, simply here illegally. We're actually going after the very people that the sheriff references, in terms of criminals, that happen to be here also illegally. And would just highlight the fact that, you know, you can report crimes and not give your name. I mean, the 9-1-1 process is anonymous, if you want it to be. … I hear this a lot – that the reports are down and all that. I would just again tell the illegal immigrant community, if you are simply here illegally, we don't really have the time to go after you. We're looking for bad men and women and we're doing that very, very effectively."
  