
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, hello, Indiana. It is such a joy for us to be back home again, to be around so many friends, and to be a part of such an exciting announcement here in the Hoosier State.
And I want to thank the Governor; I want to thank the Governor for his leadership. But I also want to thank Governor Holcomb for those kind words, overly generous as they were, unfailingly.
But I have to tell you, as I stand here today, I made a lot of decisions when I was governor of the state of Indiana, but I don't think I ever made a better one than when I chose the lieutenant governor who would become the 51st Governor of the great state of Indiana. Would you join me in thanking Governor Eric Holcomb one more time and his wonderful wife, our First Lady, Janet? (Applause.) Thank you both.
And I want to thank Secretary of Labor Alex Acosta. Thank you for those good words, for your great efforts on behalf of working men and women all across this country.
I want to congratulate your Indiana Secretary of Commerce, Jim Schellinger, for a job well done. And my friend, Mayor Joe Hogsett, for his collaborative spirit and the support of the city of Indianapolis of this effort. Also, Mario Rodriguez, and the Indianapolis Airport Authority.
And, of course, to Ravi Kumar and these great men and women of Infosys who have become -- and who are a great new chapter in the life of a growing Indiana economy. (Applause.)
I was coming through the state and I heard the good news was ahead and I just had to come by. (Laughter.) I really did, and -- because Indiana is on a move.
And I want to bring greetings and congratulations as well from a man who loves the Hoosier State, who has great confidence in the people of Indiana, and who I can say, personally, was inspired by the example of the state of Indiana when he chose his running mate a couple of years ago. (Laughter.) I bring greetings from the 45th President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
You know, today's announcement really is a tribute. It's a tribute to a great company. It's a tribute to a great state and the leadership of a great state at every level. But I also believe it is a tribute to the agenda that President Trump has been advancing with strong support on Capitol Hill from very early in this administration.
From the outset of this administration, we've been setting records. President Trump has actually signed more bills rolling back federal red tape than any President in American history. We've unleased American energy to make sure that low-cost, affordable energy is available to drive that manufacturing economy.
And last year, at the end of the year, President Donald Trump signed the largest tax cuts and tax reform for individuals and businesses in American history. And the results are driving a growing American economy. (Applause.)
I mean, the truth is we're celebrating, today, Infosys's decision to continue to expand and make an extraordinary commitment here in the state of Indiana. But it's all part and parcel of growth that's been happening over the last 15 months. It's remarkable to think about the way businesses, large and small, have been responding to the leadership that President Trump has been providing.
As I stand before you today, more than 500 businesses have announced more $475 billion in new investments, and more than 5.5 million Americans have actually already received a pay raise or a bonus in the wake of the President's tax cuts, including more than 37,000 Hoosiers.
And the news we'll celebrate today is also part of a wider story here in Indiana and beyond. In addition to Infosys's commitment to the state of Indiana, I was told FedEx has announced that it will devote an extra $1.5 billion to expand the FedEx Express hub right here in the capital city of Indiana. (Applause.)
It's happening across the Midwest. It really is. I was in Wisconsin yesterday where a company named Foxconn is actually investing $10 billion. They'll be breaking ground in a couple of weeks. It will create 13,000 new jobs. And I had a chance to spend some time earlier this week with Tim Cook. You all might have heard that Apple has announced that it is investing $350 billion by their company alone in America. In the next five years, that will create 20,000 new good-paying jobs. It is a record of success that has come home to Indiana one more time today with this announcement by Infosys. (Applause.)
And I want to thank Infosys. I want to thank Ravi and the whole team. And I have to tell you, I heard that Governor Holcomb was the first governor of Indiana to go to India. And now I know why. (Laughter.)
Ravi, we want to thank you. We want to thank you for a company that, exactly one year ago, responded to the agenda President Trump's been advancing and to the great business climate here in the state of Indiana by announcing that you would hire 10,000 American workers in the next two years.
And today, as part and parcel of you keeping your word, Infosys said "yes" to America. And today, they're saying "yes" to the state of Indiana once again. And Ravi, you have our thanks. (Applause.) Thank you for believing in this country.
And as a fellow Hoosier, I have to smile a little bit when I think of those 10,000 jobs. Nearly one-third of them will be right here in the state of Indiana. That is a credit to a pro-business environment that we, as Hoosiers, have built over many years, and that Governor Holcomb and the local leadership so well-represented here has continued to advance.
So I want to wrap up, have a chance to say hi to as many old friends as I can before I slip away back to our nation's capital. But let me close simply by saying thank you again. Thank you to Ravi Kumar and the entire Infosys team for not only deciding to come to Indiana, but for this new Infosys team providing the kind of work that gave this great company the confidence to continue to grow in the state of Indiana.
I want to thank our leaders from Indiana in our nation's capital. Senator Todd Young and the strong conservative leadership in the House of Representatives have been supporting that agenda that's giving companies like Infosys the confidence to invest in Indiana and invest in America.
And lastly, I not only want to thank, but I just want to congratulate -- I want to congratulate Governor Eric Holcomb for hitting the ground running; for aiming higher; for doing everything, every single day to make sure that Indiana continues to be a state that works, that's setting the pace for America.
I mean, I just couldn't pass the opportunity of coming by and congratulating all of you and saying, once again, Indiana is proving this is a new day in America. It's a new day for opportunities for working families, small businesses. It's a new day for growth and opportunity, and I truly do believe the best is yet to come.
And I'll promise you: We'll be back home again in Indiana many times in the months and years ahead. And I know I'll be stopping by a whole lot more job announcements when we do because Indiana is growing. We have the right leadership in President Donald Trump and on Capitol Hill. We have great leadership here at the state and local level in Indiana. And the combination of all of that together, I believe, the best days for Indiana and America are yet to come.
So thank you for the warm welcome today. It is great to be back home again and congratulations to the Hoosier State and Infosys on a great, great moment in the life of Indiana. Thank you and God bless you all. (Applause.)
  