
    Chapel Hill, North Carolina – The John Edwards for President campaign announced today that 23 leading Maine Democrats endorsed Senator John Edwards for President, including State Senate President Beth Edmonds and numerous state senators, state representatives and community activists.
"I look forward to working with these outstanding leaders to change America," said Edwards. "Real, fundamental change requires every one of us to take action. I am proud to have these leaders on my team."
Edmonds endorsed Edwards saying, "As the son of a mill worker, John Edwards understands the challenges facing Maine's workers and their families. They deserve fair wages, access to health care, and the chance to build a better life. John Edwards has the vision and the talent to provide hope and opportunity for all Americans. I am proud to endorse him and to join with Democratic leaders from every part of Maine in that support."
State Representative Jeremy Fischer from Presque Isle joined Edmonds in her support saying, "Senator Edwards understands the value of hard work, like many Maine families. That's why I'm honored to join him in his fight to make this country better for all of us. His priorities are the same as every Maine family, fair trade deals that keep good jobs in Maine, universal health care for all Americans, increased attention to rural issues, and increases in the minimum wage."
Henry Beck, Waterville City Councilor and President of the Maine College Democrats, also endorsed Edwards saying: "John Edwards' life story and focus on fighting for working people inspired me to public service. The families I grew up with need his leadership on jobs, health care, and trade. His specific ideas about the rising cost of college education and Iraq make him the best candidate for my generation, for Maine, and for the country."
The following Maine Democrats endorsed Edwards for President:


State Senator Beth Edmonds, President of the Maine Senate
State Senator John Martin of Eagle Lake, Assistant Majority Leader of the Maine Senate
State Senator Joseph Brannigan of Portland
State Senator Joseph Perry of Bangor
State Representative Jeremy Fischer of Presque Isle
State Representative Emily Cain of Bangor
State Representative Charles Fisher of Bangor
State Representative Chris Barstow of Gorham
State Representative Richard Cleary of Houlton
State Representative Edward Finch of Fairfield
State Representative Jon Hink of Portland
State Representative John Tuttle of Sanford
John Knutson of Ellsworth, Chair, Hancock County Democratic Committee and former Chair of the Caucus of County Chairs
Cathy Newell of Bridgton, Chair, Oxford County Democratic Committee
Dory Richards-Waxman, former Chair of the Portland Democratic City Committee and former member of the Portland School Committee
Albert Boothby, Jr., former Chair of the Brunswick Democratic City Committee
Rick McCarthy, Chief of Staff, Maine Senate President Beth Edmonds
Greg Howard, member of the Brunswick Democratic City Committee
Lori Gramlich, Portland School Committee and member of the Maine Democratic State Committee.
Henry Beck, City Councilor, Waterville and President of the Maine College Democrats
Oliver Radwan of the Bowdoin College Democrats and former President of the Maine College Democrats (2005-06)
Alex Cornell du Houx, former President of the Maine College Democrats (2004-05)
Chris Van Alstyne of the Colby College Democrats and Executive Board Member of the Maine College Democrats
Dave Garrity, Former DNC member and State Party Vice-Chair

  