
    Equal Pay "unparalleled" and campaign "inspirational" and "groundbreaking"
Kentucky - Today, prominent Hillary supporters throughout the state honored Equal Pay Day and discussed the historic nature of Hillary's campaign.
For more than 35 years, Hillary has fought to improve the lives of women throughout the country," said State Representative and Campaign Co-Chair Joni Jenkins. "Although women have made important strides, Equal Pay Day is a reminder of how far we still have to go. We need a President who will fight for the women of Kentucky and I can guarantee Hillary is that President."
"Although the Equal Pay Act was passed more than 40 years ago, women continue to earn less than men," said Attorney Olivia Anne Morris Fuchs. "I know as President Hillary will continue to work hard to ensure women across the country receive the salary, benefits and rights they deserve.
"Whether working as an advocate, First Lady, or Senator, Hillary has a solid record of doing what's right for our nation's women and has consistently worked to end pay disparities," said former Miss America Heather French Henry. "Hillary's campaign is truly groundbreaking and has been inspirational for not only me, but my daughters as well."
Equal Pay Day was established in 1996 as a way to demonstrate the continued pay disparities between American men and women. On average, a woman earns 77 cents to every dollar earned by a man for equal work. Women must work until the following Tuesday of a pay period to in order to earn the same as the average man in the same job.
Throughout her career, Hillary has consistently worked to end the pay disparities between men and women. In the Senate, Hillary led the charge to strengthen equal pay laws by introducing the Paycheck Fairness Act to strengthen the penalties associated with wage discrimination. As President Hillary will continue to fight to ensure women throughout the country receive the salary they deserve.
[Click here] for more information on Kentucky's wage pay gap.
  