
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his administration and has designated three individuals to serve.
The President intends to nominate Angela Antonelli to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. She is currently the Director of the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation. Antonelli was previously a Senior Associate with LEWIN-VHI, Inc., and she served in the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs from 1989 to 1993. She is a graduate of Cornell University and received a Master's of Public Affairs from Princeton University.
The President intends to nominate Brian Jones to be General Counsel at the Department of Education. He is presently an Attorney with the law firm of Curiale, Dellaverson, Hirschfeld, Kelly and Kramer in San Francisco, California. He served under Governor Pete Wilson as Deputy Legal Affairs Secretary, served as Counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary from 1997 to 1998 and was the President of the Center for New Black Leadership from 1995 to 1997. A resident of Oakland, California, he is a graduate of Georgetown University and received his J.D. from UCLA.
The President intends to nominate Bruce P. Mehlman to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Technology Policy. He has served as Telecommunications Policy Counsel for Cisco Systems since 1999. Before joining Cisco Systems he was General Counsel and Policy Director for the House Republican Conference and served as General Counsel for the National Republican Congressional Committee from 1996 to 1999. He is a graduate of Princeton University and the University of Virginia Law School.
The President intends to nominate Bill Hawks to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs. He is currently the Managing Partner of Hawks Farming, a farming operation which produces soybeans, winter wheat and corn and is also the owner of DeSoto East, Incorporated, a residential development company. He served in the Mississippi State Senate from 1994 to 1999 representing DeSoto County. A Mississippi native, he received both his undergraduate and graduate degree from Mississippi State University and is a veteran of the National Guard.
The President intends to nominate James R. Moseley to be Deputy Secretary of Agriculture. He is currently the President of a farming operation in Clarks Hill, Indiana. He served as an Assistant Secretary of Agriculture from 1990 to 1992 and was Agriculture Advisor to the Administrator of the EPA from 1989 to 1990. He is a graduate of Purdue University.
The President intends to nominate Thomas L. Sansonetti to be Assistant Attorney General for the Environmental and Natural Resources Division. He is currently a Partner with the law firm of Holland and Hart in Cheyenne, Wyoming. Before joining Holland and Hart in 1993, he served as Solicitor of the Department of the Interior and he served as Chief of Staff and Legislative Director for Wyoming Congressman Craig Thomas during the 101st Congress. He received both his undergraduate degree and M.B.A. from the University of Virginia and earned his J.D. from Washington and Lee University.
The President intends to nominate Patricia Lynn Scarlett to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Policy, Management and Budget. She has served with the Reason Foundation in Los Angeles, California since 1980 in a variety of positions and is now the President of the foundation. She received her undergraduate degree, Master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of California at Santa Barbara.
The President intends to nominate Allan Rutter to be Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration. He is presently the Transportation Policy Director in the Texas Governor's Office where he has served since 1995 and was Deputy Executive Director of the Texas High-Speed Rail Authority from 1990 to 1995. He served under Texas Governors Mark White and William Clements as a Senior Budget Analyst from 1985 to 1990. He is a graduate of the University of Texas and received a Master's of Public Affairs from the LBJ School at the University of Texas.
The President has designated Jonathon Chase to be Acting Director of the Community Relations Service. He has served with the Community Relations Service for more than thirty years and is presently an Associate Director. He is a graduate of Haverford College and received a Master's degree from Bryn Mawr College.
The President has designated Kevin D. Rooney to be Acting Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization. He is currently the Director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review at the Department of Justice. He received his undergraduate degree from St. Mary's Seminary and University, received a Master's degree from Catholic University and earned a J.D. from George Washington University.
The President has designated Kathryn Turman to be Acting Director of the Office for Victims of Crime. She is presently the Principal Deputy Director of the Office for Victims of Crime. She is a graduate of the University of Texas at Austin.
  