
    President Bush to Nominate Two and Appoint Seventeen Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and his intention to appoint 17 individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Randy Paul Ely to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Texas. Ely has served with the Ft. Worth Police Department since 1972 and has advanced through the ranks to Chief Deputy. Ely earned his bachelor's and Master's degrees from the University of Texas.
The President intends to nominate James E. McMahon to be United States Attorney for the District of South Dakota. McMahon is currently a sole practitioner in Sioux Falls and from 1981 to 2002, he was a Partner with the Sioux Falls law firm of Boyce, Murphy, McDowell and Greenfield. He served as an Assistant Attorney General in the South Dakota Attorney General's Office from 1978 to 1981. McMahon received a B. S. degree from Morningside University and a J. D. degree from the University of South Dakota.
The President intends to appoint the following five individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Home Mortgage Corporation for a term ending on the date of the next annual meeting of the stockholders in 2003:
Cesar Benito Cabrera of Puerto Rico, as the Real Estate representative
Michelle Engler of Michigan, as the Community Interests representative
David James Gribbin, III of Maryland, as the Public representative
William Dodd Powers of New York, as the Mortgage Lending representative
Catherine Lynne Stepp of Wisconsin, as the Homebuilding representative
The President intends to appoint the following three individuals to serve as Members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board for the remainder of a four-year terms expiring December 3, 2005:
Bruce Growick of Ohio
James R. Haring of Florida
Janice Tuck of California
The President intends to appoint the following five individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Directors of the Federal National Mortgage Association for a term ending on the date of the next annual meeting of the stockholders:
Victor Henderson Ashe of Tennessee, as the Community Interests representative
Molly Hering Bordonaro of Oregon, as the Real Estate representative
William Robert Harvey of Alabama, as the Mortgage Lending representative
Manuel J. Justiz of Texas, as the Public representative
Taylor C. Segue, III, of Michigan, as the Homebuilding representative
The President intends to appoint the following three individuals to serve as Members of the Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise:
Robert J. Cottrol of Virginia, for the remainder of an eight-year term expiring January 18, 2005
Timothy M. Hagle of Iowa, for the remainder of an eight-year term expiring January 19, 2009
Allison H. Eid of Colorado, for the remainder of an eight-year term expiring December 24, 2010
The President intends to appoint William Grayson of California to be a Member of the President's Commission on White House Fellows.
  