
    The President today announced the following appointments to the Office of Public Liaison. These four individuals will report to Faith Ryan Whittlesey, Assistant to the President for Public Liaison.
Jonathan Vipond III, to be Deputy Assistant to the President for Public Liaison. In addition, he will serve as Chief Manager of the Office of Public Liaison. Mr. Vipond formerly served as a member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives and most recently held the position of chief counsel in the Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare in Harrisburg, Pa. He has been a practicing attorney for 12 years. He graduated from Williams College (B.A., 1967) and the University of Pennsylvania Law School (J.D., 1970). He was born January 9, 1945, in Scranton, Pa.
John H. Rousselot, to be Special Assistant to the President for Public Liaison. He will also serve as Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison. He will oversee White House relationships with business and other constituencies concerned with issues of commerce, trade, and agriculture. Recently he was a partner with the firm of Alcalde, Henderson & O'Bannon in Washington, D.C. Previously he was elected to seven terms in the U.S. House of Representatives. During his tenure, the former California Congressman served on congressional committees dealing with banking, finance, and taxation issues. He graduated from Principia College (A.B., 1949). He was born November 1, 1997, in Los Angeles, Calif.
Mary Jo Jacobs, to be Special Assistant to the President for Public Liaison. Her responsibilities will include working with the business community, with special emphasis on issues of concern to women and minorities. Since February 1982 she has served as Director of the Office of Business Liaison in the Department of Commerce. Previously she was government relations administrator and manager of regulatory affairs for the 3M Co. in 1979-1981. She graduated from Loyola University of the South (1973) and George Washington University (M.B.A., 1976). She was born December 7, 1951, in Bay St. Louis, Miss.
Judi Buckalew, to be Special Assistant to the President for Public Liaison. She will be responsible for a wide range of public liaison issues, including social service and health-related issues. Her responsibilities will also include working with Dee Jepsen, Special Assistant to the President for Public Liaison, on issues of concern to women. She was legislative assistant to U.S. Senator Dan Quayle in 1982-1983. Previously she was a professional staff member of the U.S. Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee in 1981-1982. She has been a registered nurse since 1968, practicing for 12 years. She graduated from the William Paterson College (B.S., 1974) and the University of California, Los Angeles (M.P.H., 1979). She was born July 2, 1947, in Paterson, N.J.
  