
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals for key administration posts: Anthony Wilder Miller, Deputy Secretary of Education, Department of Education; Mignon L. Clyburn, Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission; and Juan M. Garcia, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), Department of the Navy, Department of Defense.
President Obama said, "These fine public servants are welcome additions to my team as we work to put America on a path towards prosperity and keep our nation safe. I am honored they will be joining my administration and look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Anthony Wilder Miller, Nominee for Deputy Secretary of Education, Department of Education
Anthony Wilder Miller has had a 20-plus year career as a General Manager and Strategist for top companies around the world, realizing opportunities for growth, operating efficiencies, and innovation. Most recently, he served as Director of Silver Lake, a leading private investment firm with over $15B in capital. Prior to his work at Silver Lake, Miller served as Executive Vice President of Operations at LRN Corporation, a privately-held, market-leading provider of governance and compliance software, and legal research services, to Fortune 500 companies. Previously, Miller spent ten years with McKinsey & Company, where he was a partner specializing in growth strategies, operating performance improvement and cost cutting, and company re-structuring, working with companies throughout the United States, Europe, and Asia. Before joining McKinsey, Miller served as the Western Regional Marketing Manager for Delco Electronics, a subsidiary of GM Hughes Electronics, where he developed and implemented Original Equipment Manufacturer and distributor channel marketing programs. In addition to his private sector operating experience, Miller has worked extensively with the Los Angeles Unified School District, developing student achievement goals and strategies, aligning budgets and operating plans, and designing metrics and processes for monitoring district-wide performance; he undertook similar work with the Santa Monica-Malibu School District. Through his service as an ex-officio member of the Board Budget & Finance Committee for the L.A. Unified School District, Miller became particularly familiar with school district budget issues. Miller holds an MBA from Stanford's Graduate School of Business and a Bachelor's degree in Industrial Engineering from Purdue University.
Mignon L. Clyburn, Nominee for Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission
Mignon Clyburn has been a member of the Public Service Commission of South Carolina since 1998. The Public Service Commission regulates South Carolina's investor owned public utilities, including providers of telecommunications services. The South Carolina General Assembly elected Clyburn as a Commissioner representing the Sixth Congressional District in May of 1998, and she has been re-elected three times. She chaired the Commission from 2002 to 2004. Clyburn is a past chair of the Southeastern Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners. She is presently the chair of the Washington Action Committee of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC). Clyburn also serves on NARUC's Audit Committee and Utilities Market Access Partnership Board. Clyburn graduated from the University of South Carolina with a Bachelor of Science degree in Banking, Finance & Economics in 1984. Before her election to the Public Service Commission she spent fourteen years as the Publisher and General Manager of The Coastal Times, a weekly newspaper in Charleston, South Carolina.
Juan M. Garcia, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), Department of the Navy, Department of Defense
Mr. Garcia was a member of the Texas House of Representatives, where he represented the 32nd District from 2006 - 2009. He is currently an attorney with Hartline, Dacus, Barger, Dreyer & Kern, L.L.P in Corpus Christi, TX. Previously, Mr. Garcia was a White House Fellow, serving as a special assistant to Richard Riley, the Secretary of Education. Since 1992 Mr. Garcia has been a Naval Aviator, and is currently the Commanding Officer of Naval Reserve Training Squadron 28. Mr. Garcia earned a B.A. from the University of California in Los Angeles, a J.D. from Harvard Law School, and an M.P.P. from Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government.
  