
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

1. Pursuant to Title V of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (the 1974 Act) et seq.), the President may designate specified articles provided for in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS) as eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) when imported from designated beneficiary developing countries.
2. Pursuant to section 504(c) of the 1974 Act (c)), beneficiary developing countries, except those designated as least-developed beneficiary developing countries pursuant to section 504(c)(6) of the 1974 Act, are subject to limitations on the preferential treatment afforded under the GSP. Pursuant to section 504(c)(5) of the 1974 Act, a country that is no longer treated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to an eligible article may be redesignated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to such article if imports of such article from such country did not exceed the limitations in section 504(c)(1) (after application of paragraph (c)(2)) during the preceding calendar year. Further, pursuant to section 504(d)(2) of the 1974 Act (d)(2)), the President may disregard the limitations provided in section 504(c)(1)(B) with respect to any eligible article if the appraised value of the total imports of such article into the United States during the preceding calendar year is not in excess of an amount which bears the same ratio to $5,000,000 as the gross national product of the United States for that calendar year (as determined by the Department of Commerce) bears to the gross national product of the United States for calendar year 1979.
3. Sections 502(b)(7) and 502(c)(7) of the 1974 Act (b)(7) and 2462(c)(7)) provide that a country that has not taken or is not taking steps to afford internationally recognized worker rights, as defined in section 502(a)(4) of the 1974 Act (a)(4)), is ineligible for designation as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the GSP. Pursuant to section 504 of the 1974 Act, the President may withdraw, suspend, or limit the application of duty-free treatment under the GSP with respect to any article or with respect to any country upon consideration of the factors set forth in sections 501 and 502(c) of the 1974 Act and 2462(c)).
4. Pursuant to sections 501, 503(a), and 504(a) of the 1974 Act 2463(a) and 2464(a)), in order to subdivide and amend the nomenclature of existing provisions of the HTS to modify the GSP, I have determined, after taking into account information and advice received under section 503(a), that the HTS should be modified to adjust the original designation of eligible articles. In addition, pursuant to Title V of the 1974 Act, I have determined that it is appropriate to designate specified articles provided for in the HTS as eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the GSP when imported from designated beneficiary developing countries, and that such treatment for other articles should be terminated. I have also determined, pursuant to sections 504(a), (c)(1), and (c)(2) of the 1974 Act, that certain beneficiary countries should no longer receive preferential tariff treatment under the GSP with respect to certain eligible articles. Further, I have determined, pursuant to section 504(c)(5) of the 1974 Act, that certain countries should be redesignated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to specified previously designated eligible articles. These countries have been previously excluded from benefits of the GSP with respect to such eligible articles pursuant to section 504(c)(1) of the 1974 Act. Last, I have determined that section 504(c)(1)(B) of the 1974 Act should not apply with respect to certian eligible articles pursuant to section 504(d)(2) of the 1974 Act.
5. Pursuant to sections 502(b)(7), 502(c)(7), and 504 of the 1974 Act (b)(7), 2464(c)(7), and 2464), I have determined that it is appropriate to provide for the suspension of preferential treatment under the GSP for articles that are currently eligible for such treatment and that are imported from Sudan. Such suspension is the result of my determination that Sudan has not taken and is not taking steps to afford internationally recognized worker rights, as defined in section 502(a)(4) of the 1974 Act (a)(4)).
6. Pursuant to sections 501 and 502 of the 1974 Act and 2462), and having due regard for the eligibility criteria set forth therein, I have determined that it is appropriate to designate Czechoslovakia as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the GSP.
7. Section 604 of the 1974 Act authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of the provisions of that Act, and of other Acts affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including but not limited to Title V and section 604 of the 1974 Act, do proclaim that:
(1) In order to provide benefits under the GSP to specified designated eligible articles when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, the HTS is modified as provided in Annex I to this proclamation.
(2)(a) In order to provide benefits under the GSP to specified designated eligible articles when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex II(a)(1) and II(b)(1) is modified by inserting in the parentheses the symbol "A" as provided in such Annexes to this proclamation.
(b) In order to provide benefits under the GSP to a specified designated eligible article and in order that a country should not be treated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to such eligible article for purposes of the GSP, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex II(b)(2) is modified by inserting in the parentheses the symbol "A*" as provided in such Annex to this proclamation.
(c) In order to provide preferential tariff treatment under the GSP to certain countries which have been excluded from the benefits of the GSP for certain eligible articles imported from such countries, following my determination that a country previously excluded from receiving such benefits should again be treated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to such article, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for each of the HTS provisions enumerated in Annex II(a)(2) and II(b)(3) to this proclamation is modified: (i) by deleting from such subcolumn for such HTS provisions the symbol "A*" in parentheses, and (ii) by inserting in such subcolumn the symbol "A" in lieu thereof.
(d) In order to provide that one or more countries should no longer be treated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to an eligible article for purposes of the GSP, the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn for each of the HTS provisions enumerated in Annex II(b)(4) to this proclamation is modified: (i) by deleting from such subcolumn for such HTS provisions the symbol "A" in parentheses, and (ii) by inserting in such subcolumn the symbol "A*" in lieu thereof.
(3) In order to provide for the designation of Czechoslovakia as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the GSP, to provide for the suspension of preferential treatment under the GSP for Sudan, to provide that one or more countries which have not been treated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to an eligible article should be redesignated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to such article for purposes of the GSP, and to provide that one or more countries should no longer be treated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to an eligible article for purposes of the GSP, general note 3(c)(ii) to the HTS is modified as provided in Annex III to this proclamation.
(4) In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed staged reductions on Canadian goods in the HTS provisions modified in Annex I to this proclamation, effective with respect to goods originating in the territory of Canada which are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates specified in Annex IV to this proclamation, the rate of duty in the HTS set forth in the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn followed by the symbol "CA" in parentheses for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in such Annex shall be deleted and the rate of duty provided in such Annex inserted in lieu thereof on the dates specified.
(5) In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed staged reductions on products of Israel in the HTS subheadings modified in Annex I to this proclamation, effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates specified in Annex V to this proclamation, the rate of duty in the HTS set forth in the Rates of Duty 1-Special subcolumn followed by the symbol "IL" in parentheses for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in such Annex shall be deleted and the rate of duty provided in such Annex inserted in lieu thereof on the dates specified.
(6) Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive orders inconsistent with the provisions of this proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.
(7)(a) The amendment made by Annex III(a) of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles both: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the date of publication of this proclamation in the Federal Register.
(b) The amendments made by Annexes I(a), II(a), and III(b) of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles both: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after May 1, 1991.
(c) The amendments made by Annexes I(b), II(b), and III(c) of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles both: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after July 1, 1991.
(d) The amendments made by Annexes IV and V of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates indicated for the respective Annex columns.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  