
    In March 1989 the President, the Speaker of the House, the majority leaders of the Senate and House, the Republican leaders of the Senate and House, joined by the chairmen and ranking Republican members of the Appropriations, Ways and Means, Finance, and Budget Committees, and by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Chief of Staff to the President, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, concurred in a recommendation to establish a special budget negotiating group. The group was charged to explore the possibility of reaching an agreement on a budget framework for fiscal year 1990 and to report upon its progress to the President and the joint leadership of Congress. The group was composed of the chairmen and ranking Republican members of the Senate and House Budget Committees, the Majority Leader of the House, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. The attached agreement is the product of that negotiating group, as developed in accordance with the guidance of the leadership group.
Bipartisan Budget Agreement Between the President and the Joint Leadership of Congress
1. The elements of this agreement provide for deficit reduction amounts that, for fiscal year 1990, are currently estimated to meet the deficit target of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Reaffirmation Act of 1987.
2. The budget framework is approved by the President, the Speaker, and the Majority and Republican Leadership of Congress.
3. The President and the Leadership of Congress will carry out this agreement.
4. The following procedures will be utilized to implement this agreement: Congressional implementation will follow, as much as possible, the regular budget and legislative procedures. The House and Senate Budget Committees will each report a concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 1990 consistent with this budget agreement. The budget resolution will contain reconciliation instructions and 302(a) allocations consistent with this budget agreement. The House and Senate Committees with jurisdiction over matters necessary to implement the agreement will be responsible for developing 302(b) allocations, legislation, and budget levels consistent with this budget agreement. Regular House and Senate procedures applicable to the consideration of budget resolutions, appropriations bills, reconciliation legislation, and other measures will apply.
5. Congress shall present the revenue portion of the reconciliation bill to the President at the same time as the spending reduction provisions of the reconciliation bill.
6. Agreed-upon fiscal year 1990 budget levels are as follows for each of
(TABLE START)the three discretionary appropriations categories:
[In billions of dollars]*
@h1Category:
@h1BA
@h10
Domestic .... $157.5 .... $181.3
Defense (050)** .... 305.5 .... 299.2
International Affairs .... 19.0 .... 17.0
Foot
  