
    
PROVIDENCE, R.I. – U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Sunday welcomed an endorsement by the 35,000-member United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America.
Peter Knowlton, the union's national president, called Sanders "the most pro-worker pro-union presidential candidate I have seen in my lifetime" and said electing Sanders "is a unique opportunity that workers and unions must not pass up.
"We are proud to endorse Bernie Sanders and support his campaign," he added.
The endorsement was approved unanimously by rank-and-file local delegates from the union's three regions over the past six weeks.
Knowlton said the labor organization and Sanders have longstanding ties in Vermont. "As more of our members around the country have seen and heard Bernie over the past few months," he added, "they've seen that his policies and priorities match our own. So, there has been a groundswell of support for Bernie with members volunteering for the campaign.
Sanders welcomed the news while he was campaigning in Rhode Island ahead of Tuesday's presidential primary elections here and in Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Delaware and Maryland.
"I thank the 35,000 members of the United Electrical Workers for their endorsement," Sanders said. "During my 25 years in Congress, I have been proud to stand side by side with the UE fighting to increase the minimum wage to a living wage; to guarantee health care to every man, woman and child as a right; to make it easier for workers to join unions; to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure; to transform our nation's energy system; and against disastrous trade agreements like the North American Free Trade Agreement and normalized trade with China which have destroyed millions of decent-paying jobs in America."
Altogether, more than 100 national and local unions, representing over 1.5 million workers, have endorsed Sanders. They include the Communications Workers of America, the American Postal Workers Union, the Amalgamated Transit Union, National Nurses United, the International Longshore and Warehouse Union and the United Electrical Workers.
  