
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
March 28
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Cape Town to Johannesburg, South Africa.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to the township of Soweto and later returned to Johannesburg.
March 29
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Gaborone, Botswana. Later, the President met with President Ketumile Masire of Botswana at the State House.
Later in the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Kasane, Botswana.
March 30
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton took a safari tour of the Chobe National Game Park in Kasane.
March 31
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Gaborone.
In the afternoon, the President participated in a roundtable discussion on environmental issues with African environmentalists in the Education Center Pavilion at the Mokolodi Nature Preserve. Later, he greeted the U.S. Embassy community in Gaborone.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Dakar, Senegal. While en route aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation concerning his visit to Africa with President Jacques Chirac of France.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert M. Berdahl as a member of the Advisory Committee to the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection.
April 1
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Thies, Senegal. Later, they toured Dal Diam Village. In the evening, they returned to Dakar.
The White House announced that the President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes on March 29.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Kansas City, MO, and Chicago, IL, on April 7.
April 2
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled by boat to Goree Island, Senegal, where they toured the historic Slave House and the Women's Museum. In the evening, they returned to Dakar.
Later, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eric S. Edelman to be Ambassador to Finland.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Nelson Swett to be Ambassador to Denmark.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward L. Romero to be Ambassador to Spain.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy Halliday Ely-Raphel to be Ambassador to Slovenia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bernard Rostker to be Assistant Secretary for Force Management Policy at the Department of Defense.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ida L. Castro to serve as Chair and Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Frank E. Loy to be Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs at the State Department.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rosina M. Bierbaum to serve as Associate Director for Environment in the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
  