
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

1. Pursuant to section 202(d)(1) of the United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement Implementation Act of 1988, Public Law 100-449 ("CFTA Act"), the President is authorized to proclaim, as a part of the Harmonized System ("HS"), the rules of origin set forth in Annex 301.2 of the United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement ("CFTA"). These annex rules of origin were incorporated in general note 3(c)(vii)(R) to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States ("HTS") by Proclamation No. 5923 of December 14, 1988.
2. General note 3(c)(vii)(R)(11)(rr) to the HTS, which incorporates the rules of origin set forth in paragraph 18, section XI, of CFTA Annex 301.2 ("paragraph 18"), provides that non-wool fabric and non-wool made-up textile articles, provided for in specific HS chapters, that are woven or knitted in Canada from yarn produced or obtained in a third country, upon meeting other applicable conditions for preferred tariff treatment under the CFTA, shall be afforded such preferential tariff treatment to the extent of the annual quantity, set forth in that note. That note also provides that, after the specified quantity of such goods has been entered in an annual period, subsequent entries shall be subject to most-favored-nation rates of duty for the remainder of that annual period. These quantitative limitations expired on December 31, 1992. Paragraph 18 further provides that the Parties agree to revisit, in consultation with representatives of the industries concerned, the quantitative element of the rule for such goods 2 years after the CFTA's entry into force, in order to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution, taking into account the availability of yarns in both countries. These discussions have not yet been concluded.
3. Section 202(d)(2) of the CFTA Act authorizes the President, subject to the consultation and lay-over requirements of section 103 of the CFTA Act, to proclaim such modifications to the rules as may from time to time be agreed to by the United States and Canada. Accordingly, in accordance with an agreement between the United States and Canada, I have decided to extend the application of the quantitative limits provided in paragraph 18 through the close of December 31, 1993, unless the United States and Canada reach an earlier resolution regarding quantitative limits for these goods. The consultation and lay-over requirements of section 103 of the CFTA have been carried out.
4. Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483) ("Trade Act"), authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of other Acts affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import restriction.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including but not limited to section 202 of the CFTA Act and section 604 of the Trade Act, do proclaim that:
(1) In order to extend by 1 year the quantitative provisions of paragraph 18, the HTS is modified by striking out "1992" from general note 3(c)(vii)(R)(11)(rr) and by inserting in lieu thereof "1993".
(2) Any provisions of previous proclamations inconsistent with the provisions of this proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.
(3) The modifications made by paragraph (1) of this proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after January 1, 1993.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  