
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals, appoint eight individuals, and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Maurice S. Parker, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Swaziland. Mr. Parker, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Director of the Office of Employee Relations at the Bureau of Human Resources at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Foreign Service Assignments Division at the Bureau of Human Resources at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Consular and International Programs at the Homeland Security Council at the White House. Mr. Parker received his bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkeley and his master's degree from San Francisco State University.
The President intends to nominate June Carter Perry, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Sierra Leone. Ms. Perry, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Chief of Mission to the Kingdom of Lesotho. Prior to this, she served as Director of Social and Humanitarian Affairs at the Bureau of International Organization Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, she served as Diplomat-in-Residence at Howard University. Ms. Perry received her bachelor's degree from Loyola University, her master's degree from the University of Chicago, and also attended the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Kristine L. Svinicki, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, for a five-year term expiring 06/30/12. Ms. Svinicki currently serves as a Professional Staff Member on the Committee on Armed Services in the United States Senate. Prior to this, she served as Senior Policy Advisor in the Office of Senator Larry Craig. Earlier in her career, she served as a Nuclear Engineer in the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management at the Department of Energy. She started her career as an energy engineer for the State of Wisconsin's Public Service Commission in the Division of Energy Planning & Programs. Ms. Svinicki received her bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board:
Andrew Saul, of New York, for an additional four-year term expiring 09/25/10 and upon appointment designate Chair;
Alejandro Modesto Sanchez, of Florida, for an additional four-year term expiring 10/11/10;
Gordon James Whiting, of New York, for an additional four-year term expiring 09/25/10.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities for additional two-year terms expiring 05/11/09:
Ricardo Barraza, Jr., of Texas;
Sharman Word Dennis, of the District of Columbia;
Carmela Vargas Gonzales, of New Mexico;
Harris N. Hollin, of Florida;
Casey Patrick O'Halloran, of Florida;
Thomas J. Reilly, of Pennsylvania;
Steven C. Rhatigan, of Texas;
Neil Romano, of Maryland.
  