
    SNOHOMISH COUNTY, Wa.— Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Craig Fugate today joined Washington Governor Jay Inslee, Senator Patty Murray, Senator Maria Cantwell, and Congresswoman Suzan DelBene to survey the damage caused by the SR530 mudslide and flooding, and thank those who continue to respond. While on the ground in Washington, Secretary Johnson and Administrator Fugate were briefed on the ongoing recovery efforts, met with first responders, and reiterated the Department's continued support as the response and recovery efforts continue in the region.
"The mudslide is an enormous tragedy, but the efforts by the first responders is an inspirational American story," said Secretary Johnson. "The Department of Homeland Security, FEMA and the entire federal government is here to support the Governor and his team. We were here shortly after the disaster occurred, we are here now, and we will continue to be here as the recovery goes on."
On March 24, President Obama approved an Emergency Declaration providing resources to support the state and local response following the mudslide. A FEMA Incident Management Assessment Team as well as an Urban Search and Rescue Incident Support Team were deployed immediately to support the search and rescue efforts and are still part of the response today.
On Wednesday, April 2, at the request of the Governor, the President approved a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of Washington to supplement state, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area, and providing federal funding to support affected individuals in Snohomish County, including the Sauk-Suiattle, Stillaguamish, and Tulalip Tribes. Assistance to eligible individuals can include including grants for temporary housing and home repairs, loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs to help place individuals and business owners on a path to recovery.
Due to the localized impacts of the disaster, FEMA is working closely with residents, tribal members and business owners who sustained losses in the designated area on a one-on-one basis.
Individuals and business owners who sustained losses from the floods or mudslides in the affected region can begin the disaster application process by visiting www.DisasterAssistance.gov, by registering via web enabled mobile device at m.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362). Online registration is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Disaster assistance applicants, who have a speech disability or hearing loss and use TTY, should call 1-800-462-7585 directly; for those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362.
For more information, visit www.dhs.gov or www.fema.gov
  