
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Providence has favored our land, with its abundant resources and industrious people, and the years of adversity in our history have been few. Yet even during the dark hours, the times of conflict or economic hardship, Americans have demonstrated their unwavering devotion to the noble ideals upon which this country was founded. Our faith in the principles of freedom, justice, and opportunity has sustained us. We have prevailed over every challenge and our success shines as a beacon of hope for the world, an enduring reminder that adherence to the fundamental values of liberty will overcome any obstacle.
Today these values are enjoying renewed allegiance in America and elsewhere; the advantages of our democratic way of life are winning the United States new admiration and respect around the world.
Americans' loyalty to their Nation is especially inspiring because it is freely given by a free people. Nations that seek to compel the love or fidelity of their citizens without tolerance for their unalienable rights are inherently unstable and frequently dangerous to others. Now that the windows of communication and commerce are bringing nations into increasingly close relationships, the truths our forefathers found self-evident are becoming apparent to all: the future belongs to the free—to peoples who are free to work, to assemble, to vote, to travel and to emigrate, to print and to speak, and to worship as they choose.
Today, in this time of peace and prosperity at home, it is fitting that we reflect upon the venerable ideals that symbolize the American spirit. By remaining/loyal to these ideals, we will be worthy of the trust a generous God has reposed in us. For this purpose, the Congress, by joint resolution approved July 18, 1958 (72 Stat. 369, 36 U.S.C. 162), has designated May 1 of each year as Loyalty Day, a day to renew our commitment to this grand republic and its democratic institutions.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 1985, as Loyalty Day and call upon all Americans and patriotic, civic, and educational organizations to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies. I also call upon all government officials to display the flag of the United States on all government buildings and grounds on that day.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  