
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Tony Armendariz to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. Armendariz completed a term as a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority in 1997 after being appointed by former President George H. W. Bush. He served as General Counsel to the University System of South Texas from 1978 to 1989 and has served as an Assistant Attorney General in the Texas Attorney General's Office and as a District Counsel for the U.S. Equal Opportunity Commission in Houston, Texas. A veteran of the U.S. Army, he is a graduate of Trinity University and received his law degree from St. Mary's University in San Antonio.
The President intends to nominate Sarah V. Hart to be the Director of the National Institute of Justice at the Department of Justice. She is currently the Chief Counsel in the Pennsylvania Governor's Office of General Counsel for the Department of Corrections where she has served since 1995. Hart served in the Philadelphia District Attorney's Office as Assistant District Attorney for the Appeals Unit from 1979 to 1986 and as Chief of the Civil Litigation Unit from 1986 to 1995. A Philadelphia resident, she is a graduate of the University of Delaware and Rutgers Camden School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Shirin Raziuddin Tahir-Kheli to be the Representative of the United States of America on the Human Rights Commission of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. She is currently the Director of the South Asia Program at the Paul Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. She was appointed by former President Bush to the National Advisory Council on the Public Service in 1992 and she served as an Alternate U.S. Representative for Special Political Affairs from 1990 to 1993. Tahir-Kheli served with the National Security Council from 1984 to 1989 and was a member of the Policy Planning Staff at the Department of State from 1982 to 1986. A Pennsylvania resident, she is a graduate of Ohio Wesleyan University and received both a Master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Gordon H. Mansfield to be Assistant Secretary of Veteran's Affairs for Congressional Affairs. He is currently the Executive Director of the Paralyzed Veterans of America, a position he has held since 1993. From 1989 to 1993, Mansfield was the Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. A highly decorated veteran of the U.S. Army, he is a graduate of Villanova University and the University of Miami Law School.
  