
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Last year, more than 1.1 million Americans were likely to develop cancer. Another 520,000 were likely to die from the disease.
Cancer remains the second leading cause of death among women in the United States, accounting for approximately 245,000 deaths in 1992. Breast cancer is now the leading cause of death in women ages 40 to 44. Prostate cancer accounted for approximately 132,000 new cases of cancer in men in 1992 and is second only to lung cancer as the leading cause of death for men. No one of any race, age, gender, or socioeconomic status is immune to the many forms of this deadly disease.
The National Cancer Institute, through its nationwide Cancer Information Service, and the American Cancer Society, through its national programs and many local offices, reach millions of people with information about disease prevention. Community service and outreach efforts promote early detection of breast and cervical cancer and increase awareness of the risks of skin cancer.
Every American should understand that the ability to destroy cancer relies on detection in its early stages. Outreach efforts are also vital in informing our citizens of the dangers of tobacco use, of the importance of a healthy diet, and of the need to maintain a desirable weight.
Fewer Americans smoke now than in 1965, and between 1964 and 1987, three-quarters of a million smoking-related deaths were avoided. The general population has become increasingly aware of the dangers of environmental exposure, poor dietary habits, and not seeking periodic examinations for early detection and treatment.
We are fortunate to live at a time when early detection techniques are improving rapidly. By investing in science and technologies, we all will benefit from medical and scientific advances in disease prevention and treatment. Even the development of a vaccine to prevent cancer may be possible in the future.
Although significant progress has been made in combatting the disease, we must renew our commitment to the work that still must be done. Through an integrated system of public education and research, we can constantly improve cancer prevention and control.
In 1938, the Congress of the United States passed a joint resolution (52 Stat. 148; 36 U.S.C. 150) requesting the President to issue an annual proclamation declaring April as "Cancer Control Month."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of April 1993 as Cancer Control Month. I invite the Governors of the 50 States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, and the appropriate officials of all other areas under the American flag to issue similar proclamations. I also ask health care professionals, private industry, community groups, insurance companies, and all other interested organizations and individual citizens to unite to publicly reaffirm our Nation's continuing commitment to controlling cancer.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  