
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 6
The President appointed James B. King to be the Director of the Office of Personnel Management as a recess appointee.
April 7
The President announced the appointment of Ambassador Robert S. Gelbard as the Special Representative of the President and the Secretary of State for Implementation of the Dayton Peace Accords.
The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe flooding, severe winter storms, heavy spring rain, rapid snowmelt, high winds, ice jams, and ground saturation due to high water tables beginning February 28 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe flooding, severe winter storms, heavy spring rain, rapid snowmelt, high winds, and ice jams beginning February 3 and continuing.
April 8
The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe flooding, severe winter storms, snowmelt, high winds, rain, and ice beginning March 21 and continuing.
April 9
In the afternoon, the President met with Leah Rabin in the Oval Office to discuss the Middle East peace process.
The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth Moler as Deputy Secretary of the Department of Energy.
April 10
The President announced his intention to appoint Katherine Bryan and Howard Torgrove to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Diane Asadorian, Albert Abramson, Gerda Klein, and Leonard Wilf to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint James D. Cunningham, Sr., to serve as a member of the National Partnership Council.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Victoria Murphy as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ruth Yone Tamura to serve as a member of the National Museum Services Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew J. Pincus for the position of General Counsel for the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to nominate Yerker Andersson, Gina McDonald, Bonnie O'Day, and Shirley Welsh Ryan to the National Council on Disability.
April 11
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward William Gnehm, Jr., to serve as Director General of the Foreign Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate Karl F. Inderfurth to serve as an Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs.
  