
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Steven D. Grimberg of Georgia, to serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia.
Steven Grimberg is a Managing Director and General Counsel of Nardello & Co., where he heads the global investigation firm's Atlanta, Georgia, office. Before joining the firm in 2018, Mr. Grimberg prosecuted white collar crimes as an Assistant United States Attorney and Deputy Chief of the Economic Crimes Section in the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Georgia and as a Trial Attorney in the Department of Justice's Tax Division. Mr. Grimberg also serves as an Adjunct Professor at Emory University School of Law, teaching courses on criminal procedure, criminal law, and trial advocacy. He received his J.D., with distinction, from Emory University School of Law and B.A., with honors, from the University of Florida.
Frank W. Volk of West Virginia, to serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia. 
Frank Volk is the Chief Judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of West Virginia, where he has served since his selection in 2015. Prior to his appointment to the bench, Judge Volk served as a career law clerk on the United States District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia, working for both Judges John Copenhaver, Jr., and Charles H. Haden. During that time, Judge Volk was an Adjunct Professor at the West Virginia University College of Law, where he taught courses on federal civil rights law and bankruptcy for more than a decade. In addition to his tenure as a career clerk, Judge Volk served as a term law clerk to Judge M. Blane Michael of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and to Judge Haden upon graduating from law school. Judge Volk received his J.D. from the West Virginia University College of Law and B.A. from West Virginia University.
Randall P. Huff of Wyoming, to serve as United States Marshal for the District of Wyoming. 
Randall Huff currently serves as IT Services Field Manager for the State of Wyoming's Department of Enterprise Technology, where he provides technical support to law enforcement agencies throughout the State. Before joining the Department of Enterprise Technology in 2012, Mr. Huff worked for TLO, LLC, working with law enforcement agencies throughout the United States and 40 other countries to provide expertise on cyber-criminal investigations involving child exploitation. Mr. Huff has also served as a Special Agent with the Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigations and as a member of the Torrington Police Department. Mr. Huff received his B.S. from the University of Wyoming and served in the United States Marine Corps.
  