
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals, appoint sixteen individuals, and recess appoint four individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Thomas Fingar, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Intelligence and Research). Mr. Fingar currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary at the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research. Earlier in his career, Mr. Fingar served as Director of the Bureau's Office of Analysis for East Asia and the Pacific. He earned his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and his master's degree and Ph.D. from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Suzanne Hale, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federated States of Micronesia. A career member of the Foreign Agricultural Service, Ms. Hale currently serves as Agricultural Minister Counselor at the United States Embassy in Tokyo, Japan. She previously served in the same position at the United States Embassy in Beijing, China. Earlier in her career, Ms. Hale served as Director of the Foreign Agricultural Service's Ag Export Services Division at the Department of Agriculture. She earned her bachelor's degree from Beloit College and her master's degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Anne W. Patterson, of Virginia, to be Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary; Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the Security Council of the United Nations; and Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during her tenure of service as Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ambassador Patterson currently serves as Deputy Inspector General at the Department of State. She previously served as United States Ambassador to Colombia and to El Salvador. Ambassador Patterson earned her bachelor's degree from Wellesley College.
The President intends to nominate Constance Berry Newman, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation (Government Representative) for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 27, 2009.
The President intends to appoint William Brewer, of California, to be a Member of the National Veterans Business Development Corporation for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 21, 2006.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Policy Committee of the White House Conference on Aging:
Dorcas R. Hardy, of Virginia, and upon appointment designate Chairman for the life of the committee
Alejandro Aparicio, of Illinois, for the life of the committee
Clayton S. Fong, Washington, for the life of the committee
Gail Gibson Hunt, of Virginia, for the life of the committee
Scott Serota, of Illinois, for the life of the committee
Melvin L. Woods, of California, for the life of the committee
Furthermore, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs will serve as government representatives on the Policy Committee of the White House Conference on Aging.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring January 15, 2009:
James M. Abroms, of Alabama
Ivan E. Becker, of New Jersey
Dottie Bennett, of Virginia
Frank R. Berman, of Minnesota
William Danhof, of Michigan
Arlene Herson, of Florida
M. Ronald Krongold, of Florida
Stuart P. Levine, of Illinois
Aldona Wos, of North Carolina
The President intends to recess appoint Eugene Hickok, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Secretary of Education. The President nominated Mr. Hickok on January 28, 2004.
The President intends to recess appoint Edward R. McPherson, of Texas, to be Under Secretary of Education. The President nominated Mr. McPherson on February 26, 2004.
The President intends to recess appoint Linda Morrison Combs, of North Carolina, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation (Budget and Programs) and upon confirmation, designate Chief Financial Officer. The President nominated Ms. Combs on November 25, 2003.
The President intends to recess appoint Linda Mysliwy Conlin, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The President nominated Ms. Conlin on January 28, 2004.
  