
    HOUSTON, Texas - Today, the Cruz for President campaign released three new ads as part of a statewide buy in Pennsylvania. The ad titled "Right" is a 19 second spot that highlights how, under the prospect of another Clinton Administration, our nation must get this election right so that we can bring jobs, freedom, and security to the American people with a Cruz Presidency. "Solutions" is a 30 second inspirational spot embracing an American public that is interested in solutions and not slogans from their President. "Not Easy" is a 30 second spot emphasizing how out-of-step Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are with hardworking Americans, and that Ted Cruz has solutions to cut taxes, roll back regulations, and repeal Obamacare to benefit American families.


"Right"
TV :19
ANNC: Obama was a failure.
Hillary could be worse.
We have to get this right.
Ted Cruz will.
Repeal ObamaCare. Grow jobs. Destroy ISIS.
Jobs, freedom, security: Cruz.
CRUZ: I'm Ted Cruz and I approve this message.


"Solutions"
TV :30
CRUZ: I don't think the people of America are interested in a bunch of bickering schoolchildren.
They're interested in solutions, not slogans.
This is the single moms, the truck-drivers and the steelworkers and the mechanics with callouses on their hands.
This is all the young people coming out of school that aren't able to find a job.
As president I will repeal ObamaCare, pull back the EPA and all the regulators that are killing small businesses and manufacturing.
We're going to see wages going up, we're going to see opportunity.
We need a president who stands with the American people.
I'm Ted Cruz and I approve this message.


"Not Easy"
TV :30
CRUZ: I'm Ted Cruz and I approve this message.
SAWYER: "You've made $5 million making speeches."
CLINTON: "Well...we came out of the White House not only dead-broke but in debt...you know, it was not easy."
TRUMP: "It has not been easy for me...My father gave me a small loan of a million dollars."
ANNC: They just don't get it. Ted Cruz does.
That's why he'll cut taxes for working families.
Roll back regulations.
And repeal ObamaCare.
Jobs, freedom, security for you. For a change.
Ted Cruz.
  