
    "We're going to make our country safe again. And we are going to make our country great again"– President Donald J. Trump
PUTTING AMERICA FIRST, PROTECTING NATIONAL SECURITY: President Donald J. Trump's top priority is the security of the American people and the American homeland.

President Trump has prioritized rebuilding and empowering the military to restore national security. During his first 100 days, the President has:

Advocated increasing the defense budget by $54 billion to end the devastating effects of the sequestration that has persisted for years.
Empowered commanders in the field to make decisions.
Saved hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars by negotiating with defense contractors.


President Trump has stood up to countries that have threatened our national security after years of failed diplomacy. During his first 100 days, the President has:

Sent a message to the world with his swift and decisive order to strike the Syrian air base that launched a horrific chemical weapons attack on innocent civilians.
Further isolated Syria and Russia at the United Nations through successful diplomacy with President Xi Jinping of China.
Imposed sanctions on Syria for its use of chemical weapons against innocent civilians.
Imposed sanctions on Iran for violating an international agreement that restricts its ballistic missile programs.
Worked to isolate North Korea and repositioned military assets to confront the regime's provocative missile tests.



AMERICA FIRST DIPLOMACY: President Trump has rebuilt America's standing in the world and forged stronger ties with our allies.

President Trump has actively reached out to world leaders to advance American interests and build relationships. During his first 100 days, President Trump has:

Made 70 calls to 38 different world leaders.
Hosted 17 bilateral meetings with world leaders.


President Trump negotiated with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Al Sisi to free American charity worker Aya Hijazi, her husband, and four other humanitarian workers.

RESTORING LAW AND ORDER TO AMERICA'S IMMIGRATION SYSTEM: President Trump has made restoring order to America's borders and immigration a cornerstone of his agenda.

President Trump's actions have dramatically affected illegal immigration.

Southern border crossings are at a 17-year low.
Illegal crossings on the southern border have fallen by 61 percent since January.


President Trump is following through on his promise to the American people by building a wall on the southern border. President Trump:

Signed an Executive Order to establish initial funding for the border wall's construction.
Received hundreds of bids for the construction of the wall.


President Trump is taking action to make sure immigration laws are enforced across the country. President Trump:

Directed withholding of certain funds from several jurisdictions that do not comply with immigration laws.
Prioritized criminal immigration enforcement, including ending "catch-and-release."
Directed the hiring of 10,000 Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers and agents and 5,000 Customs and Border Patrol agents.


Under President Trump's direction, the Department of Justice is hiring more immigration judges to address the backlog in immigration courts.

As hiring takes place, existing judges are being reassigned to twelve priority cities to expedite processing.



RESTORING PUBLIC SAFETY TO AMERICAN COMMUNITIES: President Trump has been steadfast in his approach to addressing our Nation's most pressing public safety issues.

President Trump directed a comprehensive approach to tackle transnational criminal organizations and international drug traffickers, including the cartels that plague the southern border.
President Trump ordered the formation of a task force aimed at reducing violent crime that has spiked in recent years.
President Trump is restoring law enforcement's faith that they are protected under the law by prosecuting those who threaten law enforcement officers.

A PROMISE TO MAKE AMERICA SAFE AGAIN: President Trump promised that the safety and security of the American people was a top priority in his mission to Make America Great Again.

Then-Candidate Donald Trump:

"We're going to make our country safe again. And we are going to make our country great again."
"Politicians have failed in their duty to secure our borders and enforce our laws… Let's fix this problem. Let's secure our border."
"The military, we are going to make bigger, stronger. We need a strong military."



  