
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate 2 individuals and his intention to appoint 17 individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Michael F. Duffy to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for the remainder of a six-year term expiring August 8, 2006. Duffy is presently the Deputy General Counsel to the National Mining Association. He has served at the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, first as attorney-advisor to the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the Commission from 1977 to 1979 and then from 1987 to 1993, as Counsel to the Chairman. From 1979 to 1987, Duffy was Senior Counsel to the American Mining Congress. Duffy is a graduate of Catholic University and George Washington University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Marcos D. Jimenez to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida. Jimenez is currently a partner with the Miami law firm, White and Case where he has practiced law since 1992. From 1989 to 1992, he was an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of Florida, and from 1984 to 1989, he was an Associate with Greenberg Traurig. Jimez is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Baptist Hospital of Miami, and a Member of the Leadership Circle of United Way of Dade County. He received both his bachelor's and law degrees from the University of Miami.
The President intends to appoint David Horton Wilkins of South Carolina to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2003. Wilkins has served as the Speaker of the House of the South Carolina House of Representatives since December 1994, and was first elected in 1980.
The President intends to appoint the following fourteen individuals to serve as members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships:
Victoria Arias of Texas Myrna Blyth of New York Corrine Claiborne Boggs of Louisiana Julie Nixon Eisenhower of Pennsylvania Ronald Robert Fogleman of Colorado Lisa Guillermin Gable of California Kay Cole James of Virginia Jay L. Johnson of Virginia Edith Hollan Jones of Texas Jeffrey C. Pope of Georgia William L. Roper of North Carolina James Smith of Florida Barbara F. Vucanovich of Nevada
The President intends to appoint the following three individuals to serve as Members of the President's Council on the 21st Century Workforce:
James David Gwartney of Florida Patricia Louise Herbold of Washington Demaris H. Miller of Virginia
  