
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

1. Pursuant to Title V of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (the Trade Act) (19 U.S.C. 2461 et seq.), the President may designate specified articles provided for in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS) as eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) when imported from designated beneficiary developing countries.
2. Pursuant to section 504(c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2464(c)), beneficiary developing countries, except those designated as least-developed beneficiary developing countries pursuant to section 504(c)(2) of the Trade Act, are subject to limitations on the preferential treatment afforded under the GSP. Pursuant to section 504(c)(5) of the Trade Act, a country that has not been treated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to an eligible article may be redesignated with respect to such article if imports of such article from such country did not exceed the limitations in section 504(c)(1) (after application of paragraph (c)(2)) during the preceding calendar year. Further, pursuant to section 504(d)(1) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2464(d)(1)), the limitations provided in section 504(c)(1)(B) shall not apply with respect to an eligible article if a like or directly competitive article was not produced in the United States on January 3, 1985.
3. Subsections 502(b)(7) and 502(c)(7) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2462(b)(7) and 2462(c)(7)) provide that a country that has not taken or is not taking steps to afford internationally recognized worker rights, as defined in section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2462(a)(4)), is ineligible for designation as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the GSP. Pursuant to section 504 of the Trade Act, the President may withdraw, suspend, or limit the application of duty-free treatment under the GSP with respect to any article or with respect to any country upon consideration of the factors set forth in sections 501 and 502(c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2461 and 2462(c)).
4. Pursuant to sections 501, 503(a), and 504(a) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2461, 2463(a), and 2464(a)), in order to subdivide and amend the nomenclature of existing items for the purposes of the GSP, I have determined, after taking into account information and advice received under section 503(a), that the HTS should be modified to adjust the original designation of eligible articles. In addition, pursuant to Title V of the Trade Act, I have determined that it is appropriate to designate specified articles provided for in the HTS as eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the GSP when imported from designated beneficiary developing countries and that such treatment for other articles should be terminated. I have also determined, pursuant to section 504(a) and (c)(1) of the Trade Act, that certain beneficiary countries should no longer receive preferential tariff treatment under the GSP with respect to certain eligible articles. Further, I have determined, pursuant to section 504(c)(5) of the Trade Act, that certain countries should be redesignated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to specified previously designated eligible articles. These countries have been previously excluded from benefits of the GSP with respect to such eligible articles pursuant to section 504(c)(1) of the Trade Act. Last, I have determined that section 504(c)(1)(B) of the Trade Act should not apply with respect to certain eligible articles because no like or directly competitive article was produced in the United States on January 3, 1985.
5. Pursuant to subsections 502(b)(7) and 502(c)(7) and section 504 of the Trade Act, I have determined that it is appropriate to provide for the suspension of preferential treatment under the GSP for articles that are currently eligible for such treatment and that are imported from Burma or the Central African Republic. Such suspensions are the result of my determinations that Burma and the Central African Republic have not taken and are not taking steps to afford internationally recognized worker rights, as defined in section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act.
6. Section 201(a) of the United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement Implementation Act of 1988 (the Implementation Act) (Pub. L. 100-449; 102 Stat. 1851) authorizes the President to proclaim such modifications or continuance of existing duties, such continuance of existing duty-free or excise treatment, and such additional duties, as the President determines are necessary or appropriate to carry out Article 401 of the Agreement (including the schedule of duty reductions with respect to goods originating in the territory of Canada set forth in Annexes 401.2 and 401.7). Accordingly, I have determined that it is necessary to provide for the staged reduction in duties on certain goods originating in the terrority of Canada.
7. Section 604 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2483) authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of the relevant provisions of that Act, of other acts affecting import treatment, and of actions taken thereunder.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes of the United States, including but not limited to Title V and section 604 of the Trade Act, and section 201 of the Implementation Act, do proclaim that:
(1) In order to provide benefits under the GSP to specified designated eligible articles when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, the HTS is modified as provided in Annex I to this Proclamation.
(2)(a) In order to provide benefits under the GSP to specified designated eligible articles when imported from any designated beneficiary developing country, the Rates of Duty 1-Special column for the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex II(a), II(b), and II(c) is modified by inserting in the parentheses the symbol "A," immediately before the "E" in each such item.
(b) In order to terminate preferential tariff treatment under the GSP for articles imported from all designated beneficiary developing countries, the Rates of Duty 1-Special column for the HTS subheading enumerated in Annex II(d) is modified by deleting the symbol "A," in parentheses.
(c) In order to provide preferential tariff treatment under the GSP to certain countries which have been excluded from the benefits of the GSP for certain eligible articles imported from such countries, following my determination that a country not previously receiving such benefits should again be treated as a beneficiary developing country with respect to such article, the Rates of Duty 1-Special column for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex II(e) to this Proclamation is modified: (i) by deleting from such column for such HTS subheadings the symbol "A *" in parentheses, and (ii) by inserting in such column the symbol "A" in lieu thereof.
(d) In order to provide that one or more countries should no longer be treated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to an eligible article for purposes of the GSP, the Rates of Duty 1-Special column for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in Annex II(f) to this Proclamation is modified: (i) by deleting from such column for such HTS subheadings the symbol "A" in parentheses, and (ii) by inserting in such column the symbol "A *" in lieu thereof.
(3) In order to provide for the suspension of preferential treatment under the GSP for Burma and the Central African Republic, to correct the status of a designated beneficiary developing country, to provide that one or more countries should be treated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to an eligible article for purposes of the GSP, and to provide that one or more countries should no longer be treated as beneficiary developing countries with respect to an eligible article for purposes of the GSP, general note 3(c)(ii) to the HTS is modified as provided in Annex III to this Proclamation.
(4) In order to provide for the staged reductions on Canadian goods in the HTS subheadings modified in Annex I to this Proclamation, effective with respect to goods originating in the territory of Canada which are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates specified in Annex IV to this Proclamation, the rate of duty in the HTS set forth in the Rates of Duty 1-Special column followed by the symbol "CA" in parentheses for each of the HTS subheadings enumerated in such Annex shall be deleted and the rate of duty provided in such Annex inserted in lieu thereof.
(5) Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive orders inconsistent with the provisions of this Proclamation are hereby superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.
(6)(a) The amendments made by paragraph (4) of this Proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the dates indicated for the respective Annex columns.
(b) Except as provided for in paragraph (a), this Proclamation shall be effective with respect to articles both: (i) imported on or after January 1, 1976, and (ii) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after July 1, 1989.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  