
    Today, California Congressman Jared Huffman released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"In these trying times our country needs a President who will do three things: one, make thoughtful, science-based policy decisions; two, restore basic honesty and decency to the Presidency; and three, work to unify our divided nation.
"On day one, Joe will get to work advancing an ambitious, progressive agenda. Unlike the current President, Joe will make decisions based on the interests of hard working American families -- not powerful special interests, personal wealth, or a fragile ego. Joe will appoint diverse, dedicated, highly qualified people to lead every federal agency and restore America's faith in the competence and integrity of our government. And in the face of any crisis, Joe's unique combination of experience and humanity will see us through.
"Having served in Congress during the Obama-Biden administration, I've seen up close Joe's tenacity and effectiveness in tackling big issues. We need that kind of leadership to confront a number of challenges, none more important than climate change. Joe understands the urgency of our climate crisis and will quickly restore America's credibility and stature as a global climate leader. His climate plan, consistent with the Green New Deal, provides a solid framework for taking the necessary steps to meet the moral, environmental and economic imperative of reversing global warming, while creating good jobs and seizing the economic upside of leading the world in clean energy and other climate solutions.
"For all these reasons, I'm proud to endorse Joe Biden for President."
Huffman has served in the U.S. House of Representatives since 2013 and serves on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, the Committee on Natural Resources, and the Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. In the House, he chairs the Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wildlife, and is a member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. Prior to serving in Congress he served in the California State Assembly.
Huffman's endorsement builds on the wide support for Joe Biden in California, which includes prominent leaders like Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg, San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo, Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia, Los Angeles County Supervisor and former Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard, Congressman Tony Cárdenas, Congressman Ami Bera, Congressman John Garamendi, Congressman Lou Correa, Congressman Jerry McNerney, Congressman Harley Rouda, Congressman Brad Sherman, Congresswoman Jackie Speier and numerous others.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 2,500 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  