
    Why So Secret? The Obama Administration Knew About This Disgraceful Government Waste For Nearly A Year Before Taking Any Action:
"Taxpayer Dollars Were Squandered" After GSA Officials Spent Nearly $1 Million For A Lavish Conference For Only 300 Attendees. "GSA Administrator Martha Johnson admitted in a letter of resignation that her agency had made a ‘significant misstep' and that ‘taxpayer dollars were squandered.' A GSA Inspector General's report on the 2010 GSA ‘Western Regions' training conference in Las Vegas shows the government spent more than $822,000 for the 300 attendees..." (Lesa Jansen, "GSA Head Resigns Over 'Wasteful' Las Vegas Seminar," CNN, 4/2/12)


    "$75,000 On Team Building Exercises..." (Lesa Jansen, "GSA Head Resigns Over 'Wasteful' Las Vegas Seminar," CNN, 4/2/12)
  

    "$7,000 In Sushi..." (KVVU-TV Website, 4/2/12)
  

    "$6,000 On Commemorative Coins..." (Lesa Jansen, "GSA Head Resigns Over 'Wasteful' Las Vegas Seminar," CNN, 4/2/12)
  

    "$5,600 For In-Room Parties..." (KVVU-TV Website, 4/2/12)
  

    "$3,700 For T-Shirts..." (KVVU-TV Website, 4/2/12)
  

    "$3,200 For [A] Mind Reader..." (KVVU-TV Website, 4/2/12)
  

    "Nearly $2,800 In Water Bottles..." (KVVU-TV Website, 4/2/12)
  

Washington Post: The Obama White House First Learned Of The GSA Investigation 11 Months Ago, But Waited Until The Report "Was Public To Remove The Agency's Top Leaders." "‘It takes a lot of work to spend $3,000 a person and at a time when unemployment was nearly 10 percent, Americans were suffering and GSA was enjoying the good times and doing so with high-ranking political employees,' Issa said in a statement. He blamed the White House, which learned of Miller's investigation 11 months ago, for waiting until his report was public to remove the agency's top leaders." (Lisa Rein, "Video Plays Up GSA Revelry In Vegas," The Washington Post, 4/5/12)
The GSA Spending Scandal Is The Latest Example Of The Obama Administration's Total Disregard For Spending Discipline And Taxpayer Dollars:
The President's Trillion-Dollar Stimulus Package Was "Fraught With Waste And Incompetence." "A report due to be released today by a Republican senator contends the Obama administration's stimulus program is fraught with waste and incompetence — evidenced by a turtle crossing in northern Florida that will cost more than $3 million and a snafu in which thousands of Social Security checks went out to people who had died." (Peter Nicholas, "Stimulus Program Fraught With Waste, Report Says," Los Angeles Times, 6/16/09)
The Administration Loaned Over Half A Billion Dollars To Solyndra — Which Later Went Bankrupt — And Engaged In A "Risky Investment Strategy" With Other Similar Projects. "Solar panel maker Solyndra received a $528 million Energy Department loan in 2009 — and went bankrupt last year. The government's risky investment strategy didn't stop there, as a CBS News investigation has uncovered a pattern of cases of the government pouring your tax dollars into clean energy." (Sharyl Attkisson, "Tax Dollars Backing Some "Risky" Energy Projects," CBS, 1/13/12)
While His Administration Gleefully Uses The Treasury As A Piggy Bank, President Obama Continues To Launch False And Misleading Attacks On Proposals To Rein In Federal Spending:
At A Campaign Fundraiser Last Night, President Obama Continued His Attacks On Governor Romney's Calls For Responsible Cuts To Federal Spending. "President Obama doubled down on tying Mitt Romney to Paul Ryan's House Republican budget at a fundraiser Thursday. ‘The budget was marvelous, he said,' Obama said about Romney. ‘When you go through this budget, the vision is an American where everyone is fending for themselves, a few are doing well at the top and most people are struggling to get by.'" (Byron Tau, "Obama Repeats 'Marvelous' Attack On Romney," Politico, 4/5/12)
  