
    Pool Reports by Bricio Segovia, MVS 



Sent:
Reports:




April 7, 202111:19

FLOTUS Pool Report #1: Checking-in 
Good morning!
I will be your print pooler today for FLOTUS events. It is a sunny spring day at the White House (68°F), birds are chirping and some members of the press are sitting outside the briefing room enjoying the good weather. Your pooler has been Covid tested.
FLOTUS has two events on her schedule. At 11:30 AM ET, she will be joined virtually by U.S. military families from around the world, as she gives remarks to set forth the priorities of the next phase of Joining Forces, a White House initiative to support military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors. This event will be carried live here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
https://youtu.be/343J7ZREHII
At 1:30 AM ET she will head to Arlington, VA, where she will tour Military One Source, an active duty military resource hub/call center, offering 24/7 support for service members, spouses, their family and survivors.
Please find the advisory the Office of the First Lady shared below:
First Lady Jill Biden Sets Course for the Next Phase of Joining Forces in Virtual White House Event
On April 7th at 11:30 AM ET, First Lady Jill Biden will be joined virtually by U.S. military families, advocates, and stakeholders from around the world as she gives remarks to set forth the priorities of the next phase of Joining Forces, a White House initiative to support military and veteran families, caregivers and survivors. This virtual event will be held at the White House Complex, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building's South Court Auditorium, and will be pooled press / open press via LIVESTREAM HERE.
Following the remarks, the First Lady will head to Arlington, Virginia, where she will tour the Military OneSource call center at 1:30 PM ET. Military OneSource is a Department of Defense resource providing 24/7 support to service members, their families, and survivors. This tour will be pooled press.



April 7, 202111:57

FLOTUS Pool Report #2: Pool waiting 
Pool gathered outside the West Wing and was escorted at 11:15 AM ET to the Eisenhower Executive Office Building's South Court Auditorium, which is in the White House complex. Pool is now waiting for the event to begin. It was scheduled for 11:30 AM ET.
There are four American flags on stage and three large screens with U.S. military families from around the world joining virtually. There is a side table by the lectern with a glass of water and a paper straw. The teleprompter is right in front of the lectern, ready for the First Lady.
FLOTUS Office told your pooler that over 100 guests are joining the event virtually.
Your pooler took three photos of the stage that can be downloaded here: https://we.tl/t-76FEXKUccb



April 7, 202111:43

FLOTUS Pool Report #3: FLOTUS Excerpts / Event begins 
The First Lady came on stage at 11:35 and started her remarks at 11:38 after greeting the guests who are virtually joining the event.
FLOTUS Office shares the following excerpts:
**EXCERPTS**
Remarks as Prepared for Delivery
First Lady Jill Biden
Joining Forces Virtual Event
***
I will never forget the emotions that ran through me as I stood in front of the bow of the 2,000-ton USS Gabrielle Giffords to christening her—just praying the bottle I held in my hands would break when it was time. I was excited, nervous, and most of all, deeply proud to become an honorary member of the crew's family—as they say: "a shipmate for life."
Surrounded by the sounds of shouts and cheers, I thought of the brave sailors who would make up her crew—and the families who stood by them. I felt a touch of longing in that celebration—knowing that, when the time came to bring this ship to life, the spouses and children, parents and siblings would stay behind, a piece of their hearts would sail away.
There's no ribbon cuttings or showers of champagne to christen their journey—but it is that: a journey through the months apart;happy homecomings and more deployments; andthe transition to life after the military.
In that moment, that ship seemed to represent our entire armed forces. Anyone could look at its bridge, its bow, its towering mast and know: this ship will be steady in the harshest winds, strong enough to cut through the most violent seas, able to withstand any storm.
And yet, so much of its power is unseen beneath the waves: the engines, the anchor, the rudders that give it direction and purpose.
The families of our service members and veterans; the caregivers who lift up our wounded, ill, and injured; and the survivors who grieve those we've lost – you may not wear a uniform. But you serve and you sacrifice for us all.
Military families are as critical to our national defense as a rudder is to a ship.
And we must always act upon that truth.
***
Today, we write the next chapter of a White House initiative that
First Lady Michelle Obama and I started 10 years ago: Joining Forces.
This work is personal to me.
Is it because of my dad?
He was a Navy Signalman in World War II and went to college on the GI Bill.
His love for this country was a part of everything he did and he inspired us all to see America through his eyes.
Or because of my son, Beau?
When he joined the Delaware Army National Guard, I felt the unique pull of both incredible pride and concern that every military mom knows so well.
Or perhaps it's because of my grandkids.
When Beau served for a year in Iraq, I saw how his children navigated his deployment.
I often wondered how people so small could be so strong.
Without a doubt, being a part of this military community has shaped who I am.
But that's not why we are here today.
We're here because of you—the people behind me on these screens.
Because of the stories that you have shared with me, your joys and your challenges:
from difficult PCSes to the lack of child care on and off bases, from fighting to keep your own careers and identities to saying goodbye to beloved schools and friends, from caring for your loved ones to mourning those who have been lost … You are the rudder that steers our military.
And supporting your physical, social, and emotional health is a national security imperative.
***
Every parent knows that when your child is hurting, nothing in your world is right. When your spouse is at home, trying to make ends meet, or torn between taking care of your children and keeping a job, your heart breaks with them—no matter how far away you are.
Our troops love their families with all that they are. Service members cannot be focused on their mission if their families don't have what they need to thrive at home.
And we can't expect to keep our best and brightest if our service members are forced to choose between their love of country and the hopes and dreams they have for their families.
We have an all-volunteer force—and it continues only because generations of Americans see the honor, dignity, and patriotism of this calling. How can we hope to keep our military strong if we don't give our families, survivors, and caregivers what they need to thrive? If we don't act on our sacred obligation?
That is why we're here today and what Joining Forces is all about.
***
During the Obama-Biden Administration, we made a lot of progress. And most of all, I am proud that we helped lift up the stories like the ones I heard from those on the screens behind me.
Now we're ready to do more.
So, here's what you're going to see us do over these next few years:
We're going to focus on military family employment and entrepreneurship.
Before the pandemic, the Department of Defense estimated that military spouse unemployment rate was around 22 percent.
Spouses—all of you—deserve opportunities to do the work you love—whether that means keeping your job when you move from base to base or owning your own business. And we need to make sure you can get quality child care when you need it—so that you don't have to feel like you're choosing between your job or taking care of your kids.
We're going to work on education for military children. There are more than 2 million kids whose parents are service members, National Guard, reservists, or veterans. Our schools want to support all students, but they don't always know how to do so. We're going to work with educators and our government partners to make sure you, our military-connected kids, have what you need to succeed.
And finally, we're going to work on military family health and well-being. Just one percent of our country has shouldered the burden of 20 years of war. No one has more strength, grit, and resilience than our military families, but you can't do this alone. We have to help you carry this weight—by improving access to mental health resources, ensuring everyone can put food on the table, and supporting caregiving families and our survivors.
And so far, we already have commitments from the Departments of Defense, Labor, and Education. And this is just the beginning. Our effort will take all of our government working together, and we expect every agency to step up and be a part of it.
***
This is a community bound together by love—love for their country. Love for your service members. And love for communities you build together. And it's time we match that devotion.
Your Commander in Chief understands that there is no greater honor than serving those who serve our country—everyone who serves. He's going to make sure that you and your community are seen. And our goal is that this work will live on long after we leave, as a permanent priority for every White House.
Because, you deserve nothing less.
Thank you for all that you do.
May God bless our troops and their families.



April 7, 202112:45

FLOTUS Pool Report #4: More remarks + Color 
The First Lady came on stage at 11:35 PM ET and waved at the large screens while greeting the over 100 guests that joined virtually the Joining Forces event. She looked on one of the screens for Ryzun Hazen, a senior military kid at Ramstein High School in Germany, who kicked off the event. He fondly recalled how he met President Biden and the First Lady earlier this year and discussed the peculiarities of the life of military kids. He introduced the First Lady afterwards.
FLOTUS wore a purple blazer and skirt with a white blouse, tan shoes and three golden necklaces with several pendants.
Dr. Biden thanked Hazen and complimented him for adapting to his life in Germany. She described him as an "open and funny and sincere" kid. "It's that resilience a heart that makes military kids like you so special", she said.
FLOTUS started by recalling the christening ceremony for the USS Gabrielle Giffords and compared that ship to "the entire armed forces": "This ship will be steady in the harshest way, strong enough to cut through the most violent seas, able to withstand any storm. And yet, so much of its power is unseen beneath the waves". "You may not wear a uniform, but you serve a huge sacrifice for us all", the First Lady said about military families.
She noted that this work is personal to her because her dad was a Navy signalmen in World War II and went to college on the GI Bill. She also mentioned how her son Beau joined the Delaware Army National Guard. She felt "the unique pull of both incredible pride and concern".
"You are the rudder that steers our military and supporting your physical, social and emotional health is a national security imperative", said the First Lady to military families.
FLOTUS laid out the goals of the Biden Administration for military families as follows:
1) "We're going to focus on military family, employment and entrepreneurship. Before the pandemic, the Department of Defense, estimated that the military spouse, unemployment rate was about 22%. Spouses, all of you deserve, opportunity to do the work you love, whether that means keeping your job when you move from base to base or owning your own businesses. And we need to make sure that you can get quality childcare, when you need it, so that you don't have to feel like you're choosing between your job, and taking care of your kids. We're going to work on education for military children."
2) "There are more than 2 million kids whose parents are service members National Guard reservists, or veterans, our schools want to support all students, but they don't always know how to do so. We're going to work with educators and our government partners to make sure that you are military connected kids have what you need to succeed."
3) "We're going to work on military family health and well being. Just 1% of our country has shoulder the burden of 20 years of war. No one has more strength and grit and resilience in our military families, but you can't do this alone. We have to help you carry this weight by improving access to mental health resources, ensuring everyone can put food on the table, and supporting caregiving families and survivors. So far, we already have commitments from the Department of Defense, Labor and Education. And this is just the beginning. Our effort will take all of our government working together, and we expect every agency to step up and be part of it."
FLOTUS ended her remarks at 11:48AM ET. She did not take one sip of water during her remarks. She left the stage while cheering and rising her arms.
Your pooler took a few photos of FLOTUS on stage that can be downloaded here:https://we.tl/t-ZFtHLW9OOY



April 7, 202113:03

Pool Report #5: Remarks as delivered 
The Office of the First Lady shares FLOTUS' remarks as delivered at the virtual Joining Forces event. Please see below.
THE WHITE HOUSE
Office of the First Lady
_______________________________________________________________
For Immediate Release April 7, 2021
REMARKS BY FIRST LADY JILL BIDEN
AT A VIRTUAL JOINING FORCES EVENT
South Court Auditorium
11:38 A.M. EDT
THE FIRST LADY: Thank you, Ryzun. You know, when you joined us back in February, I felt like I knew you from the first words you spoke. You're open and funny and sincere. In fact, it doesn't surprise me at all that you managed to make friends when your family moved to Germany, despite not speaking any German. And then you became a mentor so that you could help others feel less alone. It's that resilience and heart that makes military kids like you so special. So thank you, Ryzun, for joining us today.
You know, I'll never forget the emotions that ran through me as I stood in front of the bow of the 2,000-ton USS Gabrielle Giffords to christen her, just praying the bottle I held in my hands would break when it was time. I was nervous and excited, and most of all, deeply proud to become an honorary member of the crew's family -- or as they say, "a shipmate for life."
Surrounded by the sounds and shouts and cheers, I thought of the brave soldiers who would make up her crew and the families who stood by them. I felt a touch of longing in that celebration knowing that when the time came to bring this ship to life, spouses and children, parents and siblings would stay behind, but a piece of their hearts would sail away.
There's no ribbon cuttings or showers of champagne to christen their journey, but it is that: a journey through the months apart, happy homecomings and more deployments that transition to life after the military.
In that moment, the Giffords seemed to represent our entire armed forces. Anyone could look at its bridge, its bow, its towering mast and know this ship will be steady in the harshest winds, strong enough to cut through the most violent seas, able to withstand any storm. Any yet, so much of its power is unseen beneath the waves: the engines, the anchors, the rudder that gives it direction and purpose.
The families of our service members and veterans; the caregivers who lift up our wounded, ill, and injured; the survivors who grieve those we've lost: You may not wear a uniform, but you serve and you sacrifice for us all.
Military families are as critical to our national defense as a rudder is to a ship, and we must always act upon that truth.
Today, we write the next chapter of a White House initiative that First Lady Michelle Obama and I started 10 years ago: Joining Forces.
This work is personal to me. Is it because of my dad? He was a Navy signalman in World War Two and went to college on the GI Bill. His love for this country was a part of everything he did. And he inspired us -- his five daughters -- to see America through his eyes.
Or because of my son, Beau? When he joined the Delaware Army National Guard, you know, I felt the unique pull of both incredible pride and concern that every military mom knows so well.
Or perhaps it's because of my grandkids. When Beau served for a year in Iraq, I saw how his children navigated his deployment. And I often wondered how people so small could be so strong.
Without a doubt, being part of this military community has shaped who I am. But that's not why we're here today. We're here because of you, the people behind me on these screens; because of the stories that you have shared with me -- your joys and your challenges.
From difficult PCSes, to the lack of childcare on and off bases; from fighting for your -- to keep your own careers and your identities, and to saying goodbye to beloved schools and friends; from caring for your loved ones to mourning those who have been lost -- you are the rudder that steers our military. And supporting your physical, social, and emotional health is a national security imperative.
Every parent knows that when your child is hurting, nothing in your world is right. When your spouse is at home trying to make ends meet, or torn between taking care of your children and keeping a job, your heart breaks with them no matter how far away you are.
Our troops love their families with all that they are. Service members cannot be focused on their mission if their families don't have what they need to thrive at home. And we can't expect to keep the best and brightest if our service members are forced to choom [sic] be- -- choose between their love of country and the hopes and dreams they have for their families.
We have an all-volunteer force, and it continues only because of generations of Americans who see the honor, dignity, and patriotism of this calling. How can we hope to keep our military strong if we don't give our family survivors and caregivers what they need to survive; if we don't act on our sacred obligation? And that is why we're here today and what Joining Forces is all about.
During the Obama-Biden administration, we made a lot of progress. And most of all, I'm proud that we helped lift up the stories like the ones I heard from those on the screens behind me. And now we're ready to do more.
So here's what you're going to see us do over these next few years: We're going to focus on military family employment and entrepreneurship. Before the pandemic, the Department of Defense estimated that the military spouse unemployment rate was about 22 percent.
Spouses: All of you deserve opportunities to do the work you love, whether that means keeping your job when you move from base to base or owning your own businesses.
And we need to make sure that you can get quality childcare when you need it so that you don't have to feel like you're choosing between your job and taking care of your kids.
We're going to work on education for military children. There are more than 2 million kids whose parents are service members, National Guard reservists, or veterans. Our schools want to support all students, but they don't always know how to do so. We're going to work with educators and our government partners to make sure that you -- our military-connected kids -- have what you need to succeed.
And finally, we're going to work on military family health and wellbeing. Just 1 percent of our country has shouldered the burden of 20 years of war. No one has more strength and grit and resilience than our military families, but you can't do this alone. We have to help you carry this weight by improving access to mental health resources, ensuring everyone can put food on the table, and supporting caregiving families and survivors. So far, we already have commitments from the Departments of Defense, Labor, and Education. And this is just the beginning.
Our effort will take all of our government working together, and we expect every agency to step up and be part of it. This is a community bound together by love -- love for our country, love for your service members, and love for the communities you build together. And it's time that we match that devotion.
Your Commander-in-Chief understands that there is no greater honor than serving those who serve our country -- everyone who serves. He's going to make sure that you and your community are seen. And our goal is that this work will live on long after we leave as a permanent priority for every White House, because you deserve nothing less.
So thank you for all that you do. May God bless our troops and their families. Thank you.
END  11:49 A.M. EDT



April 7, 202113:06

FLOTUS Pool Report #6: Holding in press vans 
Pool gathered outside the Palm Room and is now holding in press vans outside of the East Wing to travel to Arlington, VA, where the First Lady will tour Military OneSource, an active duty military resource hub/call center, offering 24/7 support for service members, spouses, their family and survivors.
FLOTUS Office just informed us we will have three movements within the Military OneSource premises.
This event is scheduled for 1:30 PM ET.



April 7, 202113:24

FLOTUS Pool Report #7: Motorcade rolling 
Your pooler did not lay eyes on FLOTUS before the press vans joined the motorcade.
Motorcade is rolling for Military OneSource, in Arlington, VA, at 1:17 PM ET.
Per Office of the First Lady, FLOTUS will make three stops at Military OneSource. She will initially greet some of the staff; she will then move to a second location where she will witness a call that exemplifies the work Military OneSource does. Finally, FLOTUS will be briefed by health and wellness consultants in a third location.
FLOTUS will be greeted by:
-Mrs. Charlene Austin - Wife of Secretary of Defense-Mrs. Hollyanne Milley - Wife of Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman-Mrs. Patricia Barron - Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy, DoD-Mrs. Lee Kelley - Director, Military Community Support Programs, Department of Defense Military Community and Family Policy, DoD.
Traveling Staff:
-Anthony Bernal, Senior Advisor-Julissa Reynoso, Chief of Staff-Mala Adiga, Director of Policy & Projects-Rory Brosius, Joining Forces Executive Director-Martin Browne, Special Assistant for Scheduling & Advance-Libby Jamison, Joining Forces Senior Advisor-Michael LaRosa, Press Secretary-Asjia Garner, Communications Coordinator-Jordan Montoya, Trip Director & Director of Advance-Eric Bravo, Videographer-Cameron Smith, Photographer



April 7, 202114:04

FLOTUS Pool Report #8: Military OneSource Arrival 
The motorcade arrived at Military OneSource in Arlingron, VA, at 1:27 PM ET after an uneventful ride. Your pooler did not see any onlooker along the road or at arrival.
Pool is now waiting in a conference room where the First Lady will start her tour. There is a screen with a military photo projected and a message that reads "Military OneSource welcomes the First Lady of the Unites States".
Your pooler can hear FLOTUS just outside the room greeting staff.



April 7, 202115:12

FLOTUS Pool Report #9: Tour and WH arrival 
Connectivity was poor at Military OneSource.
FLOTUS entered a conference room at Military OneSource at 1:36 PM ET. She was briefed by Erika Slaton, Associate Director, Outreach and Engagement, Military Community Support Programs, Department of Defense Military Community and Family Policy.
"We have master's level consultants that are available 24/7 by phone, and live chat, and one of the top requested services through Military OneSource is spouse employment, followed by non medical counseling for those everyday and military life issues, and then our tech services", Ms. Slaton said.
The First Lady was afterwards played a call recording from a service member seeking non medical support through Military OneSource. Your pooler took a photo of the call transcript, as shared by the Office of the First Lady. It can be downloaded here: https://we.tl/t-DeJSv4Ezvm
FLOTUS was escorted to a second location, where a large poster read "Military OneSource. Connecting you to your best MilLife". Ms. Slaton explained that her staff are experts in disabilities and providing directions to military families. She told FLOTUS about a family of six, with children diagnosed with autism, who were helped during transition. "She was struggling because her husband wasn't there", she said, and therapy was approved for their children.
"I heard so much the past few years about children with special needs and parents who don't know where to go", said FLOTUS. She thanked the staff for the work they do and said: "These families are desperate, they don't know what to do or where to go."
Alyson Urrego (U-RAY-GO), Health and Wellness Coach, ValueOptions Federal Services, joined later and gave examples of how they help military families to succeed through their programs with healthy eating, meditation, daily journaling.
FLOTUS also listened to the testimony of Kimberley Ferrara, a military spouse who is pregnant and needed to relocate, look for childcare and opportunities. "I am a person whose life has changed" thanks to the services of Military OneSource, she pointed out.
Pool and FLOTUS moved to a third location, where the call center is. Jill Bianco, Manager of Call Center Operations, ValueOptions Federal Services, said their main responsibility is to make sure resources are explained to military members.
U.S. Army service member specialist Alekzandr Cattanach (ALEK CAT-UH-NACK), shared his testimony to FLOTUS. He said to have a hard time adjusting to military life and wanted counseling outside the line of command. He got military behavioural help through Military OneSource and found them very "supportive". The transition was "seemless" thanks to its professionals, he added. FLOTUS asked if he had gone to counseling alone. "I started going alone and then I went to marriage counseling with my wife", he responded.
FLOTUS then greeted a few consultants who are working from home and joined virtually through a computer monitor. "Thank you team!", FLOTUS said. She asked if they will come back to the office and where they are located. "It will be a fase approach for people to come in", Ms. Slaton said as she explained that Military OneSource has two offices in Virginia and one in Washington state.
Dr. Biden asked if she could approach some of the staff members working on site. She talked to three of them. She jokingly asked to one of them if a faux flower that she had on her desk was a real daffodil and they both laughed. The call center staff members said that now is a busy season because it is tax season and they have a tax program. They also noted that they have received several calls regarding wellness and family support. FLOTUS asked if they have used the programs themselves. The said no. "Thanks for helping our military members and their families ... and making their lives easier", FLOTUS said.
The First Lady left the room at 2:02 PM ET. Pool was scorted out at 2:12 PM ET.
We were lights and sirens back to the White House and arrived at 2:21 PM ET after an uneventful motorcade ride. Your pooler did not see FLOTUS walking into the White House.
Your pooler took some photos of FLOTUS during the tour that can be downloaded here: https://we.tl/t-QJJ613QYfq
A photo of a Military OneSource informational leaflet that your pooler was given can be downloaded here: https://we.tl/t-GJTRqMGq4j
That's a wrap, folks! Enjoy the rest of you day!




  