
    I WAS at a meeting here where I was dropping by to make some remarks to two other meetings. I was delighted to have the invitation to just stop by and say hello. I wish that I could stay and enjoy the full evening with you, but I am delighted just to have an opportunity to say hello and to wish you the very best.
I can tell you from my experiences with some of those of you who I have met before, that this Administration is anxious, most anxious that we have an opportunity to sit down together, to work together in the solution of some of the problems that affect all of us 213 million Americans.
Let me say that although we have gone through some very difficult times in the last 9 months or more, I happen to have great faith in the character, the strength, the vision of all of our fellow Americans, and this means the friends that all of us have in 50 States throughout the United States.
The disappointments we have had in foreign policy, the problems we have had with the economy are all problems that we wish were not on our shoulders. But we have to deal with the reality, and although we, in almost 200 years, have not fulfilled the great dream that our forefathers wanted for each and every one of us, I don't think we should be disappointed, because it is our job, like those who preceded us, to help fulfill that dream.
Each of us in our own way can make a contribution to that grand fulfillment, so that your children and my children and their children can have the benefits of the dream that was written in the Declaration of Independence, in the Constitution some 200 years ago--the dream that is going to be fulfilled with your help and what I can contribute and what thousands and thousands of others can contribute in the months and years ahead.
I am an optimist. Our problems overseas will be resolved. Our difficulties at home can be handled and moved ahead so that all of us will be much better off.
I just thank you for the kind thoughts and the prayers, because I need your help, not just for me but for all of our fellow Americans. We have a great obligation to them because we want America not only a leader in the world but a country that gives to all of our citizens opportunity and blessings that none of us have had in the past.
I say to you, thank you for the opportunity just to say hello and to be here.
  