
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 18
In the afternoon, the President met with President Carlos Menem of Argentina at the Sheraton Hotel in Santiago, Chile. He then attended a working luncheon with Summit of the Americas leaders at the Camino Real Restaurant. Following the luncheon, the President attended summit sessions at the Sheraton Hotel.
In the evening, the President met with President Fernando Cardoso of Brazil. Later in the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner with summit leaders and their spouses at Canon's Courtyard at La Moneda Palace.
The President announced his intention to appoint Hannah Diggs Atkins, Luke R. Corbett, Donald F. Ferrell, Robert M. Johnson, Linda Petree Lambert, Gary Marras, and Richard E. Williams to the Board of Directors of the Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust.
April 19
In the morning, the President attended Summit of the Americas sessions at the Sheraton Hotel. In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning.
April 21
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President signed the Birth Defects Prevention Act of 1998.
The President announced his intention to nominate Henry L. Solano to serve as Solicitor at the Department of Labor.
April 22
In a morning ceremony in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President presented the Harry M. Yount Ranger of the Year Award to Mike Anderson of Cape Hatteras National Seashore, NC. Following the ceremony, the President traveled to Harpers Ferry, WV, where he and the Vice President helped volunteers maintain a section of the Appalachian Trail in Harpers Ferry National Historic Park. He and the Vice President then toured the John Brown Museum.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate George Williford Boyce Haley to be Ambassador to Gambia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Katherine Hubay Peterson to be Ambassador to Lesotho.
The President announced his intention to nominate William D. Clarke to be Ambassador to Eritrea.
The President announced his intention to nominate Laurence J. Cohen to serve as General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Dover, DE, on May 8.
April 23
In the morning, the President met with President Saparmurat Niyazov of Turk- menistan in the Oval Office. Following the meeting, the President hosted a working luncheon for President Niyazov in the Old Family Dining Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nikki Rush Tinsley to serve as Inspector General at the Environmental Protection Agency.
April 24
In the afternoon, the President attended a memorial service for Vivian Ercel Jones Williams, mother of his personal secretary, Betty Currie, at the Community United Methodist Church in Arlington, VA.
The President announced the appointment of J. Gary Burkhead to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Advisory Council.
The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on April 16.
  