
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
April 13
The President and Mrs. Clinton announced that the next Millennium Evening will be a celebration of American creativity through poetry featuring Poets Laureate Robert Pinsky, Robert Hass, and Rita Dove and will take place in the East Room at the White House on April 22.
April 14
In the morning, the President traveled to Houston, TX.
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with King Hussein I of Jordan concerning the Middle East and Northern Ireland peace processes and the President's trip to Africa.
In the evening, the President met with Hispanic leaders prior to the ESPN townhall meeting.
April 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Pratt City and McDonald Chapel, AL. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Santiago, Chile, arriving early the next morning.
April 16
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton met with President Eduardo Frei and his wife, Marta, at La Moneda Palace. Later, President Clinton and President Frei held bilateral meetings.
In the afternoon, President Clinton and President Frei toured a small business in the San Miguel neighborhood. Later, the Presidents and the First Ladies participated in a roundtable discussion with community leaders at San Andreas University.
April 17
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Valparaiso, Chile.
In the afternoon, they went to the town of Casablanca, where they participated in an informal discussion with community members. Later, the President addressed the community of Casablanca.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Santiago.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan Spalter as Associate Director for Information at the U.S. Information Agency.
  