
    Lewistown SentinelApril 23, 2016 
Looking at the current field of Republican presidential candidates, it's pretty clear that only one man has the desired background, both as an executive and as a legislator, to uniquely qualify him to be the leader of our nation and that man is John Kasich.
Kasich spent 18 years as a member of Congress, serving on the Armed Forces Committee that entire time. He also chaired the House Budget Committee for six years during which time the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 was passed with his input and support.
Kasich then decided to get out of politics for a while, venturing into business and political commentary on TV before the urge to serve his fellow citizens came calling again.
He successfully ran for governor of Ohio, defeating an incumbent Democrat. Kasich wasted little time and even less money, eventually turning a deficit of anywhere between $6 billion and $8 billion into a $2 billion surplus for the Buckeye State, all while cutting income taxes.
Kasich has proven himself to be a problem-solver at a time our country needs one most. He's not afraid to buck the Republican leadership if he thinks doing so puts America first. He has the experience as both a legislator and an executive to help bridge the ever-widening canyon between the White House and the Capitol and make the federal government work for the American people once again.
And he is the only candidate in either party who has consistently shown a temperament befitting a president, not to mention the fact that polls consistently show Kasich has the best chance of keeping Hillary Clinton from winning this fall, thereby preventing a de facto third term for Obama. 
Our country needs a uniter, not a divider. We need an experienced leader, not another freshman senator nor someone who has never before held public office.
John Kasich is simply the best man to bring this country together and lead us forward. For that reason, we endorse him as the Republican nominee for president. 
Read the full editorial here.
  