
    IT'S NICE to see you all this morning. I just came from giving a speech over at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. I like the intimate kind of meetings rather than the big, massive audience like we had over there. It gives me a chance to speak without any notes and to not have to read a text. So, let me just say a few words in general without the benefit of any text or written comments.
First, I want to congratulate each and every one of you for having achieved an outstanding position in our Federal Government. I am very, very pleased as I look around the room to see the number as well as the quality.
I was noticing the other day that this administration has 14 percent of the top jobs filled by women, which I am told is an all-time high as far as administrations are concerned. So, it wasn't done other than on the basis of quality, and I congratulate each and every one of you for having earned that opportunity to serve your Government and to serve our people.
I was meeting last week with the Citizens' Advisory Committee [Council] on the Status of Women. I always have a little trouble getting that series of words together. But anyhow I read their report, which does indicate that we have made substantial progress. But I think on the other hand, it likewise points out that we've got a great deal more area of or target of opportunity.
There have been substantial increases among women serving in elective office, appointive office in the executive, the legislative and the judicial branch, but we have a long way to go. And I pledge to you that I will continue what we have tried to do, which is to appoint, to nominate more and more women, because the performance that you have all given to this Government certainly deserves that others should be following in your footsteps.
I look with great pride that we've got Carla Hills in the Cabinet and Betty Murphy in the NLRB and Anne Armstrong1 and a number of others in the Diplomatic Corps and a number of you, as I see, in the military and other civilian capacities.
1 Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board, and U.S. Ambassdor to the United Kingdom, respectively.
You are doing an outstanding job, and by the fact that you are, it gives us good reason to see that opportunities for others are multiplied. What is really does, I think, is open the door, the door that was hard to open in the first instance. It opens a door that, in effect, invites other talented people like yourselves to move in and help us in the many tough and difficult jobs that we have both here at home as well as abroad.
You have shown us that it can be done. The door is open for literally hundreds and hundreds of others to follow. And I am sure, as we move ahead, we will do this in the way that it should be done, which means more and more jobs for those like you.
Congratulations, thank you, and the very best to you.
  