
    Ahead of the 1-year anniversary of the Inflation Reduction Act, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff visited Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming to highlight a $44 million investment by the Biden-Harris Administration that will strengthen climate resilience across America's National Parks system. This funding from the Inflation Reduction Act will support 43 projects across 39 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands which will improve our parks, protect endangered species, and provide clean air and water for Americans.
While at Grand Teton, the Second Gentleman met with park rangers and heard about their efforts to protect important sagebrush ecosystems. This new investment will support Grand Teton's efforts to preserve critical species including the Whitebark pine tree.
Mr. Emhoff called national parks our country's greatest treasures while also emphasizing the critical need to protect them and take action against climate change. During his remarks, the Second Gentleman stated, "We are seeing a climate crisis happening right now. We see it everywhere. There is no disputing it, and there is no denying it…we must act now before it is too late and preserve iconic landscapes – like Grand Teton – for future generations to enjoy."
See the coverage below: 
Washington Post: Second gentleman touts climate funding for national parks [Maxine Joselow, 8/9/2023]
The $44 million investment, which the Interior Department announced yesterday, comes from the Inflation Reduction Act, the landmark climate law that President Biden signed nearly a year ago. The funding will support 43 projects across 39 states, D.C., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, including:

Restoring whitebark pine at nine national parks in Montana, Wyoming, California and Washington, including Grand Teton. Whitebark pine, which is listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act, faces a combination of threats from a fungal disease, a beetle infestation, new wildfire patterns and climate change.
Restoring redwood forests in California, particularly in areas damaged by logging.
Helping prevent the extinction of Hawaiian forest birds that could disappear because of mosquito-borne avian malaria.

Casper Star-Tribune: Kamala Harris' spouse to visit Grand Tetons to celebrate restoration investment [Maya Shimizue Harris, 8/8/2023]
The investment is part of the Biden Administration's Inflation Reduction Act, which is seen by some as one of the most significant actions Congress has taken on clean energy and climate change in the nation's history.
Wyoming Public Radio: 'We must act now': Second gentleman talks climate resilience in the Tetons [Hanna Merzbach, 8/9/2023]
"All Americans love our national parks, this American included," Emhoff said, as the Tetons stood tall in the background. "Preserving this land matters. It matters to all of us. It matters to everyone."
Jackson Hole News and Guide: Second gentleman touts park investments in Jackson Hole [Billy Arnold, 8/9/2023]
Emhoff said the funding is for improving national parks, protecting endangered species, providing Americans with clean air and water, and addressing climate change, which he called "the existential threat of our lifetime."
"We see rising tides, we see flooding, we see wildfires happening all over the country, including in my home state of California," Emhoff said. "We must act now, before it's too late — too late to preserve this incredible, iconic landscape of Grand Teton for future generations to enjoy."
WyoFile: Second Gentleman touts $44M in conservation, climate investments [Angus Thuermer Jr., 8/9/2023]
With the Teton Range as a backdrop, Emhoff said President Joe Biden's new earmark for his "Investing in America Agenda" will "improve our parks, protect endangered species, provide clean air and water for all Americans." The funds will enable 43 projects to make parks and communities in 39 states, Washington D.C., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands more resilient to climate change.
"Since day one of our administration, President Biden and my wife, Vice President Harris, have been fighting back against this climate crisis," Emhoff said amid a sea of sagebrush at Antelope Flats. A climate crisis is ongoing everywhere, he said.
ABC Local News 8: Second Gentleman visits Grand Teton to announce funds for National Park Service [Evan Thomason, 8/9/2023]
The first thing park rangers want to do is protect the sagebrush. They say sagebrush is one of the main habitats for the animals living here in the park.
"Restoring sagebrush helps us build healthy ecosystems, which support access to water, local communities and economies," Emhoff said. "It's critical that we protect these habitats and allow them to grow and strengthen climate resilience."
  