
    
A Maverick Picked Another Maverick: 
Anchorage Daily News: "The Joan Of Arc Of Alaska Politics." "Palin, 44, has been the Joan of Arc of Alaska politics, charging into battle against long odds on such big local issues as oil taxes and construction of a natural gas pipeline only to see her opposition crumble." (Tom Kizzia, "Gov. Sarah Palin: A Biography," Anchorage Daily News, 8/29/08)

Anchorage Daily News: Governor Palin Is "A Maverick Who's Willing To Challenge Her Own Party." "Palin, 44, is a first-term governor known for being a maverick who's willing to challenge her own party, a key trait that McCain hopes will help him attract independent voters. She's perceived as an ethics crusader and reformer within a state Republican Party that's been rocked by scandal, credentials that also enhance McCain's similar image." ("Palin Picked As McCain VP," Anchorage Daily News, 8/29/08)


The Associated Press' Ron Fournier: Governor Palin "Has A Record Of Bipartisan Reform" And Enjoys "A Growing Reputation As A Maverick." "It is true, as the statement said, that Palin has a record of bipartisan reform. She has a growing reputation as a maverick for bucking her party's establishment and Alaska's powerful oil industry." (Ron Fournier, "Analysis: Palin's Age, Inexperience Rival Obama's," The Associated Press, 8/29/08) 
Augusta Chronicle Editorial: Governor Palin "Made Her Considerable Alaska Reputation By Taking On Establishment Politicians." "Sen. John McCain's surprising choice for vice president, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, appears to be every bit the maverick he is. A dyed-in-the-wool conservative, Palin nonetheless made her considerable Alaska reputation by taking on establishment politicians -- even bringing ethics charges against fellow Republicans." (Editorial, "A Surprise Choice, Well-Timed," Augusta Chronicle, 8/30/08) 
Boston Herald: Governor Palin Is "A Maverick Governor." "Palin, 44, a maverick governor and a staunch, anti-abortion, pro-gun rights conservative, is a political outsider who has five children and a working-class background." (Jessica Fargen, "Sarah Palin: Mom, Hunter, Maverick," Boston Herald, 8/30/08)

Boston Herald: "She Has A Reputation For Rankling The GOP Hierarchy In The Conservative State." (Jessica Fargen, "Sarah Palin: Mom, Hunter, Maverick," Boston Herald, 8/30/08)


MSNBC's Kevin Corke: Governor Palin "Has Been A Hard-Nosed Fighter." "She can get in there and compete with anybody. I mean, she was in a tough campaign, she has been a hard-nosed fighter, not only for Republican values, but also in her state and she has been successful." (MSNBC, 8/29/08) 
New York Times: Governor Palin "Took Intense Criticism From Members Of Her Own Party For Turning The Spotlight On The Failures Of Alaska Republicans." "But Ms. Palin ran as a change agent when she was elected as governor of Alaska in 2006, and in a move that might have appealed to Mr. McCain, she took intense criticism from members of her own party for turning the spotlight on the failures of Alaska Republicans, some of whom had been beset by corruption scandals." (Michael Cooper And Mitchell L. Blumenthal, "McCain Chooses Palin As Running Mate," The New York Times, 8/29/08) 
Tampa Tribune: "Sen. John McCain Made An Inspired Choice In Picking Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin As His Running Mate." (Editorial, "The Maverick Is Back," Tampa Tribune, 8/30/08) 
The Wall Street Journal Editorial: Governor Palin "A Case Study In Taking On The Big Boys." "On the other hand, the record shows that Sarah Palin's political career is a case study in taking on the big boys. We suspect her record of fighting the status quo was uppermost in John McCain's decision." (Editorial, "A Reform Ticket," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08) 
The Washington Post: Governor Palin "Rose To The Statehouse By Challenging The Corruption That Has Become Endemic In Alaska, Even If It Meant Taking On The Republican Establishment There." "Palin, a 44-year-old mother of five who hunts caribou and was once a beauty queen, rose to the statehouse by challenging the corruption that has become endemic in Alaska, even if it meant taking on the Republican establishment there, including the former governor and the state's congressional delegation." (Amy Goldstein and Michael D. Shear, "A Tenacious Reformer's Swift Rise," The Washington Post, 8/30/08) 
The Weekly Standard's Fred Barnes: "She Was Not Only A Surprise Choice But Also An Electrifying Choice." "Sarah Palin changed all that. She was not only a surprise choice but also an electrifying one, and her selection has far-reaching implications. Her entry will change the nature of the presidential race. And if the McCain-Palin ticket wins, it has the potential to carry Republicans through a rough patch and even ensure conservative dominance of the party--for years to come." (Fred Barnes, "Providential Palin," The Weekly Standard, 8/30/08) 
McCain-Palin: "A Reform Ticket"
Bill Kristol: "She Has Been Governor Of The State While Obama Has Been Pretty Much An Absentee Senator Running For Senate." "Obama has no experience, obviously. He was a state Senator. Sarah Palin has much more executive experience. She has been governor of the state while Obama has been pretty much an absentee senator running for Senate." (FOX News' "Special Report," 8/29/08) 
Boston Herald: "In Selecting A Washington Outsider, The Original 'Maverick' Opted To Double Down On His Reform Credentials While Also Making A Pitch To Undecided Women Voters." (Editorial, "With McCain's Pick, A Whole New Race," Boston Herald, 8/30/08) 
FOX News' Carl Cameron: "She Was Elected Governor In 2006 And Took Office In 2007. Her Accomplishments Reflect And Even Echo McCain's Reform Agenda." (FOX News' "Special Report," 8/29/08)

Cameron: Barack Obama And Joe Biden Can't Claim To Have The Executive Experience Governor Palin Has. "But, as a governor, as an elected governor of a state, an executive, she has more experience than Barack Obama and Joe Biden do. ... Sarah Palin is the only candidate who will appear on the presidential ballot who is able to say that she has executive experience and has run a government. That is nothing that Joe Biden or Barack Obama can claim." (Fox News, 8/29/08)


National Review: Governor Palin Reinforces John McCain's "Mindset Of An Outsider And A Fighter Against Corruption." "By picking Alaska governor Sarah Palin as his running mate, John McCain has wowed the public and enthused the Right. He has reinforced some of his winning themes -- that he has the mindset of an outsider and a fighter against corruption. He has also reinforced his appeal as the candidate more in touch with traditional values on moral issues." (Editorial, "The Palin Pick," National Review, 8/29/08) 
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review: "Palin Has The Same Maverick Reputation As Sen. McCain." "It will go down in history as one of the boldest, most deft and wonderfully strategic vice-presidential picks ever. Palin has the same maverick reputation as Sen. McCain and has been a pull-no-punches reformer in The Last Frontier. She even took on the ethically challenged hierarchy of her own state GOP." (Editorial, "McCain-Palin: A Bold & Deft Pick," Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, 8/30/08) 
The Washington Times: "If Anything, Her Zeal For Busting Pork-Barrel Spending May Outstrip Mr. McCain's." "She unseated a sitting Republican governor in a primary by running against the Republican establishment in Alaska. If anything, her zeal for busting pork-barrel spending may outstrip Mr. McCain's. And she's spent her time in office fighting for ethics reform." (Stephen Dinan, "Trumping Obama On Change," The Washington Times, 8/30/08) 
The Weekly Standard's Fred Barnes: "As A Governor, She Has More Executive Experience Than Mr. Obama." (Fred Barnes, "Palin Fought For Reform In Alaska," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08)

Barnes: "Obama Can't Even Match One Of These Accomplishments" From Governor Palin. "She brought down Alaska's governor, attorney general, and state Republican chairman (see my 'Most Popular Governor,' July 16, 2007). She killed the 'bridge to nowhere.' She used increased tax revenues from high oil prices to give Alaskans a rebate. She slashed government spending. She took on the biggest industry in Alaska, the oil companies, to work out an equitable deal on building a new gas pipeline. Obama can't match even one of these accomplishments." (Fred Barnes, "Providential Palin," The Weekly Standard, 8/30/08)
Barnes: John McCain And Governor Palin "Are More Likely To Clash With Special Interest Groups Than Are Obama And Biden." "With Palin on board, the change issue is no longer Obama's exclusive possession. She and McCain are more likely to clash with special interest groups than are Obama and Biden, who have yet to buck a single liberal pressure group." (Fred Barnes, "Providential Palin," The Weekly Standard, 8/30/08)


The Wall Street Journal: "Her Reputation As A Reformer In Alaska Dovetails With Sen. McCain's Image, Too." (Laura Meckler, Elizabeth Holmes and Jim Carlton, "McCain's Surprise V.P. Choice," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08) 
The Wall Street Journal's Editorial: "We'd Say Governor Palin's Credentials As An Agent Of Reform Exceed Barack Obama's." "For starters, we'd say Governor Palin's credentials as an agent of reform exceed Barack Obama's. Mr. Obama rose through the Chicago Democratic machine without a peep of push-back. Alaska's politics are deeply inbred and backed by energy-industry money. Mr. Obama slid past the kind of forces that Mrs. Palin took head on." (Editorial, "A Reform Ticket," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08) 
The Washington Post's Chris Cillizza: With Governor Palin, "McCain Also Doubles Down On The Maverick Argument." "In choosing Palin, McCain also doubles down on the maverick argument; Palin is the face of reform in the Republican party nationally and is clearly not of Washington -- a key element of her biography given how negative voter sentiment toward the nation's capital is currently." (Chris Cillizza, "The Palin Stunner," The Washington Post, 8/29/08) 
The Washington Post: Palin "Earned A Reputation As A Reformer, Taking On Republican Leaders On Ethics Issues." "Palin has earned a reputation as a reformer, taking on Republican leaders on ethics issues. She opposed pork-barrel projects backed by her party and helped kill the project known as the 'Bridge to Nowhere,' which had been promoted by Alaskan Republican leaders, notably Rep. Don Young and Sen. Ted Stevens." (Robert Barnes, Michael Shear And William Branigin, "McCain Introduces Alaska Governor Palin As Running Mate," The Washington Post, 8/29/08) 
A Strong Reformer From Far Outside Of Washington:
ABC's Cokie Roberts: "It's An Out Of Washington, Breath Of Fresh Air, Definitely A Reformer..." (ABC's "Good Morning America," 8/20/08) 
The Associated Press: Governor Palin Is "An Independent Figure." "In turning to her, McCain picked an independent figure in his own mold, one who has taken on Alaska's powerful oil industry and, at age 44, is three years younger than Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama and a generation younger than McCain, 72." (Steve Quinn And Calvin Woodward, "McCain's Veep Choice Is Historic And Hardly Known," The Associated Press, 8/29/08) 
Boston Herald: Governor Palin "Has Challenged Corruption At All Levels." "In a state known of late for the corruption of its Republican politicians, Palin has challenged corruption at all levels. She knocked off an incumbent GOP governor in the primary; enacted ethics reforms and told Congress 'thanks but no thanks' on that infamous 'bridge to nowhere.' And as one of her first acts in office, she sold off the jet the former governor used to get around the state." (Editorial, "With McCain's Pick, A Whole New Race," Boston Herald, 8/30/08) 
New York Times: McCain "Reached Far Outside The Washington Beltway." "In choosing Ms. Palin -- a 44-year-old social conservative and mother of five who has been governor for less than two years -- the McCain campaign reached far outside the Washington Beltway in an election in which the Democratic presidential nominee, Senator Barack Obama, is running on a platform of change." (Michael Cooper And Mitchell L. Blumenthal, "McCain Chooses Palin As Running Mate," The New York Times, 8/29/08)

New York Times: Governor Palin "Rose To Prominence As A Whistle-Blower Uncovering Ethical Misconduct IN State Government." "Ms. Palin, a former mayor of the small town of Wasilla, an Anchorage suburb, and one-time beauty pageant queen, first rose to prominence as a whistle-blower uncovering ethical misconduct in state government." (Michael Cooper And Mitchell L. Blumenthal, "McCain Chooses Palin As Running Mate," The New York Times, 8/29/08)


Politico: "In Choosing An Outsider Like Palin, McCain Has Bolstered His Case That He -- Not Obama -- Is The Real Agent Of Change." (Jonathan Martin and Tim Grieve, "The Ticket: McCain-Palin," Politico, 8/29/08)

Politico: "Palin Has Become Known ... As A Reformer." "But in her short political career, Palin has become known -- at least in Alaska -- as a reformer. Long before the ethical problems of the Alaska GOP were front-page news in Washington, she was working to clean up the state's government and her own party." (Jonathan Martin and Tim Grieve, "The Ticket: McCain-Palin," Politico, 8/29/08)


Reuters: Governor Palin "Built A Reputation As A Reformer" In Alaska. "Palin, former mayor of the town of Wasilla, built a reputation as a reformer in a state that recently has been hit with corruption scandals. Elected in 2006, she is Alaska's first woman governor." (Jeff Mason, "McCain Picks Palin As Surprise No. 2," Reuters, 8/29/08) 
Roll Call's Mort Kondracke: "And, You Know, She Is A Reformer, And She Is Doing Great Work In Alaska For Two Years." (FOX News' "Special Report," 8/29/08) 
The Wall Street Journal Editorial: Governor Palin Is "A Genuine Reformer." "Mr. McCain's instinct clearly is to offer himself to voters as a reformer. With Sarah Palin, a genuine reformer, Mr. McCain may have found the right idea and the right person to make his run." (Editorial, "A Reform Ticket," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08) 
The Wall Street Journal's Editorial: "Sarah Palin's Reform Resume Would Be Remarkable In Any Political Career." (Editorial, "A Reform Ticket," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08) 
The Washington Post Editorial: Governor Palin "Has Shown Independence And A Clear Moral Compass." "Since entering politics she has shown independence and a clear moral compass. On Alaska's oil and gas commission, she blew the whistle on a fellow Republican's conflict of interest. Her 2006 campaign for the state's highest office began as an insurrection against her party's old guard. In choosing her, Mr. McCain said that Ms. Palin's experience equips her to help 'shake up Washington.'" (Editorial, "Mr. McCain's Choice," The Washington Post, 8/30/08) 
The Weekly Standard's Fred Barnes: "She's A Conservative Reformer." "Palin is a different kind of Republican. She's a conservative reformer who, somewhat like McCain but more like Ronald Reagan, is forever poised to challenge the sluggish (or corrupt) Republican establishment and shake up the status quo." (Fred Barnes, "Providential Palin," The Weekly Standard, 8/30/08)

Barnes: "And She Has A Record Of Integrity Matched By Few Elected Officials." "And she has a record of integrity matched by few elected officials. Mrs. Palin resigned in protest in 2004 as head of the Alaska Oil and Gas Commission over alleged ethical violations by the state Republican chairman, a commission member. Two years later, she upset Republican Gov. Frank Murkowski in the primary and defeated a Democrat in the general election." (Fred Barnes, "Palin Fought For Reform In Alaska," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08)


Club For Growth President Pat Toomey: Governor Palin "Is A Principled Reformer." "At a time when many Republicans are still clinging to pork-barrel politics, Governor Palin has quickly become a leader on this issue. ... She is a principled reformer who understands how badly wasteful spending has marred the Republican brand." (Club For Growth PAC, "Club PAC On Possible Palin Pick," Press Release, 8/29/08) 
An Energy Expert Who Took On The Oil Companies: 
The Weekly Standard's Fred Barnes: "But She's An Expert On One Of This Year's Biggest Issues -- Energy." (Fred Barnes, "Palin Fought For Reform In Alaska," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08) 

Fox Business Channel's Adam Shapiro: "On the other hand, Sarah Palin, out of Alaska would certainly know a thing or two about energy given the fact that Alaska produces oil for the United States." (Fox Business Channel, 8/29/08)
Fox News' Carl Cameron: "She's Already Engaged In The Energy Debate, Boosting Domestic Supply With Increased Production From Her Resource Rich State Of Alaska." (FOX News' "Special Report," 8/29/08)
The Houston Chronicle: Governor Palin "Arguably Brings More Credibility On The Topic [Of Energy] Than Anyone Else On The Two Major Tickets." "In an election where energy has moved to the top of the agenda, Republican vice-presidential pick Sarah Palin arguably brings more credibility on the topic than anyone else on the two major tickets. She's the governor of Alaska, where close to 85 percent of the budget comes from oil revenue. It's second only to Texas among the states in oil production." (Tom Fowler, "McCain's VP Pick Palin No Stranger To Energy Industry," Houston Chronicle, 8/30/08)


Anchorage Daily News: Governor Palin "Took On The Oil Producers." "Palin took on the oil producers there, saying they had been dragging their feet on a gasline, and she pushed the Legislature to pass a bill authorizing an independent company to build the line." (Tom Kizzia, "Gov. Sarah Palin: A Biography," Anchorage Daily News, 8/29/08)

The Associated Press: Governor Palin "Refused To Kowtow To The Powerful Oil Industry." "During her first year in office, Palin moved away from the powerful old guard of the state Republican Party and has refused to kowtow to the powerful oil industry, instead presiding over a tax increase on oil company profits that now has the state's treasury swelling." (Steve Quinn And Calvin Woodward, "McCain's Veep Choice Is Historic And Hardly Known," The Associated Press, 8/29/08)
The Associated Press: "Yet She Also Not Shied From Confronting Exxon Mobil, BP And ConocoPhillips." (H. Josef Hebert , "Palin Could Complicate Energy Debate," Associated Press, 8/30/08)
The Associated Press: "She Has Tangled With Exxon Mobil And Other Oil Companies Over Their Reluctance To Develop Gas Fields On State Land." (H. Josef Hebert , "Palin Could Complicate Energy Debate," Associated Press, 8/30/08)
Bloomberg: Governor Palin "Threatened To Evict" Oil Companies From A State-Owned Gas Field For Not Drilling. "Earlier this year, Palin threatened to evict Exxon Mobil Corp. and its partners BP Plc, Chevron Corp. and ConocoPhillips from a state-owned gas field, winning a promise from them to boost Alaska's natural-gas output by 17 percent. "(Ken Fireman and Lorraine Woellert, "Alaska Governor Palin Picked As McCain Running Mate," Bloomberg, 8/29/08)
The Wall Street Journal: In Alaska, Governor Palin Clashed With Exxon Mobil. "Gov. Palin's interest in speeding up development of the state's resources, in part to boost revenues to the state and provide jobs, is evident in her clash with Exxon Mobil. Earlier this year, she attempted to revoke Exxon's license to the Point Thomson oil-and-gas field, one of the largest undeveloped fields in the U.S., for failing to develop it quickly enough. The company hasn't drilled a well there since 1982. On Thursday, Exxon said it has brought in equipment and was preparing to drill a well this winter." (Russell Gold, "Palin Has Long Experience Dealing With Big Oil In Home State," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08)
The Wall Street Journal: "Sarah Palin Has Pushed Oil Companies To Move Faster With Projects To Expand Oil And Gas Production." "Since becoming Alaska's governor in 2006, Sarah Palin has pushed oil companies to move faster with projects to expand oil and gas production. She is widely credited with reviving a long-stalled effort to build a natural-gas pipeline from Alaska's Prudhoe Bay energy fields to the Lower 48 states." (Russell Gold, "Palin Has Long Experience Dealing With Big Oil In Home State," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08)
Alaska House Of Representatives Democrat Mike Doogan: "They don't have big color pictures of Sarah Palin in the board rooms of BP, ConocoPhillips or Exxon. ... If she's in the pocket of big oil, she's kept it a pretty good secret.'" (Tom Fowler, "McCain's VP Pick Palin No Stranger To Energy Industry," The Houston Chronicle, 8/30/08)


Governor Palin Makes A Strong National Debut: 
Dayton Daily News: Crowd "Roared Its Approval" For Governor Palin. "Even if they didn't know much about her going in, the capacity crowd at Wright State University's Ervin J. Nutter Center roared its approval of John McCain's surprise selection of Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin as his running mate." (Joanne Huist Smith and James Cummings, "Nutter Crowd Greets Palin With Enthusiasm," Dayton Daily News, 8/30/08)

Politico: "And When Sarah Palin Delivered, They Seemed To Instantly Fall In Love." "I've been covering the GOP presidential race since November of 2006. In those many months -- across many states -- I have never seen a crowd with the energy that I witnessed yesterday at the Erwin Nutter Center in Dayton, Ohio. Yes, there was an inherent buzz owing to the pending veep announcement. But even after the choice was proclaimed, the crowd seemed to become more jacked. And when Sarah Palin delivered, they seemed to instantly fall in love." (Jonathan Martin, "GOP Grassroots On Fire," Politico's "Jonathan Martin" Blog, 8/30/08)
Professor Larry Sabato: Governor Palin "Has Just Come Off Quite Well ... In Her National Debut." SABATO:"She has just come off quite well, I think, in her national debut. ... Well, in one fell swoop, the Republicans also have something to talk about in terms of history, potentially the first woman vice president the first Republican woman nominated for vice president. I think this is a fascinating package." (Fox News, 8/29/08)
The Weekly Standard's Bill Kristol: Governor Palin Was "Compelling" And "Savvy" In Dayton. "That's why Palin's spectacular performance in her introduction in Dayton was so important. Her remarks were cogent and compelling. Her presentation of herself was shrewd and savvy. I heard from many who watched Palin--many of them not predisposed to support her--about how moved they were by her remarks, her composure, and her story." (William Kristol, Op-Ed, "Let Palin Be Palin," The Weekly Standard, 8/30/08)
Kristol: "A spectre is haunting the liberal elites of New York and Washington--the spectre of a young, attractive, unapologetic conservatism, rising out of the American countryside, free of the taint (fair or unfair) of the Bush administration and the recent Republican Congress, able to invigorate a McCain administration and to govern beyond it." (William Kristol, Op-Ed, "Let Palin Be Palin," The Weekly Standard, 8/30/08)


Geraldine Ferraro: "I have to tell you, I got a phone call from my family too, and my daughter -- the immediate thing was, 'Wow! McCain picked a woman.' I thought it was stunning when it happened, because it is so historic. The other thing I must say this is the first time that anybody who is in a national position, has publicly thanked me in 24 years." (FOX's "Fox & Friends," 8/30/08) 
Former Hillary Clinton Campaign Adviser Ann Lewis: "Well, first, the John McCain campaign definitely served notice that they intend to compete hard for the support of women voters. Of course, I appreciate the reference to Hillary Clinton, who did such a magnificent job in her campaign." (CNN, 8/29/08) 
Former Clinton Adviser Howard Wolfson: With Palin Pick, "You Are Going To Have A Lot Of Women Voters Wondering Why Senator Obama Didn't Tap Senator Clinton As His Running Mate." "To that end, consider the immediate reaction of Clinton adviser Howard Wolfson, who writes today in a short piece titled 'I'll See Your Biden and Raise You a Palin,' that 'you are going to have a lot of women voters wondering why Senator Obama didn't tap Senator Clinton as his running mate.'" (Jake Tapper, "A White Shade Of Palin," ABC News, 8/29/08) 
CNN's David Brody: "This is a day that will go down as a turning point, most likely, within evangelical circles ... They are now fervently on-board for John McCain. I think we've seen a dramatic shift today." (CNN's "Newsroom," 8/29/08)

CNN's David Gergen: "Among conservatives, one hears nothing but praise for Governor Sarah Palin -- she is strongly pro-life, a long-time member of the NRA, a fiscal hawk, and an interesting combination of charm and toughness. She helps to bring the party back to its conservative roots." (David Gergen, "Talk About A Bold Gamble!," CNN's "Political Ticker" Blog, 8/29/08)
The Washington Post: "Outpouring Of Enthusiasm" For Governor Palin. "The announcement of her elevation to the Republican ticket brought an outpouring of enthusiasm from the right flank of the GOP and will assure a more energized convention next week in St. Paul, Minn." (Dan Balz, "With Pick, McCain Reclaims His Maverick Image," The Washington Post, 8/30/08)
The Washington Post: "Evangelicals, who are practically giddy at Sen. John McCain's vice presidential pick, have spent the day heaping praise on Gov. Sarah Palin." (Krissah Williams Thompson, "Evangelicals Heap Praise on Palin," Washington Post's "The Trail," Blog, 8/29/08)


"Inconsistent Messaging" From The Obama Campaign: 
Politico's Ben Smith: Barack Obama "Seemed To Distance Himself From His Campaign's First, Harshly Critical Response." At a stop in Monaca, Pa., Barack Obama seemed to distance himself from his campaign's first, harshly critical response to the Palin pick." (Ben Smith, "Obama Distances Himself From 'Hair-Trigger' Campaign Criticism," Politico, 8/29/08)

ABC News' Jake Tapper: "The Obama Campaign's First Response Was To Attack, Not Congratulate Gov. Palin Or Acknowledge The Historic Nature Of Her Selection." "Republicans say it's note-worthy that on the week commemorating the 88th anniversary of women getting the right to vote -- with McCain, making a ground-breaking VP pick -- the Obama campaign's first response was to attack, not congratulate Gov. Palin or acknowledge the historic nature of her selection." (Jake Tapper, "The Obama Campaign's First Impulse," ABC News, 8/29/08)
Associated Press: "Obama Campaign Hits, Then Praises McCain's VP Choice." "Barack Obama's spokesman fired off a fast criticism of Republican John McCain's new running mate Friday, but the Democratic candidate himself quickly stepped in to offer her congratulations and praise. Obama, who is eager to win over female voters who backed his rival Hillary Rodham Clinton in the primaries, blamed the mixed messages about McCain's choice, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, on campaign aides with a 'hair trigger.'" (Charles Babington, "Obama Camp Hits, Then Praises McCain's VP Choice," Associated Press, 8/29/08)
MSNBC: Barack Obama "Walked Back A Statement Put Out By His Campaign." "Obama reacted to his rival's pick of Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin as a running mate and walked back a statement put out by his campaign that called the governor inexperienced." (Athena Jones, "Obama Reacts To McCain VP Pick," MSNBC's "First Read" Blog, 8/29/08)
Politico: Obama Campaign Response Demonstrates "Inconsistent Messaging." "At his afternoon stop, Obama distanced himself from the first, harshly critical remarks. ... The inconsistent messaging underscored the search among Democrats for the right tone in a presidential race jolted by the sudden addition of a female vice presidential candidate." (Carrie Budoff Brown, "Obama Loses Spotlight To New Rival," Politico, 8/30/08)
The Washington Post's Dan Balz: "Obama, However, Declined To Join Such Attacks And Even Distanced Himself From His Campaign's Rhetoric." (Dan Balz, "With Pick, McCain Reclaims His Maverick Image," The Washington Post, 8/30/08)


Fox News' Carl Cameron: Obama Campaign "May Have Made A Tactical Error" In Negative Response. "One of the things that the McCain campaign is suggesting is that in their reaction -- so negative and dismissive of Sarah Palin that the Obama campaign may have made a tactical error, in part downplaying and appearing to sound dismissive of middle American, small town voters." (Fox News, 8/29/08)

New York Post's Charles Hurt: Obama Response "One Of Its Dumbest Moves Yet." "Barack Obama has run a very smart campaign but made one of its dumbest moves yet in response to John McCain's pick of Sarah Palin for veep. ...This insider-Washington drivel from a campaign calling for change? This from the campaign of a guy whose foreign policy experience amounts to little more than a choreographed trip with reporters? In the first place, inexperience is one thing in the second slot (Palin) while it's an entirely more serious concern in the top slot (Obama). Also, to dismiss Palin's executive service as governor is completely out of touch. 'Governor' has always been a tremendous plus for presidential candidates in America while there really is no category for 'community organizer.' What's amazing about this statement is not just that it was so stupid but that it was part of a PREPARED statement." (Charles Hurt, "Losing Their Ne rve?" New York Post, 8/29/08)
National Review's Jim Geraghty: "Team Obama cannot even say, 'Congratulations, Governor Palin, we look forward to a spirited race.' Nope, first thing they do is attack, attack, attack." (Jim Geraghty, "Team Obama Lashes Out At Palin," National Review Online's "The Campaign Spot," 8/29/08)


In The Headlines: 
The Associated Press: "Evangelicals Energized By McCain-Palin Ticket" (Eric Gorski, "Evangelicals Energized By McCain-Palin Ticket," The Associated Press, 8/30/08) 
Augusta Chronicle: "A Surprise Choice, Well-Timed" (Editorial, "A Surprise Choice, Well-Timed," Augusta Chronicle, 8/30/08) 
Boston Herald: "Sarah Palin: Mom, Hunter, Maverick" (Jessica Fargen, "Sarah Palin: Mom, Hunter, Maverick," Boston Herald, 8/30/08) 
Boston Herald Editorial: "With McCain's Pick, A Whole New Race" (Editorial, "With McCain's Pick, A Whole New Race," Boston Herald, 8/30/08) 
CNN: "Palin Makes History" ("Palin Makes History," CNN's "Political Ticker" Blog, 8/29/08) 
Dayton Daily News: "Nutter Crowd Greets Palin With Enthusiasm" (Joanne Huist Smith and James Cummings, "Nutter Crowd Greets Palin With Enthusiasm," Dayton Daily News, 8/30/08) 
Dayton Daily News: "Senator's Pick Known As A Maverick" (Jessica Wehrman, "Senator's Pick Known As A Maverick," Dayton Daily News, 8/30/08) 
Des Moines Register: "McCain's Pick Pleases Iowa's Social Conservatives"(Thomas Beaumont, "McCain Pick Pleases Iowa's Social Conservatives," Des Moines Register, 8/30/08) 
The New York Times: "Sarah Heath Palin, An Outsider Who Charms" (William Yardley, "Sarah Heath Palin, An Outsider Who Charms," The New York Times, 8/30/08) 
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review: "McCain-Palin: A Bold & Deft Pick" (Editorial, "McCain-Palin: A Bold & Deft Pick," Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, 8/30/08) 
Politico: "GOP Grassroots On Fire" (Jonathan Martin, "GOP Grassroots On Fire," Politico's "Jonathan Martin" Blog, 8/30/08) 
Savannah Morning News: "Area GOP Reaction Upbeat To McCain's V.P." (Jan Skutch, "Area GOP Reaction Upbeat To McCain's V.P." Savannah Morning News, 8/30/08) 
Tampa Tribune: "The Maverick Is Back" (Editorial, "The Maverick Is Back," Tampa Tribune, 8/30/08) 
The Wall Street Journal: "A Reform Ticket" (Editorial, "A Reform Ticket," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08) 
The Wall Street Journal: "Palin Fought For Reform In Alaska" (Fred Barnes, "Palin Fought For Reform In Alaska," The Wall Street Journal, 8/30/08) 
The Washington Post: "A Tenacious Reformer's Swift Rise" (Amy Goldstein and Michael D. Shear, "A Tenacious Reformer's Swift Rise," The Washington Post, 8/30/08) 
The Washington Post: "With Pick, McCain Reclaims His Maverick Image" (Dan Balz, "With Pick, McCain Reclaims His Maverick Image," The Washington Post, 8/30/08) 
The Washington Times: "Trumping Obama On Change" (Stephen Dinan, "Trumping Obama On Change," The Washington Times, 8/30/08) 
The Weekly Standard: "Providential Palin" (Fred Barnes, "Providential Palin," The Weekly Standard, 8/30/08)
  