
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to nominate John Koskinen as Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service.
President Obama said, "John is an expert at turning around institutions in need of reform. With decades of experience, in both the private and public sectors, John knows how to lead in difficult times, whether that means ensuring new management or implementing new checks and balances. Every part of our government must operate with absolute integrity and that is especially true for the IRS. I am confident that John will do whatever it takes to restore the public's trust in the agency."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate John Koskinen as Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service: 
John Koskinen, Nominee for Commissioner, Internal Revenue Service Department of Treasury
John Koskinen served as Non-Executive Chairman of Freddie Mac from 2008 to 2011 and acting CEO in 2009. From 2004 to 2008, Mr. Koskinen was the President of the United States Soccer Foundation. Prior to this, Mr. Koskinen was Deputy Mayor and City Administrator of Washington, D.C. from 2000 to 2003, Assistant to the President and Chair of the President's Council on Year 2000 Conversion from 1998 to 2000, and Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget from 1994 to 1997. Prior to entering government service, Mr. Koskinen worked for 21 years for the Palmieri Company in a number of leadership positions including, CEO and Chairman, President, and Vice President. Earlier in his career, he served as Administrative Assistant to Senator Abraham Ribicoff, Legislative Assistant to Mayor John Lindsey of New York City, and Assistant to the Deputy Executive Director of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders (the "Kerner Commission"). Mr. Koskinen practiced law with the firm of Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher and clerked for Judge David Bazelon, Chief Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. He serves on the boards of AES Corp. and American Capital, Ltd. Mr. Koskinen received a B.A. from Duke University and an L.L.B. and J.D. from Yale University School of Law.
  