
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress the Tenth Annual Report of the National Science Board, entitled Basic Research in the Mission Agencies: Agency Perspectives on the Conduct and Support of Basic Research. This report is part of a continuing series in the Board's examination of key aspects of the status of American science.
It is now generally accepted that science and technology contribute in significant ways to our international trade balance, to productivity and economic growth, and to the solution of many of our social challenges. Perhaps less widely perceived is the fact that basic research is the foundation upon which many of our Nation's technological achievements have been built.
This report provides detailed evidence that basic research supported by Federal agencies not only contributes to America's scientific and technological advances, but also plays an active role in helping the Government meet our Nation's needs. Since taking office, I have encouraged the agencies to identify current or potential problems facing the Federal Government, in which basic or long-term research could help these agencies meet their responsibilities or provide a better basis for decision-making. As a result of this review process, my fiscal year 1979 budget proposed increased levels of funding for basic research—support that I believe is essential for the discoveries and technological innovations fundamental to both our economic well-being and our national security. The National Science Board's report illustrates well the relationship between basic and applied research, and I believe that the report will be useful to the Congress in completing its work on the R&D proposals before it.
In addition to addressing these fundamental issues the report should be helpful to the Congress and others concerned with setting priorities for future federally supported research and development, and in making our spending in this area more effective.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
August 2, 1978.
  