
    President Trump. Thank you very much. It's great to have President Kenyatta of Kenya and First Lady Kenyatta. Thank you very much for being here. It's a great honor.
We have a tremendous relationship with Kenya. We have terrorism, a lot of trade, getting bigger and bigger all the time.
President Kenyatta. Absolutely.
President Trump. We're working on a major infrastructure project, a massive roadway that will be record setting in many ways. And we are going to conclude a lot of good things.
We have the President's representatives in the next room. And we're going to be going in there, and we're going to be making some great deals for both countries.
So thank you very much, both, for being here. This is a tremendous honor. Thank you very much.
President Kenyatta. Great pleasure. Wonderful to have us. Thank you. We appreciate it.
President Trump. Thank you very much.
President Kenyatta. Yes.
President Trump. Would you like to say something?
President Kenyatta. Yes. I want to just take this opportunity to thank Mr. President and the First Lady for welcoming us here to the White House.
As President Trump has said, Kenya and United States have had strong, solid relationships ever since our independence. We are here to renew that partnership. We are here to strengthen it. We've had very good and excellent cooperation, especially in our fight against terrorism, because of the neighborhood that we're in—al-Shabaab fights—which the United States have been a very good, strong, and solid partner.
But more importantly, we're here to pursue and to strengthen our trade and investment ties, which are already very strong. We have a good number of American companies in Kenya. And we want to see how we can strengthen that going forward for the mutual benefit of our two countries.
And I believe that we will have very fruitful discussions this afternoon. And we'll have a lot to report at the end of it.
Well, thank you once again, Mr. President——
President Trump. Thank you.
President Kenyatta. ——for welcoming us to the White House.
President Trump. Great honor.
President Kenyatta. Happy to be with you.
President Trump. Thank you. President Kenyatta. Thanks, Melania.
President Trump. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.
  