
    Today, the United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States citing his long standing commitment and history of standing shoulder to shoulder with working families. The United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters is a union made up of business managers, business agents, journeymen and journeywomen, and apprentices from around the United States. Their endorsement highlights Joe Biden's record on labor and how he has always prioritized the American worker.
"I am deeply honored to receive the support of the United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters and grateful that they recognize that no one can sit on the sidelines of the most important election of our lifetimes," said Vice President Biden. "I promise you this: if I'm elected, workers and unions will have the strongest friend they have ever had in the White House. The middle class and unions are the backbone of this country, and the Biden-Harris Administration will fight for them every day. "
The United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters released the following press release: 
United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters Endorses Vice President Joe Biden for President
Endorsement follows months-long internal process led by Political Engagement Committee.
The United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters (UA) today announced that the UA Political Engagement Committee (PEC) has concluded its endorsement process with a decision to endorse former Vice President Joe Biden for President.
"We're not going to sit on the sidelines at the UA. This endorsement is about putting UA members to work and fighting for fair wages and good benefits. Under a Biden Administration, that's exactly what we'll get," said Mark McManus, General President of the United Association. "Let's be real: nobody in the Oval Office will be with us on every single issue. But with his long history of standing shoulder to shoulder with working families and his commitment to an all-of-the-above energy approach that will mean more UA jobs, protecting the hard-earned retirements of our members, and appointing union-friendly judges, Joe Biden will be a fierce ally to our UA Brothers and Sisters in the White House."
The UA PEC was formed two years ago to directly engage UA members across the country in the political process and is made up of Business Managers, Business Agents, Journeymen and Journeywomen, and Apprentices from around the United States. The Committee met virtually over the last few months to develop a set of criteria to be used for a possible presidential endorsement and to compare both candidates on the four core issues most important to UA families: union rights, infrastructure, energy, and retirement security.
This announcement is the result of a months-long endorsement process that weighed the merits of both candidates and whether either had earned the support of the more than 359,000 members of the United Association, or if the UA should remain neutral.
  