
    Castro 'walks the walk,' committed 'to lifting up the voices usually left out'
SAN ANTONIO, TX (August 29, 2019) – Eight Iowa leaders from throughout the state endorsed former U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary under President Obama and San Antonio Mayor, Julián Castro, for president on Thursday highlighting his commitment to fighting for all people.
Secretary Castro continues to grow support and momentum in Iowa, picking up endorsements in Cedar Rapids, Iowa City, Marshalltown, Mount Pleasant, Des Moines and rural Fremont County.
"I am traveling to every corner of Iowa and am honored to have the support of these leaders who know these communities best and work every day to make them better," Secretary Castro said. "The support of these leaders is critical as the campaign continues to gain support and momentum throughout Iowa."
"I support Secretary Castro because I believe he is committed to serving all people, no matter their background or hometown. His commitment to lifting up the voices of those usually left out goes above and beyond, and he embodies the type of leader I believe should be in the White House." -- Lindsey Ellickson, Cedar Rapids community leader and state central committee member of the Iowa Democratic Party
"Secretary Castro understands the promise of a better life that America holds for so many, and his story is a testament to his leadership and commitment to listening to all people. I proudly endorse Secretary Castro because he is dedicated to fighting for all Americans regardless of their hometown." -- Jonathon Muñoz, president of LULAC Council 308
"I support Secretary Castro because he 'walks the walk.' He does not just talk about the major issues facing our communities, but he has taken a concrete stance to solve them. Secretary Castro has walked through, seen, and listened to the concerns of our communities. He represents the future of politics and is inspirational to many, even those who previously have 'given-up' on politics." -- Andrew Bribriesco, legal advisor for LULAC Iowa and a workers' rights attorney
Those endorsing Secretary Castro on Thursday include:

Lindsey Ellickson, Cedar Rapids community leader and state central committee member of the Iowa Democratic Party
Dave Barajas, Marshalltown community leader
Jonathon Muñoz, LULAC Council 308 President, LULAC Iowa State Parliamentarian and Iowa City Human Rights Commissioner
Andrew Bribriesco, Legal advisor for LULAC Iowa and workers' rights attorney in Iowa City
Don "Bart" Bartholomew, Former Fremont County Supervisor
Maria Mellado, Mount Pleasant LULAC Council President
Dawn Martinez Oropeza, Community leader and arts activist in Des Moines
Adalberto "Beto" Castrejon, Former president of the University of Northern Iowa Hispanic Latino Student Union

The new endorsements from local Iowa leaders follow Secretary Castro's eleventh trip to the first-in-the-nation caucus state.
Last week, Secretary Castro visited TPI Composites in Newton, Iowa, to speak about the need for the United States to invest in green jobs and renewable energy.
  