
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted August 15
Kenneth Burton, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term of 2 years (new position).
D. Michael Rappoport, of Arizona, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term of 2 years (new position).
Submitted August 16
Jorge M. Perez, of Florida, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 1998, vice Nina Brock, term expired.
Joseph Francis Baca, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 1995, vice James Duke Cameron, term expired.
Robert Nelson Baldwin, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 1995, vice Carl F. Bianchi, term expired.
Jennifer Chandler Hauge, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 1995, vice Sandra A. O'Connor, term expired.
Florence K. Murray, of Rhode Island, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 1995, vice Malcolm M. Lucas, term expired.
Elaine F. Bucklo, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice John A. Nordberg, retired.
David H. Coar, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Ilana Diamond Rovner, elevated.
Robert W. Gettleman, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice John F. Grady, retired.
Paul E. Riley, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Illinois (new position).
  