
    On Monday, August 21, President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden traveled to Maui to support survivors, thank first responders and emergency personnel, and receive a briefing from state and local officials. The President said the nation is "grieving with you," and the federal government will help for as "long as it takes."
See coverage below:

The Maui News: Residents hope president's visit makes impression on need for aid
"Hope. I think that's the main thing. I think that's what the president brings when he comes to any community," Mayor Richard Bissen said as he awaited the president's arrival via helicopter at the Kapalua-West Maui Regional Airport on Monday morning. "People look to him as our leader. We look at him as the one that controls all the federal agencies, and he is able to get things."
Bissen said the federal government's response so far has been quick, from Biden signing the major disaster declaration for the state within hours of Gov. Josh Green requesting one, to the scores of federal personnel deployed to respond the disaster efforts.
"I'm glad he is here to see firsthand what has happened to our town," said Lori Koyama, who lost her Wahikuli house in the fire. "It shows he cares."
"I just told him, thank you very much for the support and presented him with a coin on behalf of the men and women of MPD who have been tirelessly working day in and day out to make sure they are doing right by the community and everything they can," Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said.
Pelletier said "he and his wife could not been more kinder" and that the president told him "that he was with us and that we'd get everything we needed."
Maui Fire Chief Brad Ventura, who also met the president, echoed the need for support. "I'm just grateful that he made the trip and showed immense support for our community and that we are a hurting community right now and are going to need the support from everywhere around the world, so we appreciate all the efforts," Ventura said.
Honolulu Star-Advertiser: President Biden sends message of support, hope after touring Lahaina
As Marine 1 gave President Joe Biden an aerial view of the haunting aftermath from the firestorm that left historic Lahaina town in ashes, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen stood inside tiny Kapalua Airport — awaiting the president's arrival and trusting it would send a message of "hope."
And that's what it did.
Biden promised that he and the federal government will continue to help the people of Lahaina with "whatever it takes, as long as it takes" to rebuild from the Aug. 8 wind-whipped inferno that killed at least 115 people so far, with hundreds still listed as "not found."
Biden ended his remarks at the Civic Center by pledging to meet with anyone who wanted to talk to him after. "If I didn't, Danny [Inouye,] I know you're watching," Biden said to laughter. "I know you're watching. I think I learned the lessons you taught me." Speaking with as many people in the room as he could delayed his departure by over an hour.
"Jill and I are here to grieve with you but also want you to know the entire country is here for you," Biden said. "That's not hyperbole. We mean that. The entire … country is here for you.
"We just surveyed the damage. I want you to know: whatever it takes, as long as it takes." To applause, Biden said, "We're going to get it done for you, but get it done the way you want it done — not get it done somebody else's way. No, I mean it."
Hawaii News Now: 'It still stands': Lahaina's banyan tree a symbol of hope — even for President Biden
"Trees survive for a reason. I believe it's a powerful a very powerful symbol, what we can and will do to get through this crisis. And for this, for as long as it takes we're going to be with you, the whole country be with you.," Biden added.
[…] For so many, the sturdy roots of the tree represent the resiliency of the people of Lahaina. President Biden reiterated that message in a community address with survivors later in the day.
"It burned but it still stands. One resident called it a 'diamond in the rough of hope'. Another said, 'fire cannot reach its roots'. I know it's a metaphor, but that's you. That's who you are. That's Hawaii. There's no quit in Hawaii," Biden said.
Maui Now: Biden tells Lahaina fire survivors to applause: 'We're gonna build back better … but what you want'
The president drew applause when he said: "We're gonna build back better. Better than you had. But what YOU want. What YOU need."
[…] Green, Bissen and the Hawai?i congressional delegation have praised Biden for his quick issuance of a federal emergency declaration and continued support of the recovery efforts. Bissen said Biden called him on Sunday to see what help he could provide.
On Monday, Bissen thanked the Bidens for coming to Maui to "see firsthand the catastrophic destruction our people our facing. … We are incredibly grateful for the overwhelming outpouring of kindness, k?kua and kako?o that we are receiving on Maui, and I am humbled by how everyone in Hawai?i, and countless others around the world, have stood with us during this difficult time."
AP: Biden says federal government will help Maui 'for as long as it takes' to recover from wildfire
President Joe Biden on Monday told survivors of Hawaii's wildfires that the nation "grieves with you" and promised that the federal government will help "for as long as it takes" Maui to recover from damage caused by the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century.
NBC News: Biden to meet with Maui residents and first responders after deadly wildfires
In a statement ahead of his trip, Biden said, "I know how profoundly loss can impact a family and a community and I know nothing can replace the loss of life. I will do everything in my power to help Maui recover and rebuild from this tragedy. And throughout our efforts, we are focused on respecting sacred lands, cultures, and traditions."
Biden has been in close contact with Hawaii Gov. Josh Green since the onset of fires in Maui and has received regular briefings from the administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Deanne Criswell, and Homeland Security adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall, the White House said in a release.
Biden signed a major disaster declaration for the state earlier this month that made federal aid funding available to help Maui County residents recover.
As of Sunday, more than 1,000 federal personnel were on the ground in Maui assisting residents, including almost 450 search and rescue team members, the White House said. The administration has also approved more than $8 million in assistance to almost 2,500 households, including almost $3 million in initial rental assistance. FEMA has made more than 50,000 meals, 20,000 gallons of water, 5,000 cots and 10,000 blankets and shelter supplies available to the county government for distribution, the release said.
New York Times: Biden Visiting Hawaii to Inspect Wildfire Damage
"My heart, my prayers and my focus are on the victims of the Maui wildfires and their families," Mr. Biden said in a written statement released by the White House on Sunday. "I know how profoundly loss can impact a family and a community and I know nothing can replace the loss of life. I will do everything in my power to help Maui recover and rebuild from this tragedy."
He added that the federal government would respect sacred lands, cultures and traditions in its recovery efforts. "Jill and I are eager to meet with the brave first responders in Lahaina tomorrow, to spend time with families and community members, and witness firsthand what will be required for the community to recover," he said. "We will be here as long as it takes for Maui."
As of Saturday, more than 1,000 federal workers were on the ground in Maui, according to the White House, including more than 450 search and rescue personnel. FEMA has provided more than 50,000 meals, 75,000 liters of water, 5,000 cots and 10,000 blankets as well as $7 million in short-term aid to nearly 2,200 households, a down payment on what will be a far more extensive investment.
Politico: 'As long as it takes': Biden promises to deliver on Maui's recovery
Standing beside what was left of a Maui town's historic banyan tree, President Joe Biden pledged to continue to deliver on recovery efforts for the community recently devastated by deadly wildfires.
"For the people of Hawaii, we're with you for as long as it takes, I promise you," Biden said Monday, after touring the devastation left in the wake of the fires that ripped through Lahaina on Aug. 8.
"The country grieves with you, stands with you and will do everything possible to help you recover and rebuild and respect cultural traditions in the rebuilding taking place," Biden said.
Reuters: In Maui, Biden sees 'long road' ahead in recovering from deadly wildfires
U.S. President Joe Biden on Monday praised the "remarkable resiliency" of the people of Maui, after wildfires killed more than 114 people on the Hawaiian island two weeks ago, and said America would stand by them for as long as it takes.
"The American people stand with you," he told survivors of the Aug. 8 wildfires, standing alongside Governor Josh Green, Hawaii's senators and the representative for Maui in Congress. "For as long as it takes, we're going to be with you."
Biden, wearing an ornate lei, later told 400 people at a community event that featured traditional music and heartfelt speeches by local leaders: "Jill and I are here to grieve with you but also we want you to know the entire country is here for you."
"We're focused on what's next. That's rebuilding for the long term …and doing it together," said Biden, visibly moved after a tour of the blackened city of Lahaina. He added he would make sure "your voices are heard" and local traditions and wishes were respected.
Time: Biden Addresses Victims in Maui as Search for Hundreds of Missing Drags On
After arriving in Maui via Air Force One on Monday, President Joe Biden boarded a helicopter, taking in from the air the miles of charred remains left behind by the deadliest American fire in a century.
Hawaii News Now: Biden said Lahaina will be rebuilt — in the way Lahaina residents want it to be rebuilt
During his remarks to devastated Lahaina residents on Monday, President Biden made sure to deliver this message: Your community will be rebuilt on your terms.
It was a message clearly aimed at allaying fears among longtime residents that Lahaina's future won't look anything like its past. And that reassurance resonated with survivors and evacuees who have lost everything, including members of their family, neighbors and friends.
"We will be respectful of the sacred grounds and traditions and rebuild the way that people of Maui want to build, not the way others want to build," Biden said, speaking at Lahaina Civic Center.
Washington Post: President Biden tours devastation on Maui caused by wildfires
President Biden and first lady Jill Biden arrived in this grief-stricken community Monday afternoon, touring damage from one of the deadliest wildfires in American history and attempting to channel one of the president's signature traits: comforting those who have lost loved ones.
"On behalf of the United States of America, the American people stand with you," he said, surrounded by burned buildings. "For as long as it takes, we're going to be with you. The whole country will be with you."
He motioned to his left, at a historic banyan tree that appeared to have survived, using it as a symbol of hope of rebuilding lives, businesses and the community.
"Fire cannot reach its roots," he said. "That's Maui. That's America."
Yahoo News: Biden tells Hawaii fire survivors: 'We're with you'
President Joe Biden told survivors of a horrific blaze in Hawaii the government would not abandon them as he toured the scene of the worst wildfire the US has seen in over a century.
"I know the feeling that many people in this town, this community (have); that hollow feeling you have in your chest like you're being sucked into a black hole," he said as he stood by the blackened skeleton of a historic banyan tree.
"We're with you for as long as it takes, I promise you, by making sure your voices are heard.
"We're gonna rebuild the way that the people of Maui want to build. The fire cannot reach the roots. That's Maui. That's America."
Hawaii News Now: During whirlwind visit, Biden surveys 'overwhelming' devastation on Maui and comforts grieving residents
"The devastation is overwhelming," Biden said, standing on Front Street after shaking hands with first responders and crews tackling the difficult work of searching for remains. "The country grieves with you, stands with you. We're focused on what's next, rebuilding in the long-term."
After touring devastated Lahaina, President Biden then made his way to the Lahaina Civic Center, where he delivered heartfelt remarks to wildfire survivors and those who lost loved ones.
He also greeted many personally, spending nearly two hours there to offer hugs and condolences.
KHON (FOX Honolulu, HI): President Biden, First Lady tour Lahaina, meet survivors
President Biden delivered remarks, in which he announced Bob Fenton, one of the most experienced disaster response and recovery experts in America, as the Chief Federal Response Coordinator to lead long-term recovery.
Gov. Josh Green signed a Major Disaster Declaration requesting federal assistance the day after the fires leveled Lahaina–it was signed in six hours. As of Sunday, more than $8 million has been approved to assist nearly 2,500 households and FEMA has provided more than 50,000 meals, 75,000 liters of water, 5,000 cots and 10,000 blankets and shelter supplies.
Biden said that more than 1,000 federal personnel are on Maui with the full weight of federal aid behind them. That includes close to 450 search and rescue team members.
Hawaii News Now: Maui resident reflects on conversation with President Biden

Resident: "[…]and I just wanted to say how he was so present with so many - one after one, like hundreds, he spoke with hundreds of people. And he hugged them, and kissed their cheek, and heard what we all had to say…Since this happened there haven't been that many smiles in one place on this island, and it was profoundly touching."
Resident: "Again, he spoke with a number of people inside. About 200 people all together. Took his time, really spending one-on-one moments, connecting with people. The people we spoke with said he was heartfelt, he was sincere, he shared his past tragedies in his own life losing his first wife and young daughter in a car crash […]"
Hawaii News Now: Maui resident reflects on conversation with President Biden

Lynn: "I could feel the mood change [...] He will stay much longer, shake every hand, hug, I could feel the mood change in the civic center [...] He was going to go table to table. Anyone who wanted to talk to him [...] He was going to make himself available. He didn't have to do that."Maui County Mayor Bissen on C-SPAN – August 21

BISSEN: "I wanted to say how responsive the President has been. He called yesterday. I asked for the help that we needed. And within two hours one of his cabinet members called me back to answer my question. So, we've been getting all the help that we need."
Senator Brian Schatz on C-SPAN – August 21

SCHATZ: "We in Hawaii have been through hurricanes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions - but we have NEVER seen such a robust federal response. Thank you."
Senator Mazie Hirono on C-SPAN – August 21 
 HIRONO: "All of our family of federal agencies: FEMA, the Department of Defense, Interior, HUD, the Army Corps of Engineers, SBA. They were all here from the beginning to provide the help that we need."
  