
    Pool Reports by Tarini Parti, The Wall Street Journal 
Note: The pool reports for the Vice President's trip to Singapore and Vietnam are all consecutively numbered by this reporter from 1 through 46 spanning the period of August 20 through August 27.



Sent:
Reports:




August 26, 2021 11:29 ICT

VP Travel Pool #34 -- "Change Makers" Event/Pool Spray 
Good morning from Hanoi.
The motorcade left the JW Marriott at 9:37 a.m. During the ride, the motorcade slowed down by the Supreme Court in Hanoi presumably to catch a glimpse. I'll also note the "Hanoi Hilton," where American POWs were held, including Sen John McCain, was along the route. We arrived at the Chief of Mission's Residence at 10:05 a.m.
A roundtable discussion with the vice president and Vietnamese social advocacy organizations began at 10:13 a.m. The organizations worked on issues related to disabled, transgender rights, the environment and the LGBTQI+ community.
The discussion was moderated by Ann Marie Yastishock, the mission director of USAID/Vietnam. Names of other participants below.
Ms. Yastishock introduced the VP.
"We have asked you all to join us to share your thoughts on the community based organizations working in Vietnam," Yastishock said.
The vice president then gave brief remarks before each of the participants introduced themselves and gave an overview of their work.
"Thank you for the work you've been doing here in Vietnam through USAID," Harris said.
"We believe we are entering a new era in many ways, we as in the world, and it is in large part defined by the increasingly obvious nature of the interconnection and interdependence of people," Harris said. "And in that way I consider the interconnection and interdependence to be based on a number of issues, including the issue of human rights."
"It is critical that if we are to take on the challenges we face that we do it in a way that is collaborative, that we must empower leaders in every sector, including of course government but community leaders, business leaders, civic society if we are to maximize the resources we collectively have," Harris said.
"We've seen great examples of this work in Vietnam," Harris said.
Harris said "people with disabilities need full accessibility and it is something we are still working to achieve in the United States."
"Transgender people deserve equal access to health care service. This is an issue we still face in the United States and it is an issue here in Vietnam," Harris said.
"Women need to live free to gender based violence. Again this is a universal truth," Harris said.
Harris, masked, then listened while each advocate gave an overview of their work. At one point she asked Ms. Nguy?n Th? Lan Anh to clarify a statistic on the number of the disabled in Vietnam.
"62 million?" Harris asked.
"6.2 million," Ms. Nguy?n Th? Lan Anh replied.
We were escorted out of the area at 10:23 AMWe were loaded into the vans at 10:48 AM. Participants:
• Mr. Chu Thanh Hà Ngoc, Transgender Rights Advocate • Ms. Nguy?n Th? Lan Anh, Disability Rights Advocate • Ms. ?? Vân Nguy?t, Environmental Advocate • Mr. ?oàn Thanh Tùng, LGBTQI+ Advocate 


August 26, 2021 12:28 ICT

VP Travel Pool #35 —- OTR vaccine donation stop 
At 11:11 AM, the Vice President made an unannounced stop at the the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology (NIHE) to witness a shipment of vaccines from the administration's latest donation to Vietnam.
The VP announced the U.S. was donating 1 million vaccines to Vietnam yesterday, bringing the total number of vaccines donated by the US to Vietnam to 6 million.
Harris was greeted by an official from the NIHE and stepped into a narrow gray hallway leading to the storage area for the vaccines. A limited number of reporters was permitted to step inside and see her brief exchange.
"That's our intent to do everything we can to help," Harris said while wearing a black mask.
"It's important to us," Harris said. "We know Vietnam was very helpful to us in the early stages of the pandemic, sending PPE and other support."
Harris then stepped outside and gave brief remarks to the gathered press.
The Vice President started by thanking the Vietnamese National Institute of Hygiene.  "We in the United States are very thankful to the Vietnamese for coming through, we needed support early on in the pandemic.
"It's important to us," Harris said. "We know Vietnam was very helpful to us in the early stages of the pandemic, sending PPE and other support."
Harris then stepped outside and gave brief remarks to gathered press. The Vice President started by thanking the Vietnamese National Institute of Hygiene.
"We in the United States are very thankful to the Vietnamese for coming through when we needed support early on in the pandemic. I think it was about April of 2020."
She mentioned how Vietnam previously sent PPE to the U.S.
She mentioned her announcement on vaccines yesterday (described above).
"This is probably one of the, if not the, number one issue in terms of [INAUDIBLE] in Vietnam right now, and this donation, and it is a donation there are no strings attached, it is free, is an expression of America's support to Vietnam," Harris said.
"This is obviously what is morally right to do and this is obviously a public health issue and really speaks to the importance of the relationships and partnerships that we have as Americans around the world when it comes to dealing with this crisis, which is a global health crisis," Harris said.
Harris then walked back to the motorcade as reporters shouted questions about the COVID origin report.
We were rolling at 11:20 AM. We arrived back at the JW Marriot at 11:36 AM.
More background from VP office-->
The Vice President will drop by the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology (NIHE) to highlight the United States' commitment to ending the pandemic. The National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology will receive 270,000 doses of Pfizer vaccine doses that will have arrived earlier in the morning.
The Vice President announced on Wednesday, August 26 the U.S. is donating an additional 1 million Pfizer doses to Vietnam, bringing our total donation to 6 million doses. The U.S. delivered 500,000 doses to Ho Chi Minh City on Wednesday. The third and final 270,000 doses will be delivered to Hanoi on Friday, August 27. 


August 26, 2021 12:36 ICT

VP Travel Pool #36 --- Name of the NIHE official 
Here's the name of the official from the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology who met with the vice president at the site of the vaccine donation.
Dr. ??ng ??c Anh.Or Dr. Dang Duc Anh if easier.
Director, National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, Ministry of Health, Vietnam.


August 26, 2021 14:59 ICT

VP Travel Pool Report # 37 
The vice president's press conference from a conference hall in the J.W. Marriott in Hanoi is slated to begin in about 7 minutes (2:40 PMlocal time). American and Vietnamese journalists are present. Here is the link for the live stream: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 


August 26, 2021 15:32 ICT

VP Travel Pool Report #38 -- End of press conference//departure to airport 
The vice president's press conference started at 2:59 P.M. and ended at 3:20 PM. She was asked about the collaboration between the US and Vietnam, human rights in Vietnam, Afghanistan withdrawal, the future of women's rights in Afghanistan and US-China reactions.
We're in the motorcade at 3:25 PM and off the airport. 


August 26, 2021 17:12 ICT

VP travel pool report #39 
VP exited motorcade at 4:08 PM and took a photo with her advance team. She then boarded Air Force two.
She came to the back of the plane for a brief OTR. We're wheels up at roughly 4:30 PM. Off to Guam.


August 27, 2021 02:02 ChST

VP Travel Pool Report #40 
Air Force 2 landed in Guam at 1:27 AM on Friday after about about a 6 hour and 20 minute flight.
After landinf, a White House official sent the following statement to your pooler.
"The Vice President has been briefed on the situation in Kabul, and she will continue to be updated."
Also forgot to include this list of officials greeting the VP from the airport in Hanoi before takeoff. Apologies.
Protocol:- Mr. Nguyen Viet Dung, Director General, MFA Protocol (Chiefof Protocol)- Ms. Penny Price, US Deputy Assistant Chief of Protocol
Greeters:- Mr. Le Khanh Hai, Chairman of the Office of State President- Mr. Nguyen Quoc Dung, MFA Vice Minister- Ms. Nguyen Vu Ha Le, Director General of Foreign AffairsDepartment, Office of the State President- Mr. Le Chi Dung, Director General of Americas Department, MFA- Chargé d'Affaires Christopher Klein, US Embassy Hanoi,


August 27, 2021 02:11 ChST

VP Travel Pool Report #41 — additional detail on VP briefing 
From WH official: The VP was on video into the 9:15am situation room briefing with POTUS listed on his schedule.
We're currently on a layover in Guam expected to last roughly 2 hours before continuing to Honolulu where the VP has an event at Pearl Harbor. We are expected to land in Honolulu on Thursday at 2:40 PM local time. 


August 26, 2021 15:28 HST

VP Travel Pool #42 — arrival in Honolulu/VP TO RETURN TO WASHINGTON 
Air Force 2 arrived in Honolulu at 2:40 PM local time after about a 7 hour and 30 minute flight from Guam.
The VP's staff informed the pool during the flight that her event with troops at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam would now be closed press. No explanation given by the VP's team for why it has been changed to closed press when asked by a member of the pool.
The VP's staff also informed the pool that the Vice President will be returning to DC on Air Force II after the Pearl Harbor event.
The VP was originally scheduled to travel to San Francisco after the Pearl Harbor event to stump for Gov. Gavin Newsom.
The Vice President was greeted in Honolulu by Admiral Samuel Paparo, Commander of U.S. Pacific Fleet.


August 26, 2021 15:35 HST

VP Travel Pool Report #43 
The Vice President exited Air Force 2 at 3 PM at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickman. She spoke for exactly 2 minutes with Admiral Samuel Paparo, Commander of U.S. Pacific Fleet.
She then gave a wave towards the press as reporters shouted questions about Afghanistan before stepping into her black SUV. The Vice President did not respond to questions.
She is heading to an event with troops on the base that is closed press. 


August 26, 2021 15:38 HST

VP Travel Pool Report #44
VP's office sends this statement along
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 26, 2021
Statement by Vice President Kamala Harris on the Terror Attack in Kabul Today in Kabul, a terror attack killed 13 American service members. These courageous servicemembers died while saving countless lives. They are heroes.
Doug and I grieve for the Americans we lost, we pray for the Americans injured in the attack, and our hearts go out to their loved ones. We also grieve for the Afghan civilians killed and injured.
Our country is grateful to all our women and men in uniform, and in particular, those working today to get Americans and our Afghan partners out of harm's way. And we will complete that mission.
Today, we honor those who gave their lives in service to their nation. We will never forget.


August 26, 2021 16:39 HST

VP Travel Pool #45 info on troop event/wheels up 
VP boarded AF2 at 4:18 pm local time. She got up the first few steps and then waited for the second gentleman who joined for her event at the base. She didn't respond to shouted questions about Afghanistan.
Wheels up shortly for JBA. We've got another 10-hour flight ahead of us.
Passingly along info from VP's office —On Background: While at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, the Vice President addressed 25 members of the military representing the six active duty service branches and National Guard, thanking them for their service. She and the Second Gentleman then talked individually with each service member.



  