
    Secretary Udall, distinguished Governors and mayors, my fellow Americans:
It was a week ago today that I called you here together in the face of a 4-year drought that has been unequaled in the Northeastern United States.
I said then that this was a time for action--a time for action to meet and to overcome the challenge of this great drought. That action is being taken.
Last Wednesday I sent water crisis teams under the direction of Secretary Udall and the Chief of Engineers into the Northeast. These teams, with the full support and with the help of all the Governors--Governors Hughes, Rockefeller, Scranton, and Terry, and Mayors Wagner, Tate, Pierce, and Addonizio--have forged a plan of action. The Congressmen and the Senators are on Capitol Hill voting on important legislation today and could not be here with us, but they have made valuable contributions. And while they cannot be here, I particularly and especially want to thank each of them for their interest and for their constructive help.
This morning the Delaware River Basin Commission ratified this plan. It has already been reviewed by the top water experts in the Federal Government. There is universal agreement that we should proceed at once. Under the plan, the States and the local communities, with the help of the Federal Government, can begin immediately to combat this unprecedented drought.
First, at the request of the Governors of the drought-stricken States, I am today writing to Governor Ellington, the Director of the Office of Emergency Planning, declaring certain portions of New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Delaware as disaster areas.
Second, to ease the critical water crisis in northern New Jersey, I am directing the Chief of Engineers to install an emergency pump-pipeline system at Lake Hopatcong, New Jersey. We have obtained the approval of New York State to release water stored in the Greenwood Lake to the Newark reservoirs. I am directing the Secretary of Interior to drill emergency wells in the underground Passaic Lake to develop standby water supplies.
Third, to resolve the water problems between New York and Philadelphia we have reached an agreement to establish a "strategic waterbank" with the 200 million gallons of New York reservoir water now released daily into the Delaware River as a "salt water buffer" for Philadelphia. This water will now be held for use by New York or Philadelphia, as determined by the Delaware River Basin Commission.
Fourth, to assure Philadelphia a continuing water supply, construction of the Tortesdale intake will be speeded up to completion and full operation by December the 1st.
Finally, and in many ways most important, the Governors and the mayors of the drought stricken areas have agreed to increase their efforts to conserve their existing water supplies.
Our experts believe these measures are sufficient, if they are accompanied by aggressive conservation measures at the same time.
Now, if additional action is necessary your Federal Government will be prepared to act. In northern New Jersey, for example, we are prepared to provide an emergency pump pipeline system from the Passaic Lake wells. If indeed it is needed, we are also prepared to provide an emergency supply system on the Delaware River to insure that the water needs of Philadelphia are met.
Now, these are strong steps. But they are wise steps, and they must be taken together.
For only if we work together can we overcome the water shortage threat now facing 25 million citizens in the most populated section of our Nation.
This has been a very commendable American effort. We have associated with us in these endeavors members of both parties, Republican Governors and Democratic Governors, mayors of both parties, and they have worked together not determining for a moment what is best for their party but what is best for their country and their areas.
I have been stimulated by the opportunity I have had to work with them and to cooperate with them, and I want to commend each Governor present, and each mayor present, and each head of Federal agency present, for the nonpartisan way they have attacked this matter, the diligence that they have demonstrated, and the results that they have achieved.
Whatever needs to be done in the future, so far as the Federal Government is concerned, will be done. I thank each Governor and each mayor for their true public-spirited leadership.
Thank you very much.
  