
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Michael J. Fitzpatrick of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador.
Mr. Fitzpatrick, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1988. He is currently a Deputy Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. Mr. Fitzpatrick has served seven tours at U.S. Missions overseas and in senior leadership positions at the Department of State, including as the interim U.S. Permanent Representative to the Organization of American States, Deputy Chief of Mission and Charge d'Affaires at the U.S. Embassy in Lima, Peru, Foreign Policy Advisor to a four-star member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Deputy Chief of Mission and Charge d'Affaires at the U.S. Embassy in Asuncion, Paraguay. Mr. Fitzpatrick earned a B.A. from Georgetown University and an M.I.A. from Columbia University. He is the recipient of 17 notable State Department awards, including the Director General's Award for Reporting and Analysis. He is also a recipient of the W. Averell Harriman Award from the American Foreign Service Association (AFSA). Mr. Fitzpatrick speaks Spanish and French.
Richard Carlton Paschall III of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of The Gambia.
Mr. Paschall, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served with the Foreign Service since 1991. He is currently the Deputy Coordinator for Military Coordination and Operations in the Bureau of Counterterrorism at the State Department. Previously, he served in leadership positions in the Bureau of African Affairs at the State Department, at the U.S. Embassies in Iraq and Chad, and as Foreign Policy Advisor to the Commander of the Special Operations Command-Africa. Mr. Paschall earned a B.A. from University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill and an M.S. from the National Defense University. He is the recipient of numerous notable State Department awards as well as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Meritorious Civilian Service Award.
Eric William Stromayer of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Togolese Republic.
Mr. Stromayer, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1998. He is currently Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for East Africa and the Sudans in the Bureau of African Affairs at the Department of State. Mr. Stromayer has served six tours at U.S. Missions overseas and in senior leadership positions at the Department of State, including as Charge d'Affaires and Deputy Chief of Mission in Madagascar, Executive Director of the Bureau of African Affairs, Desk Officer at the Office of West African Affairs in the Bureau of African Affairs, and as General Services Officer at the U.S. Embassy in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. He earned a B.A. from Northwestern University and an M.A. from Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Mr. Stromayer is the recipient of numerous awards from the State Department. Mr. Stromayer speaks French, Italian, Hungarian, Wolof, Haitian Creole, and some Spanish.
---
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to designate and appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Stephen A. Feinberg of New York, to be a Member and the Chair of the Intelligence Oversight Board.
Jovita Carranza of Illinois, to be a Member of the Women's Suffrage Centennial Commission.
  