
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




August 7, 202206:47

WH in-town pool report #1 - awaiting departure
Good morning from the White House where POTUS is leaving for Rehoboth, Delaware, following his Covid isolation.
Pool is on the South Lawn awaiting departure.
Note: POTUS last saw FLOTUS on July 20th.
More tk… 


August 7, 202207:13

White House in-town pool #2 - POTUS comments
POTUS exited the White House at 7:09 am.
He took off his face mask as he came out the door.
He responded to a few questions as he walked by.
"I'm feeling great," he said.
Asked about Inflation Reduction Act. "I think it's gonna pass."
He put his mask on as boarded Marine One.
More tk …. 


August 7, 202207:19

WH in town pool #3 - Marine One liftoff
Marine One lifted off from the South Lawn at 7:14 am.
POTUS was wearing a blue jacket and pants with blue shirt. No tie. He smiled, waved and seemed cheerful as he engaged shortly with the pool during his walk by from the residence to the chopper.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One en route to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware:

Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Josh Geltzer Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Erin Scott, White House Photographer




August 7, 202207:59

WH in-town pool #4 - cleaner POTUS quotes
Upon listening to the video playback, here are the better POTUS quotes:
"I'm feeling good," he said.
He also made a inaudible comment after that.
And then he paused after he passed the pool to turn back to answer the question on the Inflation Reduction Act: "I think it's gonna pass."
Also pooler has inquired if POTUS tested negative for Covid this morning and will pass along any update received. 




Pool Reports below by Zach Montague, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 7, 202208:14

Travel pool report #1 — Rehoboth arrival
Good morning from Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, where the president has arrived on his first trip out of Washington since July 20.
Marine One swung low above us and touched down at Gordon's Pond at 8:03 a.m. under somewhat overcast skies.
The president walked off at 8:05 a.m. The pool was positioned in a neighboring parking lot, too far to shout any questions.
The pool is back on the bus and should be rolling shortly. 


August 7, 202208:50

Travel pool report #2 — lid until 3 p.m.
The White House has given us a lunch lid until 3:00 p.m.
And ICYMI, moments after the president landed, the White House released an  update from Dr. Kevin O'Connor confirming his second negative test, clearing him for public engagement. 



  