
    Des Moines, IA - Following his standout performance in the CNN Democratic Presidential Debates, Cory Booker earned new endorsements from State Representative Monica Kurth of Davenport, Ames City Councilwoman Amber Corrieri and several more prominent Iowa activists.
"Cory Booker is not afraid to confront the most difficult problems facing this nation because he does so with love. At a time of great pain, Cory is the candidate we need to help unite us, heal our nation, and restore a sense of dignity and decency back to America. Cory's campaign is about more than the policies he'll implement or kicking one man out of one office, it's about igniting a sense of responsibility and purpose in each and every one of us to work towards a brighter future for our communities, and that's why I am so proud to endorse Cory Booker," said State Representative Monica Kurth.
"As a local elected official, I want a president who has an understanding of what it means to be accountable to your entire community. Cory Booker has not only experienced this first hand as a former council member and mayor, but continues to carry a message of accountability and compassion in his work as a United States Senator. It is for this reason that I proudly join #TeamCory and endorse Cory Booker for President of the United States. I believe his passion for service and spirit of unity will inspire us all to work together to ignite change in our communities and across the nation," said Ames City Councilwoman Amber Corrieri.
Kurth and Corrieri join the largest list of influential Iowa leaders backing any presidential contender in Iowa, including State Representatives Amy Nielsen and Jennifer Konfrst, who became the first two Iowa legislators to endorse any candidate in the 2020 field, and former State House Minority Leader Mark Smith and State Representative Kenan Judge.
"We're building this caucus campaign brick by brick, focusing on the community leaders who know better than anyone who can not only win Iowa but unite our country to defeat Donald Trump. We are thrilled to have Representative Kurth and Councilwoman Corrieri join our team here in Iowa," said Cory 2020 Iowa State Director Mike Frosolone.
Full list of the Iowa elected officials and activists endorsing Cory Booker today is below:
State Representative Monica Kurth House District 89, Scott CountyAmes City Councilwoman Amber Corrieri Story CountyToni Backstrom Activist, Polk County Harold Davis Labor Activist, Polk CountyAna Garcia Entrepreneur and Latinx Community Leader, Black Hawk CountyJohn Judge former Polk County Democrats Treasurer, Polk CountyDiane Kolmer Activist, Polk CountyCody Leistikow Labor Activist, Black Hawk CountyTim Moothart Chair of the Dubuque Coalition for Nonviolence, Dubuque CountyJudy Ryan Activist, Linn CountyRoslin Thompson Knoxville Public Library Director, Marion County
  