
    Statement from Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley: "John Kasich's success in putting conservative ideas to work in Ohio—cutting taxes $5 billion, turning an $8 billion shortfall into a $2 billion surplus, and creating 350,000 new jobs—are all strengths he will have as President....With his record as governor and his two decades on the House Armed Services Committee working with leaders like President Reagan to strengthen our military, end the Cold War and revamp the Pentagon, John Kasich is a leader whose readiness to lead our nation on his first day in the Oval Office is unmatched. America needs John Kasich"
What They're Saying:

New York Times: "For Mr. Kasich, who is seen as a moderate in the Republican Party's rambunctious field of candidates, the support of a governor from one of the country's most conservative states could be a big help....
With Mr. Bentley's backing, Mr. Kasich is showing that his appeal may be broader than some analysts anticipated."
Washington Post: "Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who is campaigning for the Republican presidential nomination with a unique message of compassionate conservatism and cultural inclusion, will pick up a head-turning endorsementMonday in the Bible Belt...
With Bentley's backing, Kasich hopes to show that his message can appeal across the Republican spectrum — from the Midwest, where he has been a popular governor, to New England, where he is rising in the New Hampshire polls and now to the South."
Christian Science Monitor: "An endorsement from a Southern conservative such as Governor Bentley could help propel Kasich and his unique message – until now focused on making a mark in New Hampshire, the first primary state – to a broader Republican bloc."
Wall Street Journal: "The Southern conservative's endorsement, to be announced at a Monday morning news conference in Birmingham, is a sign that the Kasich campaign hopes to cultivate broader national appeal even though his initial strategy focuses on a strong showing in the first primary state, New Hampshire."
AL.com: "Bentley becomes the first Deep South Republican to endorse Kasich, a move some in the Heart of Dixie are sure to find surprising given the general perception Kasich is thought to be a moderate Republican on a number of issues compared to many of the other 17 Republicans in the field.
Bentley said he decided to endorse for several important reasons chief among them that he thinks Kasich is the most experienced Republican running and is a Republican who can win....
Bentley called Kasich the most qualified Republican running. He said Kasich's years in Congress where he was head of the powerful House and Ways Committee at a time when the nation balanced the budget and his years as governor of a large state given him a depth of experience no other candidate has."
  