
    Pool Reports by Katelyn Caralle, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




August 8, 2022 14:57

VP Pool #1
Good Afternoon –
Pool gathered on an extremely humid pebble beach and walked over to the Executive Office Building at 2:56 pm.
Vice President Kamala Harris is scheduled to meet at 3:15pm with university presidents in her Ceremonial Office to discuss reproductive rights on US college campuses.
The VP's office passed along background on the event, as well as a list of participants:
On Background from a White House Official
Today at 3:15 PM ET, Vice President Harris will host a roundtable to hear from college and university leaders from across the country about the challenges their students are facing in the wake of the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. She will be joined by Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona. The participants will discuss what their campuses are doing to protect the health and well-being of their students. The event will be www.whitehouse.gov/live.
Participants

Secretary Cardona, Department of Education
Ted Mitchell, President, American Council on Education
Glenda Glover, President, Tennessee State University 
Félix V. Matos Rodríguez, Chancellor, City University of New York (CUNY) 
Philip J. Hanlon, President, Dartmouth College 
Carmen Twillie Ambar, President, Oberlin College
Wayne Frederick, President, Howard University 
Howard Gillman, Chancellor, University of California-Irvine (UCI)
Audrey Bilger, President, Reed College 

Since May, the Vice President has held more than two dozen convenings to coalesce leaders across the nation on the front lines fighting to protect a woman's right to make her own reproductive health decisions.

On August 5, 2022, the Vice President convened Latina legislators from Kansas, Utah, Texas, Arizona, New York, Illinois, and Nevada at the White House (Readout) 
On August 4, 2022, the Vice President convened state legislators in Boston, Massachusetts (Readout)
On July 27, the Vice President convened disability rights leaders about reproductive health. (Readout)
On July 25, 2022, the Vice President convened state legislators in Indianapolis, Indiana (Readout)
On July 23, 2022, the Vice President convened state legislators in Richmond, Virginia (Readout)
On July 21, 2022: state legislators in Charlotte, North Carolina (Readout)
On July 18, 2022, the Vice President convened state legislators in Atlantic City, New Jersey (Readout)
On July 16, 2022, the Vice President convened state legislators in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Readout)
On July 14, 2022, the Vice President convened state legislators in Orlando, Florida (Readout)
On July 8, 2022, the Vice President convened state legislators from Indiana, Florida, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Montana at the White House (Readout)
On June 28, 2022, the Vice President joined a meeting with State Attorneys General about safeguarding reproductive rights in their states. (Readout)
On June 23, 2022, the Vice President convened State Attorneys General from seven states to discuss the fight for reproductive rights. (Remarks; Readout)
On June 23, 2022, the Vice President convened a coalition call with thousands of advocates to discuss the fight to protect reproductive rights.
On June 14, 2022, the Vice President convened constitutional law, privacy, and technology experts to discuss what is at stake if Roe v. Wade is overruled. (Remarks; Readout)
On June 6, 2022, the Vice President convened faith leaders to discuss reproductive rights and the path forward. (Remarks; Readout)
On May 11, 2022, the Vice President virtually met with doctors and nurses on the frontlines about the impact that overturning Roe v. Wade would have on reproductive health care. (Remarks; Readout)




August 8, 2022 15:47

VP Pool #2
Pool entered the VP Ceremonial Office at 3:20 pm. VP Harris began her remarks by praising the Senate passage of the Inflation Reduction Act over the weekend.
"This is happening as part of the vision the President and I laid out at the beginning of our administration," Harris said.
All round table participants are delivering short remarks for the Pool spray on reproductive health on college campuses.


August 8, 2022 15:53

VP Pool #3
Some highlights from the Pool spray ahead of the Roy table discussion:
VP Harris: The Supreme Court decided "to take a constitutional right that had been recognized"."We must trust the women of America to make those intimate decisions for themselves."She noted that the women most affected by the Roe ruling are in college or are college aged.
Education Secretary Cardona:
"Students and others now have a new set of barriers to accessing health care."
American Council on Education President Ted Mitchell: "This is a real issue for campuses. This is a real issue for our students." He said college students and staff feel "confusion and uncertainty" by the Dobbs ruling and the state-by-state varying abortion laws.
Roberta Cordano is the President of Gallaudet University, a higher education institution for the deaf and hard of hearing in Washington, DC. She delivered her remarks in ASL and noted the heightened sexual assault threat women with disabilities face, which she said is further complicated by the Dobbs decision.
Harris took notes on her legal pad while the college presidents spoke.
Pool was escorted out at 3:51pm.


August 8, 2022 17:15

VP Pool #3a
The Vice President's office is asking your pooler to send along an additional roundtable participant they forgot to include in their initial list included in VP Pool #1:
Roberta J. Cordano, President, Gallaudet University



  