
    Pool Reports by Brett Samuels, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




August 10, 2022 09:51

In-town pool report #1: Gathering for PACT Act signing
Good morning from the White House, where the in-town pool and other credentialed media are gathering for the signing of the PACT Act in the East Room. The legislation will aid veterans exposed to toxins from burn pits.
The pool was tested this morning for COVID-19.
The event will be live-streamed, so your pooler will not send full quotes. You can watch it here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5FTdmKl7sMY 


August 10, 2022 10:23

In-town pool report #2: Event begins
President Biden entered the East Room at 10:06 a.m.
There are a couple hundred people in the room. Your pooler spotted Speaker Pelosi, DHS Secretary Mayorkas, Jon Stewart, and HHS Secretary Becerra, among others, seated at the front of the room. Multiple attendees came up to hug Stewart before the event started. 


August 10, 2022 10:19

In-town pool report #3: Event attendees
President Biden opened with remarks on the economy and the latest inflation data and called for passage of the Inflation Reduction Act in the House. He then began speaking about the PACT Act and thanking service members.
Passing along from the White House:
In attendance for the President's Remarks and signing of S. 3373, The Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson Honoring Our Promises to Address Comprehensive Toxics (PACT) Act of 2022:
On Stage:

Secretary Denis McDonough, Department of Veterans Affairs
Danielle Robinson, surviving wife of Sgt First Class Heath Robinson
Brielle Robinson, surviving daughter of Sgt First Class Heath Robinson
Susan Zeier, Mother of Danielle Robinson
Rosie Torres, Burn Pits 360
LeRoy Torres, Burn Pits 360
Paul Dillard, National Commander, American Legion
Timothy Borland, Commander-in-Chief, Veterans of Foreign Wars
Shane Liermann, Deputy National Legislative Director, Disabled American Veterans
Gen. Dana Atkins (Ret), Military Officers Association of America
Jose Ramos, Vice President, Wounded Warrior Project
Jeremy Butler, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America
Candace Wheeler, Founder and CEO, Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors
Nadine Day, Survivor for Congressman Takai, NFV
Jerry Ensminger, Camp LeJeune survivor

In the Audience:

Secretary Deb Haaland, Department of the Interior
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland Security
Senator Richard Blumenthal (CT)
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Representative Salud Carbajal (CA-24)
Representative Matt Cartwright (PA-08)
Representative Steve Chabot (OH-01)
Representative Suzan DelBene (WA-01)
Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12)
Representative Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01)
Representative John Garamendi (CA-03)
Representative Al Green (TX-09)
Representative Jahana Hayes (CT-05)
Representative Jim Himes (CT-04)
Representative Sara Jacobs (CA-53)
Representative Mike Kelly (PA-16)
Representative Mike Levin (CA-49)
Representative Raul Ruiz (CA-36)
Representative Haley Stevens (MI-11)
Representative Thomas Suozzi (NY-03)
Representative Eric Swalwell (CA-15)
Representative Mark Takano (CA-41)
Representative Lauren Underwood (IL-14)
Representative Peter Welch (VT-AL)
Representative Susan Wild (PA-07)
Representative John Yarmuth (KY-03)

Run of Show

Secretary Denis McDonough
Danielle Robinson, surviving wife of Sgt First Class Heath Robinson
The President




August 10, 2022 10:44

In-town pool report #4: Bill signing and event ends
Biden thanked veterans for their service and advocates who fought for the legislation, as well as lawmakers from both parties who spearheaded the bill. He asked members of Congress in attendance to stand. He called the law "long overdue."
The president signed the legislation at 10:29 a.m. He then handed the pen to the daughter of Sgt First Class Heath Robinson, who the bill is named after.
The president mingled with attendees for several minutes, shaking hands and posing for photos. He departed the East Room at 10:43. 


August 10, 2022 12:28

In-town pool report #5: Motorcading to JBA
The in-town pool is gathered and we will be motorcading to JBA for the president's departure to South Carolina.
Pool is told the bill signing this morning was originally going to be on the South Lawn. Pool did not see any set up for the event when we got into the motorcade. 


August 10, 2022 13:00

In-town pool report #6: Motorcade departure
The president and First Lady exited the White House at 12:56 p.m. and got into their vehicle. The motorcade is rolling from the White House at 12:58 p.m. There were a couple dozen onlookers waving from the Rose Garden as we departed. 


August 10, 2022 13:20

In-town pool #7: JBA arrival
Motorcade arrived at JBA at 1:19 p.m. after an uneventful drive. Handing off to the travel pool, and passing along this background from the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady in the motorcade en route Joint Base Andrews:  Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady Josh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor Chris Meagher, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary 




Pool Reports below by Christopher Cadelago, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




August 10, 2022
[APP Note: Report #1 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


August 10, 2022 14:55

Out of town pool report #2 — Charleston arrival
AF1 touched down at Charleston Airforce Base at 2:40 p.m., after a slightly bumpy ride.
Biden deplaned at 2:51 p.m. and shook hands with a half dozen greeters.
He walked over and boarded M1. We are off via ospreys to Charleston airport.
From the White House, which came in after travel pool #1 went out:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route Charleston Air Force Base, South Carolina
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady Josh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor Chris Meagher, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary 


August 10, 2022 15:21

Out of town pool report #3 — Charleston Executive Airport
M1 touched down about 3:11 p.m. at Charleston Executive Airport and rolled to a stop. POTUS stepped off and into the waiting SUV. We are loaded in the press bus and rolling at 3:17 p.m. to the residence on Kiawah Island where the Bidens are staying. Pool has requested information on the home. 


August 10, 2022
[APP Note: Report #4 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


August 10, 2022 16:27

Out of town pool report #5— Kiawah Island/LID
A lid was called at 4:25 p.m. 



  