
    "Senator Harris will bring integrity, experience, and courage to the office of the president. I am proud to support her candidacy."
On the heels of Senator Kamala Harris' successful seventh visit to Nevada, State Senator Melanie Scheible is endorsing her for president. Sen. Scheible first got elected to represent her competitive Senate district that encompasses Spring Valley and Summerlin in 2018 as part of the first majority-female state legislature in the country. She brings Harris' Nevada endorsements to 30, including six current elected officials, the most out of any Democratic presidential candidates.
"Kamala Harris has proven her ability to effect change at the highest levels of government as a U.S. senator and California attorney general," said State Senator Melanie Scheible. "She also remembers what it means to be a public servant and put people first. Senator Harris will bring integrity, experience, and courage to the office of the president. I am proud to support her candidacy."
In the Senate, Scheible has been a leading voice in improving the lives of Nevada's children. She introduced bills during the 2019 session to ensure better coverage for children on Medicaid and equitable funding for community clinics. She also has been outspoken in the need to improve our education system, including paying teachers wages that reflect the professionals they are. Senator Harris has introduced a plan to increase teacher pay, which will give the average Nevada teacher a $15,000 raise. This will be the largest investment in teacher pay in the country ever.
Previously announced Nevadans endorsing Kamala Harris:
State Sen. Pat Spearman
State Sen. Joyce Woodhouse
Assemblywoman Sandra Jauregui
Washoe County Recorder Kalie Work
Clark County Commissioner Justin Jones
Las Vegas City Councilman Brian Knudsen
Gerri Schroder, former Henderson City councilwoman
Helen Foley, former Nevada State Senator
Francisco Aguilar, Las Vegas attorney and entrepreneur
Nancy Ayala, Las Vegas attorney
Brian Ayala, Las Vegas small business owner
Atiya Boddie, Las Vegas attorney and Emerge Nevada alumna
Alex Dixon, former president of the Las Vegas Urban League Young Professionals
Tanya Flanagan, African-American community leader and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Rev. Leonard Jackson, African-American community leader
LeVerne Kelly, African-American community leader and member of Links Inc. and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.
Bryce Krausman, small business owner
Jennifer López, community advocate
Joanie Lung, APIA community leader and small business owner
Rose McKinney James, clean energy leader
Chris Miller, former chairman of the Clark County Democratic Party
Lesley Miller, former board member of Nevadans for Background Checks
Stephanie Pizzoferrato, public school teacher and gun violence survivor
Bishop Bonnie Radden, faith leader
Sanje Sedera, founder and former president of the Asian American & Pacific Islander Democratic Caucus
Janet Serial, chair of the Black Caucus of Washoe County and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Andrew Sierra, former College of Southern Nevada student body president
Carissa Snedeker, former first vice chair of the Democratic Party of Washoe County
Al B Sure, R&B singer and songwriter
  