
    Pool Reports by Alexander Nazaryan, Yahoo News 



Sent:
Reports:




August 14, 2021 11:30

Pool Note #1
The below, on background, is from a White House official.
Last night, President Biden spoke with Dr. Chad Gestson, Superintendent of the Phoenix Union High School District, and Dr. Vickie Cartwright, Interim Superintendent of Broward County Public Schools, to thank them for their leadership and discuss their shared commitment to getting all students back in safe, full-time in-person learning this school year. In both conversations, the President commended their leadership and courage to do the right thing for the health and well-being of their students, teachers, and schools. He said that his Administration stands ready to support their school districts and communities to get back to safe, full-time in-person learning, and thanks to the American Rescue Plan and his Department of Education's Back to School Roadmap, every school has the resources and guidance needed to operate during the COVID-19 pandemic. Dr. Gestson and Dr. Cartwright are among the leaders who have stepped up at the local level to ensure students and schools are safe where Governors have enacted bad public health measures, including banning masks that help stop the spread of COVID-19 in schools. 


August 14, 202112:46

Pool Note #2
A second note, also on background, from a White House official.
 "This morning, the President and Vice President held a secure video conference with the national security team to discuss the ongoing efforts to drawdown our civilian footprint in Afghanistan, evacuate SIV applicants, and monitor the evolving security situation. The President and Vice President were joined by the Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Chief of Staff, National Security Advisor, and Homeland Security Advisor. 
 "In addition, the President and Vice President were briefed by the National Security Advisor and the Secretary of State on the earthquake this morning in Haiti. The President authorized an immediate US response, and named USAID Administrator Samantha Power as the senior US official to coordinate this effort." 



  