
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




August 3, 2021 11:24

In-Town Pool #1 - Briefing moved to 2 PM 
Hey y’all —
I’m your in-town pooler today and just wanted to check in.
The briefing was moved to 2 PM.
Below is information on the president’s public sked:
1:00 PM  THE PRESIDENT and THE VICE PRESIDENT meet with Latino community leaders
3:45 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on his Administration’s progress toward fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. 


August 3, 202113:39

In-town pool #2 - gathered at Palm Room Doors 
Pool is tested and waiting at the Palm Room doors for presidents event with Latino leaders.


August 3, 202113:54

In-Town Pool #3 - Biden remarks before Latino leader event 
Quotes and paraphrase from event. President spoke for about 7 minutes. We were ushered out at 1:50ish.
Off the top, the president's remarks were focused on getting vaccinated, said the Latino community has been so important in getting folks vaccinated
"Tired of trickledown it doesn't work very well" and talks about making sure the economy is built from the bottom up.
"Creating millions of good paying jobs in every community."
Shooting in El Paso — "these anniversaries should be celebrated in the sense too recognizing they shouldn't happen again. They are terrible for the victims and the survivors. I know ho hard these anniversaries are."
Staying United against "domestic terrorism rooted in white supremacy."
Continue to call on Congress to work on gun safety laws including "ban on assault weapons and high capacity magazines."
When asked if he thought Cuomo should resign: "I'm going to be speaking on COVID at 4 o'clock and will take questions on COVID and other issues after that."
Sending list of attendees soon. As always, please check against transcript. 


August 3, 202113:57

In-town pool #4 -- Attendees at Latino Leaders Meeting 
Below is the list of attendees from the White House:
Latino organization leaders  Janet Murguía, President and CEO, UnidosUS  Frankie Miranda, President and CEO, Hispanic Federation (HF)  Domingo Garcia, National President, League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC)  Arturo Vargas, CEO, National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO) Educational Fund  Kenneth Romero, Executive Director, National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators (NHCSL)  Héctor Sánchez Barba, Executive Director and CEO, Mi Familia Vota  Nathalie Rayes, President and CEO, Latino Victory  María Teresa Kumar, Founding President and CEO, Voto Latino  Lorella Praeli, Co-President, Community Change Action  Jess Morales Rocketto, Civic Engagement Director, National Domestic Workers Alliance  Ramiro Cavazos, President and CEO, U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce  Mark Magaña, Founding President and CEO, GreenLatinos
White House staff  Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President and Director of the Office of Public Engagement  Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor  Julissa Reynoso, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the First Lady  Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs  Emmy Ruiz, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy and Outreach  Rohini Kosoglu, Deputy Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President  Cristóbal Alex, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Cabinet Secretary  Adrian Saenz, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Public Engagement  Ernesto Apreza, Senior Advisor for Public Engagement 


August 3, 202113:59

In-Town Pool report #5 - Briefing moved to 2:15 
Briefing moved to 2:15.


August 3, 202114:14

In-Town Pool #3 - Biden remarks before Latino leader event - FIX ON QUOTE 
Fixing quote from Biden: "These anniversaries should be celebrated in the sense that recognizing so things don't happen again. They are terrible for the victims and the survivors. I know ho hard these anniversaries are." 


August 3, 202114:16

In-town pool report #7 — two minute warning for breifing 
Will stream on WH channels 


August 3, 202115:39

Pool Report #8 -- Meeting over 
The President and Vice President’s meeting with the Latino leaders has just ended per the White House.
FPPO: They will be doing a gaggle at the stakeout location.


August 3, 202116:24

Pool Report #9 - Gathering 
Pool has gathered in the East Room for the President’s remarks.
The remarks will be live-streamed on the White House channels. The president IS expected to address Gov Cuomo per briefing and take questions (per him). 


August 3, 202116:29

In-town pool report — TWO MINUTE WARNING 
Until Biden remarks. 


August 3, 202117:17

Pool Report #11 - Lid 
Photo and travel lid called at 5:15.
Get hydrated and get some dinner, 



  