
    Pool Reports by Rob Crilly, Washington Examiner



Sent:
Reports:




 August 29, 2020 08:49

 In-town pool report #1: Good morning 
Good morning from the White House
POTUS is travelling to Louisiana and Texas today. In-town pool will hoover up any other detail. 


 August 29, 2020 09:51

 In-town print pool: Departure 
POTUS is motorcading to JBA. In-town pool will have no visibility on departure. Handing on to travel pool, who will have you covered from here. 


 August 29, 2020 21:23

 In-town pool report #3: lid 
White House called a travel/photo lid at 21:22. 




Pool Reports below by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor



Sent:
Reports:




 August 29, 2020 10:34

 Travel pool 1 - leaving WH in motorcade 
Motorcade pulled out of West Executive Avenue at 10:33 am, en route Joint Base Andrews for trip to Lake Charles, La., and Orange, Texas. POTUS will "survey storm damage and receive briefings on emergency operations and ongoing relief efforts," per tweet yesterday by Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere.
Pool was preloaded into vans, did not lay eyes on POTUS.
It's raining - remnants of Hurricane Laura.
Travel pool was covid tested earlier this morning. 


 August 29, 2020 10:57

 Travel pool 2 - JBA arrival 
Motorcade arrived tarmac at JBA at 10:57 am. Drive was uneventful. 


 August 29, 2020 11:10

 Travel pool 3 - takeoff for Lake Charles 
Potus boarded AF1 as print pool was walking toward plane. Photog saw him ascending steps, reports he was carrying red MAGA hat and umbrella. At 11:09 we are rolling for takeoff to Chennault International Airport in Lake Charles, La.
Per Judd Deere, who came back for quit visit with pool, as we roll - on board:
Acting DHS secy Chad WolfMike johnson, congressman from LouisianaHope HicksMark Meadows
We are in big AF1. 


 August 29, 2020 13:29

 Travel pool 4 - landed Lake Charles 
AF1 landed Chennault International Airport in Lake Charles, La., at 12:19 pm Central time.
As we were landing, we could see scenes of debris, blue tarps on houses, foundations where houses might have been, trailer park with jumbled trailers. 


 August 29, 2020 13:49

 Travel pool 5- Lake Charles airport greeting, motorcade rolling 
Potus emerged from AF1 at 12:40 pm local time
Chatted with greeters at bottom of stairs for a few minutes.
Greeters, including GOP Sen. John Kennedy of LA and LA Dem Gov. John Bel Edwards, all wearing masks. Also among 6 greeters: Rep. Clay Higgins, AG Jeff Landry.
Potus wearing Red hat that says USA on front, Trump on back. Black windbreaker, tan pants. No mask. Rep Mike Johnson standing next to potus, also no mask.
Potus then turned toward the pool, mouthed "thank you", gave us a thumbs up, and got into beast.
Motorcade rolling for destination at 12:47. 


 August 29, 2020 14:08

 Travel pool 6 - arrival at warehouse 
Motorcade arrived destination at 1:05 pm
At 1:06 Potus walked in to warehouse to applause. Steve the business owner greeted Potus. Hard to hear what's being said. 


 August 29, 2020 14:15

 Pool report 7- warehouse visit 
We visited Warehouse being used for Cajun Navy relief supplies.
Building built in 1948, "this is the worst destruction it's had," said host.
Trump participated in a group prayer during the visit. A local person led the prayer.
Potus got a quick tour, motorcade rolling again at 1:14. 


 August 29, 2020 14:38

 Travel pool 8 - arrival next destination - neighborhood 
Motorcade arrived 1:23, Potus led on tour of neighborhood by Gov Edwards, fema director Pete Gaynor, others. Giant fallen tree is being cut up by what appear to be national guard members. Chad Wolf is also with the group.
Location: Near downtown Lake Charles, cross streets are Division and Louisiana, near interstate.
Color from last stop: As we were departing, supporters waving trump flags and American flags stood on the road (where motorcade made a u turn to get headed in the right direction).
Next stop was a brisk walk away: fire station in Fire District 1 for a briefing from first responders, local leaders, FEMA personnel. 


 August 29, 2020 15:25

 Travel pool 9 - Potus briefing at Lake Charles Fire House, took a few press Qs at bottom 
Briefing with first responders, local leaders, FEMA/DHS officials, LA political leaders. Potus walked in at 1:41 to applause from assembled officials.
Red haz mat unit truck from Lake Charles Fire Department served as backdrop for the officials. He sat in center w/microphone and presidential seal before him.
Potus spoke: I appreciate everyone being here.He asks: what's the percentage of people who have insurance? Gov Edwards: about 50 percent.
Potus: it's a tremendous state for me. I love the people. ... it was a tremendously powerful storm.... Almost a 5.
Only one official at table is wearing a mask.
Potus/ We have to take care of Louisiana, we have to take care of Texas.
Trump introduces Rep Steve Scalise, others here, engages in conversation with each as he introduces. It's hard to hear, in the cavernous echo-y Fire House.
Potus asks about impact of people getting used to having air conditioning.
Potus: we'll supply what we have to supply.
Reading from notes: Laura was a category 4, a little while a 5. Heard it was strongest storm here in 150 years.
Thanked pastor at Cajun Navy, who delivered prayer. Says FEMA has delivered 2.6 million liters of water delivered, x million meals.
Spoke of assisting state and local officials.
"Our hearts go out to families who lost loved ones."
Potus on law enforcement: They don't get the respect they do. But actually they do. Because people love them.
Notes this week is 15th anni of Hurricane Katrina. "You came together and you rebuilt."
Gov Edwards speaks, but is hard to hear from where press is standing, about 100 feet away.
Potus calls on Sen Kennedy to speak. Again, hard to hear.
Steve Scalise speaks about faith based groups.
Gaynor talks about disasterassistance.Gov To register for assistance w Hurricane Laura
Q from press: how is storm affecting spread of virus.
Potus/ we are doing very well
Gov: we are still doing 10k tests a day.
Q Why isn't epa turning on air monitors?Gov answers, hard to hear
Q: big storms more frequent due to climate change?
Potus: ..... who knows?John Kennedy: this thing is 600 miles wide. Imagine 9 feet of water coming thru. ... Katrina was bad because levies broke. But This was as bad as I've ever seen folks.
Potus ends meeting at 2:11, press leaves
Please check quotes against transcript.
Motorcade rolling at 2:17 pm local time. 


 August 29, 2020 15:30

 Travel pool 10- quick Louisiana National Guard visit 
Motorcade arrived Cougar Stadium at 2:20. Maybe 200 uniformed National Guard are standing at attention, in formation. Trump greets them.
back in Motorcade at 2:24, rolling. 


 August 29, 2020 15:34

 Travel pool 11 - list of officials at fire house briefing 
>From WH, re earlier briefing at fire station:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will receive a briefing on emergency operations and ongoing relief efforts in Lake Charles, Louisiana.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White House President Donald J. Trump
Trump Administration Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, Department of Homeland SecurityAdministrator Pete Gaynor, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency
Members of Congress Senator John Kennedy, United States Senator from Louisiana Congressman Steve Scalise, United States Representative from Louisiana's 1st Congressional District Congressman Ralph Abraham, United States Representative from Louisiana's 5th Congressional District Congressman Garret Graves, United States Representative from Louisiana's 6th Congressional District Congressman Clay Higgins, United States Representative from Louisiana's 3rd Congressional District Congressman Mike Johnson, United States Representative from Louisiana's 4th Congressional District
External Participants Governor John Bel Edwards, Governor of Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry, Attorney General of Louisiana State Senator Mark Abraham, Senator from Louisiana's 25th State Senate District Mayor Michael Danahay, Mayor of Sulphur Mayor Bob Hardey, Mayor of Westlake Mayor Nic Hunter, Mayor of Lake Charles Director Dick Gremillion, Calcasieu Parish Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness Director James Waskom, Director of Louisiana Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness Sheriff Tony Mancuso, Sheriff of Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana Sheriff Ron Johnson, Sheriff of Cameron Parish Tony Guillory, Parish President of Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana 


 August 29, 2020 15:44

 Travel pool 12 - back to Lake Charles airport 
Motorcade arrived Chennault airport in Lake Charles at 2:42 pm. From here, we go to Orange, Texas, in Ospreys. 


 August 29, 2020 16:00

 Travel pool 13 - Osprey ride to Orange TX 
Pool did not see Potus get into separate helicopter. Press Osprey lifted off at 2:50 pm en route Orange TX. 


 August 29, 2020 16:21

 Travel pool 14 - arrival in Orange TX, Abbott greets Potus 
Pool Osprey helicopter landed ahead of Potus. Pool watched as the helo carrying POTUS landed at Orange County Tx airport landing zone at 3:09 pm.
A car carrying Texas Gov. Greg Abbott drove onto the tarmac, he got into his wheelchair and headed to POTUS's copter. Potus emerged from the copter at 3:13 and went straight to Abbott. Potus gave him a triumphal fist wave. The two chatted for a few minutes.
Motorcade rolling at 3:19 pm. 


 August 29, 2020 16:59

 Travel pool 15- tour of emergency ops center 
Motorcade arrived 3:40 pm at Orange County convention and expo center. Pool was led to the emergency operations center.
Potus and governor entered they a different door, and got a briefing. Potus was Introduced to public information officer and half-jokes to press, you want to ask her anything?
"You do much better with the media than I do," he said to the PIO, Lori.
Potus gets tour of the center. Photos of destruction from the storm are mounted on poster board.
Potus thanks everyone for their efforts.
Pool is led out about 3:50 and is holding in a nearby room.
Earlier: As we drove away from Orange TX landing zone, route was lined with cheering and waving well-wishers, lots of families, many Trump signs and American flags. 


August 29, 202017:06

Travel report 16- Potus round table briefing in Orange Tx
At 4pm central, White House began streaming live, probably easier to hear from live stream than in the room itself.
Potus is at head of table. Acting DHS secretary Chad Wolf to his left. Gov Abbott to his right.
More TK



August 29, 202017:22

Travel report 17 - list of participants
From WH:Today, President Donald J. Trump will visit Texas to receive a briefing on emergency operations and ongoing relief efforts.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
Trump AdministrationActing Secretary Chad Wolf, Department of Homeland SecurityAdministrator Pete Gaynor, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management AgencyTony Robinson, Region 6 Regional Administrator for the Federal Emergency Management Agency
Members of CongressSenator John Cornyn, United States Senator from TexasSenator Ted Cruz, United States Senator from TexasCongressman Randy Weber, United States Representative from Texas's 14th Congressional DistrictCongressman Brian Babin, United States Representative from Texas's 36th Congressional District
External ParticipantsGovernor Greg Abbott, Governor of TexasLieutenant Governor Dan Patrick, Lieutenant Governor of TexasAttorney General Ken Paxton, Attorney General of TexasMayor Larry Spears, Mayor of Orange, TexasMayor Becky Ames, Mayor of Beaumont, TexasW. Nim Kidd, Chief of the Texas Division of Emergency ManagementJudge John Gothia, County Judge of Orange County, TexasSheriff Lane Mooney, Sheriff of Orange County, TexasJoel Ardoin, Orange County Emergency Management Coordinator



 August 29, 2020 17:37

 Travel report 18 - more on round table briefing, Orange TX 
Last things first: Potus took press questions at end of briefing/
Will you visit Kenosha? "Probably so."
Re shooter in Kenosha, Kyle Rittenhouse, who killed two people: "we are looking at it very very Carefully."
Why is DNI not looking into election security?Meadows: "the last time they gave briefings, they went out and talked to the press."
Potus slammed "shifty Schiff" and leakers on the committee.
Q Re Laura, climate change: "we handle em as they come"
Earlier in round table:
Gov. Abbott talked about the response to the hurricane. He says he believes the state has gotten thru hurricane Laura without spreading Covid-19.
Ted Cruz takes off his Texas state flag-design mask to speak. Praises assistance on hurricane. He says "Texas could have been hit a lot worse." "We are now stepping up to help our neighbors in Louisiana." Talks about how Texas, unfortunately, has disaster expertise.
Others thank President for all he has done to help Texas.
A majority of those around the table are wearing masks, as are most officials and guests sitting along the walls.
Potus invites governor to wrap things up. "You are helping Texas to rebuild."
Briefing ended 4:30
At 4:33 Potus came outside to greet national guard and other first responders.
Pool led away at 4:35. 


August 29, 202017:42

Travel report 19 - back to Orange landing zone 
Motorcade left the Orange County expo and convention center at 4:40 pm. En route Orange County Landing zone for chopper back to Lake Charles LA. 


 August 29, 2020 18:59

 Travel pool report 20 - arrive Orange landing zone 
Motorcade arrived Orange County TX airport landing zone at 4:58 pm.
Just a quick observation: Orange Texas looks a whole lot better off than Lake Charles, La. In Orange, signs are blown out, trees are down here and there, telephone polls leaning over. But Lake Charles has some serious rebuilding ahead - damage to a lot of homes and businesses, which I'm not seeing in Orange. 


 August 29, 2020 18:38

 Travel pool report 21 - back in Lake Charles, rolling for JBA 
Pool lifted off in Osprey helicopter from Orange TX at 5:04 pm Central, landed at Chennault airport in Lake Charles, La., at 5:24.
Potus' copter landed a couple minutes later. Potus emerged at 5:30, walked slowly toward the pool, pointed at us, but didn't stop to chat. He veered right and up into AF1.
We are now rolling for imminent takeoff to JBA. 


 August 29, 2020 20:40

 Travel pool report 22 - Potus to visit Kenosha 
Per Judd Deere, Potus will go to Kenosha, Wisc., on Tuesday. He will meet with law enforcement and survey damage from recent riots. 


 August 29, 2020 20:42

 Travel pool report 23 - AF1 landed JBA 
AF1 landed JBA 8:41 pm eastern. Only visit to press cabin on return trip was from Judd Deere. 


 August 29, 2020 20:52

 Travel pool report 24 -motorcading back to WH 
Potus descended steps of AF1 at 8:48, he waved to pool, got into beast. Motorcade rolling at 8:51. 



  