
    COLUMBIA, S.C. – Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders on Friday addressed more than 5,500 supporters who packed convention halls here in the state capital and in Greenville, South Carolina, on the first day of a weekend swing through the key early primary state.
In Greenville, a big Bernie banner featuring the distinctive palmetto tree symbol hung high overhead as Sanders addressed the crowd of 2,800. Another 2,700 packed a low-ceilinged hall and an overflow area here at the Medallion Center.

In his speeches and in private meetings with African-American ministers and community leaders, Sanders spoke about "institutional racism" that persists in America and in this state where last June 17 nine people were killed at a prayer service at Charleston's historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.
"There is no one who will fight harder not only to end institutional racism, but to make fundamental changes in our broken criminal justice system," Sanders said.
He also pledged to fight the "political cowards" who exploited a Supreme Court ruling that gutted the Voting Rights Act by passing laws designed to suppress turnout on Election Day.
In Sanders' wide-ranging speeches, he also talked about high unemployment and the need to create jobs. He proposed a $1 trillion roads and bridges rebuilding program. He said the Trans Pacific Partnership, the latest corporate-backed, job-killing trade deal, must be defeated. He called for bold solutions to address the looming planetary crisis of climate change. And one of the biggest applause lines in both speeches was when he talked about his legislation to make public colleges and universities tuition free.
Sanders speech at the Medallion Center was broadcast live on C-SPAN. Afterward the senator answered questions from the public service network's Steve Scully.
Sanders has assembled a talented and experienced campaign staff in South Carolina led by Chris Covert, the state director, and Lawrence Moore, the political director. Covert, who lives with his family in James Island, is veteran of campaigns in the Palmetto State. Moore, who is from Columbia, played key roles in campaigns for the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, Sr. and the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.).
To watch Sanders on C-SPAN, click here.
To read more about Sanders' team in South Carolina, click here.


    
  



    
  



    
  



    
  



    
  



    
  

  