
    
  "A Big Debate" ... "A Breath Of Fresh Air" ... "Most Well-Respected Fiscal Mind"

Reuters: "His Choice Of Running Mate Is A Bold One..." "Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney said on Saturday he has chosen Congressman Paul Ryan as his vice presidential running mate, a move that will bring the debate over how to reduce government spending and debt to the forefront of the race for the White House. ... His choice of running mate is a bold one..." (Reuters, 8/11/12)
CNN's John King: "A Choice By Mitt Romney To Say Sure, Let's Have A Big Debate About The Big Choices Facing The American Economy." KING: "Again, this is a bold choice ... It's essentially a choice by Mitt Romney to say sure, let's have a big debate about the big choices facing the American economy and American spending..." (CNN, 8/11/12)
Boston Herald: "A Breath Of Fresh Air..." "Romney's choice of Ryan ... brings a breath of fresh air to the ticket generationally." (Boston Herald, 8/11/12)
The Wall Street Journal: "Mr. Ryan Best Guarantees The Country Will Get The Kind Of Philosophical Debate Worthy Of A Presidential Campaign." "But as the author of the budget plan that most clearly delineates the view of limited government that most Republicans hold, and with more specificity and crystalline explanation than most can muster, Mr. Ryan best guarantees the country will get the kind of philosophical debate worthy of a presidential campaign." (The Wall Street Journal, 8/11/12)
CNN's John Avlon: "It's A Bold Decision. ... Moves This Into A More Substantive Stage Of The Campaign." AVLON: "It's a bold decision. It is a strong, confident decision. And what it ultimately does is moves this into a more substantive stage of the campaign." (CNN, 8/11/12)
Roll Call: "The Former Massachusetts Governor Promoted The Most Well-Respected Fiscal Mind Among Capitol Hill Republicans..." "The former Massachusetts governor promoted the most well-respected fiscal mind among Capitol Hill Republicans..." (Roll Call, 8/11/12)
New York Daily News: "A Bold Choice..." "Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney selected Wisconsin Rep. Paul Ryan as his running mate Saturday - a bold choice meant to excite the GOP's conservative base and further make the economy the defining issue of the election." (New York Daily News, 8/11/12)
CNN's Gloria Borger: "I Think The Debate Is Going To Shift Onto A Very Substantive Ground." BORGER: "But I think what they are trying to do is say, you know what, he hasn't made the tough choices that we need to make in a serious way to save the economic future of this country, so I think the debate is going to shift onto a very substantive ground." (CNN's "Your Bottom Line," 8/11/12)
  