
    The President. Thank you. Mr. Vice President, it's great to be here in your State of Tennessee with Governor McWherter, Congressman Tanner, Houston Gordon, all of our legislative and other leaders. Hillary and Tipper and Al and I love these bus trips, but the closer to home they get, the better we like them. [Laughter]
And let me also say a special word of honor and appreciation to Congressman Ed Jones and his wife, Lou. After Ed Jones left the Congress, Ned McWherter appointed him to work with the then-Governor of Arkansas to try to find ways to redevelop the Mississippi River region. He was my partner and my friend, and I developed just as much respect and love for him as all of you have. And Mr. Ed, it's great to see you today, sir. Thank you.
I also want to make one other introductory remark. I shook hands with Mrs. Jim Bob Robertson. She said, "I'm 101 years old. I've never missed an election, and you're the first President I've ever met." [Laughter] And I said, "Well, it's high time." [Laughter] And then she leaned over and kissed me. And I can tell you, she may be 101, but she still kisses real good. I appreciate that. I thank her.
Ladies and gentlemen, before I make my remarks I want to report to you on a development in another country that you may not have heard about. Early this morning, the military forces of Iraq overran the city of Irbil, which is in the portion of northern Iraq controlled and populated by the Kurds. The situation there remains unclear. There are reports of heavy fighting and firing in populated areas. There are indications that some Kurdish elements may be involved in the operation with Iraq. These developments, however, cause me grave concern. I have placed our forces in the region on high alert, and they are now being reinforced.
It is premature at this time, and I want to emphasize that, entirely premature to speculate on any response we might have. But we are prepared to deal with these developments. We will be working hard with others in the international community who share our concern.
And let me just say in closing, I hope all of you are as proud as I am that we have the quality and strength of the men and women in uniform we have serving us all around the world. And I hope you'll say an extra prayer for them tonight. Thank you.
We're glad to be here. We didn't expect that this many of you would be here, and we're awfully glad to see you.
On Thursday night, I had the opportunity to speak from Chicago in our Democratic Convention to the American people about what Al Gore and I would like to do if you give us 4 more years. The fundamental question is whether we're going to build a bridge to the future or a bridge to the past. Will you help us build a bridge to the 21st century?
Audience members. Yes!
The President. A bridge with world-class jobs, world-class education, a clean environment, with a growing economy; a bridge where families can be strong in raising their children, succeeding at work and home; a bridge where communities know that the crime rate is going to come down every year because there are more police officers on the street and because we're all taking more responsibilities to keep our kids out of trouble in the first place—will you help us build that kind of bridge? [Applause] Will you help us for the next 68 days in this election? [Applause] And then for 4 more years after that? [Applause]
Let me tell you, folks—I said this at the convention, I want to say it again—politicians are always known for overstating. It is no overstating when I tell you that Albert Gore from Tennessee is the finest, most effective Vice President in the history of the United States of America. And if you'll give us a chance to build that bridge and you'll build it with us, we'll all walk over it in the year 2000.
Thank you, and God bless you.
  