
    "So Senator McCain's response, an aggressive response as it relates to the U.N., as it relates to NATO, as it relates to sending the Secretary of State to Europe, I think are the right steps and it reflects his wisdom and experience in dealing not just with this region but dealing with the people involved and it's a big benefit to him." --Gov. Tim Pawlenty
Gov. Tim Palwenty (R-MN)
Fox News' "Fox & Friends"
August 12, 2008
Fox News' Brian Kilmeade: "Governor Pawlenty, so far Senator McCain has said that he thinks the objective of the Russians is regime change in Georgia. Do you think that he's been on target so far?"
Governor Pawlenty: "Well, one of the advantages of having experience in military and national security matters is you get the wisdom that comes with it as he correctly called the need for a change in strategy in Iraq with the surge. I think he's is correctly calling this situation. He said when he looked in the eyes of Vladimir Putin he saw 'a K a G and a B.' I think he senses correctly that Russia still has an aggressive posture in terms of its foreign policy and this could be very well an example of that. So Senator McCain's response, an aggressive response as it relates to the U.N., as it relates to NATO, as it relates to sending the Secretary of State to Europe, I think are the right steps and it reflects his wisdom and experience in dealing not just with this region but dealing with the people involved and it's a big benefit to him."
Kilmeade: "As Governor of a major state like Minnesota and as somebody who is on the short list to be Vice President, why should the American people care about what's happening in Georgia?"
Governor Pawlenty: "Georgia, of course, is an American ally -- a country that leans west. The President of Georgia is somebody who is educated in the United States and the alliance between that country and our country has been positive. The friendship between that country and our country has been positive on a whole range of issues including economic issues, including energy issues, including various diplomatic and positive cultural exchanges. It's a nation that has been positive towards the United States. It really has been a friend of our country and we want to promote those relationships around the world."
WatchGovernor Tim Pawlenty
  