
    
  Announces the launch of presidential campaign

CHARLESTON, S.C. — Determined to get America working again, Texas Gov. Rick Perry today announced his candidacy for president of the United States of America while speaking to an overflow crowd at the RedState Gathering 2011. Perry was joined by his wife, Anita, and their adult children at the announcement.
"It is time to get America working again," Gov. Rick Perry said. "That's why, with the support of my family, and an unwavering belief in the goodness of America, I declare to you today my candidacy for President of the United States."
"It is time for Americans to believe again — to believe that the promise of our future is far greater than even the best days of our past. It is time to believe again in the potential of private enterprise, set free from the shackles of an overbearing federal government. And it is time to truly restore our standing in the world and renew our faith in freedom as the best hope of peace in a world beset with strife."
Perry underscored the urgent need for new leadership in light of the continued uncertainty and instability in the U.S. economy, continued overreach by an increasingly intrusive federal government into the lives of Americans and the rights of the states, and the misguided policies that are harming the future prosperity of our country.
"One in six work-eligible Americans cannot find a full-time job," Perry continued. "That is not a recovery, that is an economic disaster."
Perry spoke not only of the need for new leadership to create jobs, but the need to get serious about federal spending, saying, "Mr. President, you can't win the future by selling it off to foreign creditors."
Last week, that failed leadership, and Barack Obama's tax, spend and borrow agenda, led to the first ever downgrade in the credit rating of the United States.
"In reality, this is just the most recent downgrade," Perry said. "The fact is for nearly three years, President Obama has been downgrading American jobs, downgrading our standing in the world, downgrading our financial stability, downgrading confidence, and downgrading the hope of a better future for our children."
As president, Perry has pledged to get the federal government's fiscal house in order, restore the country's good credit, and repeal Obama's misguided one-size-fits-all government-run health care plan. He also committed to holding government accountable to the taxpayers, and adhering to the fiscally responsible principles that will lead to job creation, and in turn, wealth, while educating and innovating in science, technology, engineering and math to create the jobs and progress needed to get America working again.
"I will work every day to make Washington, D.C. as inconsequential in your lives as I can, and free our families, small businesses and states from a burdensome and costly federal government so they can create, innovate and succeed," he continued. "With the help and courage of the American people, we will get our country working again."
After announcing his candidacy in South Carolina, Perry is set to travel to New Hampshire on Saturday and Iowa on Sunday to begin a vigorous campaign in all three early states.
To view the full text of Gov. Rick Perry's speech, and for more information about his record, presidential campaign trail and plan to get America working again, please visit: www.rickperry.org
  