
    Gentlemen, this is an historical occasion. We have here tonight, Mr. President, what you might call enough representation to be the whole Government of the United States. You have the President, and the Vice President, the Speaker of the House who, according to my civic studies is supposed to be the second most powerful man in government--I don't know whether he is or not; and we have the Chief Justice of the United States, head of the greatest court in the world. We have the Cabinet all represented here. We have the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, and the ranking Minority Member of the Foreign Relations Committee, who was Chairman of the 80th Congress. We have the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, which starts the tax program in the United States. We have the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee of the House, who is the originator of appropriations for the operation of the Government of the United States. We have the minority Members of the House and Senate represented here.
And I think that the situation is so arranged that we can truthfully say that we are honoring the Republic of the Philippines. The Republic of the Philippines is something new in the history of the world. Never before--from Egypt, Assyria, Greece and Rome, to Great Britain and the Empire of the French--has it been the province-the privilege--of the most powerful nation in the world to create a Republic and donate to it sovereignty in its own right, until the Republic of the Philippines was created.
I have an extreme and very close interest in the Philippine Republic, for the simple reason that I happened to be--by the accident of death--President of the United States when the Republic of the Philippines was instituted on July 4, 1946.
It was my privilege to be acquainted with the first President of the Philippine Republic, and the second President of the Philippine Republic, and now we have the third President of the Republic of the Philippines, and the first official visit from a President of the Republic of the Philippines to the United States of America.
I want to offer a toast to the President of the Philippine Republic, and to wish for the complete and entire success of that great Republic.
  