
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 5
The President announced the designation of Marcia E. Miller as Chair, and Lynn Munroe Bragg as Vice Chair, of the International Trade Commission.
The President announced the nomination of Susan G. Esserman to be General Counsel at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced the nomination of Niranjan S. Shah to the Board of Directors for the National Institute of Building Sciences.
August 6
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Goran Persson of Sweden in the Oval Office.
The White House announced that the President signed legislation providing $12 million to help investigate and solve church arson.
August 7
In the morning, the President met with members of the Club Des Chefs Des Chefs in the Diplomatic Reception Room.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to San Jose, CA. In the evening, he attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at a private residence.
The President announced his intention to nominate Chaskel O. Besser to the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
The White House announced that the President ratified the Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 Relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks.
August 8
In the morning, the President traveled to Salinas, CA, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Los Angeles.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee dinner at a private residence. He then traveled to Santa Monica.
The President announced that Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala will appoint Judith A. Billings and Michael T. Isbell to the Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS.
August 9
In the early afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Los Angeles to Jackson Hole, WY, for vacation.
  