
    
  Make No Mistake, Graham Is Ready To Be Commander In Chief On Day One

National Journal: "When It Comes To Foreign Policy Credentials, He's Got His Competitors Beat." (Marina Koren, "Lindsey Graham on ISIS, Putin, and Being a 'Threat-Mongerer,'" National Journal, 07/08/15)
Des Moines Register: "Widely Respected For His Principles And His Foreign Policy Acumen." (Editorial Board, "Editorial: Among Senators Hoping To Be President, Graham Deserves A Look," Des Moines Register, 05/06/15)
TIME: "Graham Stands Relatively Alone In Clearly Presenting A Foreign Policy Vision."(Zeke Miller, "Lindsey Graham Forces Foreign Policy on 2016 GOP Field," TIME, 01/29/15)
"An Unparalleled Depth Of Experience On Foreign Policy" "Colleagues say he's got an unparalleled depth of experience on foreign policy, especially compared to his competitors in the Senate, who have had less time in the upper chamber to build their foreign policy credentials...Besides former Republican presidential nominee John McCain, there are few in the Republican Party who are as widely recognized for their hawkish foreign policy as Graham." (Lauren Fox, "Lindsey Graham's Presidential Campaign Has a Point," National Journal, 06/01/15)
Ira Straus In National Review: "Graham Has The Character To Carry Through On A Policy Of Victory In The War."  "America is fortunate that it finally has such a candidate in Lindsey Graham. This is a welcome piece of good news, after six years of increasingly disastrous foreign-policy blunders...Indeed, of all the myriad candidates running today, he is the only reliable choice for America." (Ira Straus, "Why America Needs Lindsey Graham," National Review, 06/02/15)
Wall Street Journal: "He's Had Vladmir Putin's Number Since The Bush Administration" "He saw early how Mr. Obama's abdications in Syria and Iraq would lead to greater disorder, and he's had Vladimir Putin's number since the Bush Administration." (Editorial Board, "Graham for the Defense," The Wall Street Journal, 06/03/15)
Former New Hampshire Republican National Committeeman Tom Rath: "His Foreign Policy Chops Will Not Go Unnoticed In This Field" (John DiStaso, "NH Seen As Crucial To Lindsey Graham's Presidential Hopes," WMUR, 06/01/15)
Sen. Joe Lieberman: "There Is No One Who Knows And Understands National Security Questions Better Than Lindsey" "‘He should be taken very seriously because there is no one who knows and understands national security questions better than Lindsey,' said former Sen. Joe Lieberman, who worked with Graham when he was in the Senate on everything from foreign policy to climate change." (Lauren Fox, "Lindsey Graham's Presidential Campaign Has a Point," National Journal, 06/01/15)
ABC NEWS: "South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham Is 'Ready To Be Commander-In-Chief On Day One,' The Republican Said, Announcing His Presidential Bid From His Hometown Today." (Erin Dooley, "Lindsey Graham Jumps Into 2016 Presidential Race: ‘Ready to Be Commander-in-Chief on Day One,' ABC News, 06/01/15)
  