
    1. Prime Minister Tanaka and President Nixon met in Washington July 31 and August 1 for comprehensive and fruitful explorations of a wide variety of subjects of mutual interest.
2. The discussions of the two leaders, held in an atmosphere of cordiality and trust, reflected in tone and content the breadth and closeness of relations between Japan and the United States. The primary focus of this meeting was the many common goals which Japan and the United States share and the common commitment of the two nations to a new era in this friendly relationship. They emphasized the high value they place on the important role that each plays in the cause of world peace and prosperity and the strong desirability of proceeding together toward that common objective by cooperative efforts wherever possible around the globe.
3. The Prime Minister and the President confirmed the durable character of the friendly and cooperative relations between Japan and the United States, which are based on a common political philosophy of individual liberties and open societies, and a sense of interdependence. They noted especially that the relationship between their two countries has an increasingly important global aspect and makes a significant contribution to the movement toward peaceful relations throughout the world.
4. Expressing their satisfaction with the continuous dialogue which has taken place at various levels on subjects of mutual interest since their meeting in Hawaii in September 1972, the Prime Minister and the President reviewed developments in the international situation. They discussed the global trend toward détente, as evidenced by the progress of the dialogue between the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the forthcoming negotiations on the mutual reduction of forces and armaments in Central Europe, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the return of the People's Republic of China to the international community, and the signing of the Paris Agreements for a peace settlement in Indochina. They expressed the hope that this trend would lead to the peaceful settlement of disputes throughout the world.
5. The Prime Minister and the President agreed on the need to maintain continuous consultation on questions of mutual concern in the international political field. They expressed their satisfaction with progress made in the area of arms control and the avoidance of conflict, including the SALT agreements and the US-Soviet Agreement on the Prevention of Nuclear War.
6. The Prime Minister and the President noted with satisfaction the normalization of relations between Japan and the People's Republic of China and the movement toward more normal relations between the United States and the People's Republic of China. They expressed their strong hope for a stable and lasting peace in Indochina through scrupulous implementation of the Paris Agreements. They reaffirmed their resolve to assist the rehabilitation of Indochina. They welcomed the new developments in the Korean Peninsula, and expressed the readiness of their Governments to contribute to the furtherance of peace and stability in that area. They pledged to continue to facilitate regional cooperation in Asia as an important contributing factor in securing a lasting peace throughout that part of the world.
7. The President pointed out the desirability of a Declaration of Principles to guide future cooperation among the industrialized democracies. The Prime Minister expressed his positive interest therein. The Prime Minister and the President agreed that Japan and the United States would consult closely on the matter as preparations proceed toward a Declaration acceptable to all the countries concerned.
8. The Prime Minister and the President recognized that the existing framework of international relations had been the basis for the recent trend toward the relaxation of tensions in Asia and reaffirmed that continued close and cooperative relations between the two countries under the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security are an important factor for the maintenance of stability in Asia. The President confirmed the intention of the United States to maintain an adequate level of deterrent forces in the region. The two leaders noted with satisfaction continuing efforts to ensure the smooth and effective implementation of the Treaty and concurred on the desirability of further steps to realign and consolidate the facilities and areas of the United States Forces in Japan.
9. Recognizing that the greatest transoceanic commerce between two nations in the history of mankind greatly enriches the lives of the peoples of Japan and the United States, the Prime Minister and the President pledged to ensure that this trade continues to grow and to contribute to the expansion and prosperity of the world economy as a whole and to the over-all relationship between the two countries. They reviewed with satisfaction the discussions at the July meeting in Tokyo of the Japan-US Joint Committee on Trade and Economic Affairs on the measures Japan has taken in the fields of trade and investment, for which the President again expressed the appreciation of the United States; on the marked improvement in the trade imbalance between the two countries, and the intention of both Governments to pursue policies designed to maintain the momentum of this improvement; on promoting investment between the two countries; and on the United States intention to exert its best efforts to supply essential materials including agricultural products to Japan, which the President reaffirmed. The Prime Minister and the President confirmed the understanding reached in the above meeting that on the basis of recent economic developments, Japan and the United States could look forward to new perspectives in the development of their economic relations.
10. The Prime Minister and the President reaffirmed the importance which they attach to a successful conclusion of the multilateral negotiations in the trade and monetary fields. They endorsed the objective of achieving an open and equitable world trade and investment, and a reformed international monetary system, responsive to the needs of an increasingly interdependent world economy. They expressed their mutual satisfaction that the Ministerial meeting to launch the new round of multilateral trade negotiations would be held in Tokyo in September. They emphasized the firm intention of their Governments to work for as wide agreement as possible on the principles of monetary reform at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Nairobi later in that month. In both of these undertakings, they pledged their cooperative efforts to assure early and constructive results in concert with other countries of the world.
11. The Prime Minister and the President agreed to continue to coordinate efforts to ensure a stable supply of energy resources to meet the rapidly growing requirements of their peoples. In this connection, they expressed their common intention to pursue just and harmonious relationships with the oil producing states; to examine the possibility of developing within the framework of the OECD, an arrangement on sharing oil in times of emergency; and greatly to expand the scope of cooperation for exploring and exploiting energy resources and for research and development of new energy sources.
12. The Prime Minister and the President affirmed the importance of close cooperation between the two Governments in securing a stable supply of enriched uranium, including cooperation in the necessary research and development. They agreed that the two Governments should exert their best efforts for the satisfactory realization of a Japan-US joint venture to that end. In this connection, the President announced that the United States Government had authorized a group of American companies to enter into a contract with a private Japanese party to conduct a joint study of the economic, legal, and technical factors involved in the construction of a uranium enrichment plant in the United States in which Japan might participate.
13. The Prime Minister and the President recognized that expanded programs for improved communication and understanding are vital to strengthening the relationship between the two countries. Noting the warm reception in the United States to the activities of the Japan Foundation, the Prime Minister announced that the Government of Japan will grant, through the Foundation, funds in the amount of $10 million to several American universities for institutional support of Japanese studies, including the endowment of chairs for this purpose. The President stated his intention to expand support for those United States cultural and educational projects which had been so productive in the past, and to ask the Congress in the near future to appropriate the funds remaining in the GARIOA [Government Assistance and Relief in Occupied Areas] account to strengthen Japan-US cultural and educational exchanges.
14. The Prime Minister and the President expressed satisfaction with the growing cooperation between Japan and the United States in the field of environmental protection. They commended the cooperative programs now in progress which would enable the two countries to cope more effectively with air and water pollution and other environmental problems, including those connected with sewage disposal and photochemical air pollution. They confirmed that such cooperative programs would be instrumental in protecting the environment and devising antipollution measures in both countries.
15. The Prime Minister and the President noted with satisfaction the achievements of the medical, scientific and technological cooperative programs developed during the last decade between the two countries. They agreed to make an overall review of cooperative relationships in such fields in light of the broader requirements of the coming decade.
16. The Prime Minister and the President, recognizing that the United Nations is making an important contribution to the furtherance of international cooperation and is an effective forum for collective consultations, agreed that Japan and the United States should cooperate fully in their efforts to help move the organization in a constructive direction. The President expressed the belief that for the Security Council to fulfill its primary responsibility under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security, a way should be found to assure permanent representation in that Council for Japan, whose resources and influence are of major importance in world affairs. The Prime Minister expressed his appreciation for this statement.
17. The President reconfirmed the standing invitation to Their Majesties, the Emperor and Empress of Japan, to visit the United States and hoped that the visit would take place in the near future at a mutually convenient time. The Prime Minister expressed his deep appreciation for this invitation, and on his part conveyed an invitation from the Government of Japan to President and Mrs. Nixon to visit Japan. In accepting this invitation, the President voiced his sincere gratitude for the warm sentiments toward the United States symbolized by it. It is hoped that the President's visit to Japan, to be arranged through diplomatic channels, will take place at a mutually convenient time before the end of 1974.
18. The Prime Minister was accompanied by Foreign Minister Masayoshi Ohira, Takeshi Yasukawa, Japanese Ambassador to the United States, and Kiyohiko Tsurumi, Deputy Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs. Also taking part in the conversations on the American side were William P. Rogers, Secretary of State, Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and Robert S. Ingersoll, American Ambassador to Japan.
  