
    "Today, with the Republican National Convention underway, President Obama's campaign is going off the rails with reprehensible attacks and reckless charges against Governor Romney.  With a growing number of Americans, including nearly three in ten Democrats, believing President Obama has no plan to create jobs, it's clear his campaign cannot defend the President's abysmal record of lost jobs, higher poverty rates, and middle-class suffering.  Mitt Romney has a plan to get our nation back on track with 12 million new jobs and higher take-home pay for middle-class families." – Romney Campaign Senior Adviser Danny Diaz
Today, On The First Day Of The Republican Convention, The Obama Campaign Launched A Series Of Reckless Charges Against Governor Romney:
Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, Obama Campaign Co-Chairman And Democratic Convention Chair: "You Can't Just Trot Out A Brown Face Or A Spanish Surname."  "Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said Tuesday that Republicans' efforts to win over Hispanic voters are insincere, and that 'you can't just trot out a brown face or a Spanish surname and expect that people are going to vote for your party or your candidate.'" (Hayley Peterson, "Obama Surrogate Accuses GOP Of Pandering To Hispanics With 'Brown' Faces," Washington Examiner, 8/28/12)
The Obama Campaign's National Co-Chairman Ted Strickland Claimed Governor Romney Lacks "Economic Patriotism." "Ex-Gov. Ted Strickland, a national co-chairman of the President Barack Obama re-election campaign, strongly criticized Mitt Romney, saying the Republican presidential candidate is 'lacking in economic patriotism.'" (David Skolnick, "Romney Lacks 'Economic Patriotism,' Ex-Gov. Strickland Says In Valley Stop," The Youngstown Vindicator, 8/28/12)
And President Obama Is Breaking A Three-Decade Precedent By Personally Campaigning During The Opposing Party's Convention:
"Bucking Tradition, President Obama Set Out On A Two-Day Campaign Swing On Tuesday, Aiming To Steal Just A Bit Of The Spotlight From Republicans Rallying In Tampa, Fla." (Kathleen Hennessey, "Obama Bucks Tradition, Campaigns During GOP Convention," Los Angeles Times,  8/28/12)
President Obama's Campaign Stops Abandon A Protocol That Dates Back To President Carter In 1980. "By going on the road, Mr. Obama is bucking protocol. Incumbents usually stay home while the opposing party plots their defeat. In 2004, President Bush kept a low profile while the Democrats were nominating John F. Kerry, although Vice President Dick Cheney did campaign during the Democratic convention. In 1996, 1992, 1984 and 1980, Presidents Clinton, George H.W. Bush, Reagan and Carter, respectively, laid low while the opposing parties' conventions were held." (Dave Boyer, "Obama To Break Recent Precedent, Will Stump During RNC," The Washington Times, 8/23/12)
Why Is President Obama Resorting To Desperate Tactics And Attacks? He Can't Defend His Record To Americans Struggling In The Obama Economy:
"U.S. Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Weakened In August To Its Lowest In Nine Months As Americans Turned More Pessimistic About The Short-Term Outlook..." "U.S. consumer confidence unexpectedly weakened in August to its lowest in nine months as Americans turned more pessimistic about the short-term outlook, according to a private sector report released on Tuesday. The Conference Board, an industry group, said its index of consumer attitudes fell to 60.6 from a downwardly revised 65.4 the month before. Economists had expected an increase to 66, according to a Reuters poll." ("US Consumer Confidence Tumbles to 9-Month Low," Reuters, 8/28/12)
More Than Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Unemployed, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking For Work. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 8/26/12)


    Since President Obama Took Office, The Nation Has Lost 316,000 Jobs And The Unemployment Rate Has Remained Above 8% For 42 Straight Months. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 8/26/12)
  

Last Year, Over Half Of Recent Graduates Were "Jobless Or Underemployed, The Highest Share In At Least 11 Years." "About 1.5 million, or 53.6 percent, of bachelor's degree-holders under the age of 25 last year were jobless or underemployed, the highest share in at least 11 years. In 2000, the share was at a low of 41 percent, before the dot-com bust erased job gains for college graduates in the telecommunications and IT fields." (Hope Yen, "1 In 2 New Graduates Are Jobless Or Underemployed," The Associated Press, 4/22/12)
"Almost 5.2 Million Americans Have Been Out Of Work For At Least Six Months." (Jeff Kearn, "U.S. Incomes Fell More In Recovery, Sentier Says," Bloomberg, 8/23/12)
"The Ranks Of America's Poor Are On Track To Climb To Levels Unseen In Nearly Half A Century..." "The ranks of America's poor are on track to climb to levels unseen in nearly half a century, erasing gains from the war on poverty in the 1960s amid a weak economy and fraying government safety net." (Hope Yen, "US Poverty On Track To Rise To Highest Since 1960s," The Associated Press, 7/22/12)
Sentier Research: "Almost Every Group Is Worse Off Than It Was Three Years Ago, And Some Groups Had Very Large Declines In Income." "'Almost every group is worse off than it was three years ago, and some groups had very large declines in income,' Green, who previously directed work on the Census Bureau's income and poverty statistics program, said in a phone interview today. 'We're in an unprecedented period of economic stagnation.'" (Jeff Kearn, "U.S. Incomes Fell More In Recovery, Sentier Says," Bloomberg, 8/23/12)
And Americans Have Noticed – Nearly 60% Of Voters And Even 28% Of Democrats Think President Obama Doesn't Have A Clear Plan To Create Jobs:
By A 58% To 35% Margin, Voters Do Not Believe President Obama Has A Clear Plan For Creating Jobs. (CBS News/New York Times Poll, 8/28/12)
28% Of Democrats Do Not Believe President Obama Has A Clear Plan For Creating Jobs. (CBS News/New York Times Poll, 8/28/12)
By A 59% To 31% Margin, Independent Voters Do Not Believe President Obama Has A Clear Plan For Creating Jobs. (CBS News/New York Times Poll, 8/28/12)
  