
    Today, the New York Times reported on how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal makes the largest investment in the resilience of physical and natural systems in American history – demonstrating how Democrats and Republicans can come together and take action to tackle the climate crisis.
The reporting highlights, "The bipartisan infrastructure deal struck this week provides new money for climate resilience unmatched in United States history: Tens of billions of dollars to protect against floods, reduce damage from wildfires, develop new sources of drinking water in areas plagued by drought, and even relocate entire communities away from vulnerable places."
"But the bill is remarkable for another reason. For the first time, both parties have acknowledged — by their actions, if not their words — that the United States is unprepared for the worsening effects of climate change and requires an enormous and urgent infusion of money and effort to get ready."
[…]
"When it comes to addressing the consequences of a warming planet, no amount of money appears to be too much, and bipartisan consensus is easy to find. Agreement between Republicans and Democrats to reduce the emissions that are causing the planet to warm is more elusive, as Republicans are largely resistant to limiting the use of fossil fuels like oil, gas and coal."
[…]
"Rob Moore, a senior policy analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council, applauded the provision focused on vulnerable neighborhoods, calling it a 'game changer."
The reporting also emphasized the deal's focus on climate equity: "Funding in the legislation would be available to move entire communities. The bill would provide $216 million to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for climate resilience and adaptation for tribal nations, which have been disproportionately hurt by climate change. More than half of that money, $130 million, would go toward "community relocation" — helping Indigenous Americans leave dangerous areas."
Read the full story here.
  