
    Pool Reports by Joseph Morton, Omaha World-Herald



Sent:
Reports:




 August 23, 2020 09:08

 In-Town Pool Report #1: Departure 
Pool was COVID tested and loaded into vans. Motorcade is rolling to an undisclosed location at 9:06 a.m. Golf is assumed but not official. It's another muggy day in DC, partly cloudy and 79 degrees at the moment.
The president's schedule shows no public events today but Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany tweeted last night to expect a 6 p.m. press conference with the president "concerning a major therapeutic breakthrough on the China Virus."
She indicated Secretary Azar and Dr. Hahn will attend. 


 August 23, 2020 09:50

 Pool report #2 - Arrival at golf club 
The motorcade arrived at Trump National Golf Club at 9:39 a.m. A handful of protestors were on the corner, including a person in a grim reaper costume holding a "176k" sign. Another person had a "Suburban moms (heart symbol) Joe" sign.
Pro-Trump folks had their own signs including ones reading "Thank you" "Build the Wall and "Trump 2020."
Pool is now holding in the parking lot of a nearby strip mall. 


 August 23, 2020 13:17

 In-Town Pool report #3 - Departing golf club 
Motorcade departed Trump National Golf Club at 1:06 p.m.
As pool was holding just outside the club prior to departure a short pro-Trump parade of three Jeeps and a pickup was driving back and forth repeatedly, flying American flags and Trump 2020 banners with slogans such as "Latinos for Trump" and "Women for Trump." Several had "Trump National Rapid Response Team" signs attached to them as well. A big rig (without trailer) seemed to be part of the group and would blow its horn as it passed by.
A string of pro-Trump and pro-Biden folks were on foot along the sidewalks near the entrance of the club expressing their various opinions as well. 


 August 23, 2020 13:58

 In-Town Pool Report 4: White House arrival/Lunch lid 
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 1:45 p.m.
While on the G.W. Parkway, one of the motorcade vehicles ahead of the press vans appeared to get a flat tire (one of the SUVs I believe, it happened quickly). A small amount of smoke could be seen coming from the wheel well as the vehicle pulled off and stopped on the side of the road. The rest of the motorcade sped on.
We have a lunch lid until 4:30 p.m. 


 August 23, 2020 17:28

In-Town Pool Report #5: Waiting for presser 
Assume everyone saw the adjusted guidance that the press conference will now be in the briefing room and start shortly (just got 2 minute warning). Pooler will endeavor to share some color and key remarks from the session, but those interested in extended verbatim quotes would be advised to catch on tv or live stream. 


 August 23, 2020 18:28

 In-Town Pool Report #6: press conference 
POTUS walked into the briefing room and up to the podium promptly at 5:30 p.m. He was flanked by Secretary Azar and Dr. Hahn. Among those watching from the chairs along the wall to POTUS' right was Rep. Jim Jordan.
Some paraphrased and verbatim POTUS remarks follow. Please check direct quotes against transcript:
"I'm pleased to make a truly historic announcement in our battle against the China virus that will save countless lives," POTUS said.
POTUS said the FDA has issued an emergency use authorization for a treatment known as convalescent plasma. He called it a powerful therapy shown to reduce mortality rates and said the FDA action will expand access to it. He said this was only possible thanks to Operation Warp Speed.
"Based on the science and the data the FDA has made the independent determination that the treatment is safe and very effective," POTUS said.
POTUS encouraged Americans who have recovered from the virus to donate plasma.
Azar then spoke for a few minutes touting the therapy. "This is a major advance in the treatment of patients," Azar said.
Hahn got a turn at the podium and said scientists have concluded the treatment is "safe and shows promising efficacy" which means that it meets the standard for an emergency use authorization.
POTUS took three questions, the last of which pressed him on the difference between his own statement that the treatment is "safe and very effective" and Hahn's description of the treatment as showing "promising efficacy."
POTUS deferred to Hahn, who said researchers will continue gathering data on the treatment but that it could certainly be significant to those who survive as a result of it.
At 5:49 p.m. POTUS said: "This is a very big day. It's a day we've been looking forward to. Thank you very much." The group then walked out of the room, ignoring additional shouted questions from reporters.
On a separate topic POTUS had kicked off the presser with remarks about California wildfires and the approaching hurricanes. He said the federal government has deployed resources to California and is working closely with authorities there.
"We'll take care of the situation,"POTUS said.
POTUS also said they are closely monitoring the two approaching hurricanes, saying their scope and the fact that they are coming one on top of another is "somewhat unprecedented." He said both could gain strength as they approach land.
"We have everybody stationed and ready to go in Puerto Rico and the Gulf Coast," POTUS said. 


 August 23, 2020 18:29

 In-Town Pool Report #7: Travel/photo lid 
We have a travel/photo lid at 6:24 p.m.
Thanks everybody and enjoy the rest of your evening. 



  