
    
  Sen. Cruz Names Arkansas State Co-Chair Rep. Bob Ballinger and Political Coordinator Marcela White

HOUSTON, Texas – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today announced the beginnings of his Arkansas Leadership Team, which consists of grassroots leaders, activists, faith and values leaders, and elected and party officials from across Arkansas. The team is led by State Co-Chair Rep. Bob Ballinger and Arkansas Political Coordinator Marcela White.
On Wednesday, Sen. Cruz will campaign across Arkansas during his "Cruz Country" bus tour which includes stops in Little Rock, Russellville, and Van Buren. Event schedule may be found at www.tedcruz.org/cruzcountry.
"I am endorsing Ted Cruz for President because he is a courageous conservative. In my time in politics, I have seen many men and women come and go who have said they are conservative on the campaign trail, but once in office, they never follow through on the promises they made," said Arkansas State Rep. Bob Ballinger. "Ted Cruz is a real conservative; Ted Cruz, throughout his entire career, has fought to uphold conservative principles and values. That is why I am so thrilled to serve as the Arkansas Co-Chair on the Cruz campaign, because I know that when Sen. Cruz is elected, he will do what he said he would do."
"Ted Cruz will be a great President. I grew up behind the 'Iron Curtain,' and the bold words and actions of President Reagan rescued me from tyranny," said Arkansas Political Coordinator Marcela White. "I am so grateful to live in a Constitutional Republic now. Sen. Ted Cruz has demonstrated that same type of boldness and has a sincere reverence for the U.S. Constitution. America needs rescuing now, and he has the intelligence and decisiveness to lead us away from the failed Obama Administration, just as Reagan led the recovery from the failed policies of Jimmy Carter. Ted Cruz is this generation's Ronald Reagan – he is MY Ronald Reagan!"
The Cruz for President Arkansas Leadership Team includes:
Representative Bob Ballinger, State Co-Chair
Rep. Bob Ballinger is serving in his second term in the Arkansas House of Representatives. He represents District 97, which includes portions of Madison, Carrol, and Washington counties.
Marcela White, Arkansas Political Coordinator
Marcela White is a former Campaign Coordinator for Governor Asa Hutchinson and Arkansas Federation of Republican Women Board Member.
Curtis Coleman, Little Rock
Chairman at the Institute for Constitutional Policy, former Republican candidate for Governor of Arkansas.
Peggy Jeffries, Fort Smith
Former Arkansas State Senator who served from 1996 to 2000, Arkansas Contact for Eagle Forum, Former Arkansas RNC Committeewoman
Bishop Robert Smith, Little Rock
Founder of Total Outreach for Christ Ministries, Inc. and Word of Outreach Christian Center
Tami Greever, Little Rock
Executive Director of Team Coleman, which is focused on electing conservative, constitutional candidates statewide
Luke Helms, Russellville
Students for Cruz Arkansas
Diana Harton, Monticello
Chairwomen Drew County Republicans, President of Arkansas Republican County Chairman's Association
Hunter Ray, Benton
Board Member of Arkansas for Education Freedom, Board Member of Arkansas Against Common Core
Mark Shaffer, Van Buren
Crawford County Republican Party Chairman
Neil White, Sebastian County
Veteran and business executive
  