
    The President. Thank you. Boy, I'm glad to see you here. I never dreamed there would be such a crowd. I thank you. I thank Governor Patton and Senator Ford for being here. I thank Steve Beshear. I hope he will be your next Senator from Kentucky, and I hope you'll elect him and Dennis Null, a candidate for Congress.
Ladies and gentlemen, you can probably tell I'm a little hoarse. I said everything I had to say last night. I've had a wonderful week. I came into Chicago on a train that went through West Virginia and Kentucky and Ohio and Michigan and Indiana. And now we're on this bus to see the people I've been working for for the last 4 years, to tell you America is on the right track to the 21st century. And we're going to build a bridge right there if you'll help us.
We are going to keep this economy growing. We're going to keep the economy growing and create more jobs, lower interest rates. To do it, we're going to balance the budget and give the American people a tax cut they can afford, targeted to education and rearing their children. We're going to make the first 2 years of education after high school just as universal in the next 4 years as a high school education is today, with a tax credit of $1,500 to send every person to community college in the country for 2 years.
We're going to give even more incentives to invest in our economy and to create more jobs where we need them. We're going to prove again that you can grow the economy and protect the environment by cleaning up two-thirds of the toxic waste dumps in the country. We are going to move this country forward. We're going to move it forward in helping families.
Folks, our administration is committed to helping you make the most of your own lives. Will you help us build that bridge to the 21st century?
Audience members. Yes!
The President. Will you help us for the next 68 days to talk to your friends and neighbors?
Audience members. Yes!
The President. Will you help us for the next 4 years to build a bridge all Americans can walk across?
Audience members. Yes!
The President. We need you. We're glad to see you. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you.
  