
    The President today announced the selection of the following individuals to serve as members of the President's Export Council. In addition, the President announced the selection of J. Paul Lyet as Chairman.
J. Paul Lyet, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Sperry Corp.
Donald R. Beall, president and chief operating officer, Rockwell International Corp.
Robert A. Beck, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Prudential Insurance Co. of America
Richard M. Bressler, president and chief executive officer, Burlington Northern, Inc.
George D. Busbee, Governor, State of Georgia
Jesse M. Calhoon, president, National Marine Engineers Beneficial Association, AFL-CIO
Robert Dickey III, chairman of the board, presi dent, and chief executive officer, Dravo Corp.
James A.D. Geier, chairman of the board, president, and chief executive officer, Cincinnati Milacron, Inc.
Douglas F. Glant, president and chief executive officer, Pacific Iron & Metal Co.
Allan Grant, immediate past president, American Farm Bureau Federation
James R. Greene, president, American Express International Banking Corp.
John V. James, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Dresser Industries, Inc.
K. Gordon Lawless, senior vice president, Phifer International Sales, Inc.
Donald E. Lukens, State senator, State of Ohio
Wales H. Madden, Jr., attorney, Amarillo, Tex.
Dudly C. Mecum II, managing partner, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell of New York, N.Y.
Irene W. Meister, vice president, International American Paper Institute
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr., chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Pfizer, Inc.
Philip Saxon, attorney, Wilmington, Del.
Henry B. Schacht, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Cummins Engine Co., Inc.
David C. Scott, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Allis Chalmers Corp.
Howard G. Sloane, president, the New York Colosseum Exhibition Corp.
Charles Thone, Governor, State of Nebraska
Robert C. Warren, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Cascade Corp.
Henry Zenzie, senior vice president, Prescott, Ball & Turben of New York
  