
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
August 5
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, before leaving on his trip to Norfolk, Va., and Wilson, N.C.
August 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator Kaneaster Hodges, Jr., of Arkansas;
—the Cabinet;
—senior White House staff members;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
August 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Democratic congressional leadership.
The President has declared an emergency for the State of New York because of the adverse impact of chemical wastes lying exposed on the surface and associated chemical vapors emanating from the Love Canal chemical waste landfill in the city of Niagara Falls.
August 9
The President met at the White House with:
—a group of mayors to discuss supplemental fiscal assistance;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
August 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, who reported to the President on his visits with President Anwar al-Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister Menahem Begin of Israel during his recent trip;
—a group of civic leaders from Pennsylvania;
—the Cabinet, to discuss upcoming congressional floor action on civil service reform proposals.
The White House released manifests listing passengers who have flown on White House authorized military aircraft from January 7 through June 30, 1978. The lists were sent to Representative Jack Brooks, chairman of the House Committee on Government Operations, and were also made available for inspection by the press.
The President today announced the persons who will represent the United States at the inauguration ceremonies for Silvestre Antonio Guzman Fernandez as President of the Dominican Republic, held August 15-17. Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance and Ambassador Andrew Young will head the delegation, attending as Personal Representatives of the President and with the rank of Special Ambassador. The members of the delegation, also with the rank of Special Ambassador, will be:
ROBERT L. YOST, U.S. Ambassador to the Dominican Republic;
GUS YATRON, U.S. Representative from the State of Pennsylvania;
VIRON P. VAKY, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs;
ROBERT A. PASTOR, staff member, National Security Council;
ABELARDO LOPEZ VALDEZ, Assistant Administrator for AID;
DENNIS P. McAULIFFE, Lieutenant General, U.S. Army, Commander of the U.S. Southern Command, Panama;
NED R. McWHERTER, speaker of the House of Representatives, Nashville, Tenn.;
DON L. TUCKER, speaker of the House of Representatives, Tallahassee, Fla.;
CLARENCE AVANT, president, Tabu Productions, Los Angeles, Calif.; HENRY (HANK) AARON from Atlanta, Ga.;
ABRAHM F. LOWENTHAL from West Yarmouth, Mass.;
HOWARD J. SWIBEL of Chicago, Ill., attorney, law firm of Kirkland & Ellis.
The President announced today that Robert E. White, U.S. Ambassador to Paraguay, will be his Personal Representative, with the rank of Special Ambassador, to head the United States Delegation to the inauguration of His Excellency General of the Army Alfredo Stroessner as President of the Republic of Paraguay. The ceremonies are scheduled to be held August 14-16. The following people from the Embassy at Asuncion have also been designated to attend the ceremonies as members of the delegation:
JERROLD MARK DION, Counselor of the Embassy;
COL. CHARLES R. WALLIS, military attache.
August 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Secretary Vance, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—a group of Congressmen and administration officials to discuss the equal rights amendment;
—Representative Harold T. Johnson of California;
—members of the American Society of Magazine Editors (transcript will be printed next week).
The President attended a pontifical requiem mass for Pope Paul VI at St. Matthew's Cathedral in Washington, D.C.
The White House announced that the President is naming Louis Emanuel Martin as Special Assistant to the President. His responsibilities will focus on programs and policies concerning black Americans.
  