
    Barack Obama knows Biden is a failure.
Tonight the Democrat convention will argue that "leadership matters." That's true – so why are they nominating Joe Biden?
Biden spent nearly half a century in Washington as a career politician and all he has to show for it is a mountain of failures. Former Obama-Biden Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Biden has been "wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades."
Barack Obama knows Biden is a failure. That's why he talked him out of running for president in 2016 and tried to stop him again in 2019.
A review of Biden's nearly 50 years in Washington reveals a terrible record of abysmal job performance and poor judgement:

Biden oversaw the worst economic recovery since the Great Depression while he was vice president. 
Biden voted for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), killing millions of jobs and gutting American manufacturing.
Biden led the effort to give China "most favored nation" trade status, killing millions of American jobs.
Biden supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal, which would have killed hundreds of thousands of jobs and shrunk America's economy.
Biden failed to hold China accountable, and instead spent years bowing to Beijing.
Biden oversaw the 2009 stimulus package, which failed to deliver the "shovel ready jobs" he promised.
Biden "did every possible thing wrong" responding to the 2009 H1N1 swine flu pandemic.
Biden failed to replenish the nation's stockpile of N95 masks after the 2009 swine flu.
Biden sided with credit card companies over Americans struggling to pay their bills, authoring a law that made it harder for consumers to declare bankruptcy and helped create the student debt crisis.
Biden supported and defended the war in Iraq for years, and then lied about it.
Biden opposed the raid to bring Osama bin Laden to justice, and then lied about it.
Biden first suggested the failed "reset with Russia."
Biden supported the Iran nuclear deal and sent pallets of cash to the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism.
Biden claimed Iraq would be "one of the greatest achievements" of the Obama Administration just a few years before the rise of ISIS.
Biden failed to provide lethal aide to Ukraine in the face of Russia's invasion of Crimea.
Biden failed to effectively counter Russia's interference in the 2016 election, with even his fellow Democrats admitted the Obama-Biden Administration "choked."
Biden failed to unite our country, with 69% of Americans – the all-time high – saying that race relations were mostly bad when Biden left office.
Biden failed to stop illegal immigration, instead supporting mass amnesty and policies that encouraged more people to cross our borders illegally.
Biden failed to address the opioid crisis. In fact, he made it worse.
Biden helped pass a government takeover of healthcare, which led to skyrocketing premiums, higher deductibles, fewer choices. Millions of Americans had their health insurance plans canceled.
Joe Biden was the architect of policies of mass incarceration policies that destroyed the lives of millions of Black Americans.

  