
    "Since his time as governor, Mitt Romney has consistently supported strong work requirements for welfare recipients. He fought attempts by an overwhelmingly Democratic legislature to weaken welfare to work and proposed reforms that emphasized the dignity of work. As president, Mitt Romney will immediately rescind President Obama's welfare changes and make clear that work requirements are not optional." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
To View "Right Choice" Click Here: http://mi.tt/MJGvDT
As Massachusetts Governor, Mitt Romney Consistently Fought To Protect Strong Work Requirements For Welfare Recipients:
Club For Growth: "As Governor, Romney Pushed For Important Changes To Massachusetts Expansive Welfare System." "As governor, Romney pushed for important changes to Massachusetts expansive welfare system. Although federal welfare reform passed in 1995, Massachusetts was woefully behind, relying on a waiver to bypass many of the legislation's important requirements.  Romney fought for legislation that would bring Massachusetts' welfare system up to date with federal standards by increasing the number of hours each week recipients must work and establishing a five-year limit for receiving benefits."  (Club For Growth, "2012 Presidential White Paper #5," Press Release, 2011)
As Governor, Mitt Romney Pushed For "Increasing And Expanding The Work Requirement For Welfare Recipients" And Increased Funding For Support Services And Job Training. "As part of his spending plan for Fiscal Year 2006 that will be filed on Wednesday, Romney will propose increasing and expanding the work requirement for welfare recipients to bring it in line with stricter federal standards in use by virtually every other state in the country. To help more welfare recipients transition to work, the Governor's budget will also propose higher levels of spending on childcare and transportation as well as education and job training." (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "With Work, Romney Helps Welfare Recipients Get On Their Feet," Press Release, 1/24/05)
Governor Romney Line-Item Vetoed A Provision That Would Have Weakened The Work Requirement For Welfare Recipients. "Specific vetoes include language that would have: ... Allowed education and training to substitute for the 20-hour per week work requirement for able-bodied welfare recipients. This veto saves $8 million and preserves the cornerstone of welfare reform, which has been the work requirement. Romney signed into law a provision expanding the work requirement to recipients who have children between the ages of two and five." (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs No New Tax Budget In Time For New Fiscal Year," Press Release, 6/30/2003)
Governor Romney Proposed Changes To Massachusetts' Welfare System To Bring The State In Line With New Federal Requirements. "The governor also wants to make changes in welfare to bring Massachusetts into line with new federal requirements, under which recipients must work at least 24 hours per week." (Scott S. Greenberger, "Romney Sets A $22.98b Blueprint Education Aid Rises," The Boston Globe, 1/29/04)
As Governor, Mitt Romney Proposed Increased Funding To "Promote Self-Sufficiency Within The Welfare System." "The Governor's budget proposes increased funding in a range of other areas, including: $22.6 million to promote self-sufficiency within the welfare system and bring Massachusetts into compliance with federal requirements." (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Files $25.19 Billion Budget For Fiscal Year 2007," Press Release, 1/25/06)
Governor Romney Supports Work Requirements To Help Americans "Build Self-Sustaining Lives" And Have "The Dignity Of Work":
Governor Romney, In 2005: "People Want A Chance To Work So They Can Build Self-Sustaining Lives Instead Of Relying On A Welfare Check That Will Keep Them Trapped In Poverty." "'People want a chance to work so they can build self-sustaining lives instead of relying on a welfare check that will keep them trapped in poverty,' said Romney. 'By providing support services and incentives where necessary, we want to give welfare recipients the opportunity to achieve independent and fulfilling lives.'" (Office of Governor Mitt Romney, "With Work, Romney Helps Welfare Recipients Get On Their Feet," Press Release, 1/24/05)
Governor Romney, In 2005: "I Think There Are Loopholes In The State Requirement For Work That Need To Be Closed, And That We Should Conform To The Federal Work Requirements." ("Romney Assails Welfare Plan's 'Loopholes'," The Boston Globe, 9/23/05)
Governor Romney, In January 2012: "I Want The Individuals To Have The Dignity Of Work And Get People Back Into The Workforce." ROMNEY: "In my state, we made great progress in that regard, following the days of the welfare reform act, but then when I was governor, 85 percent of the people on a form of welfare assistance in my state had no work requirement. And I wanted to increase the work requirement. I said, for instance, that even if you have a child two years of age you need to go to work. And people said, well, that's heartless. And I said, no, no. I'm willing to spend more giving daycare to allow those parents to go back to work. It'll cost the state more, providing that daycare, but I want the individuals to have the dignity of work and get people back into the workforce." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Manchester, NH, 1/4/12)
  