
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 2
The President announced his intention to nominate Neal S. Wolin to be General Counsel at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen D. Van Beek to be Associate Deputy Secretary and Director of Intermodalism for the Department of Transportation.
August 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Chicago, IL. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn M. Turman to be Director of the Office for Victims of Crime at the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate David J. Hayes to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael J. Frazier to be Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs at the Department of Transportation.
The President directed the Department of Health and Human Services to release $55 million in Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program emergency funds for nine States affected by the ongoing heat wave.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit of Turkey at the White House on September 28.
August 4
The President announced the nomination of Ivan Itkin to be Director of the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management at the Department of Energy.
The President announced the nomination of Gregory L. Rohde to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to appoint Cecille Pulitzer as a member of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board.
August 5
The President announced his intention to nominate Carol J. Parry to be a member of the Board of Governors for the Federal Reserve System.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul Hill to be Chair and member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate John W. Marshall to be Director of the U.S. Marshals Service at the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate John J. Goglia to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dan Herman Renberg to be a member of the Board of Directors at the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
The White House announced that the President will award the Presidential Medal of Freedom to the following individuals during the week of August 9: Lloyd M. Bentsen; Edgar M. Bronfman, Sr.; Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter; Evy Dubrow; Sister M. Isolina Ferre; Gerald R. Ford; Oliver White Hill; Max Kampelman; and Edgar Wayburn.
August 6
In the morning, the President traveled to Little Rock, AR.
The President announced the nomination of Sylvia V. Baca to be Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced the nomination of Richard A. Meserve to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The President will designate him as Chair upon appointment.
The President announced the nomination of George Farr to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board.
The President announced the nomination of Linda Morgan to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board. The President will designate her as Chair upon appointment.
The President announced his intention to nominate Roger W. Ferguson, Jr., to be Vice Chair of the Board of Governors for the Federal Reserve System.
The President announced his intention to appoint Sam Kathryn Campana as a member of the National Drought Policy Commission.
The White House announced that the President will attend the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leaders Meeting September 12-13 in Auckland, New Zealand.
The White House also announced that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik of Norway will travel to Washington for a working visit with the President at the White House on October 15.
  