
    "We're going to take strong action to secure our election systems and the process." – President Donald J. Trump
COMMITTED TO PROTECTING OUR ELECTIONS: President Donald J. Trump is committed to protecting our Nation's elections from foreign interference. 

President Trump has made clear that his Administration will not tolerate foreign interference in our elections from any nation state or other malicious actor. 
President Trump chaired National Security Council meetings on May 3 and July 27 to receive updates on and discuss the whole-of-government approach to election security being implemented at his direction.

This whole-of-government approach was put in motion at the beginning of the Administration to support State and local election officials across the country. 


President Trump's meetings have addressed:

The threats posed to our elections by foreign actors.
Efforts underway to provide cybersecurity assistance to State and local authorities.
Actions to investigate, prosecute, and hold accountable those who attempt to interfere in our electoral processes.



STRENGTHENING ELECTION SECURITY: The Trump Administration is helping State and local authorities bolster their defenses against cyber operations targeting our elections.

The Trump Administration is working to provide State and local authorities with the support they need to defend against attempts to interfere in our elections. 
The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is working with all 50 States, local governments, and the private sector to strengthen election security.

DHS is sharing information across all levels of government to ensure a coordinated response to any election interference attempt.


The Administration provided on-site cybersecurity support to States during the 2017 elections. 
A new pilot program was launched to enable State and local officials and the Election Assistance Commission to share information on Election Day and allow for rapid response. 
The Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation are working to investigate and disrupt any threats to our election systems and alert potential victims and targets. 
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) and DHS hosted classified briefings for election commissioners and State election officials from all 50 States.

These briefings provided insight into what the intelligence community is doing to assist DHS ahead of 2018 and 2020 elections. 


ODNI held the first-ever Federal Election Table Top Exercise to improve information sharing.

ODNI leads an interagency working group of cyber and counterintelligence experts focused on ongoing information sharing and integration of election security efforts.


DHS recently held a National Cybersecurity Summit, bringing together stakeholders from Government, industry, and academia to advance cybersecurity.

The summit served as a launching point for a number of DHS cybersecurity initiatives. 
DHS is launching a National Risk Management Center to coordinate Government and private sector risk management efforts to defend of our critical infrastructure. 



  