
    Pool Reports by Kadia Goba, BuzzFeed



Sent:
Reports:




 August 3, 2020 10:13

 In town pool report #1 
I'll be your pooler today on this Monday. Call time was at 10am at which time your pooler was tested for COVID-19.
The president has two events on his calendar including a meeting with US Tech Workers where he'll sign an EO on hiring American.
At 12:30 pm POTUS will have lunch with VP Pence.
Will send updates as they happen. 


 August 3, 2020 11:24

 In town pool report #2 - Cabinet Room gather 
Pool has gathered and is waiting to be led into the Cabinet Room where the the president will meet with US Tech Workers and sign an executive order on hiring American. 


 August 3, 2020 11:49

 In town pool report #3 Hiring American meeting background 
Meeting background:Today, President Donald J. Trump will sign an Executive Order on Hiring American. This Executive Order follows his Buy American, Hire American Executive Order from April 2017 and takes further action to prevent Americans from being displaced by foreign workers. Under President Trump's leadership, the firing of hardworking Americans in the pursuit of cheap foreign labor will not be tolerated.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpThe Vice PresidentJared Kushner,Assistant to the President and Senior AdvisorMarc Short, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice PresidentStephen Miller,Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor for PolicyDerek Lyons, Assistant to the President and Counselor to the PresidentBrooke Rollins,Assistant to the President and Acting Director of the Domestic Policy Council
Trump AdministrationSecretary Eugene Scalia, Department of LaborActing Deputy Secretary Ken Cuccinelli, Department of Homeland Security
Members of CongressRepresentative Tim Burchett, United States Representative from Tennessee
External ParticipantsSara Blackwell, Founder and President, Protect US Workers, FloridaChuck Charnawskas, Disaster Recovery Administrator, Tennessee Valley Authority, TennesseeGay Henson, President, Engineering Association, TennesseeJonathan Hicks, Software Engineer, Tennessee Valley Authority, TennesseeKevin Lynn, Founder, U.S. Tech Workers, PennsylvaniaDavid Littlejohn, IT Operations Engineer for Reliability and Performance, Tennessee Valley Authority, TennesseeLinda McDonald, IT End User Analyst, Tennessee Valley Authority, AlabamaRenae McKenzie, Specialist, Engineering Association, TennesseeWendy Turner, Software Engineer for Enterprise Resource Planning, Tennessee Valley Authority, TennesseeStacy Whetzell, IT Operations Engineer for Service Management, Tennessee Valley Authority, Georgia 


 August 3, 2020 12:36

 In town pool report #4 Cabinet meeting 
Pool was led into the Cabinet Room at 12:08 pm ahead of POTUS' signing of the Hire American Executive Order order. POTUS is seated at the table between Vice President Mike Pence and Kevin Lynn. There are a dozen others including Rep. Tim Burchett (who he endorses during the meeting). No person seated is wearing a mask.
POTUS says he's pushing for the removal of the CEO of the Tennessee Valley Authority, Jeff Lyash.
"The board must work to ensure the CEO does not receive a lavish compensation package upon his departure too."
"But he gets $8 million a year, and I can think of about almost 100% of the people I know would take that job."
"He gets $8 million a year so that was just a succession of deep swamp things happening and it's a disgrace."
"So let this serve as a warning to any federally appointed board. If you betray American workers, then you will hear two simple words ‘you're fired. You're fired.'"
POTUS says he wants to find out what board members earn as well. 


 August 3, 2020 13:27

 In town pool report #5 Cabinet Meeting part 2 
Pool ushered out of Cabinet meeting at 1:11pm.
Earlier from POTUS:
"As we speak we're finalizing h1 b regulation so that no American workers replaced ever again. h1b should be used for top highly paid talent to create American jobs, not as inexpensive labor programs and destroy American job
"That's why I'm formally removing the chairman of the board James Thompson and and board members Richard Howarth.
"If the TVA does not move swiftly to reverse their decision to rehire their workers. Then more board members will be removed we have the absolute right to remove board members, and the board makes that decision. I don't make the decision."
"The current CEO Jeff Lyash is ridiculously overpaid. He earns $8 million a year."
"But the new CEO must be paid no more than $500,000 a year, which is still a significant amount more than the President of the United States."POTUS added he donates his salary.
Later in the meeting:
POTUS asks Sara Blackwell where did she get the name "slow Biden" and says he's considered using the term but thought it was "too mean."
On TikTok: POTUS now says TikTok will close On Sept. 15 of Microsoft or someone else doesn't buy it. POTUS also insists a portion of the sale needs to come into the US Treasury.
POTUS now advocating for Hydroxychloroquine.
"I don't agree with Fauci" and adds he gets along
Trump tells Acosta to "hold it" when he asks why are so many ppl are dying and then adds "Fake News CNN."
"I am" POTUS says when reporter asks why he's not personally involved in the latest stimulus negotiations. "The fact that I'm not over there with crazy Nancy...." 


 August 3, 2020 13:29

 In town pool report #6 Lunch Lid 
A lunch lid was called at1:15 until 2:30
I'll send more quotes from today's meeting 


 August 3, 2020 14:05

 In town pool report # 7 Hire America meeting 
About 20 minutes into the hire American meeting, POTUS told reporters the CEO of the TVA called to reverse courses. "...just brought this in from the TVA CEO, and he's indicated a very strong willingness to reverse course."
Attendees clapped at hearing the news.
"Now maybe he'll take a major cut in salary." POTUS added. 


 August 3, 2020 14:16

 In town pool report #8 POTUS briefing at 5pm 
Updated guidance from the White House:
The President will hold a news conference at 5pm 


 August 3, 2020 17:03

In town pool report #9 briefing time changed to 5:30 
Your pooler will alert you two mins before actual start time. 


 August 3, 2020 17:35

 In town pool report #10 Two-minute warning for briefing 
Watch along here: https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f... 


 August 3, 2020

[APP Note: Report #11 does not exist or was not received by the APP.] 


 August 3, 2020 18:19

 In town pool report #12 Travel/photo lid 
A travel/photo lid was called at 6:17, about 3 mins after the President ended his briefing.
Goodnight, all. 



  