
    Cleveland, Ohio – Gov. Scott Walker today announced State Sen. Mark Obenshain will serve as the Virginia state chairman for his presidential campaign.
"I am privileged to introduce State Sen. Mark Obenshain as the leader of our campaign's efforts in Virginia," said Walker. "Sen. Obenshain is a person who shares the same conservative values and reform mentality in which I so wholeheartedly believe. With his support and the support of the broad coalition he will help us build, we are confident our message of bold reform and big results will make an impact, paving the way for victory in Virginia and beyond."
"I believe we need someone with proven executive experience to lead this country, and Gov. Walker has shown he can do that, even in a blue state," said Obenshain. "I'm excited to help spread his message of conservative reform. It is a message that resonates not only with Republicans, but also with independents and conservative Democrats, and that's a message and a coalition that will get him elected as our next president."
Obenshain currently serves as a state senator in the Virginia legislature and ran for Attorney General in 2013. He was elected to the Senate of Virginia in 2003, where he co-chairs the Committee for Courts of Justice, and also serves on the Committees on Commerce & Labor, Privileges and Elections, Agriculture, Conservation, and Natural Resources, and Rules. He has served as the chairman of two local Republican committees, has been a delegate to every Republican state convention since 1980, and was a member of Virginia's delegation to the 1980 Republican National Convention, which nominated Ronald Reagan. Obenshain has worked on the campaigns of virtually every Republican nominee for state and local office since he began practicing law in Harrisonburg in 1987, and he serves as the President of the Richard D. Obenshain Foundation, named after his father, which provides the Republican Party of Virginia with the building that is its permanent home. He also is a practicing lawyer and founder of the Obenshain Law Group.
  