
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Ambassador Sichan Siv has joined Romney for President as National Chair of Asian Pacific Americans for Mitt. In addition, Ambassador Siv will provide Governor Romney with important policy counsel in the areas of international relations, Asian issues and U.N. reform.
"I am proud that Ambassador Siv has joined Romney for President as Chair of our Asian Pacific American coalition. With a distinguished career in public service, he brings years of valuable experience to our campaign for higher office. I look forward to working with him to reach out to an important constituency and communicate my vision for the future," said Governor Romney.
Joining Romney for President, Ambassador Siv said, "Unprecedented challenges from abroad and at home are too great to leave to an inexperienced executive. We need someone ready to provide steadfast and innovative leadership. Throughout his career, Governor Romney has proven his ability to take on difficult situations, analyze all variables, and find the right solution. I am excited to work with him."
Ambassador Sichan Siv's Background:
Ambassador Sichan Siv Has A Distinguished Career Of Serving Our Country. Forced to work in the Khmer Rouge labor camps, Ambassador Siv escaped from Cambodia in 1976. After arriving in America with two dollars in his pocket, he resettled as a refugee in Connecticut and went on to get a Master of International Affairs from Columbia University. From 1989-1993, Ambassador Siv worked for President George H. W. Bush as the White House Deputy Assistant for Public Liaison, and as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs. In October 2001, President George W. Bush nominated him and he was unanimously confirmed by the Senate as the 28th Ambassador to the U.N. Economic and Social Council. From 2001-2006, he also worked to promote U.S. interests in the U.N. General Assembly and Security Council.
  