
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Thomas O. Barnett, of Virginia, to be Assistant Attorney General (Antitrust Division). Mr. Barnett currently serves as Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division where he has been Deputy Assistant Attorney General for Civil Enforcement since 2004. Prior to that, he was a partner in the Washington D.C. office of Covington & Burling, where he served as Vice Chair of the firm's Antitrust and Consumer Protection Practice Group. Earlier in his career, he clerked for Judge Harrison Winter of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Mr. Barnett received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his master's degree from the London School of Economics while a Fulbright Scholar to the United Kingdom. He received his JD from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Clay Lowery, of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury (International Affairs). Upon confirmation, the President intends to designate him Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (International Affairs). Mr. Lowery currently serves as Vice President for Markets and Sector Assessments at Millennium Challenge Corporation. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Debt and Development Finance at the Department of Treasury. Prior to that, he was Director for International Finance for the National Security Council. Mr. Lowery received his bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia and his master's degree from the London School of Economics.
The President intends to nominate John M. Molino, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Policy and Planning). Mr. Molino currently serves as Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy. In addition, he serves as acting Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Equal Opportunity. Prior to joining the Department of Defense, Mr. Molino was Director of Government Affairs for the Association of the United States Army. After serving nearly 20 years in the U.S. Army, he retired in 1995 as Lieutenant Colonel. Mr. Molino received his bachelor's degree from St. Peter's College and his master's degree from Webster University.
The President intends to nominate Lisette M. Mondello, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Public and Intergovernmental Affairs). Ms. Mondello currently serves as Senior Advisor to the Secretary of Education. Prior to that, she served as Director of Communications for United States Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and Alfonse D'Amato. She received her bachelor's degree from Trinity University.
The President intends to appoint Charles E. Allen, of North Carolina, to be Assistant Secretary for Information Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Allen currently serves as Special Assistant to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. He has served with the CIA since 1958. Prior to his appointment as Special Assistant, Mr. Allen served as Assistant Director of Intelligence for Collection. He also served as Chief of Intelligence in the CIA's Counterterrorist Center. Earlier in his career, Mr. Allen was assigned overseas in an intelligence liaison capacity. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
  