
    President Carter met today with Ministers from the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), who are holding their first U.S.-ASEAN Ministerial Meeting in Washington from August 2-4. The President said that the United States fully supports ASEAN efforts to encourage economic, social, and cultural cooperation among its members and to promote peace and stability in Southeast Asia. He expressed admiration for ASEAN economic progress. The President told the ASEAN Ministers that the United States was prepared to embark on a long-term process of cooperation with ASEAN. The United States will respond to ASEAN's own regional priorities and programs and has agreed to set up consultative arrangements in key economic areas such as aid, energy, science and technology, food, business affairs, and trade.
Philippine Foreign Minister General Carlos P. Romulo, the spokesman for ASEAN, noted that this first joint ministerial meeting represented the culmination of intensive preparations and consultations between ASEAN and the United States. The meeting, he added, was an open dialog on the range of international issues and afforded an excellent opportunity to improve understanding and set up long-term consultative arrangements. General Romulo said the meeting reinforces the partnership and friendly relations that exist between the United States and ASEAN.
Besides General Romulo, ASEAN was represented by Ministers Widjojo and Radius, and Ambassador Ashari of Indonesia; Minister Rithauddeen and Ambassador Zain of Malaysia; Ministers Marcos, Virata, Sicat, and Peterno, and Ambassador Romualdez of the Philippines; Ministers Rajaratnam and Goh, and Ambassador Coomaraswaney of Singapore; and Ministers Pachariyangkun, Amarand, and Sribhibhadh, and Ambassador Visessurakarn of Thailand; ASEAN Secretary-General Abdullah; and Ambassador Manalo, ASEAN-U.S. Coordinator of the Philippines.
On the U.S. side, besides President Carter, Secretary Blumenthal of Treasury; Deputy Secretary Christopher of State; Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs; Ambassador Henry Owen and Nicholas Platt of the National Security Council; Under Secretary Richard Cooper and Assistant Secretary Richard Holbrooke of State; and Anthony Gerber, State Department ASEAN-U.S. Coordinator attended.
  