
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, USA Today



Sent:
Reports:




 August 15, 2020 13:11

 WH travel pool report #1: 5pm press conference 
Good afternoon from Bridgewater, New Jersey.
As you may have seen the president is holding a press conference tonight at 5pm at his Bedminster golf club.
Afterward, he'll hold a roundtable with supporters at 5:35 pm, which is closed to press. Your pooler has asked the campaign for more details on this event.
I'll update you with any further changes but please do not hesitate to reach out with questions. 


 August 15, 2020 15:59

 WH travel pool report #2: Departure for Bedminster 
Pool has been called to leave for Bedminster, where Trump will hold a press conference at 5pm.
A note on the fundraiser scheduled for tonight: According to a Republican official, $3 million was raised today for the Trump Victory Fund.
We're rolling at 3:58 pm. 


 August 15, 2020 16:24

 WH travel pool report #3: 5:30 press conference 
The president just tweeted the press conference has been moved to 5:30 pm. 


 August 15, 2020 17:25

 WH travel pool report #4: Two-minute warning 
Two-minute warning.
Pool is seated before a podium flanked by two television screens.
Guests began trickling in at 5:15 pm, sectioned off in the back of the room by dining chairs. There are about 20, majority are wearing masks.
A reminder the press conference can be livestreamed at whitehouse.gov/live.
Your pooler will provide any notable color from the room. 


 August 15, 2020 17:27

 WH travel pool report #5: briefing starts 
POTUS, wearing a purple tie and dark suit, took the podium at 5:26 pm.
Briefing livestreamed here: whitehouse.gov/live 


 August 15, 2020 18:01

 WH travel pool report #6: briefing ends 
The briefing ended at 5:59 pm for a total of 33 minutes. I'll send along some notable quotes. 


 August 15, 2020 18:09

 WH travel pool report #7: quotes 
Trump opened his remarks talking about the hospitalisation reduction rate, economic recovery and US testing capacity. Said US has administered over 70 million tests, more than all of EU combined. He also displayed a chart showing US retail spending recovery.
Here's some quotes, please check again the transcript:
On football:"I want college football to come back. These are strong healthy incredible people."
Says Trevor Lawrence called himself two days ago and he spoke to him a couple of times.
" I've been fighting for football to come back. We've tried to help the NFL as long as they stand for our national anthem, as long as they honor our flag and our country."
"I thought what the NBA did was atrocious. I thought it was disgraceful."
On Putin wanting a video conference:
"I think we'll wait until after the election and look Iran wants me to lose so badly."
Says he supports Postmaster DeJoy's actions over the last few weeks. "He wants to make the post office great again. I don't know what he's doing, he's a very smart man."
POTUS refuses to say whether he believes Kamala Harris is eligible to run but says "it's not something that bothers me... it's not something we will be pursuing. "
On why he won't personally step into stalled stimulus talks:"When it's right I'll meet but right now it's not right." 


 August 15, 2020 18:24

 WH travel pool report #8: More quotes 
Again, please check against transcripts.
Trump complained that Democrats are not giving Postmaster DeJoy funding he needs. "The Democrats aren't willing to give the people the money or the post office the money."
Trump says the economy has never been better:
"fastest economic recovery in American history""turns out it will be a very, very strong V""retail spending has fully recovered and is now at an all time high.""this was previous to the plague, the plague I call it, coming into our land…. we've not only recovered but we're at a much higher level""We're currently witnessing the fastest economy in American history. That's an amazing statement."
"you'll have a good report even prior to the election, you'll have a very good report (jobs)""a lot of its' going to be released, which is fortunate, prior to the election.""Democrats going out of their way… to stop these numbers"
"China's purchased the most amount of corn in history"+ "a massive amount of soybeans, also cattle.""They're doing that to keep me happy but they're also dreaming about Joe Biden"
boasts of cutting regulations. but "we're going to have certain regulations to protect the environment, also safety"
"industrial production is increasing at the fastet rate on record""astronomical rate."
college football:(Clemson quarterback) "he's got everything: he's got height, a strong arm, accuracy and he's fast… faster than the backs that were guarding… just a great young man …""he's safer on the field than he's outside of the field."
…………………….Iran arms embargo failure in UN and anouncement of 'snapback':
"well, we knew what the vote was going to be, but we'll be doing a snapback. You'll be watching it next week."
Not enthusiastic about Putin's call for a emergency conference on Iran:"probably not, I think we'll wait till after the election."
On USPS, blaming the Democrats, not his post master general:
"We have a man in there for two months. He's a very talented man, he's a brilliant business person, hes' done great…. He is working very hard but as you know, the Democrats aren't approving proper funding for postal, and they're not approving the proper funding for this ridiculous thing that they want to do which is all mail-in voting."
"He's a fantastic man, he wants to make the Post Office great again. Ever hear the expression?"Asked if he approves of the removal of many mail sorting machines, Trump says: "I don't know what he's doing. I can only tell you he's a very smart man."
Repeats again that the election, with large scale mail-in voting, "will be a catastrophe."This universal mail-in voting "is going to make our country a laughing stock all over the world."
He says he would howver like the funding for this purpose, but says Democrats are the ones holding it up:"They're not giving the money to the Post Office, they have to give the money to the Post Office.""you're right, there has to be more resources, I agree."
Is Trump himself trying to hobble the USPS? "No not at all."
Does he want to pardon Edward Snowden and does he still think he is a traitor?"I'm not that aware of the Snowden situation. I'm going to start looking at it. There are many many people, it seems to be a split decision. Many people think that he should be somehow treated differently and other people think he did very bad things.""I'm going to take a look at that very strongly
Thanks to co-pooler Sebastian Smith for supplemental quotes: 


 August 15, 2020 18:35

 WH travel pool #9: More quotes 
On whether he has confidence in Sec. Esper"Mark yesper?""Some people call him yesper. No, I get along with him. I get along with him fine."
On his enthusiasm and boat parade:"there are thousands of boats in lakes, rivers and oceans, thousands and thousands of boats...There's signs all over some of the votes have 10 flags on them they're incredible."
On Kamala Harris and those imputing that she is not legitmate to run for VP:
"I have nothing to do with that. I read something about it. And I will say that he is a brilliant lawyer that I guess he wrote an article about it. So I know nothing about it but it's not something that bothers me."
Pressed that he is encouraging doubts, he answered: "Why do you say that? I just don't know about it. But it's not something that we will be pursuing."
"Let me put it differently: to me it doesn't bother me at all. I don' t know about it. I read one quick article. The lawyer happens to be a brilliant lawyer, as you probably know. He wrote an article saying there could be a problem. It's not something that I'm going to be pursuing."
"If she's got a problem you would have thought she would have been vetted by 'Sleepy Joe.'" 


 August 15, 2020
[APP Note: Report #10 does not exist or was not received by the APP.] 


 August 15, 2020 22:26

 WH travel pool #11: passing of Robert Trump 
Statement on the passing of the president's brother
Statement from the President on the Passing of Robert Trump
It is with heavy heart I share that my wonderful brother, Robert, peacefully passed away tonight. He was not just my brother, he was my best friend. He will be greatly missed, but we will meet again. His memory will live on in my heart forever. Robert, I love you. Rest in peace. 



  