
    Pool Reports by Hannah Wiley, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 11, 2022 13:00 PDT

VP pool report #1
I'll be the pool reporter today, covering VP Harris' visit to San Francisco for a reproductive health care roundtable with California state legislators.
The event is at the swanky Fairmont Hotel, and does not appear to be live streamed. I'll send out more information and detail when the speech starts.
Staff sent the following background information:
On Background from a White House Official 
Today, August 11 at 2:00 PM PDT, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene California state legislators, local leaders, and advocates to discuss the fight to protect reproductive health care. She will applaud the leaders for their work protecting reproductive health care and abortion access for Californians and will encourage them to continue standing up for reproductive rights.
Participants 

Senate pro Tempore Toni Atkins 
Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis, California (D)
Attorney General Rob Bonta 
Gilda Gonzales, CEO, Planned Parenthood NorCal
Shannon Hovis, Director, NARAL Pro-Choice California

 The Vice President is bringing together leaders from across the nation who are on the frontlines fighting to protect a woman's right to make her own reproductive health decisions. With this convening, the Vice President will have met with state legislators from 18 states to discuss protecting reproductive rights, including Arizona, California, Florida, Indiana, Illinois, Kansas, Massachusetts, Montana, New Jersey, Nebraska, Nevada, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, and Virginia. She has also convened health care providers, constitutional law experts, faith leaders, state attorneys general, disability rights leaders, higher education leaders, and advocates.
--
For additional context: California lawmakers this summer approved Senate Constitutional Amendment 10, which would ask voters to enshrine abortion rights in the state constitution. The amendment will be on the ballot as Proposition 1 in November. Senate President Pro Tem Toni Atkins (D-San Diego) is the lead author of SCA 10.


August 11, 2022 14:34 PDT

VP pool report #2
Note: another more detailed report coming shortly with additional quotes.
Pool entered the appropriately named Gold Room in the hotel shortly after 2 pm. Round table open to media lasted approximately 20 minutes.
VP Harris was one of 27 people at the table, the majority being current state lawmakers. Some of them were dressed in pink, which they often wear in the state legislature during votes on abortion legislation.
VP said there are some good signs that the economy is improving: prices of certain household goods are lowering, half a million jobs added in July, unemployment at 3.5%.
The VP then pivoted to abortion access and the meaning of the Supreme Court's Dobbs decision.
VP said the Supreme Court did something "unheard of" with the Dobbs decision, in that it took a "constitutional right" from women. She said the decision contradicts the image and reputation of the United States around the world, in that it's considered a democracy that respects the rights of its people.
"But not in California," Harris said.
She said it is "unconscionable" that elected leaders are passing laws that remove reproductive rights, and particularly blasted policies that don't provide exceptions for rape or incest.
She said the government should not be in the position to make the most "personal' or "intimate" decision for women.
Senate President Pro Tem Toni Atkins (D-San Diego), Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis and Atty. Gen. Rob Bonta spoke after the VP about what California is doing on the frontlines of preserving reproductive care in the U.S.
Press was ushered out of the room at 2:26 for the closed-door portion of the roundtable.


August 11, 2022 15:19 PDT

VP pool report #3 (final)
Additional quotes, and here's an iffy Otter link. https://otter.ai/u/VB5Qq2kUhs8VbGTDzYXEEBPfRNg
VP Harris said the nation's economy saw some "good news this week."

0% inflation in the month of July
"We saw drops in the price of gas, clothing, household appliances and more"
Created half a million jobs last month, which combined with the other jobs created over the last 18 months, "means we have recovered all the jobs we lost in the pandemic."
Unemployment is at 3.5%, "which is the lowest number in half a century."

 Harris said the administration is committed to improving infrastructure and providing high speed internet to those that can't afford it.
She said the president will soon be signing a law to "address the climate crisis in America." She lauded California's leaders for pushing for these ideas in D.C.
On abortion access:
"The United States Supreme Court in the Dobbs decision did something that is unheard of in our country."
Harris said that the United States "holds itself out to be a model of a democracy around the world."
"We walk into rooms around the world and we talk about the importance of human rights, of consistency of justice. Yet, the United States Supreme Court in the Dobbs decision took a constitutional right that had been recognized, from the people of America, from the women of America."
"What we have seen around the country are extremist so-called leaders who are passing laws designed to criminalize health care providers and punish women."
Harris raised particular concern and frustration with laws that don't have any exceptions for rape or incest. She noted her experience as a former prosecutor specializing in child sexual assault cases.
"The idea that states would be passing laws that would take from an individual their right to self-determination after they have endured such an atrocious act of violence is unconscionable," she said.
"But not in California," she said. "Because here we have leaders who understand the importance of the principles upon which our nation was founded. Which are the principle of freedom and liberty."
Harris said "the government should not be in a position, nor should it have a right, to make the most intimate and personal decision that anyone can make about heart and home."
California understands, Harris said, that it should be "her decision," not the government's.
Harris turned it over to the California lawmakers after about seven minutes of speaking. She said she was there to learn about "how we can continue to do what has been happening here," which is to fight for the right of women and all people "to self-determination."
Other quotes:
Senate President Pro Tem Toni Atkins (D-San Diego)
"Here in California, the Legislature has been not only protecting our rights, but doing everything we can to ensure those rights are protected in the future."
California lawmakers are pushing a bundle of more than a dozen bills to "increase, expand and protect abortion access."
(You can read more about that package here, though I'd note that we went through Appropriations today in the Legislature and some legislation might have been modified : https://womenscaucus.legislature.ca.gov/sites/womenscaucus.legislature.ca.gov/files/LWC%20RJ%20Priorities.pdf )
"In California, there is no confusion. Abortion is legal and safe here. People have options here, all people, whether they are from California or not."Atkins said California is still not "taking any chances," and noted Proposition 1, which voters will weigh in on in November.
Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis:
"Here in California…we are not dispirited. We are empowered."
Kounalakis mentioned that California is "number one" in a lot of industries, and noted it's a place where abortion is protected.
AG Rob Bonta: 
Bonta said that the California DOJ will continue to protect abortion access



  