
    President Trump's 2020 Convention honors the great American story, the American people that have written it, and how President Donald J. Trump has empowered them to succeed. The convention highlights the progress that has been made under President Trump's leadership, the hardworking Americans that make it possible, and how he will continue to make America great. While Democrats attack our country and sow division, President Trump is implementing an agenda that puts the American people first.
Sean ParnellRemarks as Prepared:
In 2006, the Army sent me to Afghanistan as a young platoon leader placed in command of Americans from every corner of our country. Our platoon reflected the diversity of our nation…every race, creed and religion.
Despite those differences, we were bound together as brothers from the same American family.
On June 10, 2006, our platoon was attacked just after dawn. Outnumbered ten to one, we endured mortar and machine gun fire as hundreds of Taliban charged us from three sides. We had 24 men that day.
Wave after wave of Taliban advanced up the hill. I was wounded three times in the fighting. Nearly all of my platoon was wounded within the first minute. But the enemy kept coming. We fought to our last rounds of ammunition and when it was over, we held the hill.
In the face of death, I saw ordinary Americans become heroes. In our darkest hour, when our survival depended on each other, my men and I learned an important lesson: we all bleed red. Our differences did not define us. United we were unbeatable.
After 485 days of combat, I came home, eager to enjoy the freedoms I risked my life to defend. But I watched with alarm as the party of my grandfather—a lifelong union Democrat—turned against the very people it professed to represent. I watched as Joe Biden spit venom at an auto worker who dared to question Joe's intent to dismantle the Second Amendment.
Where Democrats once stood for hard working, law abiding Americans who displayed our flag with pride, this New Democrat party considered them uneducated racists, clinging to guns and Bibles. The party of Harry Truman became the party of hedge fund managers, Hollywood celebrities, tech moguls and academia —bloated with contempt for middle America.
I look across the aisle and I do not see a party that wants you to pursue your dreams. I see a Democrat party that wants to dictate what those dreams are. I don't see a party that wants you to be free. I see a party that wants to chain you to conformity and will destroy anyone they deem a heretic.
I swore an oath to defend my country and its constitution. President Trump has sworn to do the same. That is why he has advanced freedom – despite savage political attacks – to overcome the agenda of the radical left.
President Trump unleashed the economic might of this nation like no other President in our history. He triggered the rising tide of working families, brought us energy independence, reclaimed jobs from overseas that Democrats said would never return. He has fiercely defended the besieged First and Second Amendments. That's just a start. With four more years, imagine what we can achieve by simply working with our President.
I believe in our President's vision for the future.
I stand here tonight calling on all Americans to join us. It doesn't matter what you look like, who you love, how you worship, your gender or your job. If you are a traditional Democrat who has become disillusioned with how radical your party has become, then stand with us! You are most welcome. America needs all her patriots to rush to her defense.
My fellow Americans, I promise you this: In our tent, you are free.
Free to speak the truth, choose your journey, define your life. You have the power to go as far as you aim, then aim higher and keep going because that is what Americans do. We are idealists and dreamers, lovers of adventure. We are rugged and independent. We don't make excuses. We make the impossible a reality. Think about it, in a century, we went from ground bound dreamers gazing to the stars, to doers who created the means to reach them!
This is not the time to stand on the sidelines. If you love our country as we do, as our President does, join the chorus of patriot voices that will preserve this exceptional union.
Mr. President, lead the way. Millions in our American family believe in this path to destiny. Guide us to that horizon! Thank you and may God Bless the United States of America.
Maximo AlvarezRemarks as Prepared:
My name is Maximo Alvarez. I'm speaking to you today from my home in South Florida -------not far from the Straits of Florida -- which isn't just a 90-mile wide blue strip on a map for me. It divides freedom ------from fear. It divides the past -----from the future.
I know all about the past—I'll never forget my own. My family has fled totalitarianism and communism. And more than once. First from Spain, then from Cuba.
But my family is done leaving. By the grace of God, I have lived the American dream—the greatest blessing I've ever had. My dad, who only had a sixth-grade education told me, "don't lose this place. You'll never be as lucky as me."
I'm speaking to you today because my family is done leaving places. There is nowhere left to go.
I'm speaking to you today because President Trump may not always care about being polite ----but all the far left cares about is power. Power for them ------ not for us.
I'm speaking to you today because I've seen people like this before. I've seen movements like this before. I've seen ideas like this before and I'm here to tell you, we cannot let them take over our country.
I heard the promises of Fidel Castro. And I can never forget all those who grew up around me, who looked like me, who could have been me, who suffered and starved and died because they believed those empty promises.
Go to Freedom Tower in Miami. Stop to listen and you can still hear the sound of those promises being broken. It is the sound of waves in the ocean, carrying families clinging to pieces of wood, families with children who can't swim, but willing to risk everything to reach this blessed land. It is the sound of tears hitting the paper of an application for American citizenship.
They heard the empty promises and they know the reality. Look at them. Listen to them. Learn the truth.
Those false promises—spread the wealth, defund the police, trust a socialist state more than your family and community— don't sound radical to my ears. They sound familiar.
When Fidel Castro was asked if he was a communist, he said he was a Roman Catholic-------- He knew he had to hide the truth.
But the country I was born in is gone – destroyed. When I watch the news in Seattle and Chicago and Portland, when I see history being rewritten, when I hear the promises—I hear echoes of a former life I never wanted to hear again. I see shadows I thought I had outrun.
My parents only wanted one person to decide my fate—me. Not some party member, not some government official, not some bureaucrat ----- in America, I would decide my own future.
I am so grateful to America, the place where I was able to build my American dream through hard work and determination. President Trump knows that the American story was written by people just like you and me, who love our country and take risks to build a future for our families and neighbors.
I may be Cuban born, but I am 100 percent American. This is the greatest country in the world. If I gave away everything I have today, it would not equal 1 percent of what I was given when I came to this great country: The gift of Freedom.
Right now - It is up to us to decide our fate and to choose freedom over oppression.
President Trump is fighting against the forces of socialism, communism, and totalitarianism. And he will continue to do just that. And what about his opponent and the rest of the DC swamp? I have no doubt they will hand the country over to those dangerous forces.
You and I will decide.
And here is what I've decided: I choose President Trump because I choose America.
Former Ambassador Nikki HaleyRemarks as Prepared:
Good evening. It is great to be back at the Republican National Convention.
I'll start with a little story. It's about an American Ambassador to the United Nations. And it's about a speech she gave to this convention. She called for the re-election of the Republican President she served… And she called out his Democratic opponent… a former vice president from a failed administration.
That ambassador said, and I quote, "Democrats always blame America first." The year was 1984. The president was Ronald Reagan. And Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick's words are just as true today.
Joe Biden and the Democrats are still blaming America first. Donald Trump has always put America first. He has earned four more years as President.
It was an honor of a lifetime to serve as the United States ambassador to the United Nations. Now, the U.N. is not for the faint of heart. It's a place where dictators-murderers-&-thieves denounce America… and then put their hands out and demand that we pay their bills.
Well, President Trump put an end to all that. With his leadership, we did what Barack Obama and Joe Biden refused to do. We stood up for America… and we stood against our enemies.
Obama and Biden let North Korea threaten America. President Trump rejected that weakness, and we passed the toughest sanctions on North Korea in history.
Obama and Biden let Iran get away with murder and literally sent them a plane full of cash. President Trump did the right thing and ripped up the Iran nuclear deal.
Obama and Biden led the United Nations to denounce our friend and ally, Israel. President Trump moved our embassy to Jerusalem – and when the U.N. tried to condemn us, I was proud to cast the American veto.
This President has a record of strength and success. The former Vice President has a record of weakness and failure. Joe Biden is good for Iran and ISIS… great for Communist China... and he's a godsend to everyone who wants America to apologize, abstain, and abandon our values.
Donald Trump takes a different approach. He's tough on China, and he took on ISIS and won. And he tells the world what it needs to hear.
At home, the President is the clear choice on jobs and the economy. He's moved America forward, while Joe Biden held America back.
When Joe was VP, I was governor of the great state of South Carolina. We had a pretty good run. Manufacturers of all kinds flocked to our state from overseas, creating tens of thousands of American jobs. People were referring to South Carolina as "the beast of the southeast," which I loved.
Everything we did happened in spite of Joe Biden and his old boss.
We cut taxes. They raised them. We slashed red tape. They piled on more mandates.
And when we brought in good-paying jobs, Biden and Obama sued us. I fought back… and they gave up.
A Biden-Harris administration would be much, much worse. Last time, Joe's boss was Obama… this time, it would be Pelosi, Sanders, and the Squad. Their vision for America is socialism. And we know that socialism has failed everywhere.
They want to tell Americans how to live… and what to think. They want a government takeover of health care. They want to ban fracking and kill millions of jobs. They want massive tax hikes on working families.
Joe Biden and the socialist left would be a disaster for our economy. But President Trump is leading a new era of opportunity.
Before Communist China gave us the coronavirus, we were breaking economic records left and right. The pandemic has set us back, but not for long. President Trump brought our economy back before, and he will bring it back again.
There's one more important area where our President is right. He knows that political correctness and "cancel culture" are dangerous and just plain wrong.
In much of the Democratic Party, it's now fashionable to say that America is racist. That is a lie. America is not a racist country.
This is personal for me. I am the proud daughter of Indian immigrants. They came to America and settled in a small southern town. My father wore a turban. My mother wore a sari. I was a brown girl in a black and white world.
We faced discrimination and hardship. But my parents never gave in to grievance and hate. My mom built a successful business. My dad taught 30 years at a historically black college. And the people of South Carolina chose me as their first minority and first female governor.
America is a story that's a work in progress. Now is the time to build on that progress, and make America even freer, fairer, and better for everyone. That's why it's tragic to see so much of the Democratic Party turn a blind eye toward riots and rage.
The American people know we can do better. And of course we know that every single black life is valuable.
The black cops who've been shot in the line of duty – they matter. The black small business owners who've watched their life's work go up in flames – they matter. The black kids who've been gunned down on the playground – their lives matter too. And their lives are being ruined and stolen by the violence on our streets.
It doesn't have to be like this. It wasn't like this in South Carolina five years ago. Our state came face-to-face with evil. A white supremacist walked into Mother Emanuel Church during Bible Study. Twelve African Americans pulled up a chair and prayed with him for an hour. Then he began to shoot.
After that horrific tragedy, we didn't turn against each other. We came together – black and white, Democrat and Republican. Together, we made the hard choices needed to heal – and removed a divisive symbol, peacefully and respectfully.
What happened then should give us hope now. America isn't perfect. But the principles we hold dear are perfect. If there's one thing I've learned, it's that even on our worst day, we are blessed to live in America.
It's time to keep that blessing alive for the next generation. This President, and this Party, are committed to that noble task.
We seek a nation that rises together, not falls apart in anarchy and anger. We know that the only way to overcome America's challenges is to embrace America's strengths.
We are striving to reach a brighter future…
Where every child goes to a world-class school, chosen by their parents…
Where every family lives in a safe community with good jobs…
Where every entrepreneur has the freedom to achieve and inspire…
Where every believer can worship without fear and every life is protected…
Where every girl and boy, every woman and man, of every race and religion, has the best shot at the best life.
In this election, we must choose the only candidate who has and who will continue delivering on that vision. President Trump and Vice President Pence have my support.
And America has our promise. We will build on the progress of our past and unlock the promise of our future. That future starts when the American people re-elect President Donald Trump.
Thank you. Good night. And may God always bless America.
Donald Trump, Jr.Remarks as Prepared:
Good evening, America.
We're here tonight to talk about the Great American Story. To talk about this country we all love. This Land of promise and opportunity -- of heroes... and greatness.
Just a few short months ago, we were seeing the American Dream become a reality for more of our citizens than ever before.

The greatest prolonged economic expansion in American history.
The lowest unemployment rate in nearly 50 years.
The lowest ever unemployment rates ever for black Americans, hispanic Americans, women, and pretty much every other demographic group.

And then, courtesy of the Chinese Communist Party, the virus struck.
The President quickly took action and shut down travel from China. Joe Biden and his Democrat allies called my father a racist and xenophobe for doing it. They put political correctness ahead of the safety and security of the American people.
Fortunately, as the virus began to spread, the President acted quickly and ensured ventilators got to hospitals that needed them most. He delivered PPE to our brave frontline workers. And he rallied the mighty American private sector, to tackle this new challenge.
There is more work to do, but there is light at the end of the tunnel.
Job gains are outpacing what the so-called experts expected.
But Biden's radical leftwing policies would stop our economic recovery cold. He's already talking about shutting the country down -- again. It's madness.
Democrats claim to be for workers, but they've spent the entire pandemic trying to sneak a tax break for millionaires in Democrat states into the COVID relief bill. Then they attacked my father for suspending the payroll tax for middle-class workers.
In fact, if you think about it, Joe Biden's entire economic platform seems designed to crush the working man and woman.
He supported the worst trade deals in the history of the planet. He voted for the NAFTA Nightmare. Down the tubes went our auto industry. He pushed TPP. Goodbye manufacturing jobs.
Beijing Biden is so weak on China that the Intelligence Community recently assessed that the Chinese Communist Party favors Biden. They know he'll weaken us both economically and on the world stage.
Biden also wants to bring in more illegal immigrants to take jobs from American citizens. His open border policies would drive wages down for Americans at a time when low-income workers were getting real wage increases for the first time in modern history.
He's pledged to repeal the Trump Tax Cuts, which were the biggest in our history. After eight years of Obama and Biden's slow growth, Trump's policies have been like rocket fuel to the economy and especially the middle-class. Biden has promised to take that money back out of your pocket and keep it in the Swamp.
But that makes sense, considering Joe Biden is basically the Loch Ness Monster of the Swamp. For the past half-century, he's been lurking around in there. He sticks his head up every now and then to run for President, then he disappears and doesn't do much in between.
So if you're looking for hope, look to the man who did what the failed Obama-Biden Administration never could do and built the greatest economy our country had ever seen--and President Trump will do it again.
We will be stronger than ever, because when we put our mind to it, there's no obstacle that America can't surmount.
Except there's a difference this time. In the past, both parties believed in the goodness of America. We agreed on where we wanted to go. We just disagreed about how to get there.
This time the other party is attacking the very principles on which our Nation was founded:

Freedom of thought
Freedom of speech
Freedom of religion
The rule of law

Thomas Jefferson famously said, "I have sworn upon the altar of God, eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man." Our Founders believed there was nothing more important than protecting our God-given right to think for ourselves.
Now the Left's trying to "cancel" all of those Founders. They don't seem to understand this important principle: In order to improve in the future, we must learn from our past--not erase it.
So we are not going to tear down monuments and forget the people who built our great Nation. Instead, we will learn from our past so we don't repeat any mistakes. And we will work tirelessly to improve the lives of all Americans.
Joe Biden and the radical left are also now coming for our freedom of speech and want to bully us into submission. If they get their way, it will no longer be the "Silent Majority," it will be the "Silenced Majority."
This has to stop. Freedom of expression used to be a Liberal value, at least before the radical Left took over. Now the Republican Party is the home of free speech--the place where anyone from any background can speak their mind. And may the best ideas win.
People of faith are under attack. You're not allowed to go to church, but mass chaos in the streets gets a pass. It's almost like this election is shaping up to be church, work, and school vs. rioting, looting and vandalism-- or, in the words of Biden and the Democrats, "peaceful protesting."
Anarchists have been flooding our streets and Democrat mayors are ordering the police to stand down.
Small businesses across America—many of them minority owned—are being torched by mobs.
The Democrat mayors pretend it's not happening. They actually called it "a summer of love."
And that brings me to another important principle: Every American must be free to live without fear of violence--in your country, in your communities, and in your homes.
All men and women are created equal and must be treated equally under the law. That's why we must put an end to racism, and we must ensure that any police officer who abuses their power is held accountable. What happened to George Floyd is a disgrace. And if you know a police officer, you know they agree with that, too.
But we cannot lose sight of the fact that our police are American heroes. They deserve our deepest appreciation. Because no matter what the Democrats say, you and I both know when we dial 911, we don't want it going to voicemail. So "defunding" the police is not an option.
Everything starts with safety and security. You can't have anything else without it. You can't focus on building a better future for your children without the peace of mind that they can study safely in their classrooms, play safely in their neighborhoods, and sleep safely in their beds.
But safety is only the beginning. Trump's America is a land of opportunity--a place of promise.
I was fortunate enough to grow up in a family that could afford the best schools and the finest universities. But a great education cannot be the exclusive right of the rich and powerful. It must be accessible to all.
That's why my dad is pro-school choice. That's why he called education access the civil rights issue of not just our time--but of all time. It is unacceptable that too many African American and Hispanic American children are stuck in bad schools just because of their zip code. Donald Trump will not stand for it.
If Democrats really wanted to help minorities and underserved communities, instead of bowing to big money union bosses, they'd let parents choose what school is best for their kids. They'd limit immigration to protect American workers. They'd support the police who protect our neighborhoods. They'd learn how to negotiate trade deals that prioritizes America's interests for a change. They'd end the endless wars and quit sending our young people to solve problems in foreign lands. They'd cut taxes for families and workers. They'd create Opportunity Zones that drive investment into inner cities.
In other words, if Democrats cared for the forgotten men and women of our country, they'd do exactly what President Trump is doing.
America is the greatest country on Earth. But my father's entire worldview revolves around the idea that we can always do even better.
Imagine the life you want to have--one with a great job, a beautiful home, and a perfect family. You can have it.
Imagine the country you want to live in--one with true equality of opportunity, where hard work pays off and justice is served with compassion and without partiality. You can have it.
Imagine a world where the evils of Communism and radical Islamic Terrorism are not given a chance to spread--where heroes are celebrated and the good guys win. You can have it.
That is the life, that is the country, that is the world that Donald Trump and the Republican Party are after. And yes, you can have it. Because unlike Joe Biden and the radical Left Democrats, our Party is open to everyone.
It all starts by rejecting the radicals who want to drag us into the dark, and embracing the man who represents a bright and beautiful future for all. It starts by re-electing Donald J. Trump President of the United States.
Thank you and God Bless America.
Senator Tim Scott (R-SC)Remarks as Prepared:
Good evening,
To all of you tuning in and participating in the political process, God bless you.
This isn't how I pictured tonight, but our country is experiencing something none of us envisioned.
From a global pandemic, to the deaths of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, 2020 has tested our nation in ways we haven't seen for decades.
But regardless of the challenges presented to us…every four years…Americans come together to vote…To share stories of what makes our nation strong, and the lessons we have learned that can strengthen it further for our children and grandchildren.
Because while this election is between Donald Trump and Joe Biden…it is not solely about Donald Trump and Joe Biden.
It's about the promise of America. It's about you and me…our challenges and heartbreaks, hopes and dreams.
It's about how we respond when tackling critical issues like police reform…when Democrats called our work a token effort, and walked out of the room during negotiations because they wanted the ISSUE more than they wanted a solution.
Do we want a society that breeds success, or a culture that cancels everything it even slightly disagrees with?
I know where I stand, because you see, I am living my mother's American Dream.
My parents divorced when I was 7 years old. We lived in a two bedroom house with my grandparents…me, my mom and my brother sharing a room and a bed. My mom worked 16 hours a day to keep food on the table and a roof over our heads.
She knew that if we could find the opportunity, bigger things would come.
I thought I had to use football to succeed in life…and my focus on academics faded away. I failed my freshman year of high school – four subjects…Spanish, English, world geography, and civics.
Trust me, after spending 7 years in the Senate, I know I'm not the only one in Congress who failed civics.
But even while I was failing the 9th grade… my mother always said, "when you shoot for the moon, even if you miss, you will be among the stars." She never lost faith in me, even when I lost faith in myself. Because of her encouragement, I went to summer school and caught up.
The next year I met my mentor, John Moniz…a Chick Fil-a operator. John saw something in me that I could not see in myself, and started teaching me valuable lessons in life…
Like, having a job was a good thing, but creating jobs would be better. That having an income could change my lifestyle, but creating a profit could change my community!
He planted the seeds of what would become Opportunity Zones – this initiative the President and I worked together on is bringing over 75 billion dollars of private sector investment into distressed communities.
I took those lessons to heart…and started putting the pieces of my life together. I realized a quality education is the closest thing we have to magic in America.
That's why I fight to this day for school choice…to make sure every child, in every neighborhood has a quality education.
I don't care if it's a public, private, charter, virtual or home school.
When a parent has a choice, their kid has a better chance. And the President has fought alongside me on that.
Later in life, I started my own successful small business. That's why I know it is critical for us to have a tax code that encourages growth.
We actually saw revenues to the Treasury increase after we lowered taxes in 2017. Rest assured, Democrats do not want you to know that!
After starting my business and spending time in local government, I ran for Congress in 2010. The district is based in Charleston, South Carolina…where the Civil War started…against a son of our legendary Senator, Strom Thurmond.
You may be asking yourself how does a poor black kid…from a single parent household…run and win a race in a crowded Republican primary against a Thurmond?
Because of the evolution of the heart, in an overwhelmingly white district... the voters judged me on the content of my character, not the color of my skin.
We live in a world that only wants you to believe in the bad news… racially, economically and culturally-polarizing news.
The truth is, our nation's arc always bends back towards fairness. We are not fully where we want to be…but thank God we are not where we used to be!
We are always striving to be better...When we stumble, and we will, we pick ourselves back up and try again.
We don't give into cancel-culture, or the radical -- and factually baseless -- belief that things are worse today than in the 1860s or the 1960s.
We have work to do...but I believe in the goodness of America…the promise that all men, and all women are created equal.
And if you're watching tonight, I'm betting you do, too.
Over the past four years, we have made tremendous progress towards that promise.
President Trump built the most inclusive economy ever. 7 million jobs created pre-COVID-19, two thirds of which went to women, African-Americans and Hispanics.
The first new, major effort to tackle poverty in a generation – Opportunity Zones. We put hard earned tax dollars back in people's pockets by cutting their taxes, especially for single parent households like the one I grew up in - cutting single mother's taxes 70% on average.
President Trump supported these tax cuts for those single moms, and other working families, and signed these policies into law...and our nation is better off for it.
So, I'm going to ask you…the American people…not to look simply at what the candidates say...but to look back at what they've done.
This election is about your future, and it's critical to paint a full picture of the records of Donald Trump and Joe Biden.
Joe Biden said if a black man didn't vote for him, he wasn't truly black.
Joe Biden said black people are a monolithic community.
Joe Biden said poor kids can be just as smart as white kids.
And while his words are one thing, his actions take it to a whole new level.
In 1994, Biden led the charge on a crime bill that put millions of black Americans behind bars...
President Trump's criminal justice reform law fixed many of the disparities Biden created and made our system more fair and just for all Americans.
Joe Biden failed our nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities... heaping blame on them as they fought to ensure our young folks had access to higher education.
Once again, to clean up Joe Biden's mess, President Trump signed into law historically high funding for HBCUs, as well as a bill to give them permanent funding for the first time ever!
And now, Joe Biden wants to come for your pocketbooks.... Unless you're a blue state millionaire.
I'm serious – that's one of their solutions for the pandemic. They want more money you're your pocket…going to help Manhattan elites and Hollywood moguls get a tax break.
Republicans, however, passed President Trump's once-in-a-generation tax reform bill that lowered taxes for single moms, working families and those in need.
So, when it comes to what Joe Biden says he'll do...Look at his actions. Look at his policies. Look at what he already did and did not do while he's been in Washington for 47 years.
Ladies and gentlemen, people don't always see those failures, because they think we're having a policy debate on two sides of an issue.
That is not what is happening.
Our side is working on policy – while Joe Biden's radical Democrats are trying to permanently transform what it means to be an American.
Make no mistake: Joe Biden and Kamala Harris want a cultural revolution. A fundamentally different America.
If we let them…they will turn our country into a socialist utopia…and history has taught us that path only leads to pain and misery, especially for hard-working people hoping to rise.
Instead, we must focus on the promise of the American journey. I know that journey well.
My grandfather's 99th birthday would have been tomorrow. Growing up, he had to cross the street if a white person was coming. He suffered the indignity of being forced out of school as a third grader to pick cotton, and never learned to read or write.
Yet, he lived to see his grandson become the first African American to be elected to both the United States House and Senate.
Our family went from Cotton to Congress in one lifetime. And that's why I believe the next American century can be better than the last.
There are millions of families like mine across this nation...full of potential seeking to live the American Dream.
And I'm here tonight to tell you that supporting the Republican ticket gives you the best chance of making that dream a reality.
God Bless you, and may God continue to bless the United States of America.
  