
    Country music superstar Randy Travis to headline events; Team Bachmann raises awareness of Paws and Effect for wounded combat veterans
Urbandale, Iowa — As a token of appreciation for the warm reception and hospitality she has received across the Hawkeye State, as well as to seize the opportunity to raise awareness and funds for returning Iowa military veterans, Republican presidential candidate Michele Bachmann announced today a full slate of activities for the 2011 Iowa Straw Poll including performances by renowned country music legend Randy Travis, country music singers Richie McDonald and Tim Rushlow, and Christian artist Charles Billingsley.
In conjunction with this powerful entertainment offering, a significant component of the Team Bachmann straw poll activities will include a focus on support for returning Iowa military veterans through the Iowa-based Paws and Effect organization, a partner to the national Wounded Warrior program, which trains and places service dogs with combat veterans across the state.
"I am a huge Randy Travis fan and I am honored he will be with us on August 13 to help make this day fun and meaningful for our supporters and their families, as well as to encourage all straw poll attendees, regardless of their candidate of choice, to come together to help support Iowa's returning military veterans," Bachmann said. "It is humbling to think my supporters are willing to take a big part of their Saturday to join us at the Iowa straw poll. We want to make it an enjoyable destination for members of Team Bachmann and their families. We also want to be sure to give something back to Iowa's finest by asking straw poll attendees to support the Paws and Effect organization."
The Team Bachmann straw poll setup will include an air-conditioned tent, barbecue, beverages and live entertainment throughout the day. Straw poll attendees can also join Team Bachmann in support of Iowa's returning combat veterans by donating to the Paws and Effect organization, which will have veterans and their trained service dogs stationed throughout the Team Bachmann site.
Paws & Effect is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization based in Des Moines, IA that raises, trains and places service dogs with combat veterans in Iowa. Working with the Iowa National Guard and the Community Based Warrior Transition Unit (CBWTU) in Rock Island, Ill., Paws & Effect reaches out to combat veterans with mobility impairments and those affected by Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Paws & Effect provides service dogs to combat veterans at no cost to the recipient. The organization also covers all expenses related to raising the service dogs in-training. For more information on Paws & Effect, please visit: http://paws-effect.blogspot.com/.
"On a day where Iowa Republicans will be gathering to help officially kick off the 2012 election process in earnest, it is fitting for all of us to pay tribute to the many sacrifices made by Iowa's courageous veterans," Bachmann said.
For more information about the Team Bachmann straw poll activities, please visit: www.michelebachmann.com.
  