
    Dear Sam:
It is with deep regret but even more with pride in your many accomplishments that I accept your resignation as Chief of Staff. I am very pleased, at the same time, that you will serve as General Chairman of the Republican National Committee.
You have worked in every one of my campaigns since 1979, and you have served with great distinction in two demanding jobs in the last four years. As Secretary of Transportation, you developed the National Transportation Policy that will keep our Nation on the move well into the next century, obtained record levels of Federal funding for the aviation infrastructure, and strengthened mass transit programs. Under your leadership, the Coast Guard performed superbly in Operations Desert Storm and Desert Shield.
Your many accomplishments at the Department are crowned by one of our most significant legislative achievements -- the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act. That law establishes the National Highway System, builds partnerships between all levels of government and the private sector, and strengthens highway safety programs.
As Chief of Staff, you led the White House during a period of great change both at home and abroad. I deeply appreciate your loyalty in fighting for the programs that we know will change America for the better. This year, among many other accomplishments, we presented our Comprehensive Health Care Reform proposals, accelerated welfare reform in the States, and announced the "G.I. Bill for Children" to promote school choice for middle- and low-income families. We sent our economic growth agenda to Congress and worked to improve our economy, to ensure that every American who wants to work can have a productive job, and we concluded negotiations for a North American Free Trade Agreement. In foreign relations, President Yeltsin had a successful State Visit to Washington.
Throughout your distinguished career, both in your beloved Illinois and on the national scene, you have been known for your integrity and "can do" approach to problems. As a lawyer and public servant, you have brought your friendly style and deep devotion to the principles we share, and all of us at the White House are the richer for your tenure here.
I am deeply grateful for all your accomplishments on behalf of our Nation. Thank you for your service, dedication, and most of all your friendship to me and my entire family.
Barbara and I send our warmest wishes to you and Honey.
Most sincerely,
George Bush
Dear Mr. President:
It has been the greatest honor of my life to serve in your Administration as Secretary of Transportation and Chief of Staff. When I arrived from Chicago almost four years ago, I had a single aim: to faithfully serve you and this Nation. I am proud that, under your leadership, we have accomplished much. It has truly been an exhilarating and rewarding four years.
History will judge you to be one of the greatest Presidents this country has ever had. But it is vitally important that you be permitted to finish the work you have begun, here and around the world. I will do everything within my power to support your election to a second term.
I respectfully resign the office of Chief of Staff to the President of the United States effective August 23, 1992.
Samuel K. Skinner
  