
    Romney for President today released a new web video, "Mitt On The Road: A Week In New Hampshire." The video shows highlights from Mitt Romney's events as he spoke to New Hampshire voters across the state this past week.
To View "Mitt On The Road: A Week In New Hampshire" Please See: http://mi.tt/n797KV
Script For "Mitt On The Road: A Week In New Hampshire:"
New Hampshire State Senate Majority Leader Jeb Bradley: "So it's an honor and a pleasure to be able to introduce my friend and our next President, Governor Mitt Romney."
Mitt Romney (Litchfield, NH): "We've now had a president in office for some two and a half years. ... We have unemployment which is higher than during the Jimmy Carter years. We have more people out of work than during the Jimmy Carter years. There are twenty-five million Americans who are out of work or who have stopped looking for work or who are in part-time jobs that need full-time work. Twenty-five million Americans. And that in my view is a presidency that has not succeeded in doing the number one job the president was elected to do which is to get this economy going again."
Mitt Romney (Berlin, NH): "The president's policies just didn't get this economy turned around fast enough for a lot of people like those that were furloughed here at Isaacson Steel. We need to have people in the White House who understand how the economy works and who can help get America working again for the American people. I've spent my life in the private sector. I understand how the economy works and I'm going to bring that expertise to get this economy going again."
Mitt Romney (Manchester, NH): "Businesses are comprised of people. I'm talking about repair shops, and gas stations, and beauty salons, and restaurants. I'm talking about Apple computer, Facebook and Microsoft. I'm talking about businesses that employ people. It's really astonishing to me that the Obama folks would try and argue that businesses aren't people. What do they think they are? Little men from Mars? That when they tax business, they tax people. I want this to be the most attractive place in the world for small business, new business, growing businesses. And what the president has done is put in place the most anti-business, anti-investment, anti-jobs agenda we've seen in generations. ... If we're led by people who will tell us the truth and live with integrity and who actually know how to lead, then America will remain as it's always been: the hope of the Earth. And I ask for your help in doing just that."
  