
    "The American people are still suffering and these effects are very real"
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — Today, the campaign for 2012 Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul remarked on the recent jobs report. See comments from Ron Paul 2012 Campaign Manager John Tate below.
"At an alarming 9.1 percent, the July national unemployment rate confirms the suspicions of many Americans both employed and unemployed. People realize that our nation can no longer afford to stay on this same path of reckless spending and the status quo of Washington.
"The Bureau of Labor Statistics notes that unemployment since April is essentially unchanged, meaning that despite us being on the far end of 'stimulus' effects and with the cumulative effect of trillions of dollars in money printing, there is little cause for optimism.
"America has been dealing with this severe economic crisis for years because we have failed to focus on the true issues at hand: a declining dollar and out-of-control spending.
"Growing inflation, rising gasoline and food prices, and trillion-dollar budget deficits will all soon seem like minor issues if our nation does not immediately change our monetary and spending policies.
"Establishment Washington told us the recession was over in 2009, yet the American people are still suffering and these effects are very real.
"We must take bold actions to reduce out-of-control government spending, and get the federal government out of the way of small business and entrepreneurs so that they can start hiring again.
"We must take a hard look at the reasons why our dollar has been devalued, and the consequences we are now dealing with because of the manipulation by the Federal Reserve.
"Our focus should be on rolling back the unconstitutional growth and activism of the federal government, and moving to a truly sound-money system.
"Ron Paul has pledged that if elected President, he will veto any spending bill that contributes to an unbalanced budget, and balance the budget in the first year of his term. He will also fight to strip away useless regulations and further taxes on businesses in the private sector.
"These are the authentic solutions that will help people, help our economy, and get this country on the path to prosperity."
  