
    Pool Reports by Jeff Mordock, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 10, 202310:51 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #1 — Rolling
Greetings from Salt Lake City, the last day of POTUS trip out west.
The motorcade began rolling at 10:50 am on our way to the Veterans Hospital in Salt Lake City.
Your pooler has not laid eyes on POTUS so far this.
We are not tracking any changes to POTUS schedule.
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed Press
9:45 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
11:15 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on the one year anniversary of the PACT Act, which is the most significant expansion of benefits and services for toxic exposed veterans and their survivors in over 3o yearsGeorge E. Wahlen Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Salt Lake City, UtahOpen Press
1:30 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a campaign receptionPark City, UtahRestricted Out-of-Town Pool 
3:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Salt Lake City, Utah en route to Joint Base AndrewsRoland R. Wright Air National Guard Base, Salt Lake City, UtahOut-of-Town Pool
EDT
7:55 PM In-Town Pool Call Time
9:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White HouseJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
9:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth Lawn Open Press (Gather 9:10 PM – Palm Room Doors)



August 10, 202310:52 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #2 — Hawaii Update
Per White House
President Biden spoke by phone with Hawaii Governor Josh Green about the devastating wildfires in Maui. He expressed his deep condolences for the lives lost and vast destruction of land and property. President Biden confirmed he signed a Major Disaster Declaration for Hawaii that will deliver additional federal resources and support on top of the actions already underway by FEMA, the National Guard, the U.S. Coast Guard, and other federal agencies to support the emergency response.



August 10, 202311:00 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #3 — Arrival/Travelers
Motorcade arrived at VA hospital at 10:59
Ride was uneventful. A group held up signs saying "Bring Ridge Home," a reference to Navy Lt Ridge Alkonis
Traveling with POTUS
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the George E. Wahlen Department of Veteran Affairs Medical Center:
Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsAli Nouri, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsJohn McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of StaffSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterHerbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of CommunicationsYvanna Cancela, Special Assistant to the President & & Senior Advisor for Intergovernmental Affairs



August 10, 202311:02 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #4 — Photoline
Participating in a photoline with the President at the George E. Wahlen Department of Veteran Affairs Medical Center:
Governor Spencer Cox (UT)Mayor Erin Mendenhall, Salt Lake City, UTMayor Jenny Wilson, Salt Lake County, UTState House Minority Leader Angela RomeroState Senate Minority Leader Luz EscamillaUtah Rep Brian KingUtah Senator Jen Plumb



August 10, 202311:17 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #5 — Attendees/Program
In attendance for the President's remarks on the one year anniversary of the PACT Act, which is the most significant expansion of benefits and services for toxic exposed veterans and their survivors in over 30 years:
Local elected officials and community leaders, as well as veterans, survivors, and their families.
Pre-ProgramMayor Erin Mendenhall, Salt Lake City, UTGovernor Spencer Cox (UT)
Speaking ProgramErica Smith, U.S. Army VeteranThe President



August 10, 202311:40 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #6 — Two Minute Warning
Two-Minute warning to POTUS remarks



August 10, 202311:43 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 7 — Remarks begin
POTUS began speaking at 11:41.



August 10, 202311:53 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #8 - Hawaii remarks
POTUS addressed the Hawaii fires at the start of his remarks, saying he had "long" conversations with Hawaii Gov to "make sure he has every resource that he needs." And that he ordered FEMA to "streamline" requests.
"We offer our prayers, not just our prayers but every asset we have will be available," POTUS said.



August 10, 202312:06 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 9 - Remarks end
POTUS concluded his remarks at 12:05.
Key quotes
"We only have one truly sacred obligation: to equip those we send into harm's way and their families when they return."
POTUS became emotional/choked up taking about his son, Beau.
"It's personal for us, but also personal for so many of you."
He also talked about PTSD, noting 17 veterans die of suicide each day.
"There is no difference between having a mental health problem or breaking your arm or your leg."
On PACT Act
"I was going to sign that bill come hell or high water."



August 10, 202313:07 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #10 — Rolling
The motorcade is rolling to the Park City Utah fundraiser at 1:07.
Your pooler did not lay eyes on POTUS.



August 10, 202313:49 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #11 - Arrival
The motorcade arrived at the fundraiser in Park City, Utah at 1:48.
Ride was uneventful. Lots of waves, thumbs up, thumbs down and middle fingers.
Your pooler is trying to get more info on the fundraiser.



August 10, 202313:53 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #12 — Fundraiser details
On behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The President is attending a fundraising event in Park City, Utah at the home of Ambassador Mark Gilbert and Nancy Gilbert benefiting the Biden Victory Fund.
Speaking ProgramAmbassador Mark GilbertThe President



August 10, 202315:36 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 13 -departure
Motorcade departing fundraiser at 3:35
Fun Fact: Ambassador Gilbert who hosted today's fundraiser is the only ex MLB player to serve as an ambassador.
Remarks to come



August 10, 202315:41 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 14 — Remarks
POTUS remarks began at roughy 2:45 and concluded at 3:19
POTUS began his remarks talking about his support for same sex marriage. He told the story of being in downtown Wilmington as a teen with his dad and seeing two men kiss
He also repeated his story about the Amtrak conductor logging his miles on Amtrak.
On Soul of Nation
POTUS said in the upcoming election "Demonstrations is at stake and so is our institutions.
"We barley talk to one another. Think of our language in our discourse."
He noted that sometimes he sees from his motorcade Trump signs with the word f—k on them and that children are standing next to them.
"How far we've come."
"In a participating democracy if we can't bring people together, we're done. We are falling into warring camps."
He asked the crowd about overseas leaders and if they could "name another leader who says they want to see Trump back"
On China
"China is a ticking time bomb in many cases."
He noted that China has some economic problems including high unemployment and an aging work force
"When bad folks have problems, they do bad things."
POTUS said he's looking for a "rational relationship with China"
"I don't want to hurt China, but I'm watching."



August 10, 202315:51 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 15 — More Remarks
When telling the story about the same sex couple kissing, he recalled his dad saying ti him, "Joey, it's simple. They love each other.
More on Trump 
"You have a president who says if he's reelected, he's going to change institutional structures. He's made statements, and he means that. So there's a great deal of at stake. But the very thing that many people think is our weaknesses is our diversity , I think it's our strength."
ON NATO
Biden said his administration predicted Putin would invade Ukraine.
" NATO was breaking up. I predicted he'd be inviting Ukraine because he was absolutely confident he could break up NATO. We are holding national together. NATO is stronger today that it ever has been."



August 10, 202315:57 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #16 - - one more remark
On Inflation Reduction Act
"I wish I hadn't called it that. It has less to do with inflation than it does providing alternatives to economic growth."
"Even when there is inflation there is a way to provide breathing room." POTUS cited negotiating medical prices as one example.
Thanks to Aurelia End for helping me catch the IRA comment.



August 10, 202316:23 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #17 — Arrival at Airport and correction
Motorcade arrived at Airport at 4:23. Ride was uneventful.
Also correcting POTUS quote from an autocorrect error in Pool Report #14.
Correct quote below:
POTUS said in the upcoming election
"Democracy is at stake and so is our institutions."



August 10, 202316:27 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 18 — Boarding
POTUS exited the limo at 4:22 and boarded AF1 at 4:25.
He did not take questions from the press pool and hasn't for this entire 4-day trip.



August 10, 202316:37 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 19 - Wheels Up
AF1 Wheels Up at 4:37



August 10, 202321:37 EDT

Out of Town Pool Report #20 — AF1 travelers
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsAli Nouri, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsJohn McCarthy, Special Assistant to the



August 10, 202321:44 EDT

Out of Town Pool Report #21 — Correction to #16
In my rush to hop on the pool van, I dropped a few words in Pool Report #14 about POTUS remarks on Inflation Reduction Act
The correct quote is
"I wish I hadn't called it that because it has less to do with inflation than it has to do with providing alternatives that generate economic growth."
Your pooler regrets the error.



August 10, 202321:49 EDT

Out of Town Pool Report — 22 Wheels Down
AF1 Wheels Down at 9:49 pm



August 10, 202322:08 EDT

Out of Town Pool Report #23 — M1 departure
POTUS stepped off AF1 at 10:00
He did not take questions.
He entered Marine 1 at 10:01
Marine One Wheels Up at 10:08.
That's all from your pooler today, but it's a short goodbye because I'll be your In-Town pool reporter tomorrow. I guess the people who make the schedules can't get enough of my pooling.
Special thanks to Tamara Keith and Aurelia End, both of whom were absolutely invaluable and incredibly helpful on this trip.
Kicking it back to In-Town Pool



August 10, 202322:11 EDT

Out of Town Pool Report 24 — M1 Travelers
One more pool report. Here's who is traveling with POTUS on AF1.
See you all again tomorrow when I'm the In-Town pooler.
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations




 
Pool Reports below by Matt Viser, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




August 10, 202322:13 EDT

In town pool report #1 / gathering
With POTUS having landed at JBA and en route on Marine One, the in town pool has assembled, gathered, and is awaiting his arrival on the South Lawn.



August 10, 202322:29 EDT

In town pool report #2 / POTUS arrives and lid is called
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 10:18pm.
After the door opened he emerged and POTUS walked toward the residence door. He looked over at the gathered pool but didn't approach to engage with any questions (all of which were hard to hear over the roar of the engines).
He opened the door and at 10:21pm walked inside.
We have a lid.




  