
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 28
John C. Angell, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs), vice Derrick L. Forrister, resigned.
Marshall S. Smith, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of Education, vice Madeleine Kunin.
Withdrawn July 28
Niranjan S. Shah, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 1998, vice John H. Miller, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 1997.
Submitted July 30
Susan Graber, of Oregon, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Edward Leavy, retired.
Peter L. Scher,
of the District of Columbia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Trade Negotiator.
Mary Anne Sullivan,
of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy, vice Robert Riggs Nordhaus, resigned.
Ela Yazzie-King, of Arizona, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1999 (reappointment).
Submitted July 31
A. Richard Caputo, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, vice Richard P. Conaboy, retired.
G. Patrick Murphy, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Illinois, vice William D. Stiehl, retired.
Carlos R. Moreno, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Robert M. Takasugi, retired.
Michael P. McCuskey, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Harold A. Baker, retired.
Victoria A. Roberts, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice George LaPlata, retired.
Frederica A. Massiah-Jackson, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Thomas N. O'Neill, Jr., retired.
Bruce C. Kauffman.
of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice James McGirr Kelly, retired.
John H. Bingler, Jr., of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Maurice B. Cohill, Jr., retired.
James S. Gwin,
of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice Sam H. Bell, retired.
Jeffrey D. Colman, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Brian B. Duff, retired.
Rebecca R. Pallmeyer, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice William T. Hart, retired.
Dan A. Polster,
of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice David D. Dowd, Jr., retired.
Algenon L. Marbley,
of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio, vice John D. Holschuh, retired.
Jo Ann Jay Howard, of Texas, to be Federal Insurance Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency, vice Elaine A. McReynolds.
Paul M. Igasaki, of California, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2002 (reappointment).
Tadd Johnson, of Minnesota, to be Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission for the term of 3 years, vice Harold A. Monteau, resigned.
Ernest J. Moniz, of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Thomas Paul Grumbly, resigned.
  