
    The President. Today I'm very pleased to announce that Congressman Norwood and I have reached an agreement on how to get a Patients' Bill of Rights out of the House of Representatives.
Charlie started on this issue 6 years ago. He's worked diligently to protect Americans, patients, from wrongdoings. I appreciate so very much his spirit, because I share the same concerns. And now after long hard labors, we've reached an agreement on how to amend his bill, that will meet the principles that I outlined.
When I first came to Washington, I gave—right after I came to Washington, I gave a speech that talked about the principles necessary for a Patients' Bill of Rights. In that speech, I wanted a bill— a bill that was good for patients, a bill that allowed for people to be able to air their grievances, a bill that did not encourage frivolous lawsuits.
Charlie also shares the deep concern— I'll let him express his own concerns, but there's no question that he, himself, wanted to get a bill. He was practicing the art of what is possible. It's a spirit we need more of in Washington, people who come to this city with the intent of doing what's right, the intent of having accomplishment, the intent of not playing—you know, bickering over politics and getting intransigence because you don't get everything you want.
And so after a lot of labor and a lot of hard work and a lot of discussion, we shook hands in the Oval Office about 10 minutes ago. And Charlie is going to head up to the Hill. I've spoken to the Speaker. And he's going to take—we're going to work on the language of the agreed-upon amendment. And it'll give the Members something positive to vote for.
I want to thank Charlie Norwood for his hard work, for his—the southern gentleman that he is—for his willingness to work with the White House. It's a good signal for a lot of folks in Capitol Hill.
Now, Mr. Norwood.
[At this point, Representative Charlie Norwood made brief remarks.]
The President. Get to work up there on the Hill, Charlie. Thank you very much. I appreciate—[inaudible].
Thank you all.
  