
    DES MOINES, IA — Following the release of U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar's Plan for the Heartland, which lays out her economic agenda to strengthen our agricultural and rural communities, bridge the rural-urban divide, and make sure that kids who grow up in rural America can stay in rural America, a crop of Iowa farmers announced their endorsement of Klobuchar for President.
Klobuchar spent last week in Iowa where she traveled to 20 counties in three days, 17 of which were counties that Trump won in 2016, to lay out her Plan for the Heartland.
New endorsers include:
Pam Johnson - Former President of the National Corn Growers Association, corn and soybean farmer (Floyd, IA)Dave and Mary Jensen - Retired commodity crop farming family (Iowa Falls, IA)Dan and Allison Sorenson - Cattleman, commodity crops farmers (Dickens, IA)
"As a corn and soybean farmer and the first woman President of the National Corn Growers Association I'm excited to caucus for Amy Klobuchar," said Pam Johnson, former President of the National Corn Growers Association. "Farmers and rural communities are suffering under President Trump's trade and agricultural policies. I had the opportunity to hear Amy's plan for rural America and it resonated with me. She called out Trump's tariffs and his small refinery exemptions that are destroying demand for the crops and the products we farmers grow. Amy has a proven track record, she understands agriculture policy, and she'll stand up for rural America. I know that Amy not only understands rural America, but she cares about rural America."
"I'm caucusing for Amy because she knows how to get things done. She has experience with the issues farmers face every day and, with her position on the Senate Agriculture Committee, she has solutions to those problems. Amy has shown she can win in Trump country and that's really important," said Mary and Dave Jensen, retired commodity crop farming family in Iowa Falls.
"Amy sat at our table last week to discuss her plan for rural America and listen to the issues we care about," said commodity crop farmer and cattleman Dan Sorenson. "She doesn't shy away from the issues -- she knows what she's talking about and she says the truth. That matters here in Iowa and in the Midwest. We need to win in 2020 and she's the person to do it."
Klobuchar has previously received endorsements from several current and former Iowa legislators and political and community activists, including:Former Iowa Legislator and U.S. Ambassador Swati DandekarIowa Representative Marti AndersonIowa Representative Ruth Ann GainesFormer Iowa Representative Bill WittAdel City Council member Shirley McAdonCommunity activist Jackie WellmanPolitical and community activist (The Caucus Couple) Ruth ThompsonPolitical and community activist (The Caucus Couple) Scott ThompsonCommunity activist Melissa FathFormer IDP Chair Dr. Andy McGuire
  