
    
  "Fiscal Soundness At The Center Of The Presidential Race" ... "Exceptionally Impressive And Able" ... "A Big, Exciting Campaign Of Ideas"

The New York Times: "A Choice That Puts The Issue Of The Nation's Fiscal Soundness At The Center Of The Presidential Race." "Mitt Romney introduced Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin as his running mate at a boisterous rally here Saturday morning, a choice that puts the issue of the nation's fiscal soundness at the center of the presidential race." (The New York Times, 8/11/12)
CNN's John King: "He's A Guy Who Wants To Deal With Substance, He Has The Courage To Put Controversial Issues On The Table And He Talks To The Democrats." KING: "There's a respect for him as somebody who wants to talk policy, who wants to talk about ideas, there are fundamental disagreements in the Democratic Party with his ideas... But they'll say at least he's a guy, who wants to deal with substance, he has the courage to put controversial issues on the table and he talks to the Democrats. He says, well, let's try to figure this out." (CNN, 8/11/12)
Reuters: "The Choice Of Ryan Will Bring The Debate Over How To Reduce Government Spending And Debt To The Forefront Of The Race For The White House." (Reuters, 8/11/12)
The New York Times: "A Selection That Shakes Up The Presidential Race And Presents A Republican Ticket That Offers A Clear Choice For Voters In November." "Mitt Romney has chosen Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin to be his running mate and will introduce him on Saturday morning in Norfolk, Va., the campaign said, a selection that shakes up the presidential race and presents a Republican ticket that offers a clear choice for voters in November." (The New York Times, 8/11/11)
Bloomberg: "The Potential To Transform The Presidential Campaign ...  Into A More Substance-Driven Race." "The selection of Ryan, a budget and policy wonk with a penchant for drawing charts to drive home key points, has the potential to transform the presidential campaign ... into a more substance-driven race." (Bloomberg, 8/11/12)
Fox News Political Analyst Brit Hume: "Exceptionally Impressive And Able..."  HUME: "Well I have long thought, Brett, that this young man this exceptionally impressive and able young man Paul Ryan represented the future of the Republican party. I think his selection as Vice President accelerates the process by which he emerges in that role." (Fox News' "Fox and Friends Saturday," 8/11/12)
Time's Joe Klein: "I Love It. ... This Opens The Door For A Big, Exciting Campaign Of Ideas..." "I love it. Ryan is smart, honorable and decent. This opens the door for a big, exciting campaign of ideas where the public gets to choose between competing philosophies." (Time, 8/11/12)
The Washington Post's Dan Balz: "Ryan's Addition To The Ticket Shows That Romney Is Prepared To Run A More Robust Campaign With A Sharper Message..." "Ryan's addition to the ticket shows that Romney is prepared to run a more robust campaign with a sharper message built around tax and spending cuts, deficit reduction and entitlement reform." (The Washington Post, 8/11/12)
Former GE CEO Jack Welch: "Ryan Clarifies Option ... Growth And Prosperity For All Versus Malaise And Unemployment For Many." "Great Romney selection. Ryan clarifies option ..growth and prosperity for all versus malaise and unemployment for many." (Twitter.com, 8/11/12)
  