
    House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte: "President Trump has demonstrated his commitment to restoring the rule of law by directing his Administration to enforce our nation's immigration laws. The President's strong action has caused illegal immigration to drop significantly at the U.S.-Mexico border. In addition to this progress, we also need to improve our nation's immigration laws and provide more tools to further reduce illegal immigration, drug trafficking, and human smuggling. The House of Representatives recently passed the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and Kate's Law. These bills combat dangerous sanctuary policies that allow criminals to remain on our streets and punish felons who repeatedly enter the U.S. illegally, respectively. Both of these bills would dramatically improve public safety and I call on the Senate again to pass them without delay. The House Judiciary Committee has also approved a number of bills to strengthen the enforcement of our immigration laws within the interior of the United States, reform the refugee and asylum programs, and ensure unaccompanied minors who make the dangerous journey to the U.S. are safely returned home. The House must pass all these bills to provide the Trump Administration the tools needed to secure the border and enforce our immigration laws, and to ensure that future administrations do not ignore immigration enforcement laws."
Rep. Kevin Cramer: "Actions speak louder than words. Due to President Trump's commitment to renewing border security, apprehensions are down 46% in the short time since he took office. Indeed, we are a nation of immigrants, but unlike our previous commander and chief, President Trump is setting the record straight that all immigrants must come here legally – the way our ancestors did. But, the President can't do this alone. We in the House of Representatives passed Kate's law, the No Sanctuary Cities for Criminals Act, and provided the full White House requested amount of $1.6 billion towards building the border wall. It's up to the Senate now to act and fulfill our promise to the American people."
Rep. David Rouzer: "Strengthening our national security begins right here at home. Under the leadership of President Trump and with a Republican majority in the House and Senate, a $1.5 billion boost for our border security is now law. This will also enable the federal government to hire more agents, enhance technology, update infrastructure, help deter and prevent illegal aliens from crossing our borders, and stem the flow of illegal activities, such as the smuggling of drugs, into our country. I've also voted for measures, such as Kate's Law and the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, to increase the penalty for deported criminals who re-enter the United States, protect law-abiding citizens and withhold federal grants from cities that do not comply with federal immigration laws. I applaud President Trump's efforts to fulfill his campaign promise to make the security at our southern borders a top priority, and I look forward to continuing to work with him to implement his comprehensive strategy to secure our nation – both at home and abroad."
Rep. Bruce Westerman: "Our nation's southern border has lacked necessary security and control for too long. I have toured the border first hand and will be making additional trips. While the brave men and women of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection do an outstanding job with the resources at their disposal, they are unable to prevent the immense flow of illegal immigrants, deadly narcotics, and illicit contraband from pouring into our country. President Trump today proved he is serious about securing our borders and protecting American citizens at home. I applaud his efforts and pledge to continue working with him in the months and years to come as we bring real security and control to our southern border."
Rep. Doug Collins: "Sanctuary cities and illegal criminals have been put on notice. From 2016 to 2017, illegal border crossings fell 52% for the period covering February to March. A human smuggler based at our southwest border reports that his business is at an all-time low. He's considering a career change. At the same time, the House continues to work with President Trump to strengthen immigration enforcement policy through legislation like Kate's Law and the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, and it's clear that 2017 has brought new perspective to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. As President Trump visits our southern border and we consider the status of illegal immigration into our country today, we realize that the safety of Americans and the rule of law are once again non-negotiables."
Rep. Pete Olson: "Texas like Arizona is on the front lines of our nation's border security crisis. For too long, our border patrol was hamstrung by policies of the Obama Administration that emboldened illegal border crossings by drug cartels and criminal aliens seeking to harm our communities. Through executive action and working with a Republican Congress, President Trump has taken important steps to turn the tide and these steps are working. This year, the Immigration Customs and Enforcement Agency has already removed over 2,700 criminal gang members, compared to 2,057 in all of 2016. The House has passed Kate's Law to expand penalties for returning deported, illegal immigrants who commit more crimes, and a bill to block funds for sanctuary cities. We also passed a spending bill that funds President Trump's border wall. I urge my Senate colleagues to stand with our President and pass these bills as well. I thank President Trump for taking a strong stand to secure our borders and protect the American people."
  