
    Coach Van Chancellor. Mr. President?
The President. Coach, congratulations.
Coach Chancellor. Well, thank you very much. You know, we're from neighboring States. I'm a Mississippi boy.
The President. You are?
Coach Chancellor. Yes, I am.
The President. Well, double congratulations.
Coach Chancellor. Well, thank you very much.
The President. I'll tell you what, I've followed the season this year. I've watched several games on television. I've really enjoyed it, and I had a chance to get to know some of the players in the league when I went running with the women's Olympic team a couple of years ago, and I think it's just been a great thing. I hope it'll be a success and go forward. And you had a great season and a great team, and you had a good game tonight.
Coach Chancellor. Well, thank you very much. I do appreciate you taking the time to call our locker room. That means a lot to the women of this team and to this coaching staff.
The President. Can you hear me?
Coach Chancellor. Yes, I can hear you.
The President. We're on a cell phone, but I think we're doing all right. I can hear you fine.
Coach Chancellor. Yes. I do appreciate your support of women's athletics in general.
The President. Well, I'm strongly supportive of it, and I hope that—like I said, I want you to stay with it, and I'll be supporting you all the way, and congratulate the players for me.
Coach Chancellor. I will. They're all in the dressing room, and they will be honored that you have called us.
The President. Cynthia had a great game, and any of us who has ever been through a childbirth were awful impressed when Sheryl Swoopes came back to play so quickly.
Coach Chancellor. Yes. I'm amazed that she was able to have a child and come back and play for us. Cynthia's had some great games. This has just been a total team effort for us.
The President. Yes. Well, give them my best, and I hope to see you up here someday pretty soon.
Coach Chancellor. Okay. I would love to come up there.
The President. Thank you, Van.
Coach Chancellor. And thank you very much for calling us. I'm very honored.
The President. Bye-bye.
  