
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced New Hampshire Business Leaders for Rudy. The team will help spread Rudy's commitment to cutting wasteful government spending, restoring fiscal discipline and lowering taxes.
"Rudy Giuliani is famous for improving New York City's quality of life. Cutting taxes and eliminating red tape was a key component of that effort," said Greg Stowell, sales manager with Crown Point Cabinetry in Claremont, who is backing Rudy. "The approach that was successful in New York will be successful for small businesses in New Hampshire and across the nation when Rudy gets to Washington."
Mayor Giuliani discussed his commitment to cutting taxes and fiscal discipline at a forum in Manchester on Saturday. He was joined at the event by several New Hampshire taxpayers, who highlighted the importance of low taxes to the state's families and businesses. Giuliani continued his discussion of fiscally conservative policies during visits to Stratham, Seabrook and Portsmouth.
During his eight years as Mayor of New York City, Giuliani helped stimulate the local economy by cutting taxes 23 times and turning a $2.3 billion deficit into a multi-billion dollar surplus. As part of Rudy's 12 Commitments to the American People, the Mayor pledges to restore fiscal discipline to Washington, while cutting both wasteful spending and taxes.
New Hampshire Business Leaders for Rudy:
Alan Beede, Tricorn Antique Inc., Amherst
Steven A. Belair, Bel-Air Homes Inc., Manchester
Carolyn Brown, Carolyn's Valley Tailor Shop, North Conway
Jim Borsari, Northern Bus Sales, Hudson
Jim Buttolph, Kingsley Medical Supply, Rumney
George Carlisle, Old Port Properties, Portsmouth
Mark Carter, American Steel Fabricators, Inc., Greenfield
Ted Castonguay, Window World, Portsmouth
Ronald H. Gagnon, Ronald H. Gagnon, CPA, Manchester
Patrick Hargreaves, Pat's Key N Lock, Salem
John LaBombard, JJL Enterprise Corporation, Lebanon
Al Letizio, A J Letizio Sales & Marketing, Windham
Jay McCarthy, Marketing and Sales Associates, Hampton Falls
Michael McDonough, The Homestead and Fratello's Restaurants, Bristol
Diana Pinkham, With You in Mind, Hampstead
Susan Rubens, The Chocolate Shop, Hanover
John Russo, John's Barber Shop, Portsmouth
Jamie Santo, Santo Insurance and Financial Services Inc., Salem
Brian Semprini, Independent Contractor, Portsmouth
Ken Smith, Maine-ly New Hampshire, Portsmouth
Bonnie Stewart, Learning Adventures, Bedford
Brian Stowell, Crown Point Cabinetry, Claremont
Greg Stowell, Crown Point Cabinetry, Claremont
Chris Thompson, Catch 22 Solutions, Manchester
Robert Wieczorek, Wieczorek Insurance, Manchester
  