
    "The people of Venezuela are standing for freedom and democracy, and the United States of America is standing right by their side." - President Donald J. Trump
ISOLATING MADURO AND HIS CRONIES: President Donald J. Trump is taking action to isolate the illegitimate Maduro regime from the global financial system. 

The President signed an executive order imposing new sanctions on the Maduro regime, blocking all property of the Venezuelan Government in the jurisdiction of the United States.
President Trump is directly targeting those who enable the illegitimate Maduro regime and undermine the National Assembly of Venezuela and Interim President Juan Guaido.

The President granted the Secretary of the Treasury the authority to block all property of individuals who provide material support to the Maduro regime.


This executive order further isolates Maduro's illegitimate regime from the global financial system and the international community.

CUTTING OFF THE REGIME'S FINANCIAL LIFELINE: President Trump will continue to cut off the financial resources of Maduro and his cronies and enablers.

President Trump has used economic tools to increase pressure on the illegitimate and corrupt Maduro regime and those who support his egregious abuses.
The Trump Administration has issued 30 rounds of sanctions targeting approximately 200 individuals and entities.

Sanctions have targeted corruption networks that steal from the Venezuelan people.
The United States has sanctioned key sectors of the Venezuelan economy exploited by the regime, including the oil and gold sectors.
President Trump has sanctioned Maduro's financial lifelines, including the Venezuelan Central Bank, the Venezuelan Development Bank, and Petroleos de Venezuela.
We have targeted Venezuela's military and intelligence sector, which has committed horrible abuses against the Venezuelan people.


The United States has also revoked more than 700 visas, including those held by more than 100 former regime diplomatic personnel, since January 2019.
The President's sanctions demonstrate a firm commitment to ensuring the democratic transition in Venezuela that its people deserve.

STANDING WITH THE PEOPLE OF VENEZUELA: President Trump stands with the Venezuelan people as they continue to fight for freedom, human rights, democracy, and the rule of law.

The President maintains strong support for the Interim Venezuelan President Guaido and the democratically elected National Assembly.
This action is not against the Venezuelan people, but against Maduro and his ongoing human rights abuses.

Maduro continues to rob the Venezuelan people of their resources while the people face a horrifying humanitarian crisis.


The United States has taken careful measures to help provide the Venezuelan people with access to humanitarian aid, including food and medicine.
  