
    Nevada endorsements include DNC National Committeewoman/Secretary of DNC Black Caucus and Assemblyman/Chair of Nevada Hispanic Legislative Caucus
SAN ANTONIO, TX (August 2, 2019) – On Friday, August 2, top Nevada Democrats including DNC Committeewoman and Secretary of the DNC's Black Caucus, Allison Stephens, Assemblyman and Nevada Hispanic Legislative Caucus Chair Edgar Flores, and Nevada State Democratic Executive Board member and former chief of staff to the Nevada Senate Majority Leader, Benjamin Challinor endorsed presidential candidate, former Obama Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Mayor of San Antonio, Texas, Julián Castro, as he returns to the state for his seventh trip since announcing his candidacy in January.
"I am honored to have the endorsement and support of some of Nevada's top progressive leaders," Secretary Castro said. "These lawmakers, activists and local leaders are at the forefront of the fight for a more prosperous and just nation, and I am proud they have joined our team as we continue to build support and momentum in Nevada and throughout the nation." 
DNC Committeewoman Allison Stephens"It is clear that the policies that Secretary Castro will implement as president will not only address the issues that Nevada families face, but all families across America."
Assemblyman Edgar Flores"Secretary Castro is focused on making sure that every Nevadan has the opportunity to reach their potential, provide for their family, be safe, and thrive. That is why I am excited to stand beside him in his campaign for president of the United States." 
Nevada State Democratic Executive Board member Benjamin Challinor"Secretary Castro has demonstrated he cares about our communities by showing up, listening to concerned Americans, and by elevating voices that have often been ignored. He has reached communities across Nevada, including Washoe County and West Wendover. His deep commitment to putting people first is why I am excited to support him."
The Friday endorsements from 11 Nevada leaders build on previously announced endorsements from West Wendover Mayor Daniel Corona and former Nye County Democratic Chair Carol Little.
Additionally, Stephens is joining the Castro campaign as Nevada Chairwoman and external policy advisor on health care and education. 
Flores will host Secretary Castro Friday night at a house party in East Las Vegas. Secretary Castro is in Las Vegas and Boulder City on Friday and Saturday.
On Thursday, Secretary Castro also announced the endorsement from Latino Victory Fund—a national organization dedicated to making sure Latino voices are heard by empowering Latino voters, developing a pipeline of Latino donors, and developing Latino candidates.
Other Nevada community leaders who endorsed Secretary Castro on Friday include:

Manny Becerra: Advisor and board member for Northern Nevada small businesses and non-profit organizations 
Maria Elena Pulido: Secretary, Latino Coalition of Northern Nevada 
Cory Hernandez: President of the Northern Nevada Latino Alliance, a chapter of the Alliance for Retired Americans and Nevada Alliance for Retired Americans 
Kenia Leon: Community organizer 
Brenda Guigui: Community organizer 
Frank Perez: Community leader and former attaché, Assemblyman Edgar Flores  
Jose Rivera: former Nevada State Director, MoveOn.org 
Jeanette Strong: Member, Churchill County Democratic Central Committee; Columnist, Lahontan Valley News

  