
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Judge K. Michael Moore, of Florida, as Chairman of the United States Sentencing Commission.
Judge Michael Moore serves as the Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida, a post which he has held since 2014. Judge Moore was appointed to the Southern District of Florida by President George H. W. Bush in 1992. Before his appointment to the Federal bench, Judge Moore served as the Director of the United States Marshals Service and as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Florida. Judge Moore also spent over a decade of service as an Assistant United States Attorney.
Judge Claria Horn Boom, of Kentucky, as a Commissioner of the United States Sentencing Commission. 
Judge Claria Horn Boom serves as a United States District Judge for the Eastern and Western Districts of Kentucky. Judge Boom was appointed to the Eastern and Western Districts of Kentucky in 2019 by President Donald J. Trump. Before her appointment to the Federal bench, Judge Boom served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern and Western Districts of Kentucky and was in private practice in Lexington, Kentucky and Atlanta, Georgia.
Judge Henry E. Hudson, of Virginia, as a Commissioner of the United States Sentencing Commission. 
Judge Henry Hudson serves as a Senior United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia. Judge Hudson was appointed to the United States District Court bench in 2002 by President George W. Bush. Before his appointment to the Federal bench, Judge Hudson served as a Virginia Circuit Judge for Fairfax County, Director of the United States Marshals Service, as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, and as the Commonwealth's Attorney for Arlington County, Virginia.
John G. Malcolm, of the District of Columbia, as a Commissioner of the United States Sentencing Commission. 
John Malcolm is Vice President for the Institute for Constitutional Government and the Director of the Meese Center for Legal & Judicial Studies at the Heritage Foundation. Mr. Malcolm also serves as a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation. Mr. Malcolm previously served as the General Counsel at the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, as a Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice, and as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia.
Judge Luis Felipe Restrepo, of Pennsylvania, as a Commissioner of the United States Sentencing Commission. 
Judge Phil Restrepo serves as a Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Judge Restrepo was appointed to the Third Circuit in 2016 by President Barack Obama. Prior to his elevation to the Third Circuit, Judge Restrepo served as a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, a post to which he was also nominated by President Obama. Prior to his service on the United States District Court, Judge Restrepo served for seven years as a United States Magistrate Judge, practiced privately, and served as an Assistant Federal Public Defender in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Robert Benedict Bowes, of Virginia, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. 
Robert Bowes has been an appointee at the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development since January 2017 leading efforts that helped FHA borrowers and restored capital adequacy to protect US taxpayers. He currently serves as Senior Advisor at the Office of Personnel Management managing Health and Insurance.
Prior to his service at HUD, Mr. Bowes was Director of Counterparty Risk at Fannie Mae managing relationships with mortgage insurers, banks and derivative counterparties that owed significant amounts for obligations on shared mortgage and interest rate risk.
Before that he was Vice President of Chase Manhattan Bank leading corporate finance deals with financial institutions and investment advisors structuring mergers and syndicated asset securitizations.
Mr. Bowes holds a Bachelor's of Science degree in Finance and Economics from Indiana University.
—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Pasqual Urrabazo, of Nevada, to be a Member of the President's Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity.
Ramiro Peña, of Texas, to be a Member of the President's Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity.
Neil Alpert, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the President's National Infrastructure Advisory Council.
Nick Adams, of Texas, to be a Member of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in the Smithsonian Institution.
Dan Newberry, of Oklahoma, to be a Member of the President's Export Council.
Governor Bill Lee, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Council of Governors for a term of two years.
Governor Doug Ducey, of Arizona, to be designated Co-Chair of the Council of Governors.
  