
    In 2013 my city elected a self described Progressive Democrat as Mayor.
New York City, once described as America's Crime Capital, had become by the mid-1990s America's safest large city.
Now today my city is in shock.
Murders, shootings and violent crime are increasing at percentages unheard of in the past.
We are seeing the return of rioting and looting.
During riots this Democrat Mayor like others has often prevented the Police from making arrests.
Even when arrests are made liberal, "progressive" DAs release the rioters so as not to disrupt the looting.
New Yorkers wonder how did we get overwhelmed by crime so quickly and decline so fast?
They elected DeBlasio because of their reflexive historical instinct to vote for a Democrat just because he was a Democrat and not to consider carefully his destructive policies and inadequate background.
Don't let Democrats do to America what they have done to New York!
Again, the Democrats are urging you to vote for an obviously defective candidate.
Biden has changed his principles so often, he no longer has any principles.
He disavowed his authorship of the 1994 Crime Bill.
He's a Trojan Horse with Bernie, AOC, Pelosi, Black Lives Matter and his party's entire Left Wing hidden inside his body just waiting to execute their pro-criminal, anti-police policies.
The whole unprecedented wave of lawlessness began with a truly just cause the unforgiveable police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis on May 25, 2020.
Peaceful protests began all over the land.
The condemnation of the killing was universal from President Trump to Democrat leaders.
It seemed for a 'a few brief shining moments' like Democrat and Republican leaders would come together with a unified proposal to reduce police misconduct.
This possibility was very dangerous to the Left.
They had a President to beat and a country to destroy, and although a bi-partisan coalition agreeing on action against police brutality would be very valuable for the country, it would also make President Trump appear to be an effective leader.
So, BLM and ANTIFA sprang into action and in a flash hijacked the protests into vicious, brutal riots.
The single biggest signal to encourage wanton lawlessness was surrendering a police headquarters to criminals in Minneapolis
From then on BLM, ANTIFA and their criminal co-conspirators were in charge.
Soon protests turned into riots in many other American cities almost all Democrat.
Businesses were burned and crushed, people beaten, shot and killed, police officers routinely assaulted and occasionally badly beaten and killed, and the police handcuffed by Progressive Democrat Mayors from doing anything but observe the crimes and absorb the blows.
But the worst of it was the slaughter of innocent young people with their whole lives ahead of them.
The murder of 4-year old LeGen Taliferro in Kansas City shocked the nation but not BLM or their many Democrat supporters.
17-Year-Old Basketball Star Brandon Hendricks was killed in the Bronx just days after graduating High School and passed with only brief mention.
One year old Davell Gardner, Jr. was shot and killed in a stroller at a cook-out in Brooklyn and it caused no outrage.
For President Trump, and for us Republicans, all Black Lives Matter and the lives of LaGen, Brandon and Davell matter to us.
All lives matter to us.
These continuous riots in Democrat cities gives you a good view of the future under Biden.
36 of the 50 largest cities now have homicides increasing by double digits.
Chicago is far and away number one in homicide, leading number two Philadelphia by 200 murders in this year alone.
It has been like this for decades and it's been controlled throughout by Democrats.
In fact, shamefully Obama and Biden did nothing at all to quell the carnage.
I guess these Black Lives didn't matter to them.
All five of the top cities for homicides, like the cities with the worst rioting and looting, are governed by "Progressive" Democrats using the Progressive Democrat approach to Crime which is to do nothing substantive to reduce it, to release prisoners as many and as soon as possible, and to go to war with the police, the only group with the capability to reduce crime.
During the Democrat Convention Biden read a remark from the teleprompter "Silence is Assent." For Joe's benefit that means if you don't speak up, you are demonstrating your agreement to allow the condition to continue.
Well, Biden and his fellow Democrats were widely criticized for not speaking up about the out-of-control violence plaguing Democrat cities in our country.
Their silence was so deafening that it reveals an acceptance of this violence because they will accept anything they hope will defeat President Donald Trump.
However, they are making this election a choice between the Democrat policies soft on crime against the Republican program of law and order.
It is clear that a vote for Biden and the Democrats creates the risk that you will bring this lawlessness to your city, town or suburb.
It can come to where you live.
Vote for President Trump and he will fight to preserve your safety, and to protect the American way of life.
President Trump has shown us that he is an expert in quickly reversing long term destructive Democrat programs.
The first and foremost duty of government is to ensure domestic tranquility.
In the cities we discussed that Democrats have broken that solemn bond.
If Biden is elected, along with the Democrats who are unwilling to speak out against this anarchy, then the crime wave will intensify and spread from cities and towns to suburbs and beyond.
I have no doubt, and I'm sure you don't, when President Trump is re-elected the damage will stop.
His re-election in large part will be a mandate to end the out of control violent crime and rioting in Democrat cities.
This is truly the most important election in my life time.
The Democrats want to change our system of government and the most basic values we cherish.
If they win that is exactly what they will do.
There is no question that this awesome job of restoring safety at this time, cannot be done effectively from your basement.
There is also no question that Donald Trump will do just the opposite and fight with all his strength to preserve the American system of government and our way of life.
In critical times in our history America is always blessed with the right person to handle the crisis…Washington, Lincoln, Roosevelt, Reagan were perfect for the challenges they faced and brought our nation through.
Donald Trump with his abiding love of our country and all our people, his exceptional work ethic, his ability to inspire large numbers of people and his deep understanding of our extraordinary system of government and the strength of our American values, and a boundless love for the American people, is the man we can trust to preserve and even improve our Way of Life.
Mr. President, Make our nation safe again.
  