
    Mr. President, Mrs. Ceausescu, ladies and gentlemen:
My visit to Romania is a very, very great pleasure. Because of summit, high-level meetings between our Governments and the growing number of contacts at the ministerial level, and between officials and specialists at all levels, we have witnessed in recent years improvement in U.S.-Romanian relations.
It seems very fortuitous and unique that within a day following the signing of the agreements in Helsinki that we have reaffirmed and expanded our fine personal relationship, that we have seen concrete evidence of better relations between the Romanian people and the American people, and that we have listened to the words of one of the leaders of the nations in Europe who has been strong and forthright, that we should meet here on this occasion.
Our talks today, Mr. President, reaffirmed in the most positive terms our mutual interest in continuing to build our excellent bilateral relations.
Mr. President, my visit to Europe is of significance for another reason. We both participated in the final stages of the European Security Conference in Helsinki.
As you, Mr. President, have pointed out on many, many occasions, the dynamics of change--social, technological, global, and dimensional--affect all nations. So can and should the results of Helsinki.
We welcome, Mr. President, the changing relationship being forged between East and West. This is a relationship in which Romania continues to assume a most important role. The efforts of the United States and Romania and those of the other [thirty-] three participating nations will be very useful, and deeds equal words.
Not the least result of the Conference has been to show that smaller nations can make an independent, can make an equal and valuable contribution to the world.
While recognizing the importance of the Conference's work, the United States views it as one important step in a continuing process. It is imperative that we work together to lessen the chances for conflict. Let all nations cooperate to lessen human poverty, human suffering, and human hunger.
The challenges we face require the best efforts and the best ideas of all concerned, and all nations must have a positive and active role to play.
Mr. President, my country fully recognizes the growing interdependence of mankind, the need for increased cooperation among the industrialized nations, and a greater recognition of the concerns of the developing nations.
The United States will make full and fair contribution. We look to the other nations of the world to join with us in this important endeavor.
Mr. President, I came to Romania for another very important reason. This complex world is marked by diversity. We recognize the importance of close ties with a country that shows such independence and such vigor. We do not always agree, but we value the courage of a nation that wants to make its contribution to a better world by its own very special efforts.
Romania has won the admiration of the American people for her positive contributions to world understanding. I am confident that Romania will contribute constructively in helping to find practical and durable solutions to the problems of today as well as for tomorrow.
Mr. President, on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself, I thank you and your very gracious wife for your warm hospitality. I raise my glass to you, Mr. President, and to the building of a more secure and prosperous international community in which both of our peoples will find peace and progress in the future.
  