
    The following releases of the Office of the White House Press Secretary, distributed during the period covered by this issue, are not included in the issue.
Released August 1, 1977
Announcement: nomination of Juan G. Bias to be United States Marshal for the District of Guam; Wallace P. Bowen to be United States Marshal for the District of Oregon; Bernal D. Cantwell to be United States Marshal for the District of Kansas; Donald D. Forsht to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Florida; Carl W. Gardner to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Oklahoma; James I. Hartigan to be United States Marshal for the District of Massachusetts; and Louis J. Soscia to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of New York
Released August 2, 1977
News conference: on the President's message to Congress on drug abuse--by Dr. Peter G. Bourne, Assistant to the President for Health Issues, and Lee Dogoloff, Deputy Director of the Office of Drug Abuse Policy
Fact sheet: the President's message to Congress on drug abuse
Announcement: reorganization review of natural resources and environmental programs
Released August 3, 1977
Announcement: national Women's Business Ownership Campaign by the Small Business Administration
News conference: on the national Women's Business Ownership Campaign by the Small Business Administration--by A. Vernon Weaver, Administrator, Pat Cloherty, Deputy Administrator-designate, Small Business Administration, and Midge Costanza, Assistant to the President for Public Liaison Fact sheet: national Women's Business Ownership Campaign by the Small Business Administration Released August 4, 1977
News conference: on the President's message to Congress on undocumented aliens--by Attorney General Griffin B. Bell, Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, and the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Leonel Castillo
Fact sheet: the President's message to Congress on undocumented aliens
Announcement: nomination Harry H. MacLaughlin to be United States District Judge for the District of Minnesota Announcement: nominations of Frederick Weisberg and Carlisle Pratt to be Associate Judges of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia Released August 5, 1977
Fact sheet: Youth Employment and Demonstration Projects Act of 1977 Announcement: nomination of Charles M. Adkins, Jr., to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of West Virginia, and Edward D. Schaeffer to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
  