
    Pool Reports by Meridith McGraw, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




August 8, 202010:46

WH Travel #1 - News conference added
Good morning from New Jersey.
One update to the schedule for today: the White House has added a news conference at 3:30pm at Bedminster.


 August 8, 2020 14:53

 WH Travel #2 - Arrived at Bedminster, goat herd spotted 
The pool has been swept and is now at Bedminster ahead of our second news conference of the weekend. We had our temperatures taken at the club.
There was a brief pause during our drive onto the property to make way for a herd of goats that live here on Trump's property.
Will keep you posted on timing for the presser! 


 August 8, 2020 15:26

 WH Travel #3 - Desk and podium set up 
The pool was brought into a ballroom where a desk and podium are set up with the presidential seal.
Club members are again standing in the back of the ballroom, except this time they were wearing masks when they entered. 


August 8, 202016:34

WH Travel #4 - News conference begins
President Trump walked out to the podium wearing a hot pink tie to applause in his clubhouse ballroom.
Please check my notes and quotes to the transcript.
Trump said he just signed two bills. One bill is an expansion of benefits for vets with blindness in both eyes and the second requires VA to have treatment programs instead of punishment for non violent crimes.
He is now talking about the break down in talks with Democrats.
Trump said what he will sign "will take care of pretty much this entire situation, as we know it."
The president is going off on Democrats HEROES Act and voter ID laws, among other things.
"Now, why would they want this bill, which really has nothing to do with what we're talking about, stimulus," Trump said.
"They want to steal an election that's all this is all about, they want to steal the election," Trump said. He called "the Nevada thing" a mess. The administration sued Nevada recently.
"What does this have to do with the coronavirus?" Trump said to the Democrats plan. "I don't believe they love our country."
The back of the ballroom has slowly filled up with club members in golf cleats, pastel colored polos, Trump hats, and masks.
The members at times sound like a TV laugh track as they respond to the president's jabs at Dems and "Sleepy Joe."
There are 4 Trump sharpies at the desk.
You're seeing this live...


August 8, 202016:46

WH Travel #5 - Trump on the 4 EOs
ONGOING - President Trump said he is taking executive action: "we've had it."
Trump on the 4 EOs:
1) The first Trump said he will sign is a payroll tax holiday for Americans making less than $100,000
"If I'm victorious, November 3 I plan to forgive these taxes and make permanent cuts to the payroll tax and to make them more permanent," Trump said.
2) Trump said the next Executive Order will be "directing the Department of Housing and Urban Development, HHS and CDC, to make sure renters and homeowners can stay in their homes."
3) "The third action I'm taking today will also provide additional support for Americans who are unemployed, due to the China virus. Under the CARES act I proudly signed I expanded unemployment benefits into law."
Benefits will be $400/week.
4) The other is a "directive providing relief to student loan borrowers." The policy will be extended through the end of the year.
Trump said he will also be looking at income and capital gains tax cuts.
"So we're going to be looking at income tax, we're going to be looking at capital gains tax cuts on both and maybe substantial. And we'll be reporting back fairly shortly on that, it's big news big news but very important," Trump said.
Trump seems to be addressing the members in the room when he said that he hoped they didn't sell their stock options.
Trump panned the Dems and the Green New Deal. "It is childish."
He is now saying people should social distance and avoid large crowds.


 August 8, 2020 17:11

 WH Travel #6 - Trump signs EOs, takes Qs 
President Trump signed the 4 EOs and then launched into a news conference that ended dramatically by Trump cutting off questions as club members cheered from the back of the room.
Trump was asked about the $400/wk benefits and how he came to that decision. It was noted that $400 could be a hardship for many.
"Well no, it's not a hardship, this is the money that they need this is the money they want and this gives them a great incentive to go back to work," Trump said. "And as you know they were different there was difficulty with the 600 number, because it really was a disincentive."
Trump said "everybody" wanted the payroll tax cut.
When asked if the the administration will go back to Democrats to negotiate for other important things like schools, the President said he has money that was unspent to use.
"We have a lot of money that was unspent and we'll be able to do things with the money that was unspent, we have significant money that was unspent, and we will be able to use that for different purposes," Trump said.
He was asked when Americans would see relief, and the president said "soon" and mused that it may not end up in the courts.
When asked why he is circumventing Congress and potentially setting a precedent, he accused Democrats of being "obstructionists" and defended his decision to go around them. At the same time, he said negotiations could still happen in the future for legislation.
After the reporter attempted to follow up with a question on Trump's claims on VA Choice, Trump first tried to ignore the question and move on, leading to applause by the crowd.
When that didn't work, he said "thank you very much," turned, and walked away to cheers from the back of the room.
Pool is now in Osprey for Hamptons fundraiser.
Thanks to Tolu for help! 


August 8, 202019:04

WH Travel #7 - Trump lands in Southampton, off to fundraisers
President Trump landed in the football field of Southampton High School on Marine One at 6:12p.
RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel joined Trump on his flight (she was spotted at the presser taking photos with people).
Trump rode alone in the Beast and waved as he pulled out of the parking lot of the school. A few families are waving to the President from their driveways as we go by.
Next up are two fundraisers that will raise $15M for Trump Victory (trump+rnc+22 state parties) per an RNC official.


 August 8, 2020 18:56

 WH Travel #8 - Arrived at fundraiser 
The pool has arrived at the first fundraiser in Southampton and are holding in a barn that's under renovation here on the property.
The fundraiser is being held at the main house on a different part of the (very lavish) waterfront property.
And noting in the last reports I said POTUS signed 4 EOs. However according to the texts just released by the WH there were 3 memorandums and 1 EO. Please refer to those. Thanks! 


August 8, 202020:00

WH Travel #9 - Departed for 2nd fundraiser
The motorcade is driving to the next fundraiser just as the setting sun is casting a rosy glow over the manicured hedges and mansions along our way there.
Once again, people are standing at the end of their long driveways to get a glimpse of the parade of security vehicles, to wave, or give a thumbs down.
The second fundraiser is being held at Donald Trump Jr's house, according to a fellow pooler. 


 August 8, 2020

[APP Note: Report #10 does not exist or was not received by the APP.] 


 August 8, 2020 22:01

 WH Travel #11 - Departed fundraiser, POTUS takes M1 for NJ 
President Trump left the fundraiser at Donald Trump Jr's and the motorcade drove back to Southampton to take off for Bedminster.
Back at the landing zone, Trump gave a wave before boarding Marine One, and is now taking off.
I was asked to clarify that Marine One was the president's usual helicopter and not an Osprey. Marine One was the usual helicopter.
The pool will be departing from the Osprey shortly.
*apologies for the delay in the departure note, I haven't had the best cell service here! 


 August 8, 2020 22:59

 WH Travel #12 - POTUS back at Bedminster, Lid 
At 10:54pm, President Trump arrived back at Bedminster, according to the White House.
The pool landed at Somerset Airport.
The flight back to NJ was spectacular.
Our path in the Osprey followed the ribbon-like yellow and white lights of Interstate 495, which goes from the East end of Long Island to Manhattan. As we passed over rows and rows of twinkling dots below, we suddenly came upon the tip of New York City, with its tall, glittery skyscrapers, and then Lady Liberty, standing proud, bright, and alone in the Hudson.
The Marine operating the Osprey, like the reporters on board, scrambled to grab his phone to snap a picture, and then bravely kneeled at the opening of the Osprey (strapped in with special belts, of course) to get a good shot.
As we got closer and closer to the airport, the lights from the city faded until it was almost pitch black as we landed.
The pool is now back at our hotel. We have a lid.
Goodnight! I'll see you in your inboxes again tomorrow. 



  