
    New Support Follows Defection of Five Prominent Biden Campaign Advisers to Team Ryan
Youngstown, OH – Democratic presidential candidate Tim Ryan rolled out another endorsement today from a widely respected leader of the faith community in the Palmetto state, just one day after announcing that five former senior Biden campaign advisors in South Carolina had thrown their support behind the Ohio Congressman.
Reverend Courtney L. Adams of Israel Metropolitan CME Church in Greenville joined former longtime Biden advisor Reverand Caesar Richburg of Bethel AME Church in Columbia in putting his faith in Tim Ryan for president.
Reverend Adams proclaimed that "today's troubling times call for a man of faith like Tim Ryan to lead the charge to deliver social justice for all and reform our racist criminal justice system.  We can count on Congressman Ryan to serve as our healer-in-chief, to finally do something about the endemic gun violence plaguing our streets, and to fight for the best interests of African Americans here in South Carolina and throughout our great nation."
"I am honored to have the support of Reverend Adams, an inspirational leader who toils daily to bring his community together and improve the lives of hardworking citizens in Greenville and beyond.  Thank you for your leadership and support, Pastor!", said Congressman Tim Ryan.
The endorsement comes on the heels of yesterday's game-changing announcement that five former senior advisors to the Biden campaign have shifted their support to Congressman Ryan in critical South Carolina, the second state in the nation to hold a Democratic primary election, on February 29, 2020.
Pastor Courtney L. Adams is an influential mentor, innovative leader, prolific teacher, and passionate preacher at Israel Metropolitan CME Church in downtown Greenville, South Carolina, "the chosen church of the upstate".  He is known for establishing a culture of excellence through contemporary worship, relevant preaching, practical teaching, and student engagement.  Pastor Courtney is an ordained Elder in Full Connection in the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church.  
In 2012, Pastor Courtney co-founded Young Kindom Proclaimers (Y.K.P.), an ecumenical outreach ministry that focuses on the development of character in young adults.  The Reverend is married to the lovely Shalonda R. Adams and they are blessed with three beautiful daughters.
Find out more about Tim at TimRyanForAmerica.com.
  