
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




August 10, 2021 10:13

WH travel pool #1 - motorcade rolling
Good morning from Wilmington where POTUS is returning to Washington this morning.
Pool has been COVID tested on this cloudy 79 degree morning.
Motorcade is rolling to DANG at 10:13 am for the flight back. Pool has not laid eyes on POTUS since he went to church on Saturday evening. 


August 10, 202110:26

WH travel pool #2 - Marine One wheels up
POTUS arrived at DANG at 10:21 am after an uneventful - although at times bumpy - motorcade ride.
Pool was too far to shout questions as he boarded Marine One.
Returning to the White House with the President on Marine One: Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Marine One was lifting off at 10:25 am.
Travel pool is going back to Washington via Ospreys to JBA so we're handing POTUS off to the in town pool... 




Pool Reports below by Chris Johnson, Washington Blade 



Sent:
Reports:




August 10, 2021 11:26

In-town pool report #1 - POTUS Arrives, No Q&A 
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 11:19. POTUS, wearing a dark suit and tie as well as shades, emerged moments later.
Approaching reporters, POTUS said, "I'll talk to you after the vote."
Ignoring shouted questions on Afghanistan and the last time he spoke to Gov. Andrew Cuomo, POTUS proceeded to the Oval Office. POTUS entered at 11:21. 


August 10, 202112:21

In-town pool report #2- Briefing now 12:45 
The press briefing will now begin at 12:45pm, per the White House. 


August 10, 202112:52

In-town pool report #3- Briefing starts 
Jen Psaki started the briefing at 12:50.


August 10, 202114:33

In-town pool report #4 - Event attendees 
From the White House:
Attending the President's and the Vice President's remarks on Senate passage of the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act are White House senior staff, including:
Shalanda Young, Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget  Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President  Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff  Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council  Carmel Martin, Deputy Assistant to the President for Economic Mobility  Kate Berner, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications  Robert Etter, Associate Director for Legislative Affairs at the Office of Management and Budget  Erika Poethig, Special Assistant to the President for Housing and Urban Policy  Pronita Gupta, Special Assistant to the President for Labor and Workers  Michael Linden, Senior Advisor to the Director the Office of Management and Budget  Aya Ibrahim, Policy Advisor at the National Economic Council  Ryan Davis, Policy Assistant at the National Economic Council 


August 10, 202115:10

In-town pool report #5- East Room event starts 
POTUS, wearing a dark suit and tie as well as a face mask, entered the East Room at 3:05.
VPOTUS, wearing a dark pantsuit and facemask, accompanied and introduced him.
Because the East Room event is being live-streamed, pool won't provide quotes, but any color if warranted. 


August 10, 202115:43

In-town pool report #6- East Room event ends 
POTUS, after taking questions from reporters, exited the East Room with VPOTUS at 3:40.


August 10, 202116:58

In-town pool report #7 - FEMA briefing 
Pool was escorted into the State Dining Room at 4:45. POTUS was very seated at very large table for the FEMA briefing socially distanced from others who are present.
POTUS, wearing a dark suit and tie, began the briefing by saying the FEMA director has done an "outstanding job."
Listen: https://otter.ai/u/T0XX_1PgUtCOLxeOvM1TBnU8YHA
POTUS made the case for vaccination on the basis COVID would complicate the response to natural disasters.
POTUS: "If you wind up having to stay in shelter, you don't want to add COVID-19 to the list of dangers..."
"It's likely serious hurricanes are going to come this month." - POTUS
"And the bottom line is this: the more we do to prepare the better off we are when disaster strikes," POTUS said.
Pool escorted out at 4:49. Questions from NBC's Peter Alexander on a message for New York's new governor went unanswered. 


August 10, 202117:02

In-town pool report #8- FEMA briefing attendees 
From the White House:
Attending the President's briefing on how the COVID-19 pandemic is impacting hurricane preparedness:
Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Caitlin Durkovich, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Resilience and Response at the National Security Council Dr. Anthony Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases & Chief Medical Advisor to the President Tim Manning, COVID-19 Response Supply Coordinator Natalie Quillian, Deputy Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response Julie Chavez Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Intergovernmental Affairs Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security Advisor Jeff Zients, Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response & Counselor to the President 


August 10, 202117:21

In-town pool report #9 - travel-photo lid 
The White House declared a travel-photo lid at 5:17 and didn't skimp on the flourish.
"After a successful, great day, we have a travel-photo lid. It's 5:17. Thank you for your service to our country." 


August 10, 202120:08

In-town pool report #10 - WH note on meet tmrw
From the White House:
One last note on a meeting tomorrow:
Tomorrow, the President will meet virtually with Governors, Mayors, and other state, local, and tribal officials to discuss the importance of the bipartisan infrastructure Investment.
Attendees will include members of the National Governors Association, U.S. Conference of Mayors, National League of Cities, National Association of Counties, National Conference of State Legislatures, and National Congress of American Indians.
Speaking at the meeting will be: Governor Gretchen Whitmer, Michigan Mayor Jerry Dyer, Fresno, CA Mayor Chokwe Antar Lumumba, Jackson, MS Commissioner Liz Hausmann, Fulton County, GA Principal Chief Chuck Hoskin, Jr., Cherokee Nation 



  