
    [Released August 10, 1954. Dated August 7, 1954]
Dear Mr. Chancellor:
I was very much interested in your views on the question of the disposition of vested German assets in the United States, contained in your letter of July 17, 1954; and I appreciate the spirit in which your comments were offered.
You refer particularly in your letter to the hardships imposed on a large number of persons, many now advanced in years and without other means of support, whose small holdings in this country., in the form of pensions, life insurance policies, interests in estates, and bank deposits, have been vested. You state that early action to provide relief in such cases would be a major contribution to the strengthening of the ties of friendship between our two countries.
Because of the great dislocation in the German economy which took place as a result of the war, the Allied Governments decided to look to German assets in their territories as a principal source for the payment of their claims against Germany. The recovery of the German economy, which has progressed so rapidly and so well under your administration, was thus not hampered by a large reparation burden. In considering the problem of the vested assets, it is necessary therefore to. take into account legitimate claims on the part of American citizens arising out of the war for which some provision should be made, if the original approach is reversed.
I am aware of the measures taken by the German Federal Government under your high-minded leadership to contribute to the relief of victims of Nazi persecution, and to re-establish normal economic and commercial relations with the countries of the free world. I also share your sympathy with individuals in straitened circumstances in Germany for whom the operation of the vesting program in this country created particular hardships. I am hopeful that it may be possible to take some remedial action in such cases, and at the same time provide some measure of compensation to those American nationals who incurred losses arising out of the war, with resultant hardship in many cases.
As you know, the solution of this complex of problems lies with the Congress. Several bills dealing with the subject are now pending there, and members of my Cabinet and other Government officials have appeared and expressed their views. None of the measures thus far proposed have the approval of my Administration, but you may be assured that this problem is receiving earnest consideration and it is my hope that a fair, equitable and satisfactory solution can be arrived at.
Sincerely,
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
  