
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, the Cruz for President campaign announced that the Bontrager Family Singers of Kalona, Iowa will make a special appearance at the Rally for Religious Liberty on August 21 in Des Moines, IA. "I am honored and excited to have the Bontrager Family Singers at our rally for Religious Liberty," said Cruz. "Their music is as inspiring as it is entertaining and, being a big fan, I think it will be one of the highlights of this event." Marlin and Becky Bontrager serve on the Cruz for President Iowa Leadership Team.
"Ted Cruz is a leading voice for religious liberty in this country, so we were grateful to receive the invitation and jumped at the chance to help him spread the message," said Marlin Bontrager. "We are all looking forward to this opportunity and want to thank Senator Cruz for asking us to be a part of this effort to protect and preserve religious liberty in America."
The Rally for Religious Liberty will be held at the Iowa events Center Grand Ballroom at 730 3rd Street in Des Moines, Iowa on August 21. Dick and Betty Odgaard of Grimes, Iowa are hosts of the rally and will be joined by six others who have likewise been targeted by the government for their religious beliefs, including U.S. Air Force Senior Master Sergeant Phillip Monk, Barronelle Stutzman of Richland, Washington, Kelvin Cochran of Atlanta, Georgia, Blaine Adamson of Lexington, Kentucky, and Melissa and Aaron Kline of Gresham Oregon.
The Bontrager Family Singers are a family music group from eastern Iowa. The family consists of Marlin & Becky and their 10 children. They have traveled extensively throughout the United States and Canada sharing in word and song through a unique, refreshing gospel/bluegrass style. Together they have ministered in churches, camps, prisons and many other venues. Providing their own instrumentation, they bring to the stage banjos, violins, keyboard, mandolin, guitars, a dobro, harmonica, and bass guitar. When they are not on tour they are running the family farm in Kalona, Iowa. Their one and only purpose is to glorify their Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, in all that they do.
Doors open at 5:30 p.m. This event is open to the press.
  