
    President Trump's 2020 Convention honors the great American story, the American people that have written it, and how President Donald J. Trump has empowered them to succeed. The convention highlights the progress that has been made under President Trump's leadership, the hardworking Americans that make it possible, and how he will continue to make America great. While Democrats attack our country and sow division, President Trump is implementing an agenda that puts the American people first.
Norma UrrabazoOpening Prayer
Myron LiznerRemarks as Prepared:
Ya'at'teeh, I am Myron Lizer, the Vice President of the Navajo Nation.
I give this address from the majestic rock spires of Shiprock; Tse Bit'ai or Rock with Wings as known by our Dine' People. It is here that many of our ancestral leaders sought to govern and lead a Nation within a Nation.
They sought to lead their people into the promises of a better way of life for their children's children. It is also here where they have not been as successful as the rest of America. Our First Nations people are the Host People of the land. We are still here. Our Creator placed us here and knew that for such a time as this, we would have an opportunity for An Appeal to Heaven.
You see our People have never been invited into the American Dream. For years we've fought congressional battles with past congressmen and senators that were part of a broken system that ignored us.
That is, until President Trump took office.
President Trump delivered the largest Financial funding package ever to Indian Country. The $8B in CARES Act funding to Indian County was a great start in alleviating the devastating effects that the COVID-19 pandemic has inflicted on our Indian tribes; the Navajo Nation once led the nation in per capita positive cases because of the health disparities that previous administrations failed to improve.
Whenever we meet with President Trump, he has always made it a priority to repair the relationship with our federal family.
Recently, President Trump signed the first-ever presidential proclamation officially recognizing Missing and Murdered American Indians and Alaska Natives.
He established a task force called Operation Lady Justice to address the problem.
The President also provided 273 million dollars to improve public safety and support victims of crime in the Native American Community. As a result, a cold case office was recently opened on the Gila River Indian Community.
The President has reactivated the White House Council on Native American Affairs to promote economic development and rural prosperity in Indian County.
President Trump also strengthened the Supreme Court by nominating strong conservative judges like Neil Gorsuch, who supports Native American rights.
Thank you for the opportunity to be here tonight. I'm excited to endorse President Trump's re-election. And Mr. President, we look forward to hosting you very soon to come visit our land we call Dine'tah.
Ahe'hee' Thank you very much!
Jon Ponder and Rich BeasleyRemarks as Prepared:
Jon Ponder:I am so grateful to be here.
Not so long ago, my life was running from the police, fearing the police, and avoiding the police.
I had allowed animosity to grow inside of me, making me believe that they were my enemy.
But today, I'm filled with hope. I have been given a second chance. My transformation began in a prison cell. I gave my life to Jesus.
First person to help me was actually the FBI agent who arrested me, Rich Beasley. He is now a dear friend.
My hope for America is that all people regardless of race, color, class or background will take advantage of the fact that we live in a nation of second chances.
My greatest failure led to my greatest success. My hope for America is that we can all look at our failures and use them to work together for a future of successes.
Rich Beasley:I'm so proud of Jon.
It may be hard to believe that, as a retired FBI agent, one of my best friends is a person I arrested for bank robbery.
When I met Jon 15 years ago, he was angry, scared, and facing years in prison. On the drive to jail, we had a long talk and began to understand each other.
Five years later, when he got out of prison, Jon and I met for lunch. He was a different man.
He talked about starting a re-entry program for men and women coming out of prison. He knew he could make a difference in the lives of ex-offenders.
I'm grateful for President Trump's commitment to criminal justice reform. Six months ago, he was the guest speaker at the HOPE for Prisoners graduation, and he stayed much longer than scheduled to hand out diplomas to the 29 men and women who graduated that day.
The most important man in the free world was shaking hands and pledging his administration's support to ex-offenders.
I also appreciate President Trump's support for law enforcement. He knows the overwhelming percentage of law enforcement officers are good, smart people who are doing their jobs well. And they can change the world, working with people like Jon.
Senator Rand Paul (R-KY)Remarks as Prepared:
I'm Senator Rand Paul from Kentucky.
Donald Trump and I met many years ago, before he was running for anything. When I first met him, I recall being struck by how down to earth he was. He seemed like just a normal guy. OK a normal guy with his own plane and helicopter . . .
I was planning a medical mission to Guatemala to perform charity eye surgeries. We needed money to fund the trip. Donald Trump offered to help, and immediately came through for us and for those kids.
Not only did he support my medical mission to Guatemala but he also contributed to another mission trip to Haiti a year later.
We performed hundreds of surgeries in both countries. Nothing is more beautiful to me in this world than removing the bandages from a person's eyes, and watching them as they see their loved ones again. Donald Trump helped me make that happen.
A few years later, we were opponents, both running for President. We all know how that turned out.
I'm proud of the job Donald Trump has done as President.
I don't always agree with him. But our occasional policy differences are far outweighed by our significant agreements.
But more important than simple agreement is accomplishment.
President Donald Trump gets things done.
When some in Congress wanted a so-called "revenue neutral" tax plan, Donald Trump and I worked together to make sure it was a true tax cut.
I brought President Trump an idea for better, cheaper health insurance called Association Health Plans. Donald Trump overturned years of red tape and bureaucrats and made it happen.
While others talked about criminal justice reform, President Trump signed the First Step Act, the first real reform in a generation, and one that sought to undo the harm that others, like Joe Biden, have done.
I'm supporting President Trump because he believes as I do that a strong America cannot fight endless wars.
We must not continue to leave our blood and treasure in Middle East quagmires.
I flew with him to Dover Air Force Base to honor two soldiers whose remains were coming home from Afghanistan. I will never forget that night. I can tell you the President not only felt the pain of these families but is committed to ending this war.
President Trump is the first President in a generation to seek to end war rather than start one. He intends to end the war in Afghanistan. He is bringing our men and women home.
Madison once wrote "no nation can preserve its freedom in the midst of continuous warfare."
I'm proud to finally see a President who agrees with that.
Compare President Trump with the disastrous record of Hillary Clinton or Joe Biden, who consistently called for more war.
Joe Biden voted for the Iraq War, which President Trump has long called the worst geopolitical mistake of our generation.
I fear Biden will choose war again. He supported war in Serbia, Syria, and Libya. Joe Biden will continue to spill our blood and treasure. President Trump will bring our heroes home.
If you hate war like I hate war…if you want us to quit sending $50 billion to Afghanistan for luxury hotels and natural gas to stations…you need to support President Trump for another term!
So to our soldiers and their families – join me in supporting President Trump.
To those of you who want lower taxes and better, less expensive healthcare, join me in supporting President Trump.
To those of you who want to stand up and fight the socialists poisoning our schools and burning our cities — join me in supporting President Trump.
Let's Rebuild America together.
Jason JoyceRemarks as Prepared:
Good evening, my name is Jason Joyce, and I'm an 8th generation lobster fisherman from Swan's Island, Maine.
I make my living from lobster fishing, oyster farming, and providing eco-tours in the beautiful waters near Acadia National Park, where I have over 200 years of family history.
I have to confess: I didn't support Trump in 2016. Skeptical that he shared my conservative views, I expected him to flip flop on his campaign promises.
But he has followed through on his promises, including last week when he brokered a deal to end EU tariffs of 8% on Maine live lobsters and up to 20% on Maine lobster products, which is great news for Maine's lobstermen.
I live on an island with 370 residents, and lobstering is how we provide for our families. Maine's lobstermen are true environmentalists. We practice conservation every day. If we didn't, we'd be putting ourselves out of business.
Four years ago, the Obama-Biden Administration used the Antiquities Act to order thousands of square miles of ocean off limits to commercial fishermen. They did it to cater to environmental activists. Although Maine's lobstermen don't fish there, Obama's executive order offended us greatly. It circumvented the fisheries counsels' input.
President Trump reversed that decision, reinstating the rules that allow stakeholder input, and he supports a process that seeks and respects fishermen's views.
As long as Trump is president, fishing families like mine will have a voice. But if Biden wins, he'll be controlled by the environmental extremists who want to circumvent longstanding rules and impose radical changes that hurt our coastal communities.
I strongly support President Trump's re-election. When he sees something isn't right, he's fearless in fixing it. He listens to working people. He nominates judges who respect the Constitution and the right to life. He keeps his word, like eliminating the European tariffs, and moving the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
I hope you will join me – this time—in voting for President Trump. Thank you.
Cris PetersonRemarks as Prepared:
Good evening. My name is Cris Peterson. My husband Gary, our family and I milk a thousand cows on a dairy farm in Grantsburg Wisconsin, a small middle American town. Truth be told, until I married my cute farmer from Grantsburg, I was a city slicker from Minneapolis, which is about 70 miles south of us.
Donald Trump became President in the middle of the Great Depression for Wisconsin dairy farmers. In 2016, prices were horrible and long-time generational farms across the Nation were going out of business. In 2017, our 120-year-old barn, which served as our milking center, caught fire and burned to the ground. Our cows were spared, but because they needed to be milked 3 times a day, farmers, friends and complete strangers from all over northern Wisconsin helped haul them to other farms where they stayed until we could rebuild.
By the end of 2018, we had a new state-of-the-art robotic milking facility that allows our cows to milk themselves three times a day. At about the same time, President Trump's economic boom began helping dairy farmers across the Nation.
As a businessman, President Trump understands that farming is a complicated, capital-intensive and risky business. More than any president, he has acknowledged the importance of farmers and agriculture. That support and focus on negotiating new trade deals gave us the confidence to rebuild our barn and dairy operation.
Business was booming again. And business boomed right until the Covid19 shutdown in March. Many people probably don't realize that our country is one of few in the world that produces nearly all of its own food. Fewer still understand how close our food production and distribution system came to collapsing this past Spring.
But President Trump understood and again took steps to provide the supports we needed. President Trump took the necessary action knowing that agriculture is our backbone and strength, critical to our national security.
Our entire economy, and dairy farming, are once again roaring back. One person deserves the credit and our vote, President Donald J. Trump.
Larry KudlowRemarks as Prepared:
Hello, America.
My name is Larry Kudlow. You've been seeing me on your TV screen for years. You've relied on me to tell you the truth -- in good times and in bad. We've ridden bull markets together, and endured the bears. And through it all, you always knew you could count on me to do one thing, and that's to shoot straight with you.
Tonight, I want to talk to you about where we are. And I want to talk to you about where we're going.
It's been a tough few months for all of us. We were enjoying the greatest economy our country had ever seen. Your wages were up. Your taxes were down. Your retirement plans were through the roof. That's what our president had delivered. Prosperity.
Then the pandemic hit. It rocked us all back on our heels. But we're Americans. We're fighters. And so is our president. He went straight to work to not only protect our safety and our health -- but to preserve our jobs and our livelihoods.
He sent direct cash payments to Americans in need, and protected them from eviction.
He delivered historic Paycheck Protection to small businesses so they could keep our workers employed.
He delivered a payroll tax deferral that essentially gave a pay raise to 140 million working Americans.
He delivered student loan deferral.
And he delivered unemployment relief to strengthen our safety net.
Even when the Democrats refused to come to the table -- President Trump delivered.
There is no replacing the economic power of the American worker -- of free people being productive. But the President's decisive actions preserved millions of jobs, helped small businesses keep their doors open, and allowed families to make ends meet.
We still have a lot of hardship, and we have a lot of heartbreak in many areas. But we've hit a turning point. And now the recovery has begun.
The S&P 500 is up 50 percent from its low in March. That means middle-class families are feeling more secure about the future. We're already making our way toward single-digit unemployment.
There's a big change in attitude happening. The American Spirit is picking up.
Car sales are booming. Retail spending is booming. And workers are going to have to produce new inventory to restock those shelves. That means get ready for a big third and fourth quarter, folks. The jobs numbers just keep coming out better than anyone expected.
All signs point to a self-sustaining recovery.
And there's nobody better to lead us back to the top than President Trump. He did it once. You don't have to guess whether he can pull it off. You've seen it. And he'll do it again. It's called winning.
But what do Joe Biden and the Democrats want to do?
Biden is backing over $3 trillion in tax hikes. You're coming out of a pandemic, and he wants to raise taxes? That's crazy.
They want to ramp up the job-killing regulations. They want to decimate the American energy renaissance that we've experienced these last four years. And it will crater our economy.
You see, it's not the personalities that concern me, it's the policies. Joe Biden has pledged to transform America into a government-run, socialized economy, the likes of which has never succeeded in human history.
The contrast could not be more clear.
President Trump: tax cuts, deregulation, fair trade, American energy revival -- a splendid, fast-growing economy.
Why would you want to unwind that? Why would you want to overturn that? Why would you want to transform that? I don't want to transform it, I want to continue with a second round of economic rebuilding.
My fellow Americans, we will persevere. But we've got to decide what kind of country we want to live in.
In the free economy that President Trump believes in, we demand two things: Equal opportunity, and equal freedom for ALL Americans. We demand it, and we ensure it.
We believe that given the chance, you will succeed. And look, it's already worked. The Trump economy produced the lowest unemployment in history. And lower-and-middle-income families performed the best. Their wage increases were the highest of all.
As Americans, we want opportunities and we want incentives. Give us a chance to succeed, and reward us for hard work, and we can't be beat.
President Trump will always bet on the American worker. And that's why the American worker -- and the American voter -- should always bet on him.
John PetersonRemarks as Prepared:
I am John Peterson, owner of a second-generation metal fabrication business called Schuette Metals. We've been stamping our products and services "Made in the USA" since 1957.
My brothers and I purchased the business from my uncles almost 38 years ago. What was a 12-person shop has grown into a company employing 165 people today.
Like most companies that are successful over the long run, we had to reinvent ourselves as the market changed. Six years ago, we invested heavily in our business just as the great recession appeared. Barack Obama and Joe Biden -- two career politicians who know nothing about business -- couldn't get the government out of our way so we could grow and create jobs. And it put our business in a tailspin.
Sadly, we were forced to make tough decisions which included cutting staff … a torturous experience when your employees are like family. The fact was, the Obama/Biden era banking regulations left us no choice. It tied our lender's hands, and deprived us of the lifeblood of any business: capital.
We scrapped and clawed and hung on with everything we had for two years. And then everything changed. Because Donald Trump was elected president. He knew what it was like to build a company and to create jobs for American workers. And he got right to work.
One of the first things he did was cut the red tape and put an end to draconian banking regulations. He also cut taxes on small businesses, allowing us to be more competitive both domestically and internationally. In fact, we increased revenues by 25 percent, for two years in a row.
By getting rid of the job-killing NAFTA and negotiating the US-Mexico-Canada trade agreement, President Trump ensured a more competitive playing field for American companies like ours. Because he knows when the game isn't rigged against us, nobody can beat the American Worker and the American Entrepreneur. Even with all the challenges presented by the coronavirus, President Trump is re-building, and our economy is roaring back again.
But when I hear that Joe Biden is ready to raise taxes, crush us with regulations and weaken our international trade position, I shudder. We simply cannot do that again. Business can't endure a Biden-induced recession. Some will struggle, some will not survive. And that means the working men and women of America will get crushed yet again.
This is not the time to hand our government over to a washed-up career politician who will be nothing but a puppet of the radical Left that has hijacked the Democrat party.
As a life-long resident of Wisconsin, I'm a fan of Wisconsin Badger football. Many might not realize that the Wisconsin Badgers and the President share three common qualities. They are smart, tough and dependable. And as a businessman, I can tell you those are qualities we need in our country's leader and that is why we need to re-elect President Donald J. Trump. Thank you.
Cissie Graham LynchRemarks as Prepared:
Good evening, I'm Cissie Graham Lynch.
I'm honored to speak to you tonight about something that is so important to all of us: our faith.
As Americans, we know that the first line of the First Amendment protects our freedom of religion. But what we often forget the actual words are "free exercise" of religion.
That means living out our faith in our daily lives -- in our schools, at our jobs, and yes, even in the public square.
Our Founders did not envision a quiet, hidden faith. They fought to ensure that voices of faith were always welcomed, not silenced. Not bullied.
But during the Obama-Biden Administration, these freedoms were under attack.
Democrats tried to make faith organizations pay for abortion inducing drugs.
Democrats tried to force adoption agencies to violate their deeply held beliefs.
Democrats pressured schools to allow boys to compete in girls' sports and use girls' locker rooms.
Those are the facts.
But then We the People elected Donald Trump, people of faith suddenly had a fierce advocate in the White House.
He appointed judges who respect the First Amendment.
He supported religious beliefs in court.
He ensured religious ministries would not be forced to violate their beliefs.
He withdrew the policies that placed our little girls at risk.
On the world stage, President Trump became the first president to talk about the importance of religious freedom at the United Nations, giving hope to people of faith around the world.
In America, we have not yet experienced physical persecution, even though the Left has tried to silence us.
Even during the pandemic, we saw how quickly life could change. Some Democrat leaders banned church services while marijuana shops and abortion clinics were declared "essential."
But, you know what is truly essential? Our right to worship freely and live our faith in every aspect of life.
The Biden-Harris vision for America leaves no room for people of faith.
Whether you're a baker, a florist, or a football coach, they will force the choice between being obedient to God, or to Caesar.
Because the radical Left's god is government power.
So in the words of my grandfather, Billy Graham: "Let us stand for political freedom, moral freedom, religious freedom and the rights of all Americans ... and let's never give in to those who would attempt to take it from us."
Tonight, I'm proudly standing in that public square.
I hope and pray you will join me in voting to re-elect President Trump.
Robert VlaisavljevichRemarks as Prepared:
I am Bob Vlaisaljevich and I am the Mayor of Eveleth, a small town in the heart of the Iron Range. My father and grandfather earned their livings mining the raw materials that made the steel that built America.
This election is make or break for workers who are carrying on the legacy of men like them. I see it firsthand in Northern Minnesota, where we have relied on mining to provide for our families for over a century.
Since our economy is vulnerable to economic trends and to foreign trade, we have long depended on having a strong voice in Washington to protect our interests. The leaders of the Democratic Party filled that void for many years because we actually believed they were concerned about our welfare.
Not anymore.
The radical environmental movement has dragged the Democratic Party so far to the Left that they can no longer claim to be our advocates -- they are now clearly our adversaries.
This is particularly hard for me to say . . . because I am a life-long Democrat.
But for far too long, members of both parties allowed our country to be ripped off and taken advantage of, especially by China.
They -- and other supposed trade partners -- dumped steel into our markets and slapped tariffs on us, tipping the scales in their favor. And what did our leaders do? Nothing. Then to make matters worse, the Obama-Biden administration crushed us with environmental regulations.
The human and economic cost has been devastating.
Even in our tiny town, we lost thousands of jobs . . . a 70% drop from 14,000 to 4,000.
We lost a generation of young people who had to move out of the area to find a livelihood.
And worst of all, we lost hope. And without that, many wondered what was the point of continuing on.
Then something unexpected happened. A brash, no-nonsense New Yorker named Donald Trump burst onto the scene. But he didn't talk like a Manhattan billionaire, even though that's what he was. He talked like one of us. He knew what we were up against. And he promised to stand up to China and the rest of the world on behalf of the American worker.
Four years later, I am happy to say that after decades of despair, the Iron Range is roaring back to life and we have one man to thank: President Donald Trump.
He has made good on all of his campaign promises, and then some. He has fought to give us a fair chance to compete. He has become the "champion of working Americans," a blue-collar billionaire.
He lowered our high taxes. He rolled back the job-killing regulations. He got rid of the bad trade deals and replaced them with deals that put our interests first.
The Trump Administration's policies mean that with the discovery of new mineral deposits, the use of innovative mining processes, and the growth of our domestic and global markets, we have the chance to grow and diversify our economy. What was once a pipe dream is now within our grasp.
But the fight is not over. Joe Biden has allowed radicals like AOC to craft his environmental policies. The Green New Deal would put entire swaths of our country out of a job. Because it's not about people. It's about control. Biden's too weak to ever stand up to them. Donald Trump will.
Because he knows that these new mining projects can co-exist with our environment. We can have the best of both worlds: good paying jobs that support families and access to our world-class wilderness.
This formula is working for the Iron Range, and it is working for Americans all across the country who are building things, mining things, and growing things.
President Trump is fighting for all of us. He delivered the best economy in our history and he will do it again.
This election is make or break for the Iron Range. Our economic future and survival are at stake.
We know we can count on President Trump to fight for us--and win. Because that's what he's always done. And with our help, he'll do it again on November 3rd.
God Bless America!
Abby JohnsonRemarks as Prepared:
My name is Abby Johnson. I spent eight years working for Planned Parenthood.
Today, I'm a prolife activist.
When I was in college, Planned Parenthood approached me at a volunteer fair. They talked about helping women in crisis and their commitment to keep abortion "safe, legal and rare."
I was convinced to volunteer and later offered a full-time job as a Medical Assistant before my promotion to Director of the clinic.
I truly believed I was helping women. But things changed in 2009.
In April, I was awarded Planned Parenthood's Employee of the Year award and invited to their annual gala where they present the Margaret Sanger Award, named for their founder.
Margaret Sanger was a racist who believed in eugenics; Her goal when founding Planned Parenthood was to eradicate minorities.
Today, almost 80% of Planned Parenthood abortion facilities are strategically placed in minority neighborhoods; And every year Planned Parenthood celebrates its racist roots by presenting the Margaret Sanger award.
Later, in August, my supervisor assigned me a new quota to meet. I was expected to sell double the abortions performed the previous year.
When I pushed back, underscoring Planned Parenthood's public-facing goal of decreasing abortions, I was reprimanded, and told, "Abortion is how we make our money."
But the tipping point came a month later, when a physician asked me to assist with an ultrasound-guided abortion.
Nothing prepared me for what I saw on the screen – an unborn baby fighting back, desperate to move away from the suction.
And I'll never forget what the doctor said next – "Beam me up, Scotty."
The last thing I saw was a spine twirling around in the mother's womb before succumbing to the force of the suction.
On October sixth, I left the clinic, looking back only to remember why I now advocate so passionately for life.
I founded and currently run And Then There Were None, an organization that's helped nearly 600 abortion workers transition out of the industry.
For most people who consider themselves pro-life, abortion is abstract. They can't conceive of the barbarity.
They don't know about the Products of Conception room in abortion clinics, where infant corpses are pieced back together to ensure nothing remains in the mothers; Or that we joked and called it the "Pieces of Children" room.
For me, abortion's real. I know what it sounds like; what it smells like. I've been the perpetrator...to these babies...to these women.
I support President Trump because he's done more for the unborn than any other President.
During his first month in office, he banned federal funds for global health groups that promote abortion. That same year, he overturned an Obama-Biden rule that allowed government subsidy of abortion.
He appointed a record number of pro-life judges, including two Supreme Court Justices. And importantly, he announced a new rule protecting the rights of healthcare workers objecting to abortion, many of whom I work with every day.
Life is a core tenet of who we are as Americans.
This election is a choice between two radical, anti-life activists, and the most pro-life President we've ever had. That's something that should compel you to action.
Go door-to-door; make calls; talk to neighbors and friends. And VOTE November third!
Take action that re-elects our President.
And do it with our most vulnerable Americans in mind – the ones who haven't been born yet.
Mary Ann MendozaRemarks as Prepared:
My heart is forever broken . . . because our immigration system is broken.
I'm Mary Ann Mendoza. On May 12, 2014, my son, Sargent Brandon Mendoza of the Mesa Arizona Police Department was killed in a head on collision.
He was headed home from his shift, keeping our community safe.
The driver who killed my son was drunk—three times the legal limit—high on meth, and driving more than one hundred miles per hour . . . going the wrong way for more than 35 miles on Phoenix freeways.
The driver who killed my son wasn't even supposed to be in our country, because he was an illegal alien with a criminal record.
Brandon was a shining light in my life and our community. He truly made a difference in Mesa. As a modern day beat cop, he was well-known and well-liked. The neighborhood he patrolled and worked hard to rid of the illegal drug dealers, appreciated him making that neighborhood a safe-haven for families again.
In fact, his nickname was "Hollywood," because he truly shines like a star. The kids in the neighborhood loved him. Parents trusted him. Serving and protecting his community was his passion. It was his life's goal since he was thirteen.
Brandon's life represented the best of America. Sadly, his death represents some of the worst.
He didn't have to die. Not like this. Not now. If our borders had been secure and if our justice system worked like it should have, Brandon would still be walking his beat. Checking up on the kids. Waving to their parents. Keeping everyone safe.
Tragically, there are many others who have been lost needlessly: Brandon Michael, Carlos Wolff, Tierra Stansberry, Sander Cohen, Hailey King, Sarah Root, Ruben Morfin.
You can find out more about their stories, and how to preserve their legacies at angel families dot org.
President Donald Trump is the first political leader we've ever seen take on the radical Left to finally secure our border and to end illegal immigration since day one. I've met him many times and I know what's in his heart . . . I know what he hopes and dreams for this country.
Since he took office: more than 280 miles of southern border wall have been built, with more than 500 miles expected by early next year.
There has been a 78 percent decline in illegal border crossings since May of last year.
And President Trump put an end to Barack Obama's – and, notably, Joe Biden's – dangerous catch-and-release program . . . a program that allowed Brandon's killer to avoid deportation for his previous crimes and up his game to murder.
President Trump knows what it takes to make America great again.
He knows the formula for America's greatness is simple. It's everything Brandon represented:
Ensure law and order . . . and protect the vulnerable,
Give generously to your community,
Love your family, deeply,
And practice your faith.
Brandon's opportunity to contribute to America's greatness during his lifetime was cut short. But his spirit is alive, and his legacy will always be embedded in the fabric of America. I know it will always be on President Trump's mind and in his heart. He will never forget Brandon, and he will never stop fighting for us.
His record is clear and strong.
Appointing conservative judges who will uphold our laws and provide justice.
Safer communities without sanctuary policies that give refuge to illegal criminals.
Securing our borders so good-paying jobs – that provide financial security for families – go to Americans . . . not illegal aliens.
Supporting our Law Enforcement who help keep our neighborhoods safe.
This is the foundation for a bright future. A bright future for all of us . . . with greater opportunity, tremendous prosperity, and more peace.
A brighter future that President Trump will continue fighting for when we re-elect him on November third.
Thank you.
God Bless you.
God Bless our Law enforcement officers.
God Bless our President.
And God Bless America.
Nicholas SandmannRemarks as Prepared:
Good evening everyone. My name is Nick Sandmann. I'm the teenager who was defamed by the media after an encounter with a group of protestors on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial last year.
Before I begin, I'd like to thank President Trump for the opportunity to share some of my story and why it matters so much to this November's election.
In January 2019, I attended the March for Life in Washington D.C. where I demonstrated in defense of the unborn. Later that day, I bought a "Make America Great Again" hat because our President, Donald Trump, has distinguished himself as the most pro-life Presidents in the history of our country and I wanted to express my support for him too. Looking back now, how could I possibly have imagined that the simple act of putting on that red hat would unleash the hate from the left and make myself the target of network and cable news networks, nationwide?
Being from Kentucky, the birth place of Abraham Lincoln, my classmates and I visited the Lincoln Memorial. I found myself face-to-face with Nathan Phillips and other professional protestors looking to turn me into the latest poster child showing why Trump is bad. While the media portrayed me as the aggressor with a "relentless smirk" on my face, in reality the video confirms I was standing with my hands behind my back and an awkward smile on my face that hid two thoughts. One, don't do anything that might further agitate the man banging a drum in my face and two, trying to follow a family friend's advice never to do anything to embarrass your family, your school, or your community.
Before I knew what was happening, it was over. One of Mr. Phillips fellow agitators yelled out "We got him!", "It's all right here on video" and We won Grandpa". What I thought was a strange encounter, quickly developed into a major news story complete with video footage.
My life changed forever in that one moment. The full war machine of the mainstream media revved up into attack mode. They did so without ever researching the full video of the incident; without ever investigating Mr. Philips' motives; or without ever asking me for my side of the story. And do you know why? Because the truth wasn't important. Advancing their anti-Christian, anti-Conservative, anti-Donald Trump narrative was all that mattered. And if advancing their narrative ruined the reputation and future of a teenager from Covington, Kentucky…so be it. That will teach him not to wear a MAGA hat!
I learned that what was happening to me had a name. It was called being cancelled. As in annulled. As in revoked. As in made void.
Cancelled is what's happening to people around this country who refuse to be silenced by the far left. Many are being fired, humiliated or even threatened. Often, the media is a willing participant.
But I wouldn't be cancelled. I fought back hard to expose the media for what they did to me and won a personal victory. While much more must be done, I look forward to the day that the media returns to providing balanced, responsible and accountable news coverage.
I know President Trump hopes for that too. I'm proud to say that throughout my media nightmare I have had President Trump's unwavering support. And I know you'll agree with me when I say no one in this county has been a victim of unfair media coverage more than President Donald Trump.
In November, I believe this country must unite around a President who calls the media out and refuses to allow them to create a narrative instead of reporting the facts.
I believe we must join with a President who will challenge the media to return to objective journalism.
And together, I believe we must all embrace our 1st Amendment rights and not hide in fear of the media, or from the tech companies or the outrage mob either.
This is worth fighting for. This is worth voting for. This is what President Donald Trump stands for.
Thank you all for listening to me tonight. And one more thing… let's Make America Great Again!
Tiffany TrumpRemarks as Prepared:
Good evening I'm Tiffany Trump,
Since speaking at the Republican Convention 4 years ago, so much has changed for the world, for our country, and for my family.
Like so many students across the world, I graduated from law school during the pandemic. Our generation is unified in facing the future in uncertain times -- and many of us are considering what kind of country we want to live in.
As a recent graduate, I can relate to so many of you who might be looking for a job. My father built a thriving economy once, and believe me, he will do it again.
This election I urge each and every one of you to transcend political boundaries. This is a fight for freedom versus oppression, for opportunity versus stagnation, a fight to keep America true to America.
I urge you to make your judgement based on results and not rhetoric.
If you believe in criminal justice reform, there is only one president that passed the First Step Act. Giving people a second chance, a chance at life once again.
And if you believe in expanding quality and affordable healthcare, only President Trump, my father, signed Right to Try into law, the Favored Nations clause, and other actions to lower drug prices and keep Americans from getting ripped off.
People must recognize that our thoughts, opinions, and even the choice of who we vote for are being manipulated and invisibly coerced by the media and tech giants.
If you tune into the media, you get one biased opinion or another. And if what you share does not fit into the narrative they seek to promote, then it is either ignored or deemed a "lie," regardless of the truth. This manipulation of what information we receive impedes our freedoms.
Rather than allowing Americans the right to form our own beliefs, this misinformation system keeps people mentally enslaved to the ideas they deem correct. This has fostered unnecessary fear and divisiveness amongst us.
Why are so many in the media, in technology, even in our own government, so invested in promoting a biased and fabricated view?
Ask yourselves why are we prevented from seeing certain information? Why is one viewpoint promoted while others are hidden?
The answer is control -- and because division and controversy breeds profit.
But what are the consequences when only one side of the story gets out or when only one viewpoint is acceptable?
For our education system it meant sacrificing civil debate, by creating an atmosphere where students with contrary opinions are too afraid to speak. Many students find themselves suppressing their beliefs to fit into the acceptable groupthink.
In short, our nation suffers by inhibiting our diversity of thought and inclusion of ideas. Working together, outside of our political comfort zones, will accomplish so much more.
Some cynical politicians don't seem to believe in the miracle of America. I do. As Maximo Alvarez so eloquently put it on this stage last night, if freedom is lost in this country, "there is nowhere else to go." Having hope is not weakness…Believing in Miracles is a gift from God.
Tonight, I want to tell you the uncensored truth of what we believe in:
We believe in equality of opportunity.
We believe in freedom of thought and expression. Think what you want. Seek out the truth. Learn from those with different opinions. Then freely, make your voice heard to the world.
We believe in school choice, because a child's zip code in America should not determine their future.
We believe in freedom of religion for all faiths.
And we believe in the American spirit. A country founded on ideas, not identity. A country where our differences are embraced. And the only country where the word "dream" has been attached to it. Because in America, your life is yours to chart.
So, if you are hearing these things and thinking to yourself, THAT is the kind of country I want to live in. Well, whether you realized it or not, you're a Trump supporter.
I implore you to see beyond the façade -- the masks -- that so many other politicians employ.
My father is the only person to challenge the establishment, the entrenched bureaucracy, big pharma, and media monopolies to ensure that American's constitutional freedoms are upheld, and that justice and truth prevail.
My father does not run away from challenges -- even in the face of outright hatred -- because fighting for America is something he will sacrifice anything for. He dreams big dreams for our country -- and he is relentless at achieving them.
You see, Make America Great Again is not a slogan for my father, it is what drives him to keep his promise of doing what is right for American citizens.
The energy for change and opportunity is with us.
God has blessed us with an unstoppable spirit. His Spirit…The American Spirit. My dad has proven to be driven by that spirit! He has demonstrated his faith by his uncompromising heart and actions! My dad has made me believe that America can truly be great again!
If you care about living your life without restraints, about rebelling against those who would suppress your voice, and building YOUR American Dream. Then the choice in this election is clear.
A vote for my father, Donald J. Trump, is a vote to uphold our American ideals. Be true to yourself. And stay true to the Dream of America.
Thank you and God bless you all.
Iowa Governor Kim ReynoldsRemarks as Prepared:
I'm Kim Reynolds, governor of the great state of Iowa.
I love this state and am so proud to serve its people. Iowa truly is a land of opportunity.
It's the birthplace of the computer; it's a landmark of the financial-services industry. And as so many of you already know, it's filled with farmland that feeds and fuels the world.
It's also home to people who care for one another, who work hard, who love this Country and are truly grateful for the freedoms it provides.
As I like to say, Iowa is one big, small town. Neighbor helping neighbor is in our DNA. From the sick farmer who can't harvest his crops to the single mom who loses her job and is struggling to get back on her feet, the town -- the community -- helps them get through it.
But what happens when a storm rips through almost the entire state? When it's not one farmer who lost his crop but hundreds. When it's not one neighbor who is without food, but thousands.
That happened, just two weeks ago. A storm called a derecho, with hurricane-force winds of up to 140 miles per hour, wiped out millions of acres of crops, left thousands without power.
Destroyed homes. Wrecked lives, and left devastation in its wake. It was the worst storm in our state's history.
And Iowans did what you expect Iowans to do. They helped each other. They took care of each other. And they still are.
But someone else also had our back: Our president.
When the winds had finished raging and the cleanup had only begun, he showed up. You might not know, because the national media didn't report it. But the Trump administration was here. In full force.
The day after the storm, the president called to assure me that we had the full backing of the federal government.
Later that week, Vice President Pence came to Iowa to again assure us that the President and his administration were behind us.
With the help of the Trump Administration, we quickly received a disaster declaration that will help Iowans get back on their feet. The President cut through the bureaucracy to do what needed to be done, and to do it quickly.
But that's not the first time President Trump showed Iowans that we can rely on him.
In 2019, when 100-year floods breached nearly all levees and devastated communities large and small along the Missouri River in Iowa, Nebraska and Missouri, the President approved our request for aid in record time -- two days. Well this year, he did it in less than 24 hours.
Whether it's providing needed relief to farmers who were the target of China's unfair trade practices, hammering out new free -- and fair -- trade deals, or fighting for workers and small businesses who were hit hard by COVID-19, we have a President and an Administration who gets things done.
And because of President Trump and his leadership, our county is able to show resolve through adversity, and see opportunity grow and thrive.
This is an administration of action and outcomes. They are delivering every day on their promise to make America great again. And that's exactly why we need to re-elect President Trump in November.
Thank you. And may God bless the United States of America.
  