
    Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. released the list of Monday's speakers for this week's historic Republican National Convention. Tonight's theme, "Land of Promise," will honor the promise America holds to its citizens and the promises President Donald J. Trump has kept since his first presidential campaign. Monday's speakers are listed in the order they are expected to appear:
Timothy Cardinal DolanTimothy Cardinal Dolan was named Archbishop of New York by Pope Benedict XVI on February 23, 2009. Previously, he served as Archbishop of Milwaukee at the Cathedral of St. John the Evangelist. Cardinal Dolan completed seminary in St. Louis, Missouri where he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in philosophy and went on to earn his doctorate in American Church History at the Catholic University of America.
Charlie KirkCharlie Kirk is the Founder and President of Turning Point USA, the largest and fastest growing conservative youth activist organization in the country. Charlie is also the Chairman of Students for Trump, which aims to activate one million new college voters on campuses in battleground states in the lead up to the 2020 presidential election. His social media reaches over 100 million people per month, and according to Axios, he is one of the "top 10 most engaged" Twitter handles in the world. He is also the host of "The Charlie Kirk Show," which regularly ranks among the top 10 news shows on Apple podcast charts and is heard by hundreds of thousands of people every day.
Rebecca FriedrichsRebecca Friedrichs is a 28-year public school teacher from California who has been a staunch advocate for educational freedom after being forced to pay dues and fund destructive teachers unions. Her lawsuit, Friedrichs v California Teachers' Association, which sought to free teachers from forced unionism, was argued before the U.S. Supreme Court in 2016. Rebecca is currently taking some time away from the classroom to support educational policies that are friendly to children and to help teachers, children, and parents make their voices heard.
Tanya WeinreisTanya Weinreis is a businesswoman living in Montana. She became self-employed at age 19 when she purchased her mother's coffee shop. Tanya is married to Shane, a marine and retired police officer, and lives with her two sons, Sully and Koniah in Billings, Montana. They operate Mountain Mudd Espresso, SK Martial Arts / Gracie Jiu-Jitsu Billings, and also a nonprofit; US Water Rescue, which provides aid to their community and country.
Representative Matt Gaetz (FL-01)Representative Matt Gaetz (FL-01) is a second term Congressman from the Florida Panhandle and a strong supporter of President Trump's America First agenda. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and the House Judiciary Committee. His work in Congress focuses on national security, veterans' affairs, and adherence to Constitutional principles.
Kim KlacikKimberly Klacik is a wife, mother, nonprofit founder and currently elected to the Baltimore County Republican Central Committee. Kimberly grew up in Accokeek, Maryland, once known as the home of the Beretta Gun Manufacturer. In 2010, she moved to Baltimore once becoming engaged to her husband. In 2013, Kimberly founded "Potential Me" to assist underserved women with workforce development. She is now running for election to the U.S. House of Representatives to represent Maryland's 7th District.
Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDanielRonna McDaniel is the second woman ever elected Chair of the Republican National Committee. During the 2016 election, Ronna McDaniel helped deliver Michigan for Donald Trump and the GOP for the first time in decades. She received her B.A. in English from Brigham Young University. Ronna is married to Patrick McDaniel and has two children, Abigail and Nash.
Amy Johnson FordAmy Johnson Ford is a nurse practitioner from Bedford, Virginia. She recently spoke at the White House regarding the importance of telehealth and health care access for rural communities during the coronavirus pandemic.
Dr. G.E. GhaliDr. G.E. Ghali, D.D.S., M.D. is an oral and maxillofacial surgeon and the Gamble Professor and chairman of the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery at LSU Health Sciences Center – Shreveport. In 2012, Dr. Ghali helped lead the initiative to establish a cleft lip and palate program at Shriners Hospitals for Children — Shreveport, and since that time, has served as director of the cleft lip and plate program. He serves on numerous national and international organizations, is active in both clinical and basic research, and has authored numerous book chapters and articles in peer-reviewed journals.
Representative Jim Jordan (OH-04)U.S. Representative Jim Jordan represents Ohio's 4th Congressional District. He serves as the ranking member on the House Judiciary Committee, is a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, and is a co-founder of the House Freedom Caucus.
Herschel WalkerHerschel Walker was appointed to serve as Co-Chair of the President's Council on Sports, Fitness, and Nutrition. Walker is President and Chief Executive Officer of H. Walker Enterprises, LLC (HWE) and Renaissance Man Food Services, LLC (RMFS), a certified minority business enterprise that supplies poultry, pork, and bakery products to the food service and retail marketplace. Walker was a NFL player for fifteen years, competed in mixed martial arts competitions, and participated in the 1992 United States Olympic bobsled team.
Natalie HarpNatalie Harp is a California resident, entrepreneur, and advisory board member for Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. She was a beneficiary of President Trump's 2018 Right to Try Act, which allowed her to try experimental drugs to combat her cancer. Today, she is an advocate for patient choice and a frequent public speaker.
Georgia State Representative Vernon JonesVernon Jones is a Democratic politician from the state of Georgia. Jones was chief executive officer of Dekalb County, Georgia from 2001 until 2009 and in the Georgia House of Representatives from 1993 to 2001. He ran for the U.S. Senate in 2008, the U.S. House of Representatives (2010), and DeKalb County Sheriff (2014). Jones was elected to the Georgia House in 2016, and in April 2020, Jones announced his endorsement of President Trump for reelection.
Andrew PollackAndrew Pollack is a Long Island native who relocated to South Florida. His life was forever changed when his beautiful 18-year-old daughter was murdered in the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas on February 14, 2018. Since that time, he has been advocating for a national change in mindset when it comes to school security. Andrew's plea to #fixit was heard initially around the world at a White House Town Hall and played an instrumental part in passing a monumental safety bill for the state of Florida. Andrew continues to work with county, state, and federal officials to raise awareness about school security and increase safety measures in schools across the nation.
Mark and Patricia McCloskeyThe McCloskey's are St. Louis area attorneys who specialize in personal injury law. This year, during violent protests in St. Louis, the McCloskey's exercised their second amendment rights to defend their home. Though the news media attempted to "cancel" them, the McCloskey's have stood by their commitment to personal liberty and Constitutional rights.
Kimberly GuilfoyleKimberly Guilfoyle leads the fundraising powerhouse between the campaign and the Republican National Committee as the National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee. She also serves as one of the campaign's senior advisors. She joined Fox News Channel in 2006 as a legal analyst. Prior to her broadcasting career, she served as an assistant district attorney at the San Francisco and Los Angeles District Attorney's Offices.
House Republican Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01)Steve Scalise proudly represents the First Congressional District of Louisiana, stretching from the beautiful Northshore of Lake Pontchartrain and the culturally distinct New Orleans suburbs to the vibrant bayous and wetlands abundant in natural resources. He was elected to Congress in 2008 after serving in the Louisiana State Legislature from 1996-2008. He serves his colleagues as the House Republican Whip, the second highest position in House Republican leadership.
Sean ParnellSean Parnell is a highly decorated Army Ranger and combat infantryman veteran who fiercely fought for 485 days on the Afghan-Pakistan border. After being medically discharged from the Army due to injuries during a firefight, Sean co-founded the American Warrior Initiative and worked tirelessly to ensure the passage of the Mission Act, which was signed into law by President Trump. Now, Sean is running for Congress in Pennsylvania's 17th district to aid President Trump in his America First agenda and bring his constituents together through servant leadership.
Maximo AlvarezMaximo Alvarez was born in Havana, Cuba in 1948, the son of Spanish immigrants. In 1961, at the age of 13, he came to America as part of Operation "Pedro Pan." He is the founder of Sunshine Gasoline, and an outspoken opponent of communism, both in Cuba and the United States.
Former Ambassador Nikki HaleyNikki R. Haley is the former United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations under President Donald J. Trump. During her time as ambassador, the United States stood proudly with its allies, repeatedly taking a strong and principled stand against the chronic anti-Israel bias at the United Nations. Prior to becoming the twenty-ninth U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Ambassador Haley was elected in 2010 as the first female and first minority Governor of South Carolina. Born in Bamberg, South Carolina, she is the daughter of Indian immigrants and a proud graduate of Clemson University.
Donald Trump, Jr.Donald J. Trump Jr., President Donald J. Trump's eldest son, is an innovator and leader in today's young business world. As an Executive Vice President at the Trump Organization, Donald Jr. works to expand the company's real estate, retail, commercial, hotel and golf interests. Upon joining the Trump Organization in 2001, Donald Jr. initially worked at Trump Place, the historic West Side Yards redevelopment in New York City, one of the most ambitious and successful large-scale development projects in Manhattan. The project spanned several blocks, featured 17 buildings, and created a new community. From there he went on to lead the development of Trump Park Avenue, a conversion of the landmark Hotel Delmonico to an ultra-luxury residential condominium on Park Avenue at East 59th Street, which has been a tremendous success.
Senator Tim Scott (R-SC)Since joining the Senate in 2013, Senator Scott has been a national leader in efforts to bring opportunity to every American family. His signature legislation creating Opportunity Zones was passed as part of the 2017 tax reform package and has the potential to bring billions of dollars of private investment into distressed communities across the country. As he continues to lead on the implementation of the Opportunity Zones initiative, Senator Scott also plays a critical role in issues regarding workforce development, education, and diversity. Whether it's tackling the skills gap, making sure children have access to the educational environment best suited for them, or working to bring everyone to the table to find solutions, Senator Scott will keep fighting for South Carolinians every single day he serves in the U.S. Senate.
  