
    "I don't want my daughter near him."
It's 2020 and Democrats are still honoring Bill Clinton. He's the last person who should be giving lectures on what should or should not be happening in the Oval Office.
In 2016, Clinton inadvertently slammed Joe Biden's tenure as vice president by urging voters to "put the awful legacy of the last eight years behind us." But before Clinton labeled Biden's legacy as "awful," he helped implement many of Biden's most harmful policies. As president, Clinton supported and signed into law Biden's 1994 crime bill, which inflicted decades of destruction on the Black community. Democrats like Cory Booker and Kamala Harris have saidBiden's law led to the mass incarceration of Black Americans.
Clinton also worked with Biden to advance terrible trade policies that put American workers last, shipped jobs overseas, and gutted American manufacturing. Biden voted for NAFTA and Clinton signed it in to law, killing 850,000 American jobs. Then they gave "most favored nation" trade status to China, destroying 4.5 million manufacturing jobs. Their disastrous policies decimated America's middle-class.
But perhaps the most absurd thing about Bill Clinton speaking at the 2020 Democrat Convention is the fact that this is supposedly the party of #MeToo – the folks who tried to torpedo the nomination of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh over completely unproven, unsupported, politically motivated claims of sexual assault.
Democrats themselves have acknowledged Clinton's guilt:

In 1999, Biden described Clinton's actions as "reprehensible," said they "brought shame" to "the office of the President," and "hurt" the "country as a whole."
In 2017, Democrat Kirsten Gillibrand said Clinton should have resigned the presidency.
In 2006, Democrat Claire McCaskill said, "I don't want my daughter near him."
In 2018, Women's March organizer Tamika Mallory said that "with all the issues he has," Clinton wouldn't be helpful to candidates on the campaign trail.
In 2018, columnist Richard Cohen admitted that Clinton rape accuser Juanita Broaddrick's rape allegations were "credible."
In 2018, informal Biden advisor Alyssa Milano said the allegations against Clinton should have been investigated.

Now, after Tara Reade's allegations against Biden, Democrats have moved on from #MeToo and fully embraced hypocrisy. In 2018, Phony Kamala Harris said it was imperative to "believe survivors" because it was something they "deserve." Apparently the expiration date on that right expired the second she started angling to be Biden's running mate.
  