
    President George W. Bush today announced the recess appointments of the following individuals:
The President has signed the recess appointment of Charlotte A. Lane of West Virginia to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission. The President nominated Ms. Lane on June 7, 2002 and again on January 9, 2003.
The President has signed the recess appointment of Daniel Pearson of Minnesota to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission. The President nominated Mr. Pearson on November 14, 2002 and again on January 9, 2003.
The President has signed the recess appointment of A. Paul Anderson of Minnesota to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner. The President nominated Mr. Anderson on April 10, 2003.
The President has signed the recess appointment of Daniel Pipes of Pennsylvania to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace. The President nominated Mr. Pipes on April 2, 2003.
The President has signed the recess appointment of John Paul Woodley, Jr. of Virginia to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works). The President nominated Mr. Woodley on January 22, 2003.
The President has signed the recess appointment of David W. Fleming of California to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Public). The President nominated Mr. Fleming on April 11, 2003.
The President has signed the recess appointment of Jay Phillip Greene of Florida to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Academic). The President nominated Mr. Greene on April 11, 2003.
The President has signed the recess appointment of John Richard Petrocik of Missouri to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Academic). The President nominated Mr. Petrocik on April 11, 2003.
The President has signed the recess appointment of Juanita Alicia Vasquez-Gardner of Texas to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. The President nominated Ms. Vasquez-Gardner on July 24, 2002 and again on January 9, 2003.
  