
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today that Rudy Washington will serve as Mayor Giuliani's campaign chairman for New York City.
"I'm very proud to have Rudy Washington lead my campaign's effort in my hometown of New York City. Rudy Washington was an integral part of my Administration's efforts to clean up New York City, including ridding the Fulton Fish Market of organized crime," Mayor Giuliani said. "Rudy was also one of the people who led the relief and recovery effort after 9/11. I know he will be a key part of our team's success in New York City."
"Rudy Giuliani is the right man to be our next president. I saw first-hand what he did for my hometown city and know that he would build the same record of results for our country," Washington said. "I am honored to lead efforts to spread Mayor Giuliani's optimistic vision in New York City."
Washington will lead the campaign's efforts in New York City following the passing of former City chairman John D'Amato in July.
About Rudy Washington:
In 1996, Mayor Giuliani appointed Rudy Washington Deputy Mayor for Community Development and Business Services for the City of New York, a position in which he oversaw a number of city departments and commissions. Following the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Washington oversaw the delivery of heavy construction equipment for early rescue and recovery efforts at ground zero, and also worked to coordinate emergency response and aid to victims.
During his tenure, Washington implemented the Mayor's successful Multi- Agency Response to Community Hotspot program to inspect New York nightclubs, bars and cabaret regulation. Prior to his appointment as Deputy Mayor, Washington served as Commissioner of the New York City Department of Business Services, a capacity in which he helped the Mayor organize and implement legislation that lead to the successful elimination of organized crime from New York City's Fulton Fish Market.
Washington has also served the city in other capacities. In October 1995, Governor George Pataki nominated him as board member for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. In 2003, he was confirmed by the New York City Council, on the nomination of Mayor Michael Bloomberg, as a member of the adjudicative body of the New York City Civil Service Commission.
Washington is a native of Queens and currently lives there with his wife and their two children.
  