
    Jeb said in his announcement speech he is committed to campaigning as he would serve, going everywhere and not ceding any issue, voter or demographic group because he has a vision that will unite all Americans behind the cause of restoring opportunity in this country.
Following his announcement speech, he did just that.
Jeb addressed the National Urban League Conference in Fort Lauderdale. Here's a look at his speech on ending barriers to success for urban communities:


Here's how it played out in the news:
"...Mr. Bush's speech was well received. He won applause when he recalled his decision to remove the Confederate battle flag from the grounds of the Florida Capitol in 2001. And he spoke emotionally of the massacre of nine black parishioners in Charleston, S.C., in June and of the forgiveness their survivors had expressed for the man charged in the shooting." NYTimes
AP: Jeb Bush one of two GOP candidates to speak before Urban League conference
"Bush has been trying to expand the appeal of his party by vowing to go places where Republicans haven't been seen in years, such as Hispanic neighborhoods and African-American churches." Reuters

  best speech delivery I've seen from him so far, by a mile. It's why he'd be very tough to beat in November https://t.co/kOirLnxRt9
— John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) July 31, 2015


  Impressive speech for @JebBush — best combination I have heard of combining his Conserv. ideas with Urban problems. — Matthew Corrigan (@profpolitics) July 31, 2015

Earlier in the week, Jeb was in Central Florida. "At all three of his appearances, Bush said Republicans need to campaign among blacks and Latinos, two groups that lean heavily Democratic," said the Palm Beach Post.

  Jeb campaigning w orlando area Hispanics today & urban league Fri. How many other GOP candidates can u see doing that in primary? — Adam Smith (@adamsmithtimes) July 27, 2015


  .@JebBush meeting now with Hispanic pastors in Orlando. A Dem Hisp organizer recently told us she more concerned about Jeb than @marcorubio. — Alex Leary (@learyreports) July 27, 2015


  .@JebBush fielding 25 minutes & counting of questions from largely minority pastors group in Orlando. pic.twitter.com/MkyafNy8Yy — George Bennett (@gbennettpost) July 27, 2015


  Talking to largely Hispanic pastors in Orlando, @JebBush says "We have to restore hope for people." #WTSP pic.twitter.com/be24HTI5pe — Grayson Kamm (@graysonkamm) July 27, 2015

His message also resonated in Iowa and South Carolina this week where he announced his Iowa Farm Team and his South Carolina Veterans Steering Committee.
Quad City Times: Jeb Bush announces Iowa farm team
Post and Courier: Two Medal of Honor recipients on Jeb Bush South Carolina Committee
  