
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals, appoint one individual and recess appoint two individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Santanu K. Baruah, of Oregon, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development. Mr. Baruah currently serves as Chief of Staff for the Economic Development Administration at the Department of Commerce. Prior to joining the Administration, he was a Senior Management Consultant for Performance Consulting Group in Portland, Oregon. Earlier in his career, Mr. Baruah worked for the Secretaries of Interior and Labor. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Oregon and his master's degree from Williamette University.
The President intends to nominate Emilio T. Gonzalez, of Florida, to be Director of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services at the Department of Homeland Security. Dr. Gonzalez currently serves as Senior Managing Director of Global and Government Affairs for Tew Cardenas, LLP. Prior to that, he was Director of Western Hemisphere Affairs for the National Security Council. Earlier in his career, Dr. Gonzalez served in the U. S. Army for 26 years, retiring as a Colonel in 2003. During his time in the military, Dr. Gonzalez served at the U.S. Embassies in El Salvador and Mexico and directed the Office of Special Assistants for the Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Southern Command. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Southern Florida, his first master's degree from Tulane University and his second master's degree from the United States Naval War College. Dr. Gonzalez later received his PhD from the University of Miami.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey D. Jarrett, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy). Mr. Jarrett currently serves as Director of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement at the Department of the Interior. He previously served as Deputy Secretary of Mineral Resources Management at the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. Earlier in his career, Mr. Jarrett was Director of Planning and Evaluation at Cravat Coal Company and Affiliates. He received his bachelor's degree from Geneva College.
The President intends to nominate Ellen R. Sauerbrey, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Population, Refugees and Migration). She currently serves as Ambassador and Representative of the United States to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations Commission of the Status of Women. Ambassador Sauerbrey also served as a Member of the United States delegation to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Earlier in her career, she served as a Member of the Maryland House of Delegates from 1978 to 1994, and she served as Minority Leader from 1986 to 1994. Ambassador Sauerbrey received her bachelor's degree from Western Maryland College.
The President intends to nominate Alexander R. Vershbow, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Korea. A career member of the Foreign Service, he recently completed service as U.S. Ambassador to the Russian Federation. Prior to that, Ambassador Vershbow served as U.S. Ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Earlier in his career, he served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director of European Affairs at the National Security Council. Ambassador Vershbow received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his master's degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to appoint Kenneth G. Prillaman, of Virginia, to be Chief Human Capital Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Prillaman is currently a Principal in the Human Capital Solutions Group at Booz Allen Hamilton, Inc. He previously served as a Firm Director and Practice Leader with the Deloitte and Touche Human Capital Consulting Practice. Prior to that, he served as a Human Resource Executive with both public sector and private sector organizations. He received his bachelor's degree and first master's degree from Eastern Illinois University. Mr. Prillaman later received his second master's degree from Harvard University and his JD from George Mason University.
The President intends to recess appoint Alice S. Fisher, of Virginia, to be Assistant Attorney General (Criminal Division) at the Department of Justice.
The President intends to recess appoint Peter Schaumber, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring on August 27, 2010.
  