
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Commission on Industrial Competitiveness. As announced on June 28, 1983, the Commission will be chaired by John Young.
Robert Anderson is chief executive officer of
Rockwell International Corp. in Pittsburgh, Pa. Dimitri V. D'Arbeloff is chief executive officer of the Millipore Corp. in Bedford, Mass.
Frederick B. Dent is president and treasurer of Mayfair Mills, Inc, in Arcadia, S.C. Rimruer De Vries is senior vice president of
Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in New York, N.Y. Edwin D. Dodd is chairman and chief executive officer of Owens-Illinois, Inc., in Toledo, Ohio. B. Kipling Hagopian is a general partner in Brentwood Associates in Los Angeles, Calif.
Robert A. Hanson is president and chief executive officer of Deere and Co. in Moline, Ill.
Edwin L. Harper is executive vice president of Overhead Door Corp. in Dallas, Tex.
George A. Keyworth H is Science Adviser to the President in the Executive Office of the President, Washington, D.C.
Gerald D. Laubach is president of Pfizer, Inc., in New York, N.Y.
George M. Low is president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y.
Bruno J. Mauer is president of Rickert Industrial Supply Co. in Milwaukee, Wis.
Rachel McCulloch is professor of economies at the University of Wisconsin in Madison.
Sybil C. Mobley is dean of the School of Business, Florida A & M University, Tallahassee, Fla.
Thomas J. Murrin is president of Westinghouse Electric Corp. in Pittsburgh, Pa.
John Doyle Ong is chairman, president, and chief executive officer of B. F. Goodrich Co. in Akron, Ohio.
Michael E. Porter is professor of business administration at Harvard University in Boston, Mass.
Ian M. Ross, is president of Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J.
Stephen I. Schlossberg is former director of government and public affairs, United Auto Workers; partner, Zwerdling, Schlossberg, Leibig and Kahn, Washington, D.C.
Mark Shepherd, Jr., is chief executive officer of Texas Instruments in Dallas, Tex.
  