
    To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 402(a) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (TEA), I transmit herewith the Eighteenth Annual Report of the President on the Trade Agreements Program. This report covers developments in the year ending December 31, 1973.
Last year was a particularly important one for United States and world trade, as this report demonstrates in detail. Unquestionably the highlight occurred last September in Tokyo, when the ministers of 105 sovereign nations joined to declare their support for a new round of multilateral trade negotiations, the seventh since the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) was signed in 1947. This round represents a major initiative of the United States, along with initiatives in the international monetary field, begun in the fall of 1971. The charter for these negotiations, as embodied in the Declaration of Tokyo, is the most ambitious yet.
The purpose of these talks is no less than to modernize a world trading system which, though it has well served the world's peoples and brought about the many benefits of a four-fold expansion of trade, is no longer capable of responding to the needs and realities of a rapidly changing and increasingly interdependent world economy.
First, these talks are aimed not only at the continuing need to facilitate trade by lowering tariffs, but at reducing today's most pervasive and restrictive export inhibitors, so-called non-tariff trade barriers (NTBs). Unless these can be effectively dealt with, no major exporting nation--especially the United States--can hope to remain competitive in today's and tomorrow's world markets. And loss of competitiveness abroad can threaten the viability of firms and lead to loss of markets at home.
Second, the inflationary pressure of increased costs has become a major international problem which must be dealt with multilaterally if we are to adequately deal with inflation domestically.
Third, the need to maintain access to vital raw materials, energy, and food requires negotiated assurances for such access to supplies as well as to markets.
Fourth, economic issues should be managed and negotiated in parallel with political and security issues, in order to make progress on all three fronts.
Finally, we must encourage sovereign governments to work within an acceptable international framework to deal with such problems as import safeguards and export subsidies. At the same time we must have the authority to defend our legitimate national interests and manage domestic concerns in the context of an up-to-date, responsive and responsible international system.
None of these objectives can be accomplished without the appropriate legislative authorization. This authority--carefully balanced with provisions for the most effective Congressional and public participation in our trade policy-making and negotiating since GATT was formed--is represented in the Trade Reform Act, which I submitted to the Congress in April of 1973. This legislation, which passed the House by a margin of nearly two-to-one last December and is now pending in the Senate, is still urgently needed.
Time is now of the essence with regard to the trade bill. Our trading partners have demonstrated their willingness to use and improve multilateral channels for trade negotiation. Just this spring, the European Community negotiated a fair and equitable accord compensating us for tariff changes resulting from the enlargement of the European Common Market. Through the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), ministers of member countries have joined with the U.S. in renouncing trade restrictive measures as balance-of-payments correctives, at least until the basic problems caused by oil price increases can be addressed through improvements in the monetary system. Developing countries, particularly our partners in Latin America, have indicated their willingness to work with us toward trade expansion and reform. As I have noted before, our new approaches to the socialist countries, especially to the USSR and the People's Republic of China, hinge in large measure upon our ability to open up peaceful avenues of trade with them. Again, I have expressed my willingness to work with the Congress to find an acceptable formulation for this authority. In Geneva, the GATT Trade Negotiations Committee has announced a program of work for the fall to further prepare for the actual bargaining.
In short, the rest of the world is waiting for us at the trade negotiating table. The alternative is an indefinite period in which nations, including ours, will be forced to deal with increasingly complex and interdependent trade problems on an ad hoc basis. Experience has shown that this could lead to a proliferation of those problems and disputes over the best ways to resolve them. The adverse fallout from the resulting uncertainties and temptations of shortsighted unilateral actions could also seriously jeopardize gains we have made in the diplomatic and security fields.
For all these reasons, I take this occasion once again to urge prompt and final action on the Trade Reform Act. It is essential that we move ahead to revitalize the global trading system through multilateral negotiations.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
August 8, 1974.
  