
    In remarks today at a town hall meeting in Rochester, New Hampshire, Mayor Rudy Giuliani will further detail his 12 Commitments to the American People by unveiling his commitment to give Americans more control over, and access to, health care.
To increase the quality, affordability, and portability of health care, the Mayor will reform the current system by using free-market solutions that facilitate consumer-driven health care and end failed big-government mandates and wasteful administrative bureaucracies.
"Americans believe in free-market solutions to the challenges we face, and I believe we can reduce costs, expand access to, and improve the quality of health care by increasing competition," Giuliani has said. "America's health care system is being dragged down by decades of government-imposed mandates and wasteful, unaccountable bureaucracy. To reform, we must empower all Americans by increasing health care choices and affordability, while bringing accountability to the system."
The Mayor also proposes reforming the tax code and the medical liability system, while providing American families with expanded low-cost insurance options and improving and expanding health savings accounts. Under his proposal, the Mayor will also push for innovative solutions to reduce health costs centered on individual empowerment, investments in technology to reduce medical errors, and in conjunction with doctors and nurses, providing incentives that promote wellness and a healthier America.
"We have the opportunity to bring fairness to the tax treatment of health care and open up the marketplace for less expensive health care options," Giuliani has said. "It's possible for us to have the most modern, technologically advanced medical system in the world and make sure all Americans have full access to and control over their health care decisions."
Giving Americans more control over, and access to, health care with affordable and portable free-market solutions is one of Rudy's Twelve Commitments to the American People, his bold vision aimed at moving America forward. He will continue to travel the country this summer detailing the remaining Commitments. For more about Rudy's Twelve Commitments, please click here.
  