
    Following the second Democratic Debate, former State Senator and former chairman of the Polk County Democrats Dick Dearden, Fort Dodge NAACP President Sherry Washington, Sioux City Pastor James Mosley, former chair of the Crawford County Democrats Larry Peterson, and Des Moines Moms Demand Action leaders have all come out in support of Kamala Harris for President.
Last night on the stage, Harris discussed her 3AM agenda focused on solutions that will have a direct and immediate effect on people's lives, paychecks, and health care.
These endorsements add to the momentum Harris has felt since the first Democratic debate. In one week, Harris will return to the state for a 5-day River-to-River bus tour to bring her 3AM agenda plans directly to Iowans.
Sherry Washington, Fort Dodge NAACP President and Iowa 4th Congressional District Democrats Affirmative Action Chair: "I live my life with the seeds of strong men and women of generations before to guide me. I was taught to stand up for what I believe in, fight for what I think is right, respect others for our differences, knowing that love, not hate will save us. There is one candidate who can embody this and move this country forward, and that is why I'm proud today to endorse Kamala Harris for President of the United States."
Dick Dearden, Former Des Moines State Senator and Former Chairman of the Polk County Democrats: "I believe Kamala Harris is our best candidate to beat Donald Trump and I know that she shares our Iowa values. I am proud to endorse her for President of the United States."
Hope Johnson, Des Moines Democratic Activist and Moms Demand Action leader: "I really started to pay attention to Sen. Harris as I watched the Kavanaugh hearings. She showed both her compassion and her fierceness while working to find the truth. I think she has the fire needed to win the presidency and the intelligence and empathy to restore the office to one Americans can admire."
Jenni Norum, Des Moines Moms Demand Action leader: "As a mother and member of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, I know Senator Harris supports common sense gun laws and will take immediate action when elected to face our uniquely American gun crisis. When America has 100 gun-deaths a day, we have a gun crisis in our country. As a mother and member of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, I support Senator Harris for President because she will work immediately upon election to make our country a safe place."
Pastor James D. Mosley Jr., New Life in Christ Church of God in Christ in Sioux City: "I believe in Kamala Harris' ability to get things done – her record shows that at some of the highest levels of state and federal government. In addition, her family values and honesty means that she will be a strong leader for this country."
Larry Peterson, Former Chair of the Crawford County Democrats: "I've seen Kamala Harris in action and I know she is someone who can hold her own and stand on a debate stage with Trump. I think she's pragmatic and amongst the candidates I've met so far she's the one who can go the distance."
  