
    Calls on Congress and the Democratic field to "raise the bar" on climate change
MT. PLEASANT, IA -- Governor Bill Richardson today commended the efforts and leadership of the Sierra Club and ReEnergizeUS and called on the Congress and the other Democratic Presidential candidates to "raise the bar" of their thinking on global climate change.
This week, ReEnergizeUS launched their "March for Climate Action" in New Hampshire and Iowa, highlighting the urgent need for a "clean energy economy" that will cut carbon emissions 80 percent by 2050.
"ReEnergizeUS is demonstrating the kind of bold, aggressive leadership that we need on climate change," said Governor Richardson. "Grassroots, citizen-led efforts represent the best way to change the failed status quo in Washington. Unfortunately, this kind of bold leadership has been severely lacking from the Bush Administration. The meager fuel efficiency standards that have been proposed in the most recent energy bill are pathetic. As a country we must demand that we do more to fight the very serious problem of global climate change."
ReEnergizeUS has called for a carbon emissions reduction of at least 80 percent by 2050. Governor Richardson's plan calls for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of at least 20% by 2020, 50% by 2030, 80% by 2040, and 90% by 2050.
Sierra Club President Carl Pope said Governor Richardson's energy plan "raised the bar" in the fight against global warming, and is "much more aggressive than anything we've seen so far from the candidates. It is also significantly better elaborated...." The League of Conservation Voters praised Governor Richardson's proposals as the most aggressive plan of any candidate for President, saying "Richardson sets the highest goals for reducing global warming pollution and increasing production from renewable energy sources."
In June, the New Mexico Conservation Voters awarded Governor Richardson an "A" for his efforts in making New Mexico the "Clean Energy State."
"In addition to increasing the renewable energy standard, an impressive package of clean energy policies was enacted (this session) -- a result of the importance that Governor Richardson places on making New Mexico the "Clean Energy State," said Sandy Buffett, Executive Director of Conservation Voters New Mexico.
ReEnergizeUS is a student-driven project of the Sierra Club and Sierra Student Coalition. Its goal is to focus public attention on the benefits our country could reap from a new clean energy economy and real global warming solutions. A group of eight students based in Iowa and 25 in New Hampshire are leading an effort to jumpstart the fight against global warming and draw attention to the millions of new jobs that could be created across the country by adopting the smart energy solutions that will reduce our global warming emissions.
Background: An Action Plan for America's Energy and Climate Future
  