
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Dole (R) KS and 31 cosponsors)
The Administration opposes S. 1120 in its current form because it falls short of the central goal of real welfare reform — moving people from welfare to work. The Administration strongly supports enactment of real and effective welfare reform that promotes the basic values of work and responsibility. The Administration, therefore, strongly supports S. 1117, the Daschle-Breaux-Mikulski substitute, which meets these objectives.
Over the past two and a half years, the President has been fighting for the basic principles of work and responsibility. Last year, the President proposed a sweeping welfare reform package that would: establish tough work requirements while providing child care for working people; impose tough child support enforcement measures; require teen mothers to live at home, stay in school, and identify their child's father; increase State flexibility and accountability; and provide basic protections for children. His economic plan expanded the earned income tax credit, which rewarded work over welfare and cut taxes for 15 million working families.
Last February, the President issued an Executive Order to crack down on Federal employees who owe child support. The Administration also has approved welfare reform experiments in 32 States and has pledged fast-track approval for other State demonstrations that pursue specified reform strategies. Such strategies include: (1) strengthening work requirements backed with child care; (2) limiting recipients' duration on welfare and cutting off people who refuse to work; (3) making parents pay child support or go to work; (4) requiring mothers who are minors to live at home and stay in school; and (5) using welfare and Food Stamp benefits as subsidies for employers who hire welfare recipients. The President has also directed that Federal regulations be changed to ensure that welfare recipients who refuse to work do not receive increased Food Stamp benefits to offset the decreases made in their welfare checks.
The welfare reform debate has come a long way in certain key areas since this Congress first took up the issue. Not so long ago, some in Congress were promoting orphanages as the solution to out-of-wedlock teen births. Now, S. 1120 includes provisions from the President's proposal requiring mothers who are minors to live at home and stay in school. Earlier this year, some in Congress wanted to exclude child support enforcement from the welfare reform debate. Now, there is bipartisan agreement on the toughest child support enforcement proposal ever, and both the House-passed H.R. 4 and S. 1120 include the President's major child support enforcement provisions. In addition, S. 1120 adopts the Administration's position that child protection programs for abused children must be protected and includes an important provision from the President's welfare reform plan requiring welfare recipients to sign personal responsibility contracts as a condition of assistance.
The key to successful welfare reform is moving people from welfare to work. S. 1120, however, does not put work first.. It does not provide the level of child care resources necessary to support the imposition of tough work requirements. Indeed, it repeals critical child care programs now serving 640,000 children. It does not provide incentives for States to promote work. Instead, by allowing States to no longer contribute any of their own resources, the bill gives States an incentive to throw people off the welfare rolls rather than put them to work. It further undermines the goal of requiring work by shifting an enormous cost burden to States and localities and putting them at even greater risk during an economic downturn. No safeguards are provided for children whose families lose assistance through no fault of their own. More families may have to make do with less food on the table, if States opt for a Food Stamp block grant and then spend Food Stamp block grant funds on other programs. Finally, House and Senate Republican plans cut low-income programs too deeply, compromising their ability to protect children and promote work. The Administration supports real reform that saves taxpayer dollars by promoting independence — moving people off welfare rolls and into work — not by simply sending the welfare problem to the States with more mandates and less money.
The Administration's most significant concerns are discussed below. As the Administration continues its review of S. 1120, it may identify other troublesome issues and will work with Congress to address those concerns as well.
Moving People from Welfare to Work 
Welfare reform will succeed only if its central goal is work. Work has always been at the heart of the President's approach to welfare reform. Work has provided the foundation for the welfare reform waivers the Administration has granted, including innovative welfare-to-work programs in Oregon, Iowa, and dozens of other States. If a welfare system is to provide Work-based incentives for States and welfare recipients, adequate resources for child care, training, and work must be available. State bureaucracies have to be rewarded for getting people into the workforce or preparing them to enter the workforce — not for cutting them from the rolls.
Unlike the Daschle-Breaux-Mikulski substitute (S. 1117). which the Administration strongly supports, the Republican leadership bill would not end welfare as we know it by moving people from welfare to work. To promote work, the bill should be changed to:

Require States to maintain their stake in moving people from welfare to work. S. 1120 would neither require nor encourage States to contribute resources to welfare reform. Many States could be expected to withdraw their own funds, cut benefits, purge large numbers of current recipients from the rolls, and avoid the burden of helping people become self-sufficient. In sum, there is a real danger that States would "race to the bottom" to save State dollars or to deter migrants from other States.   
Provide child care to move people from welfare to work and to keep people from going on welfare in the first place. It makes no sense to deny child care to people trying to leave welfare and to working people who are trying to stay off welfare. By aggregating funding for cash benefits, child care, and employment assistance into one block grant and cutting it across-the-board, S. 1120 provides no guarantee that States will put any money into child care and work programs that move people off welfare. The Administration recommends that the bill be modified to: (1) fund employment and child care for welfare recipients separately from cash benefits; and (2) ensure that people who can work, do so, and have the child care when they do.   
Provide incentives that reward States for putting more people to work, not for cutting them off. S. 1120 gives States an incentive to save money by throwing people off the rolls. To change the culture of welfare, the bill should be modified to reward success instead of the status quo. The Administration supports a performance bonus that would focus the welfare bureaucracy and recipients on the central goal of moving from welfare to work.   
Protect States and families in the event of economic downturn, so that welfare reform does not shift a huge burden onto State and local taxpayers, and States can afford to put people to work instead of putting poor families at risk. In contrast to current funding mechanisms, funding for temporary assistance to needy families under S. 1120 would not adjust adequately to cushion the impact of unemployment and economic stagnation. States in recession would encounter reduced revenues and increased caseloads. S. 1120 would provide a "rainy day" loan fund that would allow States to borrow additional money during economic downturns. In addition, extra funding would be available to States projected to have high population growth that meet certain criteria. There is no guarantee, however, that the finite amount that such States receive will be adequate. And if there is population growth in a majority of States, each will get a diminished share of the fixed dollars,. The Administration recommends that the bill be changed to adjust for shifts in economic condition and population. 

Training People for the Future 
The training provisions in S. 1120 include the consolidation of approximately 90 training programs. 'Given the need to build a comprehensive workforce development system to serve all Americans and the concerns expressed below, the Administration believes it is inappropriate to consider these provisions in the context of welfare reform legislation. Of paramount concern is the bill's insufficient funding for the consolidated programs. While the President's FY 1996 budget proposes to increase funding for training by $1 billion over FY 1995, S. 1120 would cut funding by 15 percent. Not only is the plan's funding insufficient for the Nation's workforce needs as a whole, the consolidation of these programs means that billions of dollars less will be available to help people stay off welfare and to help others transition from welfare to work.
In addition, S. 1120 would not ensure proper accountability for $8.2 billion in Federal training and vocational education funds. If the bill were adopted, the Federal Government could not assure taxpayers that States were spending Federal funds to achieve the national goals of improving workers' skills, facilitating, individuals' transition from school to work, and helping severely disadvantaged people enter the education and work mainstream.
Unlike the President's job training proposal, S. 1120 would not require the use of skill grants for adult training. Thus, there would be no guarantee that training resources would be put directly into the hands of dislocated workers and low-income adults, so that they could make informed training choices. Other concerns about S. 1120 include its: (1) failure to target resources on those most in need; (2) devolution of the successful Job Corps program to the States; (3) elimination of the Summer Jobs, Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA and NAFTA-TAA) training, Employment Service, and Senior Community Service Employment programs; (4) failure to assure permanent local workforce development boards with authority for local decision-making; (5) failure to provide a national reserve to aid victims of mass layoffs and national disasters and for other purposes; and (6) creation of a complex new bureaucracy under the direction of a part-time board with uncertain accountability as the Federal governance structure.
In addition, the Administration supports the deletion of the provision in S. 1120 that modifies Davis-Bacon labor standards protections. Overall, Davis-Bacon reform is the appropriate avenue for addressing what changes should be made to Davis-Bacon requirements.
Protecting Children 
Reduced spending for low-income programs is possible while still protecting the most vulnerable. The Administration has proposed $38 billion in carefully tailored cuts for certain welfare programs over seven years; however, the magnitude of the cuts assumed in the congressional budget resolution — approximately $110 billion over seven years — compromises the ability of these programs to protect children and promote work. This is exacerbated by the absence of maintenance-of-effort requirements on the States. It is not realistic to expect the States to compensate for the reduced Federal spending from their own revenues. Many will ultimately pass on the drastic cuts to children and families/ who will endure future cuts or even losses in benefit eligibility. The proposal also eliminates benefits for approximately four million children even if their parents have done everything possible to find work.
The Administration supports the retention of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) cash benefits for eligible children provided by S. 1120. The plan, however, would apparently deny SSI benefits to more than 370,000 disabled children over the next five years. In addition, the bill would establish a mandatory five-year cut off of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families without regard to their circumstances. The bill would not provide any protection for children when their parents are unable, to work due to illness, disability, the need to care for a disabled child, or high local unemployment. The Administration believes that such provisions are unduly harsh.
Preserving the Health and Nutrition of Adults and Children 
The Administration is pleased that S. 1120 includes a number of provisions proposed by the Department of Agriculture to combat Food Stamp fraud. The Administration, however, opposes the Republican leadership plan to include an optional Food Stamp block grant. Providing the option of a Food Stamp block grant in its current form jeopardizes getting food to people who need it. It would sever the link between Food Stamps and nutrition; eliminate the program's economic responsiveness; end national eligibility and benefit standards; and ultimately divert support away from food. The bill requires only 75 percent of the block grant funds to go to food assistance, a provision that could divert $23 billion worth of food from children and families over the next five years. Furthermore, any State that exercises the block grant option will see its food assistance decline dramatically in the event of recession or population growth. The block grant option would threaten the national nutritional framework that has successfully narrowed the gap between the diets of low-income and other families.
The Administration is concerned about the severity of the cuts to the Food Stamp program in S. 1120. The Administration supports requiring Food Stamp recipients without children to go to work or train for work in return for their assistance. S. 1120. does not provide States with the resources to accomplish this goal. Rather than promoting work, the plan simply cuts a hole in the nutrition safety net.
Provisions Affecting Non-Citizens 
S. 1120 should support fair treatment for legal immigrants. The Administration supports tightening sponsorship and eligibility rules for non-citizens and requiring sponsors of legal immigrants to bear greater responsibility for those whom they encourage to enter the United States. The Administration, however, strongly opposes the Republican leadership bill's unilateral application of new eligibility and deeming provisions to current recipients, including the disabled who are exempted under current law. ("Deeming" is the requirement that sponsors' income be counted when determining immigrants' eligibility for benefits.) The Administration also is deeply concerned about the bill's application of deeming provisions to Medicaid and other programs where deeming would adversely affect public health and welfare.
Daschle-Breaux-Mikulski Reform Proposal — Real Welfare Reform 
The Senate has the chance to enact real bi-partisan welfare reform. The Administration strongly supports S. 1117, the welfare reform proposal offered by Senators Daschle, Breaux, and Mikulski. Instead of maintaining the current welfare system — Which undermines our basic values of work, responsibility, and family — this plan sends people to work so they can earn a paycheck, not a welfare check. Unlike S. 1120 and the House- passed H.R. 4, this proposal provides the child care for those transitioning from welfare to work and for those trying to avoid welfare in the first place. It holds State bureaucracies accountable for real results, and rewards them for putting people to work, not just removing people from the welfare rolls. It saves money by moving people to work, not by expecting the States to handle more problems with less money. It allows these programs to respond automatically to recessions, population growth, inflation, and other demographic changes. The Administration urges Congress to agree on a bipartisan bill that addresses these critical elements of real welfare reform.
Pay-As-You-Go Scoring 
S. 1120 would affect direct spending and receipts; therefore, it is subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. The Office of Management and Budget's scoring estimate is currently under development.
  