
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Services Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted August 8
Isaac C. Hunt, Jr.,
of Ohio, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the term expiring June 5, 2000, vice Richard Y. Roberts, resigned.
Norman S. Johnson,
of Utah, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the term expiring June 5, 1999, vice Mary L. Schapiro.
Ned R. McWherter,
of Tennessee, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for the term expiring December 8, 2002, vice Robert Setrakian, term expired.
Phillip A. Singerman,
of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice William W. Ginsberg, resigned.
Submitted August 10
Joseph Francis Baca,
of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 1998 (reappointment).
Bruce D. Black,
of New Mexico, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Mexico, vice Juan Guerrero Burciaga, retired.
D.W. Bransom, Jr.,
of Texas, to be U.S. Marshall for the Northern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice W. Bruce Beaty.
David Allen Brock,
of New Hampshire, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 1997 (reappointment).
Chester A. Crocker,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 1999 (reappointment).
Hal C. DeCell III,
of Mississippi, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice William J. Gilmartin.
Susan J. Dlott,
of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio, vice S. Arthur Spiegel, retired.
Theodore M. Hesburgh,
of Indiana, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 1999 (reappointment).
Elizabeth K. Julian,
of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Roberta Achtenberg, resigned.
Max M. Kampelman,
of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 1999 (reappointment).
Hugh Lawson,
of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Georgia, vice Wilbur D. Owens, Jr., retired.
Zell Miller,
of Georgia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring November 6, 1995, vice Carroll A. Campbell, Jr., term expired.
Zell Miller,
of Georgia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring November 6, 2001 (reappointment).
Frank Policaro, Jr.,
of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Pennsylvania for the term of 4 years, vice Eugene V. Marzullo.
Eli J. Segal,
of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for the remainder of the term expiring February 8, 1999, vice James A. Joseph.
Hilda G. Tagle,
of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas (new position).
Kim McLane Wardlaw,
of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice David V. Kenyon, retired.
E. Richard Webber,
of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, vice Edward L. Filippine, retired.
  