
    Anderson, SC - First Lady Casey DeSantis yesterday delivered remarks at the 12th Annual Faith & Freedom BBQ hosted by Representative Jeff Duncan. The First Lady attended the event in place of Governor DeSantis as he stayed in Florida to prepare for Hurricane Idalia. The highlights are below.

Watch her full remarks HERE.
On why America needs a restoration of family values:
As a mom of a six, five and three year old, I want a president of the United States who prioritizes education over indoctrination. We need a president who defends the rights of parents and protects the innocence of our children, and someone who rejects critical race theory, DEI, gender ideology for kindergarteners and pornographic books in schools. So how about electing a president of the United States who has children, who come home to the White House with homework instead of cocaine? How about that? So we need a restoration of sanity in our country, a restoration of family values, and the fundamental truths that make America great.
On why Ron DeSantis is the man for the job:
When the world went mad, Florida stood as a bastion of freedom. Ron said, 'Not on my watch'. He held the line in defense of people's rights, liberties, livelihoods and happiness. He fought and he did keep the state of Florida free. And listen, he took the hits. I mean, he would roll out of bed in the morning and the media, the left and even Republicans would be going after him. I would joke and say the guy could say he could walk on water, but the media would come out and say that he couldn't swim, it was like no matter what he was always getting hit. And I remember him saying that, if it means that I lose my job so the people of Florida can keep their job, so be it. That is what a leader has to do to put the interests and the well being of the people ahead of themselves. And that's the kind of leader that, you're gonna get as President of the United States.
On ending the weaponization of the federal government:
We need a president of the United States who fires the director of the FBI on day one. How about we elect a president of the United States who hires a new attorney general and who doesn't have the FBI going after moms who go to school board meetings for the innocent children? How about that? How about we have a president who relocates parts of the DOJ to places like Arkansas, get them out of Washington, DC, Washington DC is 99.99% Uber liberal, we've got to get the swamp out of Washington. And speaking of DC, how about we elect a president who will use the power of the presidency to reduce the federal bureaucracy by 50%.
On Florida's record of accomplishments:
As a result of strong leadership in Florida right now, Florida is ranked number one for the economy in the nation, number one in K through 12 education, number one in higher education. The state has a 50-year crime low. And we have the largest net in migration of any state in the nation because people are voting with their feet.
  