
    Pool Reports by Gerren Keith Gaynor, theGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




August 5, 2022 14:54

VP Supplemental Pool #1
Good afternoon!
I am your pooler for Vice President Kamala Harris' roundtable this afternoon on reproductive rights with Latina state legislators and leaders.
The roundtable is being held inside the VP's Ceremonial Office and is set to begin at 3 p.m. ET. It is being live streamed at www.whitehouse.gov/live.
The pool is tested and gathered inside the Eisenhower Executive Office Building and awaiting the roundtable’s start.
More on background below.
In-Person Participants (In Speaking Order):

VPOTUS
Julie Chavez Rodriguez, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs
Representative Susan Ruiz (D-KS-23)
Representative Angela Romero (D-UT-26) 
Representative Gina Hinojosa (D-TX-49) 
Representative Alma Hernandez (D-AZ-3) 
Assembly Member Jessica González-Rojas (D-NY-34) 
Senator Celina Villanueva (D-IL-11) 
Assemblywoman Selena Torres (D-NV-03) 
Jennifer Villavicencio, Gynecologist / Family Planning Provider

 Virtual Participants:

Forthcoming

On background from a White House Official

Today, August 5, Vice President Harris will convene Latina state legislators who on are on the front lines of fortifying and protecting reproductive rights in their states. States represented will include Kansas, Arizona, Utah, Nevada, Illinois, New York, and Texas.
The convening comes after the inaugural meeting of the Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare Access, and the recent signing of the Executive Order on Securing Access to Reproductive and Other Healthcare Services by President Biden. 
The Vice President has also recently convened health care providers; faith leaders; constitutional law, privacy, and technology experts; advocates; state attorneys general; and disability rights leaders to build a broad coalition to protect reproductive rights and freedoms.
Participants:

Representative Susan Ruiz (D-KS-23)
Representative Angela Romero (D-UT-26)
Representative Gina Hinojosa (D-TX-49)
Representative Alma Hernandez (D-AZ-3)
Assembly Member Jessica González-Rojas (D-NY-34)
Senator Celina Villanueva (D-IL-11)
Assemblywoman Selena Torres (D-NV



Additional Background

Vice President Harris has spent her career fighting for the health, safety, and wellbeing of women. She is playing a leading role championing and protecting reproductive rights. She forcefully spoke out about the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, and she will continue to make the case for protecting reproductive health care access and the right to privacy.

The Vice President has visited 6 states in recent weeks to convene state legislators on reproductive rights.

July 8, 2022 at the White House (Readout)
July 14, 2022 in Orlando, Florida (Readout)
July 16, 2022 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Readout)
July 18, 2022 in Atlantic City, New Jersey (Readout)
July 21, 2022 in Charlotte, North Carolina (Readout)
July 23, 2022 in Richmond, Virginia (Readout)
July 25, 2022 in Indianapolis, Indiana (Readout)
August 4, 2022 in Boston, Massachusetts (Readout)


On July 27, the Vice President convened disability rights leaders about reproductive






August 5, 2022 15:03

VP Supplemental Pool #2
Pool was ushered up stair case no. 5 at 2:59 pm and were brought into the VP Ceremonial Room at 3:02 pm.


August 5, 2022 15:05

VP Supplemental Pool #3
VP began her remarks at 3:03 pm ET. Reminder it is being Live streamed at WhiteHouse.gov/Live.


August 5, 2022 15:11

VP Supplemental Pool #4
VP Harris referenced the Kansas ballot measure to protect abortion rights.
Here are some pulled quotes. Please check against transcript, that I will send at the end of my pool report.
"In Kansas , the people of Kansas made clear to support and trust women to make decisions about their own body and what is in their best interest without the need for the government to tell them what to do."
"Latina leaders across America frontlines leading on this issue."
"We believe that having to make that decision, they are smart enough to make it. They have agency to make that decision."
"Latinas are less likely to have private insurance and what that means about what options are available or not available."
VP welcomed the invited leaders of the roundtable and reiterated the interagency work being done by the administration to protect reproductive care. She emphasized the importance of "collaboration" with leaders like those assembled at today's Roundtable.


August 5, 2022 15:30

VP Supplemental Pool #5
Pool was ushered out of the VP ceremonial office at 3:26pm after opening remarks from roundtable participants.
In a previous pool, I mentioned sending a transcript, but again, it was live-streamed so please refer to that.


August 5, 2022 15:33

VP Supplemental Pool #6
Pool headed down from the second floor of EEOB at 3:30pm and was dismissed at 3:32pm. Have a great weekend!



  