
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Directive to Develop Interagency Disability Web Site
Twelve years ago, the Congress passed and President George H.W. Bush signed one of the most significant civil rights laws since the Civil Rights Act of 1964—the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. In doing so, America opened its door to a new age for people with disabilities.
Through the New Freedom Initiative, my plan to reduce barriers to people with disabilities, my Administration is committed to ensuring that all Americans have the opportunity to learn and to develop skills, to engage in productive work, to choose where to live, and to participate in community life. This effort will allow America to draw on the talents and creativity of all its citizens.
In an effort to remove barriers for people with disabilities, I am instructing Federal agencies to work together to develop a comprehensive Federal web site that serves people with disabilities. This site will provide individuals with access to a single point to go online for Government information and resources related to disabilities and to the New Freedom Initiative.
The development of this web site shall be coordinated by the Department of Labor. Information and services for the new web site shall be shared by all Federal agencies. Therefore, I direct executive departments and agencies (agencies) to work together in developing and launching this new citizen-centered and useful web site. I further direct agencies, within 60 days of the date of this memorandum and on an ongoing basis thereafter, to work together to provide information about their programs and access to their services to the Department of Labor. The information and services should be relevant to people with disabilities and should include the programs in the New Freedom Initiative. Agencies shall also work with State and local governments, as appropriate, in collecting information about the State and local government programs and access to services for people with disabilities to be included in the web site.
GEORGE W. BUSH
  