
    Federal Officials
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA): "President @realDonaldTrump's renegotiated trade deal with Mexico will be a huge victory for American workers, and will send a strong message to other countries around the world that we will be happy to enter trade deals that benefit both countries equally ... With his announcement today that he's reached a new trade agreement with Mexico, President Trump is once again delivering on his promises to stand up for American workers and get better deals for our country."
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT): "Today's announcement by the United States and Mexico is an important step toward modernizing NAFTA, the largest free trade zone in the world."
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX): "It is very encouraging that President Trump, along with Ambassador Lighthizer and his team, have reached a bilateral understanding with Mexico to update the agreement for the benefit of American workers, farmers, and local businesses."
House Agriculture Committee Chairman Michael Conaway (R-TX): "I'm very encouraged the president and Amb. Lighthizer have reached a preliminary agreement with Mexico to modernize and expand market opportunities in NAFTA."
Sen. David Perdue (R-GA): "President Trump deserves a great deal of credit for making sure that America is treated fairly and is the best place in the world to do business."
Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA): "[T]oday's announcement that the United States and Mexico have reached a two-way deal on trade is huge news for Iowa's farmers and ranchers, and is a monumental step to help restore both market certainty and confidence across rural America."
Sen. John Hoeven (R-ND): "What we've said all along is that we need better trade deals that ensure our farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and all American industries receive free and fair access to international markets. We appreciate the administration's continued progress on NAFTA, and today's agreement is an important milestone."
Sen. Deb Fischer (R-NE): "Today's announcement of a two-year trade agreement with Mexico is a step in the right direction. I'm pleased to see President Trump making good on his promise to provide better certainty for Nebraska farmers and ranchers."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "Look forward to reviewing the details but pleased to see today's breakthrough on trade w/ #Mexico. As I've said many times, I believe we must do more to open markets to US products, vigorously enforce our trade laws & protect American #jobs."
Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD): "I'm pleased the administration continues to work on long-term trade negotiations on behalf of our producers."
Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-AL): "With this important step towards a new NAFTA deal, President Trump has once again proven these critics wrong. The strength of the American economy, and the American consumer, comes with a lot of negotiating power. Power that has too often not been used, to the detriment of American workers. Those days are over."
Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "Big news and good news for the United States! Great work by @POTUS and his team."
Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ): "This is fantastic news for Arizona since Mexico is our number one trading partner. I have been tirelessly advocating to the administration regarding Arizona's strong interest in modernizing NAFTA in a way that supports jobs here."
Rep. Ron Estes (R-KS): "The United States-Mexico Trade Agreement unveiled by President Trump today is great news for Kansas farmers and manufacturers. As a consistent advocate for free and fair trade, I applaud President Trump for bringing Mexico to the negotiating table."
Rep. Roger Marshall (R-KS): "From day one President Trump promised that he would negotiate free and fair trade deals that would put America first. I am thrilled to see him make good on that promise by modernizing the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and striking a bilateral agreement with Mexico."
Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO): "Today's @WhiteHouse announcement is a positive step forward for free trade. I am optimistic that President Trump's efforts will turn a page on decades of unfair trade deals and rebalance trade relationships for free, fair, and reciprocal trade."
Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO): "Today's announcement of a preliminary bilateral trade agreement between the U.S. and Mexico signifies progress and improved trade relationships with a key trading partner."
Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND): "Today's announcement of a preliminary trade agreement with Mexico gives optimism for Americans. It is one more step in the momentum President Trump has created for better trade agreements with many nations around the world."
Rep. Don Bacon (R-NE): "This announcement is very welcome and I look forward to reviewing this agreement and am optimistic it will help boost Nebraska's ag and business economies."
Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY): "This conceptual agreement with Mexico is an encouraging development as we work to renegotiate NAFTA."
Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH): "Today's announcement of a trade agreement with Mexico is another piece of great news for American workers ... I applaud President Trump's efforts to renegotiate and modernize NAFTA to benefit American workers. I encourage Canada to build on this success by working with the United States in finalizing a NAFTA that reflects our 21st century economy."
Rep. Jim Renacci (R-OH): "I applaud @realDonaldTrump for following through with yet another promise by delivering a fairer & more reciprocal trading relationship with Mexico. I look forward to further reviewing the agreement & continuing to work to achieve better trade deals for Ohio workers & families."
Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC): "An important step towards rebalancing our trade deals and leveling the playing field for American workers thanks to @POTUS and his team."
Rep. Jodey Arrington (R-TX): "I applaud President Trump and his administration for their progress in improving and modernizing NAFTA, and am confident our Negotiator-in-Chief will close a deal that benefits all Americans."
Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX): "Trade is a critical component of our Houston economy and the American economy at large. I am encouraged that President Trump, Ambassador Lighthizer and Mexico have reached a preliminary agreement to promote fair and free trade between our nations and remain hopeful it will be beneficial to American businesses and workers."
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue: "President Trump is delivering on his promise to renegotiate the old, outdated North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), making good on his pledge to strike the best deals possible for all of our economic sectors, including agriculture. The President has achieved important improvements in the agreement to enable our agricultural producers to be treated more fairly."
 State Officials
Gov. Kim Reynolds (R-IA): "I am encouraged by the announcement today from the White House that a preliminary trade agreement has been reached with Mexico."
Gov. Doug Burgum (R-ND): "We're encouraged by today's announcement and we appreciate the administration's ongoing efforts to negotiate new trade agreements quickly, working toward our shared goal of better deals with our trading partners worldwide."
Gov. Pete Ricketts (R-NE): "Mexico is one of Nebraska's best customers, and a new deal will give more certainty to our farm families headed into harvest. During our mission to Mexico last week, we talked to leaders in the country about buying more of Nebraska's quality grains, and we are excited about the prospect of expanded reciprocal trade with this new agreement."
Gov. Greg Abbott (R-TX): "Today's agreement between the U.S. and Mexico is a step in the right direction. Texas is the nation's top exporting state, and with Mexico being our largest trading partner, this new deal should be good for the Texas economy."
 Trade Associations and Labor Unions
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers: "Automakers support modernizing NAFTA to bring this nearly 25-year-old agreement into the 21st century. We are pleased to hear that the U.S. and Mexico have reached a consensus on several issues, including automotive rules of origin, and we look forward to learning more."
American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy Duvall: "Farm Bureau is excited about this announcement and will review the details of the Mexican trade deal as they become available. Based on the gains both sides have seen with NAFTA, we expect this new 'U.S.-Mexico Preliminary Agreement in Principle' to build on that success for our farmers and ranchers."
American Iron and Steel Institute President and CEO Thomas Gibson: "We appreciate the administration's hard work in reaching the bilateral understanding with Mexico announced today. In particular, we support strengthened rules of origin for autos that will further incentivize the use of North American steel in automobile production throughout North America."
American Petroleum Institute President and CEO Mike Sommers: "We are encouraged that negotiators have reached a preliminary agreement to modernize our trade relationships. America's natural gas and oil industry depends on trade to continue to grow U.S. jobs and our economy, and deliver for consumers."
American Trucking Associations President and CEO Chris Spear: "We commend President Trump and his team of negotiators on reaching a tentative agreement with Mexico to modernize NAFTA."
BSA – The Software Alliance: "The Software Alliance welcomes today's announcement in connection with the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) negotiations, and looks forward to reviewing the agreement upon the conclusion of the negotiations among Canada, Mexico, and the United States."
Coalition for a Prosperous America CEO Michael Stumo: "We support the administration's work to gain trade leverage and overturn the past policy of unilateral trade disarmament which caused offshoring and wage stagnation."
Illinois Farm Bureau President Richard Guebert Jr.: "Illinois Farm Bureau (IFB) applauds U.S. and Mexican trade negotiators for reaching an agreement to begin modernizing NAFTA, providing economic stability and maintaining tariff-free Mexican market access for roughly $40 billion worth of U.S. agricultural exports. We're also pleased to see the updated agreement addresses biotechnology and trade-distorting policies."
Internet Association Director of Trade and International Policy Jordan Haas: "The internet industry is optimistic about the potential of a new NAFTA that will, for the first time, recognize the internet as an important U.S. export that contributes to a significant trade surplus."
National Corn Growers Association President Kevin Skunes: "Mexico is the largest export market for U.S. corn farmers and we are pleased the United States and Mexico are reaffirming mutual commitment to this important relationship."
Nebraska Farm Bureau President Steve Nelson: "Today's announcement that the U.S. and Mexico have reached an agreement on provisions of a trade deal is good news for Nebraska farmers and ranchers who have been anxiously awaiting positive news on the trade front."
Teamsters General President Jim Hoffa: "The Teamsters Union has long been a leader in demanding real reforms to NAFTA to make it work for worker across all of North America. We have been working closely with the USTR on those demands and we believe that the Administration has taken real steps to deal with our concerns regarding cross-border trucking and highway safety."
U.S. Grains Council President and CEO Tom Sleight: "We are grateful for news today that the United States and Mexico have reached an agreement that will keep NAFTA modernization efforts moving. This agreement is a major step forward for our relationship with Mexico and is a result of hard work over the last year to closely examine our vital partnership."
U.S. Wheat Associates Chairman Chris Kolstad: "We are glad to see progress toward a renegotiated NAFTA that builds on the opportunities the existing agreement opened with Mexico's wheat importing flour millers."
  