
    On Friday, Little Lobbyists, a group devoted to advocating on behalf of children with complex medical needs and their families, announced its endorsement of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for President and Vice President of the United States. A video announcement was posted to Twitter along with a statement on the Little Lobbyists website.
 Watch the endorsement video HERE. 
"In 2017, the Trump administration's actions to repeal the Affordable Care Act and cut Medicaid threatened my daughter's future, so my friends and I spoke up by sharing our health care stories. As Little Lobbyists, we spent the past three years defending and protecting our children's right to health care, to education, and community inclusion -- because we want them to grow up in a world that says they belong," said Co-founder and Executive Director of Little Lobbyists Elena Hung.  "There are countless families like mine across the country who love our disabled children and want a leader who loves them just as much as we do. Joe Biden is that leader."
Little Lobbyists issued the following press release:
Little Lobbyists Proudly Endorse Biden & Harris for President of the United States 
For the past four years, our families of children with complex medical needs and disabilities have lived in fear. 
In 2017, Little Lobbyists was formed in direct response to the threat posed to our children's health and well being by the Trump Administration's effort to repeal and defund the health care our children need to survive. While the Administration narrowly failed in their attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act and cut Medicaid through Congress in 2017, President Trump and his Administration continued their relentless attacks on our health care system. From executive orders weakening our health insurance protections, to policies making Medicaid more difficult for families to access, to their failed federal response to the COVID-19 pandemic crisis, to their current U.S. Supreme Court case to overthrow the entire Affordable Care Act - including protections for people with pre-existing conditions, bans against lifetime caps on care, Medicaid expansion, and more – the President and his allies have made it clear that they do not care about the health of our children with complex medical needs and disabilities, nor even the health of the American people.
In addition to the ongoing assault on our children's health care, the Trump Administration has waged a battle on our children with disabilities' access to education and inclusion. Beginning in their first days in office, the Trump Administration has rescinded dozens of federal guidance documents on special education. Instead of supporting funding for the education of students with special needs in public schools, the Trump Administration supports "school choice" programs and vouchers for private schools legally allowed to actively discriminate against children with disabilities. In every single budget proposed, the Administration has made draconian cuts to special education and the programs our children need to be included in their schools and communities.
The Trump administration has no plan to replace our health care protections, should they succeed in destroying them. They have no plan to support education for students with disabilities. They have no plan to improve life for millions of Americans with complex medical needs and disabilities. After nearly four years of fighting for survival against the threats created by this Administration, it is clear that President Trump and his Administration do not care about our children or our families.
Joe Biden cares about our families. Joe Biden and his family have themselves experienced disability, complex medical needs, and the joys and challenges of caregiving. Joe Biden has listened to our families, to the concerns of adults with disabilities, and to the advice of disability and health care advocates. Joe Biden will protect and improve our access to the health care we need to survive - he already did as Vice President. Joe Biden supports fully funding education for children with disabilities. Joe Biden has a plan to support our struggling economy by making sure people with disabilities and caregivers are paid a living wage for their vital work.
Our families don't want to live another day with the uncertainty, fear, and chaos the Trump Administration has created in our country and in our lives. We want to stop fighting for survival, and start working to create the American dream our children need and deserve. There are countless Little Lobbyists families across the country who love children with complex medical needs and disabilities, and we want leaders who love them just as much as we do. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are those leaders.
  