
    Knudsen Becomes Sixth Elected Official in NV to Endorse Harris
Coming out of another dominating performance in the second round of Democratic presidential debates, Kamala Harris is picking up major Nevada endorsements from Las Vegas City Councilman Brian Knudsen and other prominent Nevada community leaders. In 2019, Knudsen became the first openly LGBTQ person elected to the Las Vegas City Council when he was elected to a non-partisan seat. Also endorsing Harris are Carissa Snedeker, former first vice chair of the Democratic Party of Washoe County; Bishop Bonnie Radden, faith leader; Atiya Bodie, Las Vegas attorney and Emerge Nevada alumna; Bryce Krausman, Las Vegas small business owner, and Joanie Lung, small business owner and APIA community leader.
These endorsements bring Harris' Nevada endorsements to 29 and she remains the 2020 presidential candidate with the most endorsements from the Silver State.
"I am supporting Senator Harris because I believe she has the experience, knowledge, relationships and the support of the American people to win the Democratic nomination," said Las Vegas City Councilman Brian Knudsen. "Kamala Harris is representative of our country and will serve the American public in a way that will restore our values and provide hope for the American future we deserve."
"Kamala Harris has proven herself to be a fighter for the people. She has experience, intelligence, and heart," said Carissa Snedeker, former first vice chair of the Democratic Party of Washoe County. "Her policy plans are well-researched and crafted, but it is her fearlessness and willingness to face down the bullies that shows me that she will be a President for all the people. I am proud to put my support behind our joyful warrior, Senator Kamala Harris."
"I support Senator Harris because she is a trailblazer for APIA women in the government," said Joanie Lung, APIA community leader and small business owner. "She is showing APIA kids all over the country that they can be anything they want to be, even president of the United States. But she's running on more than who she is; she is running on bold plans that will impact real Nevadans. Her teacher pay plan will be the largest federal investment in our teachers, putting our money where our values are."
Nevadans endorsing Kamala Harris today:
Las Vegas City Councilman Brian Knudsen
Carissa Snedeker, former first vice chair of the Democratic Party of Washoe County
Joanie Lung, APIA community leader and small business owner
Atiya Boddie, Las Vegas attorney and Emerge Nevada alumna
Bryce Krausman, small business owner
Bishop Bonnie Radden, faith leader
Full list of Nevadans endorsing Kamala Harris:
State Sen. Pat Spearman
State Sen. Joyce Woodhouse
Assemblywoman Sandra Jauregui
Washoe County Recorder Kalie Work
Clark County Commissioner Justin Jones
Las Vegas City Councilman Brian Knudsen
Gerri Schroder, former Henderson City councilwoman
Helen Foley, former Nevada State Senator
Francisco Aguilar, Las Vegas attorney and entrepreneur
Nancy Ayala, Las Vegas attorney
Brian Ayala, Las Vegas small business owner
Atiya Boddie, Las Vegas attorney and Emerge Nevada alumna
Alex Dixon, former president of the Las Vegas Urban League Young Professionals
Tanya Flanagan, African-American community leader and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Rev. Leonard Jackson, African-American community leader
LeVerne Kelly, African-American community leader and member of Links Inc. and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.
Bryce Krausman, small business owner
Jennifer López, community advocate
Joanie Lung, APIA community leader and small business owner
Rose McKinney James, clean energy leader
Chris Miller, former chairman of the Clark County Democratic Party
Lesley Miller, former board member of Nevadans for Background Checks
Stephanie Pizzoferrato, public school teacher and gun violence survivor
Bishop Bonnie Radden, faith leader
Sanje Sedera, founder and former president of the Asian American & Pacific Islander Democratic Caucus
Janet Serial, chair of the Black Caucus of Washoe County and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Andrew Sierra, former College of Southern Nevada student body president
Carissa Snedeker, former first vice chair of the Democratic Party of Washoe County
Al B Sure, R&B singer and songwriter
  