
    Harris Is Only Candidate With Specific Plan Focused On People With Disabilities
Watters is the latest major endorsement Harris received after her Iowa bus tour
Today, hours after Senator Kamala Harris proposed new measures she will take as President to strengthen and protect the economic security of people with disabilities, Sioux City City Councilmember and Disabilities Advocate Alex Watters endorsed Kamala Harris. Two weeks ago, Watters showed Harris around Morningside College where he is a student adviser, and the two discussed access to care, investment in people's futures, and accessibility in schools and in the workplace. Watters and Harris first met in July when Watters moderated Harris' Sioux City town hall at New Life in Christ Church of God in Christ.
On his endorsement Watters said, "From the first time that I met Kamala Harris I could tell that she didn't just see me as another voter or a potential supporter. She wanted to listen and learn about my experience and the struggles that I, and so many others with disabilities across the country, face every day. She chose to listen and advocate for solutions. That's what I look for in a President. We aren't talking about radical policy changes, we are talking about putting people to work, ensuring adequate healthcare, and investing in programs like vocational rehabilitation. I am proud to endorse Senator Harris today, and I am really looking forward to working with her team in Sioux City as we head into the final few months of this caucus process."
As President, Harris will expand access to health care, fight for integrated employment opportunities and fair wages, ensure our emergency preparedness and disaster programs are fully inclusive, fight to adequately fund classrooms to ensure equal access, build a diverse federal workforce that includes people with disabilities, and fight for the civil rights of people with disabilities across the country.
Harris believes that by investing in people with disabilities we strengthen all of our communities, our economy, and the country.
Watters is the latest in a series of major endorsements Harris has earned after her 5-day river-to-river bus tour that began in Sioux City and finished in Davenport. Other recent endorsers include Iowa powerhouses Sue and Bob Dvorsky, LULAC Council 10 president Jazmin Newton-Butt, and Des Moines School Board Member and teacher librarian Kyrstin Delagardelle.
You can read more about her policy, here.
  