
    Even Democrats praised the Trump Administration's response.
While Democrats were focusing on impeachment, President Trump and his administration were taking action to combat the coronavirus coming out of China. The White House established a task force in January, and immediately sought to send health experts to China on January 3.
Dr. Fauci said the Trump Administration "acted very, very early" to combat the spread of the virus. He also said President Trump did not delay at all when the recommendation was made to put in place mitigation.
Top Biden advisor Ron Klain said on February 11 that the Trump Administration was "far from doing nothing." Even Democrat governors praised the Trump Administration's response. "What the federal government did, working with states, was a phenomenal accomplishment," said one.
FACT: President Trump restricted travel with China on January 30, a decision that saved American lives.

Joe Biden criticized President Trump's decision as "hysterical xenophobia," and the media attacked it too.
Dr. Fauci said President Trump's decision saved lives. 

FACT: The Trump Administration partnered with the private sector to successfully launch an unprecedented expansion in coronavirus testing. 

President Trump completely overhauled the old and outdated testing system and replaced it with an innovative new testing strategy to meet the country's needs. Now, the United States leads the world in coronavirus testing, with more than 70 million tests completed.
The United States is testing and tracking asymptomatic cases of coronavirus, which allows officials to identify and stop local outbreaks faster than other countries.
"We are in a much better place on testing," writes National Review's Rich Lowry, "thanks, in large part, to a Trump-administration strategy that the press scorned, or said didn't exist."

FACT: The federal government launched a historic mobilization of the public and private sectors to secure the U.S. supply chain for critical coronavirus equipment.

President Trump used the FDA and the Defense Production Act dozens of times to expand coronavirus testing technologies and capacity.
National Review: "Production [of ventilators] was ramped up quickly working with manufacturers and occasionally using the DPA."
"We needed a significant amount of the supply chain from the administration to allow us to at least double testing in New Jersey," said New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy (D). "We got it… they're helping us out."

FACT: President Trump is keeping his promise to develop a vaccine at record speed.

President Trump launched Operation Warp Speed to guarantee that the American people are first in line for a safe, effective coronavirus vaccine – at no cost – as soon as one is developed.
The Trump Administration announced an historic deal with Pfizer to secure 100 million doses of a vaccine – with nearly half a billion more to potentially follow – as soon as it is successfully approved and manufactured. 
The U.S. now has a portfolio of vaccines that will help the U.S. meet its goal of delivering 300 million doses of a safe, effective, and authorized vaccine by the end of the year, including successful trials from AstraZeneca and Moderna.

  