
    If Biden has the solutions, why didn't he fix things during his half-century in Washington?
After spending three days railing against America, tonight Democrats will try to explain how career politician Joe Biden is capable of fixing it. But if Biden was able to solve America's problems, why didn't he do it during his decades in Washington? 
Biden is now serving as an empty vessel for the radical left, but he can't hide from the fact that his five decades in Washington were littered with broken promise after broken promise.

Biden promised to create an economy that worked for middle-class Americans. He never did. Instead, Biden's left-wing policies led to the worst economic recovery since the Great Depression.
Biden promised to create strong wage growth for workers who were left behind. He never did. Instead, Biden's failed policies led to eight years of stagnant wages for blue-collar Americans.
Biden promised to lower health care and prescription drug costs. He never did. Instead, Biden oversaw skyrocketing premiums and promised pharmaceutical executives he wouldn't touch drug costs in exchange for their support for Obamacare.
Biden voted for NAFTA, killing American jobs. Then he promised to renegotiate it. He never did. Instead, Biden allowed NAFTA to continue ripping apart working-class communities while doubling down on more failed trade deals like the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Biden promised to secure our borders. He never did. Instead, illegal immigration spiked on his watch.
Biden promised to hold Iran accountable. Instead, Biden supported a terrible nuclear deal with Iran and sent them pallets of cash, despite knowing they would use it to fund terrorism.
Biden promised to get tough on terrorists. He never did. Instead, Biden opposed the raid to kill Osama bin Laden, allowed ISIS to spread across the Middle East, and did nothing as Iranian terrorist Qasem Soleimani plotted to kill American soldiers with impunity.

Biden's track record of broken promises doesn't bode well for the new promises he's making to Americans:

Biden claims he won't raise taxes. In reality, Biden's radical plan amounts to a massive $4 trillion tax hike on American families.
Biden claims he'll create jobs. In reality, Biden's extreme Green New Deal agenda would ban fracking, kill energy infrastructure projects, and eliminate American oil and gas production, killing millions of good-paying union jobs.
Biden claims he'll finally get tough on China. In reality, Biden will immediately surrender and end President Trump's tariffs without getting anything in return. Biden will go back to the status quo that enriched Biden's family while failing American workers.
Biden claims he'll secure the border. In reality, Biden will open up America's borders by stopping all deportations, shutting down detention centers, blocking ICE officers from doing their jobs, providing government health benefits to illegal aliens, and turning America into a massive sanctuary city.
Biden claims you can keep your health insurance plan if you like it. In reality, his government-run "public option" scheme will ultimately kill families' private health plans and pave the way for Bernie Sanders's socialist single payer system, which Kamala Harris already supports.

  