
    Richardson also proposes fully funding programs for fire fighters and police officers, National Fire Fighters' Survivors Fund
CEDAR RAPIDS, IA -- Speaking to fire fighters in Iowa today, Governor Bill Richardson announced his plan for America's fire fighters and police officers, including guaranteeing health care between retirement and the age of Medicare eligibility.
"One of the things that I have been hearing from fire fighters is this problem with the health care gap," Governor Richardson said. "We have to guarantee quality health care for retired fire fighters and police officers who have served their communities for twenty years. The federal government should partner 50-50 with the states to provide high-quality coverage for fire fighters and police officers from the time they retire until the time they reach Medicare age."
Richardson also strongly supports presumptive disability for fire fighters and improvements in workers' compensation.
"I have stood with the fire fighters throughout my career and I am proud of my strong and extensive record as Governor of New Mexico," Richardson said. "Within a month after I was elected Governor, I restored collective bargaining rights for fire fighters and all public employees. We have card check and fair share in my state. We have done it in New Mexico."
"I have been a Congressman, UN Ambassador, Secretary of Energy, and Governor. I have negotiated with some of the toughest dictators in the world. But ask any kid in America: They want to be a fire fighter and it is easy to figure out why. It is because you are heroes. Maybe more importantly, it is because you keep your word. You keep your promise to protect. Folks in Washington could learn a thing or two from you."
Governor Richardson outlined the following details of his plan:

Guarantee health care for retired professional fire fighters and police officers. Through a 50-50 partnership with states and localities, Bill Richardson will eliminate the "health care gap" that too often affects our heroes between the time they retire and the time they become eligible for Medicare. Those who have served their communities for twenty years or more will never again have to worry about having the high-quality health care they deserve.
Sign the bipartisan Federal Fire Fighters Fairness Act. Fire fighters who dedicate their lives to saving others deserve a "rebuttable presumption" that heart disease, lung disease, certain cancers, and certain infectious diseases were contracted while on the job. Passing this legislation is the least that we can do for these brave men and women; as President, Bill Richardson will make sure that it happens.
Remove the burden of proof on denied workers' compensation claims for fire fighters and police officers. When fire fighters are injured on the job, it is disgraceful that they have to wage a legal battle just to receive the compensation that they are due. Governor Richardson will create statutory presumptions for injuries—especially to the back and joints, burn injuries, smoke inhalation, and other common ailments. If a firefighter suffers these symptoms, it will be presumed to be job-related, provided that certain conditions are met.
Institute collective bargaining for our nation's federal fire fighters and police officers. As President, Bill Richardson will sign the bipartisan Public Safety Employer-Employee Cooperation Act that will institute collective bargaining rights for public safety employees, including fire fighters and police officers.
Sign the Employee Free Choice Act and revive card-check recognition so that workers can choose to unionize without fear of intimidation or harassment. We must also have Fair Share so that there are no free-riders in America.
Establish a National Fire Fighters' Survivors Fund. This fund, modeled after the New Mexico Fire Fighters' Survivors Fund, will match state money to increase payments to the surviving spouse, children, or family members of any fire fighter who falls in the line of duty. Governor Richardson will encourage the states to compete in showing their appreciation for the risks that fire fighters take by matching each state's funding level dollar for dollar.
Increase Homeland Security funding for fire fighters, police officers, and other first responders. Fire fighters are critical in the effort to protect our communities from terrorism and natural disasters. In President Bush's 2008 budget, the Department of Homeland Security first responder grant programs are cut by 50%, or $1.7 billion. Bill Richardson believes this is unconscionable, and as President, he will ensure that our fire fighters and other first responders receive what they need to keep us safe.
Increase funding for the Fire Fighters Grant Program. In his 2008 budget, President Bush slashed funding for the Assistance to Fire Fighters Grant Program (FIRE Act) by nearly 50% - a reduction of $300 million from the previous year. Bill Richardson believes the FIRE Act has been tremendously successful in providing local fire fighters with the tools they need to serve their communities, and as President, he will restore funding for this program.
Fully fund the SAFER Act Program. Nearly two-thirds of our nation's fire departments are unable to satisfy minimum safe staffing levels, and the SAFER program has been integral in helping local departments address this problem. The Bush Administration, however, has proposed eliminating the SAFER Program in the 2008 fiscal year. As President, Bill Richardson will revive the SAFER Program and help our nation's firehouses meet safe staffing level guidelines.

Please find background documents on Governor Richardson's plan here:
http://www.richardsonforpresident.com/issues/first_responders.
  