
    Originally posted in the New Hampshire Union Leader
By Dennis Paiste
Newt spoke to a group of Freudenberg-NOK manager at a factory in Manchester, NH on Thursday during a tour of the plant.

MANCHESTER — Republican Presidential Primary candidate Newt Gingrich brought his message of reinventing government to Freudenberg-NOK's Manchester Seal Technologies factory Thursday.
"We need a 21st century Food and Drug Administration that is designed to be in the laboratory, learning the science and accelerating moving science to the marketplace.
"Health will be the biggest job sector in the world and if the U.S. is the leading producer of new medicines, new breakthroughs, new technologies those jobs will be here, it will be just like this plant," he said.
Freudenberg-NOK managers held an hour-long discussion with Gingrich of their lean manufacturing and Six Sigma achievements.
Theodore G. Duclos, vice president and general manager, Global Fluid Power Division, Freudenberg-NOK Sealing Technologies, said, "We're very comfortable with change, and change according to whatever has to happen to make us successful."
"If you don't have the leadership on board, it's not going to happen," he said. "The leadership has to have the vision to say we're going to do these things and let the people figure out the key specifics that have to be done," Duclos said.
Gingrich said that by one estimate applying lean Six Sigma to the federal bureaucracy could save taxpayers $500 billion a year.
Gingrich advocated freezing current tax rates; going to a zero capital gains tax rate; going to a 100 percent tax deduction for new equipment; reduce corporate taxes rates from a top 35 percent to 12.5 percent; abolish the death tax on family-owned businesses.
"Congress frankly the first week of September ought to repeal the Dodd-Frank Bill," he said. He also urged repeal of the Sarbannes-Oxley bill.
The Freudenberg-NOK Sealing Technologies business has $60 million to $80 million a year in revenues from New Hampshire operations, with 250 employees in Manchester.

  