
    At least six Farrakhan-lovers and supporters appeared at Biden's convention.
During his Democrat convention speech, Joe Biden cited "anti-Semitic bile" and "the courage to stand against it" as a reason he is running for president. "Silence was complicity. And I could never remain silent or complicit," he said.
But that's exactly what he did. Biden's convention featured at least six individuals who have praised, promoted, defended, or appeared with the most notorious anti-Semite in America, Louis Farrakhan. Farrakhan has called Hitler "a very great man" and referred to Jews as "termites." What did Biden say about these individuals appearing at his convention? Nothing. He was totally silent.
Here are some Farrakhan-lovers and supporters that Joe Biden and the Democrat Party invited or allowed to appear at their convention:

Lonnie Rashid Lynn Jr., AKA the rapper "Common": In 2018, Lynn was featured on a music compilation project released by Farrakhan. He also promoted a clip of Farrakhan speaking, saying, "Wise words being spoken!" He encouraged people to listen to Farrakhan in 2014, posed for photos with Farrakhan in 2006, appeared at a Farrakhan-organized concert in 1997, and praised Farrakhan's organization in 1995.
Freddy Haynes: In 2017, Haynes promoted a photo he took with Farrakhan and called him a "wonderful and great man." Haynes said it was a "great honor to be in the presence of The Minister." In 2015, Haynes called Farrakhan "a prophetic leader of our time" and voiced support for Farrakhan's "Justice Or Else" movement.
Tamika Mallory: In 2018, Mallory attended an address by Farrakhan in which he labeled Jews "satanic" and called them his "enemy." After his remarks, Mallory called him the greatest of all time. Just last year, Mallory refused to denounce Farrakhan when challenged on ABC's The View.
Linda Sarsour: A strong proponent of the anti-Israel BDS movement, Sarsour spoke at a 2015 rally organized by Farrakhan. She also compared progressive Zionists to white supremacists, asking how they could support a state like Israel "that is built on the idea that Jews are supreme to everyone else?"
Rep. James Clyburn: In 2018, Clyburn refused to condemn Farrakhan, who he has consistently supported for decades. In 2011, Clyburn shared a stage with Farrakhan, where he said, "I want to thank Min. Farrakhan for offering up a number of precepts that we ought to adhere to."
Sen. Cory Booker: Last year, Booker told a questioner that he's "very familiar with" Farrakhan's "beliefs," has heard his "speeches for a lot of my life," and would meet with him.

"The vile, hate-filled poison of anti-Semitism must be condemned and confronted everywhere and anywhere it appears," President Trump has said. "We will not rest until the horrible and vile ideology of anti-Semitism has been defeated and destroyed."
  