
    "President Obama's devastating defense cuts are set to have a massive impact on Fayetteville and the rest of North Carolina. Because of the President's lack of leadership, North Carolina could be hit hard with thousands of job losses and millions of dollars in lost economic activity. Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan will restore our military's strength and ensure our armed forces have the resources they need." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama's Policies Have Threatened The Military With "Devastating" Defense Cuts – Jeopardizing Jobs And Military Preparedness:
President Obama's Latest Budget Proposed Nearly Half A Trillion Dollars In Defense Cuts Over The Next Ten Years. "An array of military programs, from fighter jets to retiree benefits, would be nicked to squeeze savings in the Pentagon's $525 billion budget for 2013, according to officials and documents released Monday. The proposed 2013 budget represents the Pentagon's first installment in a plan to reduce its projected spending by $487 billion over 10 years. Congress must approve the changes." (Tom Vanden Brook, "Pentagon Budget Calls For Cuts To Jets, Benefits," USA Today, 2/13/12)


    President Obama Signed Legislation That Could Lead To More Than $500 Billion In Defense Cuts In 2013. "Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has become the loudest and most effective opponent of the cuts. And congressional Republicans fiercely protective of the Pentagon have aggressively drawn attention to the need to stave off the more than $500 billion in cuts that begin next year." (Seung Min Kim, "Domestic Programs Gird For Sequester," Politico, 7/18/12)
  

Defense Secretary Leon Panetta Says Defense Cuts Will Result In The "Smallest Ground Force Since 1940, The Smallest Number Of Ships Since 1915 And The Smallest Air Force In Its History." "Defense Secretary Leon Panetta spelled out a doomsday scenario Monday that he said could occur if Congress fails to take action to avoid a $1 trillion cut in defense spending over the next decade. Panetta, responding to a letter from Republican Senators John McCain and Lindsay Graham, said cuts of nearly $100 billion a year would leave the United States with its smallest ground force since 1940, the smallest number of ships since 1915 and the smallest air force in its history." (David Alexander, "Panetta Spells Out Budget Cut Doomsday Fears," Reuters, 11/14/11)


    "'The Impacts Of These Cuts Would Be Devastating For The Department,' Panetta Wrote Monday In His Letter, Which Was Released By The Senators." (David Alexander, "Panetta Spells Out Budget Cut Doomsday Fears," Reuters, 11/14/11)
  

And In North Carolina, President Obama's Defense Cuts Will Lead To The Loss Of Thousands Of Jobs And "A Chill On Businesses":
According To A Study By George Mason University, The Defense Spending Cuts Would Result In 11,895 Lost Jobs In North Carolina. (Stephen S. Fuller, "The Economic Impact Of The Budget Control Act Of 2011 On DOD And Non-DOD Agencies," George Mason University, 7/17/12)
In Fayetteville, "Things Could Get Much Worse" If President Obama's Devastating Defense Cuts Take Effect. "Here in the military town home to Fort Bragg, long fighting off its nickname 'Fayette-nam,' the unemployment rate has soared above that in the rest of the country for years. And things could get much worse, military officials, contractors and voters here fear, if Congress doesn't work out a deal before Jan. 2, when $500 billion in automatic defense cuts will take effect." (Stephanie Gaskell, "Sequester Ground Zero: 'Fayette-Nam'," Politico, 8/18/12)


    Defense Cuts Could "Take A Bite Out Of $640 Million In Government Contracts" That Flow To Companies In Fayetteville. "In Fayetteville alone, that could take a bite out of $640 million in government contracts that flow into companies here, like major contractors Lockheed Martin, Boeing and Booz Allen Hamilton." (Stephanie Gaskell, "Sequester Ground Zero: 'Fayette-Nam'," Politico, 8/18/12)
  

"The Military's Financial Fears Are Affecting Companies Across North Carolina..." "The military's financial fears are affecting companies across North Carolina whose cutting-edge products and technology often are aimed specifically at protecting fighting forces and making armies more powerful and self-sufficient. If their defense contracts evaporate as a result of a sweeping budget cut looming five months out, industry experts say thousands of jobs could be lost in the state along with important research and development." (Martha Quillin, "N.C. Businesses Sweat Looming Defense Cuts," Raleigh News & Observer, 8/10/12)
Fayetteville's Local Community Will Also Be Hit Hard If Defense Cuts Are Implemented In 2013. "It's not like the local community can bare the cuts. Only 20 percent of the service members stationed at Fort Bragg actually live on the base — and foreclosure rates are already up 73 percent this year. Fayetteville also receives federal aid for its education system to subsidize the lack of schools on Fort Bragg and takes in money from veterans and service members studying on the GI Bill." (Stephanie Gaskell, "Sequester Ground Zero: 'Fayette-Nam'," Politico, 8/18/12)
Will Austin, Director Of Government Affairs For North Carolina's Lord Corporation: "It's Just Putting A Huge Chill On Business." "'It's just putting a huge chill on business,' said Will Austin, director of government affairs for Lord Corp., a Cary-based company with 2,800 employees worldwide making adhesives, coatings, electronics and other items. Fifteen to 20 percent of the company's $789 million business last year was with the military. How much it will be this year or next remains to be seen." (Martha Quillin, "N.C. Businesses Sweat Looming Defense Cuts," Raleigh News & Observer, 8/10/12)
Fayetteville's Democratic Congressman Mike McIntyre: "There Will Be Massive Defense Cuts ... I Am Gravely Concerned." "Democratic Rep. Mike McIntyre of Fayetteville is facing one of the toughest reelection battles of his 16-year career — and he's in the same spot. 'I did not vote for sequestration, and Congress must act to avoid sequestration,' he said. 'If not, there will be massive defense cuts that, as a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am gravely concerned.'" (Stephanie Gaskell, "Sequester Ground Zero: 'Fayette-Nam'," Politico, 8/18/12)
President Obama's Reaction To The Looming Cuts? He's Refused To Even Listen To Fellow Democrats Who Have Requested He Reconsider:
Earlier This Year, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Asked President Obama "To Reconsider The Billions Of Defense Cuts." "In mid-2012, the House minority leader Nancy Pelosi, requested a sit-down to ask Obama to reconsider the billions of defense cuts that would kick in automatically as part of the 2011 budget deal. ... They were asking for an alternative state of cuts, or any kind of plan that would keep local employers – and, by implication, local contributors – happy." (Glenn Thrush, Obama's Last Stand, 2012)

"The Cuts Included In 'The Sequester,' She Argued, Would Hurt Democratic House Members With Major Defense Contractors In Their Districts." (Glenn Thrush, Obama's Last Stand, 2012)

"Obama Told The Former Speaker What He Had Been Saying For Months – That He Wasn't Budging On The Defense Cuts." "Obama told the former speaker what he had been saying for months – that he wasn't budging on the defense cuts. Doing so would surrender his only leverage in forcing House Republicans to accept the expiration of tax cuts for the wealthy – the only weapon he had against their efforts 'to delegitimize me,' as he put it. Moreover, he bluntly called on Hill Democrats to reorient their priorities – from them to him. 'Look, guys,' he told Pelosi, Harry Reid, and several other congressional leaders, according to a person briefed in detail on the interaction. 'I plan on winning this race. If I don't win, then anything we say now doesn't matter. I plan on winning this race. So let's figure out how to win this race.'" (Glenn Thrush, Obama's Last Stand, 2012)
  