
    Yesterday, the day before the one-year anniversary of the Inflation Reduction Act—the largest climate investment in history—President Biden traveled to Milwaukee, WI, to discuss how Bidenomics and his Investing in America agenda are ushering in a manufacturing boom, which has attracted more than $110 billion in private sector investment in clean energy manufacturing in the last year and is creating good-paying union jobs. In Wisconsin alone, companies have committed over $3 billion in manufacturing and clean energy investments since President Biden was sworn into office. "It's really kind of basic: we just decided to invest in America again," Biden said Tuesday. "That's what it's all about."
While in Milwaukee, the President toured Ingeteam, a clean energy manufacturing company that produces onshore wind turbine generators. Thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, the company expects orders of wind turbine generators to double next year. Ingeteam also recently announced that as a result of the President's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the company will begin manufacturing electric vehicle charging stations at its facility in Milwaukee, creating 100 new jobs.
This morning, the White House published a new feature on Invest.gov – stories – showing the real world impact of the Inflation Reduction Act and Bidenomics on people and communities across the country.
See coverage below:

Bloomberg: 'America Is Winning,' Biden Says in 2024 Battleground Wisconsin[Justin Sink, 8/15/23]
President Joe Biden accused Republicans of prioritizing corporate profits over manufacturing jobs during a speech in Milwaukee — a week before GOP candidates vying to replace him plan to gather there for their party's first presidential debate. "The rationale up to now has been, let's find the cheapest place in the world to make our product," Biden said Tuesday in remarks at an Ingeteam Inc. production facility. "Well, we've been letting them do that for too damn long," he added. "It's time to build American products in America."
Energy Portal EU: Biden Visits EV Charging Maker in Wisconsin to Highlight Economic Policies[Alan Caldwell, 8/15/23]
President Joe Biden traveled to Wisconsin to showcase his economic policies and their impact on the state's residents ahead of the Republican Party's first presidential debate in Milwaukee. The visit comes on the eve of the anniversary of the Inflation Reduction Act, a major economic legislation that Biden signed into law but is relatively unknown to the public. During his trip, Biden plans to visit Ingeteam, a clean energy manufacturer of wind turbine generators in Milwaukee. He will highlight the provisions of the law that invest hundreds of millions of dollars in domestic manufacturing, clean energy, healthcare cost reduction, and cracking down on tax evasion. As a result of the law, Ingeteam will hire 100 workers and start producing EV charging stations domestically. In addition to Biden's visit, multinational tech company Siemens is set to announce the manufacturing of solar inverters in Kenosha County, prompted by incentives from the Inflation Reduction Act.
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: President Joe Biden's Milwaukee visit touts 'Bidenomics' as 2024 election cycle heats up[Lawrence Andrea, 8/15/23]
President Joe Biden hailed "Bidenomics" as the path to strengthening the middle class and boosting the American economy during his visit on Tuesday to a state that will likely play a critical role in his reelection chances in just 15 months' time. "It's working," Biden told a group of about 150 workers and supporters inside a manufacturing plant in Milwaukee. "We're investing in America… My plan is leading to a boom in manufacturing and manufacturing investment as we're seeing right here in this factory," Biden said. He delivered his remarks at Ingeteam Inc., a manufacturer that specializes in electric power conversion, one day before the anniversary of the signing of the Inflation Reduction Act, legislation passed last year that made historic investments in clean energy.
Wisconsin Public Radio: President Joe Biden visits Milwaukee ahead of Inflation Reduction Act anniversary[Evan Casey, 8/15/23]
One day before the one-year anniversary of the signing of the Inflation Reduction Act, President Joe Biden traveled to Milwaukee to tour a company directly impacted by the sweeping measure. Biden toured Ingeteam Inc., a clean energy manufacturing company that produces wind turbine generators. After the tour, he spoke at length about the act, which is aimed in part at helping industry leaders and consumers transition away from fossil fuels to cleaner energy sources. A March analysis of the law found it could bring 24,000 clean energy jobs to Wisconsin over the next decade. […] Biden said due to the passing of the act, Ingeteam expects orders of wind turbine generators to double next year. In May, the company also announced plans to begin manufacturing electric vehicle charging stations in Milwaukee, which could create 100 new jobs.
Spectrum News: President Biden visits Milwaukee to highlight clean energy investments on eve of Inflation Reduction Act's first anniversary[Anthony Dabruzzi, 8/15/23]
President Joe Biden made his first trip to Wisconsin since announcing his reelection bid. The president stopped in Milwaukee on the eve of the first anniversary of his Inflation Reduction Act. He highlighted parts of his landmark legislation focused on combating climate change and job creation. "Instead of exporting American jobs, we are creating American jobs and exporting American products, and they are being built right here in Wisconsin and places where factories have been shut down," Biden told the crowd gathered on the factory floor of Ingeteam. Before his remarks, the president toured Ingeteam, where orders for wind turbines are expected to double in the next year. The company also plans to make electric vehicle charging stations and create 100 new jobs. The president credited both of those efforts to the Inflation Reduction Act he signed last year.
WDJT (CBS Milwaukee, WI): President Biden visits Milwaukee to tout 'Bidenomics'[A.J. Bayatpour, 8/15/23]
President Biden spoke at Ingeteam, where he touted his plan for economy, embracing the term, "Bidenomics." Ingeteam Inc. makes wind generators so you can bet clean energy will be part of Biden's message. Wednesday, Aug. 16, will mark the one-year anniversary of Biden signing the Inflation Reduction Act. That $750 billion package included the biggest climate spending plan in U.S. history. It also included a new minimum corporate tax. Biden has said these are proof his administration has focused on the middle class and the future as he prepares to launch a campaign for re-election.
WITI (FOX Milwaukee, WI): President Biden Milwaukee visit highlights economic policies[8/15/23]
President Joe Biden on Tuesday, Aug. 15 traveled to Wisconsin to highlight his economic policies in a state critical to his reelection fortunes, just a week before Republicans descend on Milwaukee for the party's first presidential debate of the 2024 campaign. […] The president spent about two hours Tuesday at Ingeteam, a clean energy manufacturer of onshore wind turbine generators in Milwaukee. It was art of a larger discussion of investment in manufacturing, clean energy, and jobs. "When I think climate, I think jobs," President Biden said. "We always had a plan of turning things around, making America strong, safer, and more competitive."
WISC-TV (CBS Madison, WI): Biden paints picture of improving economy during visit to Milwaukee[Logan Reigstad, Will Kenneally, 8/15/23]
President Joe Biden touted an improving U.S. economic landscape during a visit to Milwaukee Tuesday, just over one week before Republicans vying to challenge him in 2024 take to the debate stage in the Cream City. Speaking Tuesday afternoon at Ingeteam, a renewable energy component manufacturing facility in the shadow of American Family Field, Biden touted the successes of his "Bidenomics" economic plan and took credit for rebounds in jobs following the COVID-19 pandemic.[…] Biden claimed his economic plan has helped to create 150,000 new jobs, including more than 20,000 manufacturing jobs, in Wisconsin alone. He also took credit for slowing inflation rates but acknowledged more work remains.
WisPolitics.com: Biden touts economic policies during visit to Milwaukee manufacturer[8/15/23]
President Joe Biden in Milwaukee today credited his economic policies for bringing manufacturing jobs back to Wisconsin and setting the table for another decade of federal infrastructure investments.  Biden at electric vehicle charger manufacturer Ingeteam argued his "Bidenomics" policies are to credit for reducing inflation, increasing wages and bringing manufacturing jobs back to America. He also touted the nation's and Wisconsin's record low unemployment rates. And as Biden regularly does during appearances in Wisconsin, the president took a series of shots at U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson, for his economic positions, saying the Oshkosh Republican is a fan of outsourcing.
Urban Milwaukee: President Sells 'Bidenomics' In Visit To Milwaukee[Jeramey Jannene, 8/15/23]
President Joe Biden delivered an upbeat speech during a visit to Milwaukee Tuesday.
Speaking at the North American headquarters and factory for Ingeteam, a manufacturer of solar and electric vehicle chargers, Biden touted what his political opponents once tried to deride as "Bidenomics." […] But Biden had more than Ingeteam to tout; he also noted that Siemens announced earlier in the day that it would make solar inverters in Kenosha. He also declared that a combination of the Inflation Reduction Act, Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, CHIPS Act and other funding would replace every lead water service line in Wisconsin, "restore the American dream" by creating more good-paying jobs, bring chips manufacturing back to the United States and fuel American innovation.
UpNorthNews: Biden in Wisconsin: The US Is 'Getting Back to Exporting Products, Not Jobs'[Pat Kreitlow, 8/15/23]
President Joe Biden marked the one-year anniversary of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in Wisconsin on Tuesday, touting its multi-billion dollar impact on the state's economy through the addition of manufacturing jobs. Biden delivered his remarks at Ingeteam, a Milwaukee maker of electric vehicle chargers, which is expanding and adding "several hundred new, well-paying jobs over the next five years," according to a recent company announcement. Citing that and other examples, Biden said companies have committed more than $3 billion to invest in manufacturing and clean energy initiatives in Wisconsin so far during his presidency because of his initiatives. 
27-WKOW (ABC): President Biden visits Ingeteam in Milwaukee to discuss clean energy infrastructure and economic growth[Darrielle Fair, 8/15/23]
Biden spoke on key strategies to approach domestic manufacturing to increase jobs following a tour of Ingeteam, a factory specializing in energy conservation. "My plan is leading to a boom, they call a boom in manufacturing, and manufacturing investment. as you're seeing right here, this factory, over 13.4 million new jobs, 150,000 new jobs in the state of Wisconsin," Biden said. Biden made it clear that Wisconsin has remained a priority throughout his presidency while calling out Republicans for sending jobs overseas.
WTMJ-MILW (NBC) - Milwaukee, WI: Karine Jean-Pierre
WDJT (CBS Milwaukee, WI): Joelle Gamble
WITI (FOX Milwaukee, WI): Gene Sperling
  