
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, U.S. Congressman Tom Petri (R-WI) announced his endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney's presidential campaign.
"In Washington, we need a leader with a record of finding new and innovative solutions to some of our country's greatest challenges. On so many issues, we need to move beyond talk to action. In Governor Romney, we have a leader who has been tested and proven with a record of solving some of our most pressing problems by demonstrating creative, conservative leadership. I look forward to working with Governor Romney to help our nation meet a new generation of challenges," said Congressman Petri.
With today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "In his more than 20 years of service, Congressman Petri has built a distinguished record of accomplishment that reflects his commitment to finding new solutions to our most challenging problems. His efforts as part of our campaign will be instrumental in Wisconsin and in our nation's capital."
Background On U.S. Representative Tom Petri:
Currently Serving His Fifteenth Term Representing Wisconsin's Sixth Congressional District, Congressman Petri Was First Elected To The U.S. House In 1979. Congressman Petri is the Ranking Republican on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee. He served 12 years as Chairman of the Committee's Highways, Transit and Pipelines Subcommittee. With a record of fighting for fiscal discipline and pro-growth economic policies, Congressman Petri has earned high marks from organizations such as the National Taxpayers Union, the Concord Coalition, Citizens Against Government Waste, Americans for Tax Reform, Watchdogs of the Treasury and the National Federation of Independent Business.
Throughout his career, he has also been known for his efforts to find innovative solutions to problems that cut across party lines. His legislative record includes important accomplishments in the areas of student loan reform, tax reform, welfare reform, banking policy and health care reform. He is married to Anne Neal Petri and has one daughter, Alexandra.
  