
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Negotiations for terms of 2 years:
William M. Agee is chief executive officer and chairman of the Bendix Corp. He will succeed W. J. Amoss, Jr.
Warren S. Chase is assistant vice president of the Bank of Boston International in New York City. He will succeed Norborne Berkeley, Jr.
George B. Cook is former chairman of Bankers Life of Nebraska and resides in Lincoln, Nebr. He will succeed James H. Binger.
Douglas A. Fraser is president of the United Auto Workers in Detroit, Mich. This is a reappointment.
Francis P. Graves, Jr., is owner and president of Graves Aviation Co. in St. Paul, Minn. He will succeed David William Brooks.
Barbara Hackman Franklin is senior fellow in public management of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. She will succeed Alex Chisholm.
John G. Hutchens is president of Food World, Inc., in High Point, N.C. He will succeed Murray H. Finley.
Lloyd I. Miller is president, chief executive officer, and director of American Controlled Industries, Inc., in Cincinnati, Ohio. He will succeed Maurice R. Greenberg.
Peter C. Murphy, Jr., is president of the Murphy Co. in Springfield, Oreg. He will succeed Karl D. Gregory.
Kenneth Dale Naden is president of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives in Washington, D.C. This is a reappointment.
Albert H. Quie is Governor of the State of Minnesota. He will succeed Jiro Murase.
Michael S. Robertson is treasurer of Falmouth Marine, Inc., in Falmouth, Mass. He will succeed Richard E. Heckert.
J. Gaff Shansby is president and chief executive officer of Shaklee Corp. in San Francisco, Calif. He will succeed Ruth J. Hinerfeld.
Thomas C. Theobald is vice chairman of Citibank and Citicorp in New York City. He will succeed Robert M. Ivie.
Samuel H. Washburn is president of the National Cattleman's Association in Englewood, Colo. He will succeed Franklin A. Jacobs.
Emory Williams is chairman of the board of the Chicago-Milwaukee Corp. in Chicago, Ill. He will succeed William D. Knox.
  