
    United States pork to enter Argentina for first time since 1992
WASHINGTON – President Donald J. Trump today announced that the United States and Argentina have agreed to terms that will allow United States pork to enter the Argentine market for the first time since 1992. The agreement follows the August 15 meeting between Vice President Mike Pence and President Mauricio Macri of Argentina during the Vice President's visit to Buenos Aires. President Trump first raised the issue with President Macri during their bilateral meeting at the White House on April 27.
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer were also fully engaged in completing the agreement.
"Today's announcement is a big win for American pork producers and proves that President Trump is getting real results for America's farmers and ranchers," said Vice President Pence. "After 25 years of discussions, America's pork producers will soon be able to export their fine product to Argentina. This is one more example of the commitment of President Trump and his entire Administration to breaking down international trade barriers and making free and fair trade a win-win for American workers, farmers, and our trading partners."
The United States is the world's top pork exporter, and this agreement opens up a potential $10-million-per-year market for America's pork producers. Argentina has blocked imports of United States pork since 1992, citing animal health concerns. Under the terms of today's agreement, all fresh, chilled, and frozen pork and pork products from United States animals will be eligible for export to Argentina.
Argentine food safety officials will visit the United States to conduct on-site verification of the United States meat inspection system, after which United States pork exports will resume pending resolution of any outstanding technical issues.
The United States remains focused on expanding trade of other agricultural products between the United States and Argentina, notably beef, poultry, and fruits.
  