
    30-second "Imagine" spot will air on Iowa and New Hampshire TV and digital
"Imagine a leader driven by compassion, brave enough to take on the impossible."
Today, the Gillibrand presidential campaign launched a powerful new 30-second ad, "Imagine," highlighting Kirsten Gillibrand's strong progressive priorities and values. The over $1 million ad buy will run statewide in both Iowa and New Hampshire on broadcast and cable TV and digital, starting as early as Saturday, August 10, 2019.
The ad describes the progressive values central to Kirsten Gillibrand's campaign—compassion, humanity and the courage to take on the impossible—while also featuring her key policy priorities, including health care for everyone, protecting the environment, keeping our children safe and getting money out of politics.
"My promise to the American people is that I will restore compassion, courage and humanity to the White House," said Kirsten Gillibrand. "Despite what we feel today, it's not impossible to have affordable health care for all, to protect our environment, to keep our kids safe and to root out the corrupting influence of money in our politics. As our campaign gains momentum, I'm excited to share my message with Iowa caucus-goers and New Hampshire voters."
The ad campaign builds on Gillibrand's momentum following a standout performance in the second debate in Detroit. The 24 hours following the debate were Gillibrand's strongest of the campaign in terms of new online donors and contributions. In the week following the debate, Gillibrand earned her first qualifying poll for the September debate and crossed the important 100,000 donor benchmark. The ad buy will bolster the campaign's efforts to qualify for the fall debates.
The campaign has invested significantly in Iowa and New Hampshire, with 35 and 20 staff respectively.

Transcript of "Imagine":
Narrator: Imagine an America where harmony displaces hate.
That protects our planet, provides healthcare for everyone.
An America where public places are safe spaces.
Where morality overrides money. Power restored to the people.
Imagine a leader driven by compassion, brave enough to take on the impossible.
Who looks beyond herself to do what's best…for us.
Kirsten: I'm Kirsten Gillibrand, and I approve this message.
  