
    "Inspired" ... "A Bold Choice" ... "A Home Run" ... "A Boldly Clarifying Jolt"
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: "The Ryan Selection Is Inspired." "Still, the Ryan selection is inspired and should refocus the election on the big ideas that politicians have been running from for decades." (Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, 8/12/12)
Tampa Tribune: "A Powerful Statement." "Mitt Romney's selection of Rep. Paul Ryan as his vice presidential running mate leaves no doubt of Romney's resolve to dramatically reverse the course of this nation. The choice made a powerful statement." (Tampa Tribune, 8/13/12)
New Hampshire Union Leader: "Struck Gold..." "Mitt Romney did an excellent job overseeing the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City years ago and he struck gold again over the weekend with his choice of a running mate. By picking U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, Romney makes it clear to Americans what an important choice they have in the coming election." (New Hampshire Union Leader, 8/13/12
Tampa Bay Times: "Bold Choice..." "Mitt Romney's surprisingly bold choice of Paul Ryan as his running mate reshapes his campaign and elevates the debate with President Barack Obama about the serious challenges facing the nation." (Tampa Bay Times, 8/14/12)
Dallas Morning News: "A Bold Choice..." "This newspaper, while recognizing the usually overhyped nature of any running-mate decision, favors the Ryan choice, if it leads to what we expect it should: an honest debate over the size and scope of federal government, the annual $1.5 trillion deficits, the accumulated $15 trillion debt and the role of entitlement reform in offering solutions. ... Ryan is a bold choice..." (Dallas Morning News, 8/12/12)
New York Daily News: "A Boldly Clarifying Jolt..." "Mitt Romney's choice of Wisconsin Rep. Paul Ryan as his running mate is a boldly clarifying jolt for a presidential contest whose issues and stakes have been in desperate need of definition." (New York Daily News, 8/12/12)
Bloomberg: "Romney Deserves Credit For His Audacity..." "By choosing U.S. Representative Paul Ryan as his running mate, Mitt Romney has added some verve to what had been a tedious presidential contest. Romney deserves credit for his audacity, to borrow a word from his opponent." (Bloomberg, 8/12/12)
Des Moines Register: "Romney's Choice Of U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan Of Wisconsin Is Encouraging..." "Romney's choice of U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin is encouraging because Ryan has forced a conversation on federal spending in Congress." (Des Moines Register, 8/14/12)
Omaha World-Herald: "A Bold Statement." "But in picking his running mate, Romney opted against playing it safe and made a bold statement." (Omaha World-Herald, 8/14/12)
Savannah Morning News: "Mitt Romney's Selection Saturday Of Paul Ryan As His Vice Presidential Running Mate Is An Inspired Choice." (Savannah Morning News, 8/11/12)
The Item: "Mitt Romney Hit A Home Run..." "Mitt Romney hit a home run Saturday when he announced Wisconsin Congressman Paul Ryan as his running mate on the Republican ticket." (The [South Carolina] Item, 8/12/12)
  