
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jonathan Moak, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army for Financial Management and Comptroller.
Jonathan Moak currently serves as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Financial Management and Comptroller. He was previously a Department of Defense Management Consultant in the Government and Public Sector practice of Deloitte Consulting, LLP, where he led work in the Finance and Enterprise Performance business unit, and was a member of the United States Army Account Leadership team.
Formerly, Mr. Moak worked in various roles at Grant Thornton, LLP, culminating with his position as a Manager in their Security and Defense Practice. Prior to his private-sector experience, Mr. Moak was a Department of the Army Civilian at the United States Army Information Technology Agency.
Mr. Moak has served in the Army National Guard for nearly 15 years, and is a recipient of the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Ranger Tab, and Expert Infantryman Badge. He earned his B.S. from the University of Alabama at Birmingham, his M.B.A. from Norwich University, and his M.S. in Business Analytics from the University of Virginia.
Charles W. Cook, Jr., of Mississippi, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
Charles W. Cook, Jr. is currently the Chairman of Bandwidth Infrastructure Holdings, LLC. Previously, as founder and CEO of SummitIG, LLC, Mr. Cook constructed and operated the most robust dark fiber network in northern Virginia.
Mr. Cook has served in multiple leadership roles throughout his career with MCI Telecommunications, Metromedia Fiber Networks, and OnFiber Communications, among others. He has also helped build and operate telecommunications networks throughout the United States.
Mr. Cook earned his B.A. from the University of Mississippi and remains an active member of the National Eagle Scout Association.
Ilan Berman, of Maryland, to be a Member of the International Broadcasting Advisory Board for a term of three years.
Ilan Berman currently serves as Senior Vice President at the American Foreign Policy Council and as a member of the Associated Faculty at Missouri State University's Department of Defense & Strategic Studies.
Mr. Berman is an expert on regional security in the Middle East, Central Asia, and the Russian Federation, having consulted for the United States Central Intelligence Agency as well as the United States Department of State and Department of Defense.
Mr. Berman earned his Bachelor of Arts in Politics from Brandeis University and both his Master of Arts in International Politics and Juris Doctorate from American University.
Michael Finkel, of New Jersey, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
Michael Finkel currently serves as Director and Senior Counsel at the Global Investment Bank Societe Generale. His work focuses on complex securities and derivative transactions. Mr. Finkel also leads the bank's ongoing legal implementation of various regulatory regimes.
Previously, Mr. Finkel worked at the asset management firm AllianceBernstein, as well as at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, LLP, the oldest continuous law firm in the country. Prior to law school, Mr. Finkel was an accountant at PricewaterhouseCoopers. He earned his law degree from Columbia Law School and his B.A in Accounting from CUNY – Queens College.
—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jo-Ann Chase, of Virginia, to be a Member of the President's Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity.
John T. McNabb II, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
  