
    
  Criticizes Administration's Notion that Food Stamps are Economic Stimulus

COLUMBIA, SC — Texas Gov. Rick Perry today took his campaign for president to South Carolina, where he underscored his belief that economic opportunity is derived by creating jobs, not issuing welfare. He criticized recent comments from President Obama's administration claiming that food stamps are a form of economic stimulus and emphasized the need to get government out of the way and unleash the private sector to create the jobs our nation needs.
"Most Americans do not yearn to be dependent on government subsidies, they want economic freedom, and economic freedom comes from work and wages, not welfare," Gov. Perry said. "The central issue of this election is an Administration that believes Washington must be our caretaker, and a people who want Washington to only take care of their constitutional responsibilities."
Gov. Perry criticized the Obama Administration for referring to food stamps as economic stimulus, emphasizing that food stamps are not the solution, but a symptom of the problem that too many people are without work.
The governor added, "We have tried two and a half years of government trying to create jobs, it's time to let the private sector get to work."
Gov. Perry reiterated the importance of promoting policies based on restrained spending, low taxes, reasonable and predictable regulations and a fair legal system, crediting these priorities as the foundation of Texas' successful job creation. Under the governor's leadership of Texas, the state is responsible for 40 percent of net new jobs created since June 2009 and the unemployment rate remains well below the national average. In contrast, under President Obama, America has lost 2.5 million jobs, unemployment has gone up and there are one in six work-eligible Americans that cannot find a full-time job.
As president, Gov. Perry has pledged to get the federal government's fiscal house in order, simplify and limit taxes, restore the country's good credit, and repeal Obama's misguided one-size-fits-all, government-run health care plan. He is also committed to holding government accountable to the taxpayers, and adhering to the fiscally responsible principles that will lead to job creation, and in turn, wealth, while educating and innovating in science, technology, engineering and math to create the jobs and progress needed to get America working again.
  