
    M. Christina Armijo, of New Mexico, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Mexico, vice a new position created by Public Law 106-553, approved December 21, 2000.
Lawrence J. Block, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice Eric G. Bruggink, term expired.
Karon O. Bowdre, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice Sam C. Pointer, Jr., retired.
David L. Bunning, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Kentucky, vice William O. Bertelsman, retired.
Karen K. Caldwell, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Kentucky, vice Henry R. Wilhoit, Jr., retired.
Claire V. Eagan, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Oklahoma, vice Thomas Rutherford Brett, retired.
Kurt D. Engelhardt, of Louisiana, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Morey L. Sear, retired.
Stephen P. Friot, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, vice Wayne E. Alley, retired.
Callie V. Granade, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Alabama, vice Alex T. Howard, Jr., retired.
Joe L. Heaton, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, vice Ralph G. Thompson, retired.
Larry R. Hicks, of Nevada, to be United States District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Johnnie B. Rawlinson, elevated.
Jeffrey R. Howard, of New Hampshire, to be United States Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Norman H. Stahl, retired.
William P. Johnson, of New Mexico, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Mexico, vice John E. Conway, retired.
Terrence L. O'Brian, of Wyoming, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Wade Brorby, retired.
James H. Payne, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Northern, Eastern and Western Districts of Oklahoma, vice Billy Michael Burrage, retired.
Danny C. Reeves, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Kentucky, vice a new position created by Public Law 106-553, approved December 21, 2000.
  