
    Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
In my Environmental Message of August 2, 1979, I recognized the important natural, historic, and recreational values of our Nation's river corridors. It is important for the federal agencies to set an example of sound management for state, local, and private landowners by taking an aggressive role in protecting Wild and Scenic Rivers which flow through public lands.
In addition, I recognized that the 1968 National Trails System Act is designed to promote the development of recreational, scenic, and historic trails for persons of diverse interests and abilities—including the young, the handicapped, and the aged—and that the National Trails System is in its fledgling stage. The Act provides for designating trails on state, local and private lands, but only 130 trails have been established since enactment of the Act. In my Environmental Message I stressed the importance of expanding the National Trails System.
Therefore, I am directing that each of you take the following actions:

Each federal agency shall encourage states, localities and private land holders to designate trails on their lands and to participate with federal agencies and trail users in designing and creating an overall National Trails System which will provide more fully for the trail needs of America. 
Each federal agency shall, as part of its normal planning and environmental review processes, take care to avoid or mitigate adverse effects on rivers identified in the Nationwide Inventory, prepared by the Heritage Conservation and Recreation Service in the Department of the Interior. Agencies shall, as part of their normal environmental review process, consult with the Heritage Conservation and Recreation Service prior to taking actions which could effectively foreclose wild, scenic, or recreational river status on rivers in the Inventory. 
Each Federal agency with responsibility for administering public lands shall, as part of its ongoing land use planning and management activities and environmental review processes, make an assessment of whether the rivers identified in the Nationwide Inventory and which are on their lands are suitable for inclusion in the Wild and Scenic Rivers System. If an agency determines that a river would be suitable for inclusion in the System, the agency shall, to the extent of the agency's authority, promptly take such steps as are needed to protect and manage the river and the surrounding area in a fashion comparable to rivers already included in the Wild and Scenic Rivers System. In addition, the agency is encouraged, pursuant to the revised Guidelines, to work with the Agriculture and Interior Departments to prepare legislation to designate the river as part of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System if appropriate. 

Please give these assignments your immediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER

Memorandum for the Secretary of Agriculture
In my Environmental Message of August 2, 1979, I recognized the important natural, historic, and recreational values of our Nation's river corridors. Unfortunately, development along the banks of our rivers continues to outpace our ability to identify and study those rivers which might qualify for protection under the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Thus, we need to improve our techniques for identifying, and designating wild and scenic rivers.
In addition, I recognized in my Environmental Message that the 1968 National Trails System Act is designed to promote the development of recreational, scenic, and historic trails for persons of diverse interests and abilities—including the young, the handicapped and the aged—and that the National Trails System is in its fledgling stage. I stressed the importance of expanding the National Trails System to provide increased recreation opportunities for the millions of Americans who enjoy hiking, backpacking, bicycling, and similar activities.
Therefore, I am directing you to take the following actions:

Within 120 days, together with the Secretary of the Interior, revise the Guidelines for studying Wild and Scenic Rivers. The revised Guidelines shall establish procedures to ensure consideration of river ecosystems to shorten the length of time currently used to study rivers for designation. 
Ensure that the Forest Service meets its goal of establishing 145 additional National Recreation Trails by January 1980, thereby achieving the objective of two National Recreation Trails in each National Forest System unit. 

Please give these assignments your immediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER

Memorandum for the Secretary of the Interior
In my Environmental Message of August 2, 1979, I recognized the important natural, historic, and recreational values of our Nation's river corridors. Unfortunately, development along the banks of our rivers continues to outpace our ability to identify and study those rivers which might qualify for protection under the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. This problem is particularly acute near urban areas, where there are greater demands for recreational opportunities. Thus, we need to improve our techniques for identifying, and designating wild and scenic rivers.
In addition, I recognized in my Environmental Message that the 1968 National Trails System Act is designed to promote the development of recreational, scenic, and historic trails for persons of diverse interests and abilities—including the young, the handicapped and the aged—and that the National Trails System is in its fledgling stage. I stressed the importance of expanding the National Trails System to provide increased recreation opportunities for the millions of Americans who enjoy hiking, backpacking, and similar activities.
Therefore, I am directing you to take the following actions:

Within 120 days, together with the Secretary of Agriculture, revise the Guidelines for studying Wild and Scenic Rivers. The revised Guidelines shall establish procedures to ensure consideration of river ecosystems and to shorten the length of time currently used to study rivers for designation. 
Furnish federal agencies, through the Heritage Conservation and Recreation Service, with the names of the rivers In its Nationwide Inventory—which is a list of rivers having the potential to be designated under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act—and with any background analysis conducted by the Service. 
Assist other federal agencies, through the Interagency Trails Council, in surveying existing trails on federal lands to determine which of those can be made part of our National Trails System. 
Initiate a grassroots effort in every region of the country to assess our nationwide trail needs. This nationwide assessment shall examine the types of trails now in use and their proximity to trail users: estimate current and anticipated trail needs; and recommend cost-effective programs and energy-conserving actions which could produce the types and number of trails that are needed. 

Please give these assignments your immediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER

Memorandum for the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Board of the Tennessee Valley Authority
In my Environmental Message of August 2, 1979, I recognized that the 1968 National Trails System Act is designed to promote the development of recreational, scenic, and historic trails for persons of diverse interests and abilities—including the young, the handicapped, and the aged—and that National Trails System is in its fledgling stage. I stressed the importance of expanding the National Trails System to provide increased recreation opportunities for the millions of Americans who enjoy hiking, backpacking, and similar activities.
Therefore, I am directing each of you • to announce by January 1980 a goal for the number of National Recreation Trails each agency will establish during 1980 on the public lands administered by your agencies. By the end of 1980, I am directing that, at a minimum, 75 new National Recreation Trails shall be designated on these lands.
Please report your progress in meeting your goal to the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget on June 30, 1980 and on December 31, 1980.
JIMMY CARTER
  