
    "It's time to take care of our people, to rebuild our nation, and to fight for our great American workers." – President Donald J. Trump
EXPANDING ACCESS TO RETIREMENT PLANS: President Donald J. Trump signed an executive order to expand access to workplace retirement savings plans for American workers.

President Trump is directing the Departments of Labor and the Treasury to consider issuing regulations and guidance that would make it easier for businesses to offer retirement plans.

The Departments will consider changes to make it easier for businesses to join together to offer Association Retirement Plans (ARPs), also known as Multiple Employer Plans.


ARPs reduce the cost of offering retirement plans for businesses that join together by expanding the number of workers who participate.

Currently, complying with the requirements has made it difficult for small businesses to band together to offer ARPs. 


Workers at small businesses often have less access to workplace retirement plans compared to workers at larger businesses. 

Eighty-nine percent of workers at establishments with 500 or more employees are offered a workplace retirement plan. 
In contrast, only 53 percent at establishments with fewer than 100 workers are offered a workplace retirement plan.


REDUCING COSTS FOR SMALL BUSINESSES: High costs prevent many small businesses from offering workplace retirement plans, weakening the retirement security of their employees. 

High costs are holding back small businesses from offering workplace retirement plans, as they do not benefit from the economies of scale that larger businesses enjoy.

Businesses that offer workplace retirement plans pay administrative and overhead costs that may be difficult for small businesses to afford. 


Small businesses say high costs are discouraging them from offering workplace retirement plans, according to a Pew survey.

Seventy-one percent of small and medium sized businesses that do not offer workplace retirement plans reported that high costs deterred them from doing so. 
Thirty-seven percent of small and medium sized businesses cited high costs as their main reason for not offering a plan. 


The executive order directs the Departments of Labor and the Treasury to consider ways to improve notice requirements to reduce paperwork and administrative burdens. 

STRENGTHENING WORKERS' FINANCIAL FUTURES: Making changes to certain retirement plan rules will help workers better prepare for their financial futures. 

The Department of the Treasury is to review the rules on required minimum distributions from retirement plans to see if retirees could keep more money in 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts for longer.

This could allow retirees to spread retirement savings over a longer period of time.


Polling shows that nearly half of all Americans are concerned they will not have enough money to live on during retirement. 
Too many American workers, including one-third of those in the private-sector, have no access to workplace retirement plans, burdening them with concerns about their financial futures. 

  