
    DES MOINES, IA — Today, Fran Parr of Pacific Junction announced her endorsement of Amy Klobuchar for President. In March, Fran and Jason Parr's home outside of Pacific Junction was flooded with 9 feet of floodwaters despite being more than two miles from the river, significantly damaging their home. Senator Klobuchar met with the Parrs the day after she released a $1 trillion infrastructure plan to highlight the urgent repairs needed to our nation's infrastructure and bring a Midwest voice to the issue of climate change. Senator Klobuchar was the first presidential candidate to visit the Parr's home.
"I sincerely believe we have a front row seat to the effects of climate change here in the Midwest. We need a president who understands that climate change isn't just a coastal issue, but impacts the entire nation. Senator Klobuchar has the knowledge and experience to not only talk about this issue to folks in the Midwest, but also address the problems we're facing by building an international coalition," said Fran Parr of Pacific Junction. "Climate change isn't the only issue facing our community- Klobuchar's attention to rural health care, specifically access to mental health care, is so important to recovery in our town. After a catastrophic event like the one we had this spring, we see evidence of increased stress on residents who must decide how to move forward. I know these pressures firsthand, and I want a president who is going to make these issues a priority.
"With her broad perspective, experience, and strong record of getting things done, she is the person best equipped to get our country back on track. That's why I'm excited to share my endorsement of U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for President."
Klobuchar has previously received endorsements from several current and former Iowa legislators and political and community activists, including:• Former President of the National Corn Growers Association Pam Johnson• Retired commodity crop farming family, Dave and Mary Jensen• Cattleman, commodity crop farmers Dan and Allison Sorenson• Former Iowa Legislator and U.S. Ambassador Swati Dandekar• Iowa Representative Marti Anderson• Iowa Representative Ruth Ann Gaines• Former Iowa Representative Bill Witt• Adel City Council member Shirley McAdon• Community activist Jackie Wellman• Political and community activist (The Caucus Couple) Ruth Thompson• Political and community activist (The Caucus Couple) Scott Thompson• Community activist Melissa Fath• Former IDP Chair Dr. Andy McGuire
  