
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Charles P. Blahous, III, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Charles P. Blahous, III, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Charles P. Blahous, III, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Richard Otto Buckius, of California, to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation, vice Cora B. Marrett, resigned.
Thomas F. Scott Darling, III, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, vice Anne S. Ferro, resigned.
Linda I. Etim, of Wisconsin, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Earl W. Gast, resigned.
Laura S. H. Holgate, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
Laura S. H. Holgate, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador.
Marcel John Lettre, II, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, vice Michael Vickers, resigned.
Patrick Joseph Murphy, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice Brad R. Carson.
Cherry Ann Murray, of Kansas, to be Director of the Office of Science, Department of Energy, vice William F. Brinkman.
Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
  