
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced his Minnesota Statewide Steering Committee, which will be led by State Co-Chairs Jack Meeks; Brian Sullivan, Minnesota National Committeeman; Evie Axdahl, Minnesota National Committeewoman; and Tony Sutton, State Republican Party Secretary/Treasurer.
The Minnesota Steering Committee will play an instrumental in organizing Governor Romney's grassroots campaign.
"These committed Republican leaders will be crucial to my efforts in Minnesota," said Governor Romney. "I am looking forward to working closely with them to advance our common agenda of keeping taxes low, getting spending under control, reforming health care, and governing with proven conservative principles. Minnesota voters can look forward to seeing and hearing from me during the coming weeks and months."
Joining Romney for President, Co-Chair Jack Meeks said, "Governor Romney is the candidate who understands the need to bring conservative change to Washington. We all agree Governor Romney has the proven record and the leadership qualities to keep America strong through a strong economy, strong national defense, and strong families. Every voter in Minnesota can be confident Governor Romney will lead our nation to a more prosperous future."
Romney For President Minnesota Steering Committee Co-Chairs:
Jack Meeks - Meeks is President and CEO of The Walker Group, Inc., a strategic consulting firm he founded in 1992. He is also a Senior Consultant to North State Advisors, a Minnesota public affairs and lobbying firm. Previously Meeks served as Chief of Staff to Congressman Vin Weber (R-MN). He was elected Minnesota Republican National Committeeman in 1992, and re-elected to that position without opposition in 1996, 2000, and again in 2004. He also served as Republican National Committee Vice-Chairman for the Midwest region in 1997 and was re-elected in 1999, 2001, and again in 2003.
Brian Sullivan - Sullivan is currently the RNC National Committeeman for Minnesota and was first elected to the position in 2005. He also serves as the CEO of SterilMed, Inc., a medical device and healthcare services company, and is a board member of numerous charitable organizations in the Twin Cities.
Evie Axdahl - Axdahl is the RNC National Committeewoman for Minnesota. She was first elected to this position in 1989. Axdahl also served on the State Central Committee for 14 years and has been a Delegate to the Republican National Convention on five separate occasions. She currently sits on the RNC Executive Committee. She is married and has four children.
Tony Sutton - Sutton is currently the Secretary/Treasurer of the Republican Party of Minnesota. He also is currently the CEO of Baja Sol Restaurants Group, which operates a chain of Mexican restaurants. In addition to various volunteer leadership activities in the Republican Party at the local and state level, Sutton has also served the state GOP in many professional roles including Executive Director and General Consultant. Sutton also served as Deputy State Auditor for the State of Minnesota after the election of State Auditor Pat Anderson in 2002.
  