
    CLEVELAND, Ohio — Ted Cruz knows that a strong America makes the world a safer place. As President, Cruz will restore American leadership in the world, find and kill radical Islamic terrorists like ISIS, stand up to international bullies Iran and Russia, and repair relations with Israel.
Sen. Cruz said, "What we need is a Commander in Chief that makes it clear if you join ISIS then you are signing your death warrant."

In January 2015, Cruz re-introduced the Expatriate Terrorist Act, which he originally introduced in September 2014, to prevent terrorists who join ISIS or other terrorist groups from re-entering the country and to make clear that citizens who collaborate with terrorists have forfeited their right to US citizenship. In September 2014, he requested unanimous consent, but Democrats objected.
In February 2015, Cruz praised the Army's announcement to grant Purple Hearts to Ft. Hood victims. In December 2014, Cruz's amendment to designate the Ft. Hood attack as a radical Islamist terrorist attack was passed into law in NDAA and he released a video explaining the need to properly honor these soldiers who served our nation valiantly in the face of the terrorist attack on US soil.
Iran: In March 2015, Cruz reintroduced Sanction Iran, Safeguard America. Sen. Cruz originally introduced this legislation in July 2014, which would reinstate, impose, and expand Iran sanctions and stop failed negotiations. It would prevent a nuclear Iran. See more in the Israel/Iran Policy Paper.
In May 2015, Cruz introduced an amendment with Sen. Toomey to the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act that would require Congress' affirmative approval to any Iran Deal, rather than only authorizing Congress to pass a resolution of disapproval, which requires of both the House and Senate.
In July 2014, the Senate passed legislation Cruz introduced to offer rewards to those who handed in information about the kidnap and murderers of the 3 boys who were murdered in Jerusalem, one of them being an Israeli-US citizen.

  