
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with the provisions of section 1512 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261), I hereby certify that the export to the People's Republic of China of the following items is not detrimental to the United States space launch industry and that the material and equipment, including any indirect technical benefit that could be derived from such exports, will not measurably improve the missile or space launch capabilities of the People's Republic of China.
1. One linear accelerator for Huanggang Customs, for inspection of cargo entering the Port of Shenzhen, People's Republic of China.
2. Fifty-thousand pounds of fine-grained graphite, for Shanghai Carbone Lorraine Chemical, located in Shanghai, People's Republic of China, to use in manufacturing temperature-resistant industrial machinery components.
3. One linear accelerator for Harbin Boiler Company, Ltd., located in Harbin, People's Republic of China, to use in nondestructive testing and inspection of utility boilers and valves for conventional power and auxiliary equipment.
4. One hot isostatic press, for Guizhou Anji Foundry Company, located in Anshun City, Guizhou Province, People's Republic of China, to use in consolidation of titanium and aluminum castings for chemical equipment parts.
5. Two environmental test chambers, for Flextronics Industrial Company, Ltd., located in Jingan, Doumen Zhuhai, People's Republic of China, to test Xbox game consoles for the Microsoft Corporation.
6. One environmental test chamber, for Hon Hai Precision Industries Company, Ltd., located in Guangdong, People's Republic of China, to test personal computers and peripheral equipment for Apple, Compaq, and Dell.
7. One filament winding machine, for Weifang Dongming Extinguisher Equipment, located in Weifang, Shandong, People's Republic of China, to use in manufacturing 600,000 carbon dioxide fire extinguisher bottles per year.

Sincerely,
GEORGE W. BUSH
  