
    Mr. President, Mrs. Ceausescu, ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Ford, our son Jack, and I are highly honored and greatly pleased to visit Romania. We are especially pleased to be in this unique land so rich in history, with such a great natural beauty and such a proud and independent people.
As you may recall, Mr. President, I met with a splendid group of young Romanians in the White House several months ago.1 I found them to be excellent and outstanding ambassadors of friendship between our two countries.
Mr. President, let us assure coming generations a more normal, relaxed, and peaceful world. We must find ways to increase real and direct cooperation among all peoples.
Among the principles we both cherish is the right of every nation to independence and sovereignty. We believe that every nation has the right to its own peaceful existence without being threatened by force, and we believe that all states are equal under law regardless of size, system, or level of development.
Principles such as these are included in the document we signed in Helsinki. We have both worked hard, Mr. President, and we must continue to devote our efforts to making all of these principles a reality in international life in this spirit. I look forward to our discussions on the international problems that concern us both.
Our bilateral relations are good, Mr. President. I am very pleased that our Congress has approved the U.S.-Romanian trade agreement. This creates new opportunities, particularly in the mutually beneficial commercial and economic field. I am confident that we can continue to improve our relations in many, many other areas as well.
Mr. President, I know that our discussions will be very productive during my stay in your country. As during your visit to Washington in June, our goal will be to seek closer cooperation between Romania and the United States. I look forward to our talks that we will have in the hours ahead.
On behalf of the American people, I bring to you and your family, and the Romanian people, warm, warm greetings and the very best wishes for peace and prosperity.
  