
    Pool Reports by Lissandra Villa de Petrzelka, The Boston Globe 



Sent:
Reports:




August 15, 2023 09:23

In-Town Pool Report #1: Checking In
Good morning,
Lissa from The Boston Globe here, and I'll be your in-town pooler for the day.
No updates regarding the schedule this morning, so we're expecting a relatively quiet day around the White House with the exceptions of a departure and arrival. If anything changes, I'll let you know. Holler with any questions. 


August 15, 2023 10:46

In-Town Pool Report #2: Departure
POTUS did not stop to take any questions on the South Lawn as he boarded Marine One. He waved toward press and carried a piece of paper. He disappeared inside the helicopter at 10:39 a.m. EST, after first speaking with someone in the pilot cabin.
Per White House, here is who is with him:
"Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations"
Marine One lifted off at 10:44 a.m. EST. 


August 15, 2023 15:50

In-Town Pool Report #3: Bad weather call
For awareness, we've got a bad weather call and so POTUS will be returning from JBA to the White House via motorcade. 


August 15, 2023 17:25

In-town pool report #4: Rolling back toward White House
Hi all,
AF1 landed at JBA at about 5:09 p.m. EST. It was raining so hard it was difficult to see much, including the plane at one point after it landed.
Motorcade is rolling toward White House as of 5:22 p.m. EST. 


August 15, 2023 17:48

In-town pool report #5: Arrival at WH
Motorcade arrived back at White House at 5:45 p.m. Uneventful but for the rainbow after the rain, and the tourists pausing to watch the motorcade go by in DC.
Per White House:
"Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Megan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Rachel Chiu, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach" 


August 15, 2023 17:51

In-town pool report #6: lid
Hey all,
We have a lid. Have a good rest of your week. 



Pool Reports below by Brett Samuels, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




August 15, 2023 10:59 EDT

Travel pool report #1: JBA departure
Good morning from hot and sunny JBA. I'll be your travel pooler for the president's trip to Milwaukee.
Marine One landed here at 10:52 a.m. President Biden stepped off a few minutes later, walked over to Air Force One and boarded at 10:57 without stopping to talk to reporters gathered under the wing.
We should be wheels up shortly.
Olivia Dalton is scheduled to gaggle while en route to Wisconsin. You should be able to listen along here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
And passing along these details from the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, 89th Air Wing, Joint Base Andrews
________
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Milwaukee, Wisconsin:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Megan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Rachel Chiu, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach 


August 15, 2023 11:34 CDT

Travel pool report #2: Wheels down and gaggle
Air Force One was wheels down in Milwaukee at 11:31 local time.
CNN played on TVs throughout flight, which was mostly coverage of the latest Trump indictment in Georgia.
Principal deputy press secretary Olivia Dalton gaggled with reporters for about 18 minutes, taking questions about the Trump indictment, the federal response to the fires in Hawaii, messaging around the Inflation Reduction Act, the president's comments about China last week, and whether there are concerns about a government shutdown.
She said there are "active discussions" about the president traveling to Hawaii, and she said Biden would address the situation there at the top of his remarks today.
The gaggle should have streamed live on the White House website and is available here:  https://www.youtube.com/live/hmW1pr0Fiuo?feature=share 


August 15, 2023 11:55 CDT

Travel pool report #3: AF1 calls
President Biden deplaned at 11:40 and greeted local officials on the ground, including Gov. Tony Evers and the mayor of Milwaukee.
He then walked over to a group of families gathered on the tarmac, shaking hands and exchanging pleasantries for several minutes before the pool was ushered to our vehicle.
From the White House:
The President spoke to FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell and Hawaii Governor Josh Green from AF1 while en route Milwaukee.
More details below on who greeted the president upon his arrival.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Milwaukee International Airport Air National Guard Base:
Governor Tony Evers (WI) Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) Mayor Cavalier Johnson, Milwaukee, WI Executive David Crowley, Milwaukee County, WI Brigadier General David May, Deputy Adjutant General for Air, 128th Air Refueling Wing, Wisconsin Air National Guard CMSgt Chad Workman, State Command Chief for Air, 128th Air Refueling Wing, Wisconsin Air National Guard Base 


August 15, 2023 11:58 CDT

Travel pool report #4: Rolling
Motorcade is rolling to Ingeteam Inc. at 11:58.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Ingeteam, Inc.:
Governor Tony Evers (WI) Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) Mayor Cavalier Johnson, Milwaukee, WI Executive David Crowley, Milwaukee County, WI Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations  Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentMegan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Rachel Chiu, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach 


August 15, 2023 12:16 CDT

Travel pool report #5 Ingeteam arrival
Motorcade arrived at the Ingeteam building, located just down the street from the home of the Milwaukee Brewers, at 12:14 p.m.
The president will be touring the facility before making remarks. 


August 15, 2023 12:26 CDT

Travel pool report #6: POTUS tour
President Biden walked into the warehouse here at Ingeteam at 12:21.
"Hey guys, how are ya?" he said before shaking hands with about 10 employees.
POTUS continued chatting with the employees, but it was out of earshot of your pooler. Pool was escorted out after only a few minutes.
From the White House:
The President is participating in a tour of Ingeteam, Inc.
Tour participants:  Governor Tony Evers (WI) Senator Tammy Baldwin (WI) Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) Mark Obradovich, Managing Director, Ingeteam, Inc. Mike Bruening, Assistant Business Manager, IBEW Local 2150 Kong Cha, MRB Specialist, IBEW Local 2150 Valentino Collado, Assembler Assembly, IBEW Local 2150 Sabino Garcia, Lead Assembler Assembly, IBEW Local 2150 Ruben Marquina, Painter, IBEW Local 2150 Magnolia Taylor, Assembly Finisher, IBEW Local 2150 Angela Wilkins, Lead Assembly Rotor, IBEW Local 2150 Long Her, Production Supervisor, Ingeteam, Inc. Christopher Hlebichuk, Value Stream Manager, Ingeteam, Inc. Easton McChensey, Process Knowledge Engineer, Ingeteam, Inc. 


August 15, 2023 12:38 CDT

Travel pool report #7: Photo line
Passing along from the White House as we await the president's remarks on the Inflation Reduction Act.
Participating in a photoline with the President at Ingeteam Inc.:
Governor Tony Evers (WI) Senator Tammy Baldwin (WI) Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) Mayor Cavalier Johnson, Milwaukee, WI Executive David Crowley, Milwaukee County, WI Wisconsin State Senate Minority Leader Melissa Agard (District 16) Chairman Tehassi Hill, Oneida Nation President Jon Greendeer, Ho-Chunk Nation Josh Kaul, Wisconsin Attorney General 


August 15, 2023 12:56 CDT

Travel pool report #8: POTUS speaking shortly
President Biden's remarks here are scheduled to begin at the top of the hour (1 pm local time). As a reminder, they will be livestreamed here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
The president will be speaking in front of a group of workers, some wearing hard hats, as well as a giant blue banner that reads: "Bidenomics | Investing in America"
Since the speech is being streamed live on the White House website, C-SPAN and elsewhere, I will not send full quotes but will pass along any color or highlights.
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks one day before the one-year anniversary of the Inflation Reduction Act:
State and local elected officials, community leaders, union workers, and Ingeteam employees.
Pre-Program Mayor Cavalier Johnson, Milwaukee, WI Executive David Crowley, Milwaukee County, WI Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) Senator Tammy Baldwin (WI) Governor Tony Evers (WI)
Speaking Program Valentino Collado, Assembler Assembly, IBEW Local 2150 The President 


August 15, 2023 13:04 CDT

Travel pool report #9: Biden remarks begin
President Biden took the stage at the Ingeteam warehouse at 1:02 p.m. to an ovation from the audience. His remarks are being livestreamed on the White House website, C-SPAN and elsewhere. 


August 15, 2023 13:49 CDT

Travel pool report #10: Biden remarks conclude
The president concluded his remarks at 1:45, speaking for about 45 minutes. He said he and the first lady would travel to Hawaii to tour the devastation there "as soon as we can," noting he did not want to get in the way of recovery efforts.
He otherwise spoke about his economic agenda and investments made by the Inflation Reduction Act and other legislation passed during his administration.
About 20 minutes into the remarks, he grabbed a handheld microphone and stepped out from behind the podium to continue speaking. It was difficult to hear at times because of the high ceilings here.
Pool is holding at the moment while the president mingles with the crowd. 


August 15, 2023 14:21 CDT

Travel pool report #11: Motorcade rolling
Motorcade is rolling from the Ingeteam Inc. facility at 2:20 p.m. 


August 15, 2023 14:42 CDT

Travel pool report #12: Departing WI, Schatz call
Motorcade arrived back at the Milwaukee Air National Guard base at 2:35 p.m. after an uneventful ride.
POTUS boarded the shorter steps onto Air Force One at 2:38.
We will be wheels up shortly for the return flight to JBA.
From the White House:
The President spoke with Senator Brian Schatz about the response to the Maui wildfires. 


August 15, 2023 17:15 EDT

Travel pool report #13: JBA arrival
Air Force One landed under heavy rain at JBA at 5:09 p.m. local time after an otherwise uneventful flight.
There was a bad weather call and POTUS is motorcading back to the White House.
From the White House from just before takeoff:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Megan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Rachel Chiu, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach 


August 15, 2023 17:23 EDT

Travel pool report #14:hand off
Pool stepped off the plane into a heavy rain and a small amount of standing water on the tarmac. The president deplaned at 5:20 PM and got straight into the motorcade, which drove away two minutes later. Handing off to the in town pool.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, 89th Air Wing, Joint Base Andrews 



  