
    One year ago twin explosions at America's Embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam claimed the lives of 12 dedicated Americans, 44 Kenyan and Tanzanian nationals working to support our diplomatic efforts, and more than 200 others going about their daily lives. Thousands more were injured, many seriously.
The intended victims of this vicious crime stood for everything that is right about our country and the world: Americans and Africans working together for peace and progress and a better future. They were good people, taken from us precisely because they were doing good.
Terrorists murdered these men and women and tore the hearts of those who loved them. But their violence could not and did not destroy the ideals for which their victims stood. Instead, we have only intensified our commitment to fundamental values: democracy and human rights, justice and tolerance.
Their violence could not and did not damage America's bonds with Kenya, Tanzania, and the other striving nations of Africa. Instead, our Governments and peoples worked hand in hand to respond to the tragedy, and we remain united in our determination that terrorism will not destroy Africa's progress.
Their violence could not and did not make America shrink from the world. Instead of giving in to those who wish us harm, we have stayed engaged to promote freedom and opportunity, fight hunger and disease, build peace and stability, and thereby protect our national interests; and we have intensified the struggle against terrorist violence and strengthened security to protect our people. We have increased pressure on the Taliban and Afghanistan to deliver suspects in the Embassy bombings. Working with our friends abroad, we have tracked down, arrested, and indicted key suspects. And we will not rest until justice is done.
The terrorists who bombed our Embassies could not and did not erase the lives of selflessness, courage, and joy that these 12 proud Americans lived. Today their names are inscribed at the State Department, so that all who pass through its halls will be reminded of them and their good deeds: Sergeant Jesse Nathan Aliganga; Julian Bartley, Sr.; Julian Bartley, Jr.; Jean Dalizu; Molly Huckaby Hardy; Sergeant Kenneth Hobson; Prabhi Guptara Kavaler; Arlene Kirk; Dr. Mary Louise Martin; Ann Michelle O'Connor; Senior Master Sergeant Sherry Lynn Olds; Uttamlal "Tom" Shah.
We remember their contributions, their sacrifice, and the happiness they brought to those who knew them, and we will remember our obligation to all the men and women who serve our country overseas and to their families, to help them do their jobs and live their lives in the face of peril and to reward their service and faith in America with our gratitude and support.
The struggle against violent hate and for a peaceful and tolerant world is far from over. But in the end, we will prevail against terrorism, because the spirited dedication of men and women like those who perished last August 7th lives on among people of good will all over the world. No bullet or bomb can ever destroy it.
  