
    Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Senator John Edwards released the following statement about today's new National Intelligence Estimate report on Iraq.
"As today's new National Intelligence Estimate reveals, the violence in Iraq remains high, attempts to reconcile the political factions have failed, and the political leaders remain 'unable to govern effectively.'
"It is more obvious now than ever before that Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is not doing a good enough job leading his country. Job performance matters in a democracy. Iraqis should replace al-Maliki with a leader more capable of unifying the country's warring factions and achieving the political solution that will stabilize Iraq. However, American policymakers must focus on comprehensive solutions, not individual band-aids. And they must avoid the conventional Washington-style decisions that created the Iraq mess in the first place.
"We need bold change and real solutions in Iraq, not more of the same. The fact is that just switching one leader for another, when the country is in a state of turmoil, will not alone solve the problems there. Even worse, if individuals become the focus, our approach will become less comprehensive, more ad hoc, and possibly more likely to fail. The entire Iraqi government is failing its responsibility to bring about a political solution to end the sectarian violence that is plaguing Iraq. Unfortunately, as long as President Bush pursues his failed military strategy, Iraqi leaders have a ready excuse to avoid responsibility. We need to force them to take responsibility, and the best way to do that is to leave.
"I am the only candidate to call for an immediate withdrawal of 40,000 to 50,000 troops, to jump-start all parties to let go of the crutch of the American military and start working on a real countrywide political solution. Congress also must have complete information about a political solution well in advance of the end of October, when they will again have the opportunity to use their Constitutional funding power to force the president to change course.
"I am also calling today for an immediate diplomatic offensive from the Bush Administration. This 'diplomatic surge' must begin with an 'Iraqi Stability Conference' that would include high-level meetings by American and allied diplomats with all leading Iraqi Parliamentarians, sectarian leaders, the governments of both Iran and Syria, and leaders in Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Jordan, and Kuwait. These meetings should be aimed at real commitments of how these parties will contribute to a long-term comprehensive plan to stabilize the country."
  