
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
James B. Lockhart III of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, and a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, each for a four year term.
During the George W. Bush Administration, Mr. James B. Lockhart served as the Principal Deputy Commissioner of the Social Security Administration, Secretary to the Trustees of Social Security, and Member of the President's Management Council. Mr. Lockhart also led the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Federal Housing Finance Agency, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, and Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Additionally, he served on the Troubled Asset Relief Program Oversight Board. During his time in the private sector, he held senior financial positions in oil, insurance, and banking firms. Mr. Lockhart is a graduate of Yale University and Harvard Business School.
Ronald D. Vitiello of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement at the Department of Homeland Security.
Mr. Ronald D. Vitiello currently serves as United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement Deputy Director and Senior Official Performing the Duties of Director. Prior to this role, Mr. Vitiello served as United States Customs and Border Protection Acting Deputy Commissioner. More than 30 years ago, Mr. Vitiello began his career in Laredo, Texas as Border Patrol agent – a member of Class 174. Mr. Vitiello's experience in law enforcement is extensive, having been assigned to the Operations Division of the former Department of Homeland Security Border and Transportation Security Directorate, Chief Patrol Agent in Swanton, VT, and Chief Patrol agent of the Rio Grande Valley in Texas.
  