
    Mr. Mayor and members of the Assembly, distinguished members of government, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to again be in the "White City" on this occasion, as a resident of the White House.
Twelve years ago, Mrs. Ford and I were privileged and honored to be in Belgrade. At that time, I was a member of the Interparliamentary Union. As a delegate to this international gathering, we were formally received not only by the people of Belgrade but we were entertained and equally made welcome by the delegates from your parliament. As a member of the American delegation, I participated in the various activities and speeches that were made in your parliament building.
Equally important, Mrs. Ford and I had an opportunity to visit Skopje and also to visit Dubrovnik.
I would like to say with great emphasis, we found in our 10 days in Yugoslavia the great warmth and cordiality of the people of Yugoslavia. We saw the culture and read about the tradition of your great country. And as the mayor has pointed out, the long, long history of relations between the United States and Yugoslavia has been a building block for the progress that has taken place in the last 10 and 15 years.
This is a firm foundation that has been expanded by people-to-people exchanges, by officials from communities in Yugoslavia visiting officials and communities in the United States and vice versa. Of course, the personal contacts between top officials in your government and in mine have made our bilateral relations better and better. The working together by your government and mine on many, many international problems has made the world a safer place in which to live.
I therefore say to you, Mr. Mayor, and your associates in the Assembly, how grateful I am for this beautiful golden plaque. And I thank you for the hospitality extended to me, my wife, and our son Jack.
And on behalf of the American people, I invite you and all of your associates to come to the United States to see and hear from our people on our Bicentennial anniversary.
Thank you again. I am deeply grateful.
  