
    
  FORMER U.S. SENATE MAJORITY LEADER TRENT LOTT THINKS JOHN KASICH SHOULD BE PRESIDENT

Cites Kasich's Budget & National Security Experience as Essential for the Next President
Today former U.S. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-MS) endorsed Ohio Governor John Kasich for President, pointing to his success in putting conservative values to work to balance the budget in Washington and Ohio, as well as his deep national security policy experience and commitment to strengthening our military. He will serve as a National Co-Chair on Kasich's campaign.
"I've known John Kasich a long time and watched with pride and admiration as, time and again, he's shown the world what conservative ideas can do to strengthen economies and make our country more secure. His leadership on the House Budget Committee was essential to getting the federal budget balanced and he's applied that same approach in Ohio and it's brought his state back to life. We need his keen budget mind in the White House to help get our federal budget reined in. His long experience on national security and foreign policy is just as critical, and his call for a stronger military—especially a stronger Navy, and better allied relationships will help make our country safer as the world only becomes more dangerous. I'm proud to join his team and I look forward to doing all I can to help him take back White House and strengthening our great nation," said Lott.
Lott served Mississippi for 35 years in Congress: 16 years in the U.S. House and 19 years in the U.S. Senate, and was elected by his colleagues to the positions of House Minority Whip, Senate Minority Whip, Senate Majority Whip, Senate Minority Leader and Senate Majority Leader. He worked closely with seven different presidents and has played a leadership role in every major public policy issue of the past three decades.
Lott's announcement today is Kasich's second major endorsement by a Southern leader in a week, attesting to the broadening reach of Kasich's conservative message to balance the budget, strengthen the military and bring Americans together. Last week Kasich was endorsed by Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley, the only Southern governor to endorse in the Republican contest.
"Trent is a friend whom I respect and whose leadership has been of enormous benefit to our country. He's got a keen policy mind with experience across the full scope of federal issues and political wisdom that's been honed in the trenches. I'm humbled that he's on our team and excited about the work we're going to be able to do together to win this race and begin lifting up our nation for everyone," said Kasich.
  