
    
  Sen. Cruz Names Becky Gerritson, Chad Mathis, and Ann Eubank Chairmen

HOUSTON, Texas – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today announced his Alabama Leadership Team, which includes a group of 20 grassroots leaders and activists. Led by Becky Gerritson, Chad Mathis, and Ann Eubank will contribute to building Cruz's support in the state.
This Sunday, Sen. Cruz will travel to several cities during his "Cruz Country" bus tour in Alabama including Birmingham, Pelham, and Huntsville. Event schedule may be found at https://www.tedcruz.org/cruzcountry/.
"America needs a leader who is bold as a lion and will seek justice and always speak the truth, one who respects the rule of law and our US constitution. We need a leader who will confidently rebuke our enemies both foreign and domestic. One who appreciates and supports our military. We need a leader of integrity who seeks wise council and who will maintain unity and order. One who believes in America's greatness and will do his utmost to preserve and further it... that man is Ted Cruz," said Co-Chair Becky Gerritson.
"Ted Cruz is the courageous conservative we need to lead this country. He has stood and fought for every issue that is important to Americans. Trying to stop the train wreck that is Obamacare, defending our liberties, and fighting back against the Washington Cartel. I am proud to support him and be a part of this team," said Co-Chair Chad Mathis.
"Ted Cruz has proven that he will stand for 'we the people' against those who are in favor of bigger government and the erosion of our rights," said Alabama Co-Chair Ann Eubank. "He is unafraid and we need more like him."
"I am incredibly excited and optimistic to announce this group of courageous conservatives to lead and create a grassroots coalition in Alabama. Alabama is vital in our fight to make this country great again. I am honored to have their support as well as their help spreading our message in Alabama and across the nation," said Sen. Cruz.
The Cruz for President Alabama Leadership Team includes:
State Co-Chair Becky Gerritson
Becky is the Co-Founder and President of the Wetumpka TEA Party(WTP). She has been a leader in bringing numerous Alabama TEA Parties and other liberty groups together to combat abuses of state and federal government. She is the National Grassroots Coordinator for Grassroots for Victory USA. In that role she is helping to unite conservative grassroots groups all across the country via their "Let's Put 'US' Back in USA" national tour. The tour is crisscrossing the United States from August 2015-November 2016. She is an active member of the Stop Common Core Task Force in Alabama and also works to promote parental rights in America. In June 2013, she garnered national attention after delivering her impassioned congressional testimony about IRS abuses of the WTP. She is a frequent guest on FOX News and FOX Business and multiple conservative talk radio programs across the country. She travels the nation and speaks to audiences encouraging them to stand up for our freedom of speech and religious liberty.
State Co-Chair Chad Mathis
Mathis is Chairman of The Alabama Federation for Children, Mathis is a Former Congressional Candidate in the 6th district. Mathis attended medical school at Indiana University and specialized in orthopedic sports medicine. He has worked as a physician for multiple professional sports teams. Mathis is a founder of Alabama Bone and Joint Clinic and a managing partner. Mathis is the founding board chairman of the Alabama Coalition for Charter Schools. He also volunteered on Ted Cruz's successful 2012 Senate campaign.
State Co-Chair Ann Eubank
Eubank is the State Co-Chair of the Rainy Day Patriots Tea Party, one of the first Tea Party organizations in the nation. She also leads the Alabama Legislative Watchdogs, and has spent time in Montgomery reporting on the Legislature's actions and how it affects tax paying voters. As a member of the Stop Common Core Alabama Taskforce, Ann has spent the past four years researching Common Core and its financial aspects. She has been married for 47 years to Jim Eubank and has two daughters, one grandson, and one granddaughter.
Brian Andrews- Huntsville, AL, conservative activist
Lisa Andrews- Huntsville, AL, conservative activist
Christy Bowman- Tuscumbia, AL- Tea Party Patriots of North Alabama- Member
Ed Bowman- Tuscumbia, AL- North Alabama Tea Party- Vice President
Lou Campomemosi, Ph.D- Fairhope, AL- Marine & Gulf War veteran
Zan Green- Alabama Rainy Day Patriots- Founder
Victor Hallman- Clanton, AL- Alabama Legislative Watchdogs- Member
Jodi McDade- Equality, AL- Coosa County Republican Party- Chairman
Brandon Merced- Rockford, AL- Columnist for Coosa County News/ Student at Auburn University, Graduate of Central High School Coosa County
Mike Parson- Gurley, AL- Retired U.S. Air Force colonel and former aerospace instructor, Save Alabama's values and Education
Stephen Phillips- Florence, AL- Tea Party Patriots of North Alabama- President
Deborah Rangel- Trussville, AL- Trussville Republican Women's Club- Secretary
Dawn Ray- Birmingham, AL- Shelby County Republican Women's Club- Vice President
Sidney Raystyles- Florence, AL- Tea Party Patriots of North Alabama- Member
Mark Scott- Oxford, AL- Chilton County Tea Party- Chairman
Normandie Shirley- Chelsea, AL- Shelby County Republican Women- President
Foy Smith- Rockford, AL, conservative activist
  