
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
On November 16, 1990, in light of the dangers of the proliferation of chemical and biological weapons, President Bush issued Executive Order No. 12735, and declared a national emergency under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.). Under section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), the national emergency terminates on the anniversary date of its declaration unless the President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice of its continuation. On November 11, 1992, the previous Administration extended the emergency, noting that the proliferation of chemical and biological weapons continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States.
Section 204 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and section 401(c) of the National Emergencies Act contain periodic reporting requirements regarding activities taken and money spent pursuant to an emergency declaration. This report is made pursuant to those provisions. Additional information on chemical and biological weapons proliferation is contained in the report to the Congress provided pursuant to the Chemical and Biological Weapons Control and Warfare Elimination Act of 1991.
The United States has continued to control the export of items with potential use in chemical or biological weapons or in unmanned delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction through the 3 export control regulations issued under the Enhanced Proliferation Control Initiative. The United States has also continued to address the problem of the proliferation and use of chemical and biological weapons in its international diplomatic efforts.
In January 1993 the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) was opened for signature in Paris. In addition to banning chemical weapons among its parties, the Convention will also require parties to restrict, and ultimately cut off, trade in certain chemical weapons-related chemicals with nonparties. The United States was an original signatory of the Convention and has sought to encourage other countries to sign as well. To date, over 145 nations have signed the CWC, which is expected to enter into force in early 1995.
The United States is playing a leading role in the work of the CWC Preparatory Commission, which is meeting in The Hague to work out the procedural and administrative details for implementing the Convention.
The membership of the Australia Group (AG) of countries cooperating against chemical and biological weapons proliferation has grown from 22 to 25, with the group admitting Argentina, Hungary, and Iceland to membership at its December 1992 meeting. At the same meeting, all AG-member countries agreed to impose export controls on a common list of biological organisms, toxins, and equipment.
In December 1992, Hungary hosted a seminar on Australia Group practices for non-Australia Group countries from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. The AG plans further outreach programs to nonmembers. Progress also was made in the steps taken by countries outside the Australia Group to expand chemical weapons export controls. India announced that it would control all chemicals on the Chemical Weapons Convention schedules even before the CWC enters into force, and China indicated that it would do the same.
Pursuant to section 401(c) of the National Emergencies Act, there were no additional expenses directly attributable to the exercise of authorities conferred by the declaration of the national emergency.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  