
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate Kevin Joseph McGuire to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he is currently the Director of Senior Assignments in the Bureau of Human Resources. He served as Diplomat-in-Residence at Howard University from 1997 to 1999. From 1994 to 1997, he was Director of Economic, Social and Human Rights Affairs in the Bureau of International Organization Affairs and served as Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Global Affairs. He has served as Economic Officer in Rome and Seoul, as well as Deputy Chief of Mission in Gabon. McGuire earned an undergraduate degree from Holy Cross College, a Masters degree from Indiana University, a Masters in Public Administration from Harvard University and a diploma in national strategy from the National War College.
The President intends to nominate John Marshall to be Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development for Management. Marshall is currently a Principal with IBM Consulting, and he was Senior Advisor to the Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs from 1995 to 1997. From 1988 to 1990, he served as Chief Executive Officer for the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation and from 1986 to 1988, he was Deputy Administrator for Management, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service in the Department of Agriculture. Marshall was a member of the Financial Management Staff at the Office of Management and Budget from 1984 to 1986, and he served as Special Assistant to the Deputy Under Secretary for Management at the Department of Education from 1982 to 1984. He received both his undergraduate and business degrees from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Constance Berry Newman to be Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development for the Bureau of Africa. She is a co-founder and partner of UpStart Partners, and from 1992 to 2000, she served as Under Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. From 1989 to 1992, Newman was Director of the Office of Personnel Management. She has served in a consulting role to South African Leaders on Affirmative Action and Diversity, to the World Bank in South Africa and to the World Bank for the Government of Lesotho. She has earned numerous awards for her service including the Smithsonian Institutions Joseph Henry Medal, and was named Washingtonian of the Year in 1998. Newman earned an undergraduate degree from Bates College and graduate degree from the University of Minnesota.
The President intends to nominate Arden Bement, Jr. to be Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology at the Department of Commerce. He has served at Purdue University since 1993, first as a Professor of Engineering and Director of the Midwest Superconductivity Consortium and then as a Professor of Nuclear Engineering and head of Purdues School of Nuclear Engineering. From 1980 to 1993, he was with TRW, Inc. as Vice President for Technical Resources from 1980 to 1988, and then as Vice President for Science and Technology from 1988 to 1993. A former member of the U.S. Army and Army Reserves, he is a graduate of the Colorado School of Mines, received a Masters degree from the University of Idaho and a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
  