
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE ON AUGUST 2, 2007:
A. Paul Anderson, of Florida, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2012. (Reappointment)
Dennis W. Carlton, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Katherine Baicker, resigned.
Julie Fisher Cummings, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring September 14, 2011, vice William A. Schambra, term expired.
Cynthia Dyer, of Texas, to be Director of the Violence Against Women Office, Department of Justice, vice Diane M. Stuart, resigned.
John A. Gastright, of South Carolina, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as United States Coordinator for Afghanistan, Department of State.
Mark D. Gearan, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring December 1, 2010. (Reappointment)
Carl B. Kress, of California, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2011, vice Steven Robert Blust, resigned.
Tom Osborne, of Nebraska, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2012, vice Cynthia Boich, term expiring.
Jeffrey William Runge, of North Carolina, to be Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and Chief Medical Officer, Department of Homeland Security. (New Position)
Alan D. Solomont, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2009. (Reappointment)
Margaret Spellings, of Texas, to be designated a Representative of the United States of America to the Thirty-fourth Session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization.
Donna N. Williams, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2009, vice Marc Racicot, term expired.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE ON AUGUST 3, 2007:
Richard E. Hoagland, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
  