
    Graham: "Allowing The Iranians To Inspect Their Own Nuclear Sites...Is Like Allowing The Inmates To Run The Jail."
In light of the Associated Press reports that the International Atomic Energy Association (IAEA) has agreed to allow Iran to inspect its own nuclear sites under the undisclosed side deal, Senator Lindsey Graham leads the 2016 field in warning against a bad deal with Iran and a dangerous secret side deal, as highlighted by multiple outlets including FOX News and The Fiscal Times.
Releasing a statement following the reports, Senator Graham asked President Obama, "How exactly will the world know when Tehran cheats, if we are dependent on the Iranians to tell us?" In addition, he addressed the alarming details of the secret side deal in-person with The Des Moines Register at a "No Nukes For Iran" discussion in Ottumwa, Iowa.

Ottumwa Courier: "Graham Blasts 'Secret' Iran Deal"(Matt Milner, "Graham Blasts 'Secret' Iran Deal," Ottumwa Courier, 08/19/15)
"Graham Slams Iran's Side Deal With Inspection Agency"(Matthew Thielke, "Graham Slams Iran's 'Side Deal with Inspection Agency," KTVO, 08/19/15)
Wall Street Journal: "The Country That Lied For Years About Its Nuclear Weapons Will Now Be Trusted To Come Clean" (Editorial Board, "Iran's Secret Self-Inspections," WSJ, 08/19/15)
FOX News: "Opposition To The Iranian Nuclear Deal Was Stoked Wednesday By A Bombshell Report""Capitol Hill opposition to the Iranian nuclear deal was stoked Wednesday by a bombshell report that Tehran will be allowed to use its own experts to inspect one of the country's most controversial nuclear sites. 'Allowing the Iranians to inspect their own nuclear sites, particularly a notorious military site, is like allowing the inmates to run the jail,' Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., a presidential candidate, said in a statement." (Staff, "'Dangerous farce': Lawmakers rip Iran deal over report Tehran can use own nuke inspectors," FOX News, 08/19/15)
The Fiscal Times: "[Graham] Doubled-Down On A Previous Vow To Block Funding For The IAEA""Sen. Lindsey Graham (SC), who chairs the Senate Appropriations subpanel that funds U.S. international efforts, doubled-down on a previous vow to block funding for the IAEA until Congress gets access to the agency's so-called 'side deals' with Iran." (Martin Matishak, "Report Confirms One of the GOP's Worst Fears About Iran Nuclear Deal," The Fiscal Times, 08/20/15)
KTVO: "[Graham] Spoke To A Full House With A Single Focus... 'No Nukes For Iran'""...Sen. Lindsey Graham was the latest to visit with an afternoon stop in Ottumwa. The GOP candidate from South Carolina spoke to a full house with a single focus in his message: 'No nukes for Iran.' The senator said he is running for president because having a sound foreign policy is crucial for America to thrive." (Matthew Thielke, "Graham Slams Iran's 'Side Deal with Inspection Agency," KTVO, 08/19/15)
  