
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The United States is a country in which people of many different heritages are bound together by a common dedication to democratic principles. The mosaic of ethnic diversity invigorates our culture and strengthens our society. For this reason, the Polish American Congress and other Polish American clubs and organizations across the country are celebrating August 1984 as Polish American Heritage Month.
The millions of Americans who trace their ancestry to Poland have made vast contributions to our Nation. Tadeusz Kosciuszko and Kazimierz Pulaski crossed the ocean to help the American colonies win their independence. Throughout the last two centuries, thousands of Polish Americans have fought bravely to help preserve that independence. Polish Americans have also made outstanding contributions in the arts, the sciences, and in industry and agriculture. Through these efforts they have helped in innumerable ways to establish a strong and free United States.
Americans of Polish descent take great pride in and honor two great world leaders who have their roots in Poland. Both Pope John Paul II and Lech Walesa, the Nobel Peace Laureate and founder of the Solidarity Labor Federation, have gained the world's respect and admiration. Solidarity has been continuing the Polish people's struggle for freedom since its founding in August 1980.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 577, has designated August 1984 as "Polish American Heritage Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this occasion.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim August 1984 as Polish American Heritage Month, and I urge all Americans to celebrate this month with appropriate observances.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 17th day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  