
    Donald J. Trump for President, Inc., the Republican National Committee (RNC), and their authorized joint fundraising committees announced today that combined they raised over $165 million in July, surpassing the billion dollar threshold with a cycle to date haul of $1.1 billion. The joint re-election effort continues their cash on hand advantage, with an over $300 million war chest.
July's massive haul is not only a record for the month, but also eclipses the total raised in any single month of 2016. July was also the largest online fundraising month ever for the re-election effort.
"The enthusiasm behind President Trump's re-election continues to grow as July's massive fundraising totals prove," said Bill Stepien, Trump 2020 campaign manager. "Voters express their support for President Trump in many different ways and donating to his campaign is one of the most personal, because they feel invested in his successes and the future success of the country. The President's support continues to increase while Joe Biden just posted a down fundraising month from his basement."
"With 90 days until victory, our teams and supporters are in overdrive working to re-elect President Trump and Republicans up and down the ballot," said RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel. "From Maine to Nevada, the enthusiasm we are seeing from voters only continues to grow as Americans know the critical choice they face in November – a lawless cancel culture under Joe Biden, or a Great American Comeback under President Trump."
Not only are the Trump campaign and the RNC raising record sums, but they continue to invest record amounts in powering the largest field program and data operation in Party history. The RNC recently announced the hiring of an additional 300 field staffers, bringing the total Trump Victory operation to over 1,500 – double that of Biden's field operation. With a grassroots army of 1.8 million Americans, the Trump Victory field effort is on pace to surpass the 2.2 million volunteers that helped re-elect President Obama in 2012.
  