
    Newark, NJ — Today, Cory Booker earned the endorsement of Georgia State Senator Lester Jackson and Assemblyman David Dreyer.

State Sen. Lester Jackson is a Georgia State Senator and the Chairman Emeritus of the Georgia Legislative Black Caucus.
Rep. David Dreyer is a member of the Georgia House of Representatives representing Atlanta.

State Sen. Lester Jackson and Assemblyman David Dreyer both credit Cory's plan to confront hate crimes and white supremacist violence as a reason they chose to endorse.
These endorsements come a day after Cory earned the first legislative endorsement of any 2020 presidential candidate in Wisconsin as well as the endorsement from the former president of the Reno-Sparks NAACP.
Atlanta Journal-Constitution: 2 Georgia lawmakers endorse Booker's White House bid
U.S. Sen. Cory Booker picked up the endorsement Tuesday from two prominent Democratic lawmakers, giving the presidential hopeful his highest-profile supporters in Georgia so far. 
State Sen. Lester Jackson of Savannah and state Rep. David Dreyer of Atlanta both said they backed Booker's bid for the White House in part because of his recently-unveiled plan to combat hate crimes, violence and the rise of white nationalism. 
Jackson, the past chair of the Georgia Legislative Black Caucus, called the New Jersey Democrat the "antidote that America sorely needs at this point to help us recover from the negative effects of divisive rhetoric and action."
"He's a unifier and is uniquely qualified to both bring in new voters and motivate those who stayed home in 2016," added Jackson, a dentist who is a former member of the Democratic National Committee. 
Dreyer, an attorney elected in 2016, credited Booker with helping to build support for legislation that Gov. Brian Kemp signed into law this year that bans Georgia corrections officials from shackling pregnant inmates. The bill was modeled after federal legislation Booker co-sponsored.
"We are at a crucial inflection point in our country, and we urgently need a leader with both a deep moral conviction and a record of improving the lives of our brothers and sisters from every walk of life," said Dreyer. "I believe Sen. Booker is that leader, and I am proud to enthusiastically endorse him."

  