
    Wayne Abernathy, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Sheila C. Bair.
Antonio Candia Amador, of California, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of California for the term of four years, vice Jerry J. Enomoto, term expired.
Wendy Jean Chamberlin, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Lori A. Forman.
Rosemary M. Collyer, of Maryland, to be United States District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Thomas Penfield Jackson, retired.
Seth Cropsey, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the International Broadcasting Bureau, Broadcasting Board of Governors. (New Position)
Charles E. Erdmann, of Colorado, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for the term of fifteen years to expire on the date prescribed by law, vice Eugene R. Sullivan, term expired.
Gregory L. Frost, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio, vice George C. Smith, retired.
Mark E. Fuller, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Alabama, vice Ira DeMent, retired.
Ruth Y. Goldway, of California, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission for the term expiring November 22, 2008. (Reappointment)
Joseph R. Guccione, of New York, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of New York for the term of four years, vice Russell John Qualliotine.
Richard J. Holwell, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Barrington D. Parker, Jr., elevated.
Joseph Huggins, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Botswana.
Thomas Dyson Hurlburt, Jr., of Florida, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Florida for the term of four years, vice Don R. Moreland, term expired.
Bruce R. James, of Nevada, to be Public Printer, vice Michael F. DiMario, resigned.
Robert B. Kugler, of New Jersey, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Joseph E. Irenas, retired.
Carol Chien-Hua Lam, of California, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of California for the term of four years, vice Alan D. Bersin, term expired.
Jose L. Linares, of New Jersey, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Alfred J. Lechner, Jr., resigned.
Christina Pharo, of Florida, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Florida for the term of four years, vice James A. Tassone.
Dennis Arthur Williamson, of Florida, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Florida for the term of four years, vice James W. Lockley, term expired.
Freda L. Wolfson, of New Jersey, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Nicholas H. Politan, retired.
  