
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced it will launch a new radio ad in New Hampshire and Iowa on Wednesday entitled, "Fence."
This ad highlights one of Giuliani's 12 Commitments to the American People which calls for ending illegal immigration, securing our borders, and identifying every non-citizen in our nation.
"Rudy is the only candidate with a plan to end illegal immigration and a record of achieving results to back it up," said Director of Strategy Brent Seaborn. "As Mayor of New York, he accomplished what people often said was impossible. Rudy is the only candidate with the executive leadership experience to solve the tough problems."
Script and audio link are below.
Script for "Fence" (Radio 60 seconds):
AUDIO LINK
Voice Over: "Here's Rudy Giuliani"
Mayor Giuliani: "It frustrates me that if someone comes here illegally, in addition to everything else that's involved in that, if they commit a crime, we don't throw them out of the country. As the mayor of New York I wanted to see if I could get the Immigration Service to help me. Let's see if you could get rid of the drug dealers who are coming out of jail. It makes no sense — after they have been in jail for selling drugs in the United States — we now have to keep them in the United States. They couldn't do it because they had other people lined up to throw out. They had like a professor who over-stayed his visa. I had a drug dealer who had maybe killed people. A person who comes here illegally and commits a crime should be thrown out of the country. People that come in illegally we gotta stop. You stop illegal immigration by building a fence, a physical fence and then a technological fence. You then hire enough Border Patrol so they can respond in a timely way. And then, if anybody becomes a citizen, we should make certain that they can read English, write English and speak English, because this is an English speaking country."
Voice Over: "Paid for by Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee Incorporated. Visit joinrudy2008.com."
Mayor Giuliani: "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message."
  