
    CEDAR RAPIDS, IA -- Governor Bill Richardson today clearly defined how, as President, he will strongly support research to fight cancer and other deadly diseases and work to ensure that health care in the US focuses more on prevention. The Governor appeared earlier today at the Lance Armstrong Foundation LIVESTRONG candidate forum in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
"Cancer still takes too many of our brothers and sisters, our mothers and fathers, and our sons and daughters. It is always too many. And so our fight goes on," Governor Richardson said. "I believe that we have to start by focusing on prevention. We also need to make sure that more people are screened for cancer and that more people have access to treatment. That means we need to make sure that every American has access to quality, affordable health care."
Richardson outlined his vision on the war against cancer and how the government would pay for it. Richardson's plan includes a cabinet-level Cancer Czar to oversee the federal government's efforts to battle the disease.
"This president wants to focus our efforts on a surge in the failed war in Iraq. The real surge we need is in the war on cancer," Governor Richardson said. "It should be a war that is not just more research funds but also involves presidential leadership. I think this war on cancer should be bipartisan. The American people want somebody to inspire them. If I am elected president, and I say we are going to spend this amount on cancer, I think the American people will respond."
"Nobody asks about how much we spend on the war in Iraq. I would make sure that pharmaceutical companies negotiate for lower prices on drugs. I would mandate cost controls on insurance companies. I would mandate a balanced budget amendment. Congressional earmarks: $25 billion, gone. I would get rid of corporate welfare."
Richardson detailed his successful efforts to get a humane medical marijuana bill passed in New Mexico and criticized the Bush Administration for standing in the way.
"The Bush Administration is trying to go after Department of Health employees in New Mexico. You know what? We are going to fight them on this," Governor Richardson said. "They should be going after drug dealers instead of people trying to help ease others' pain. That shows misplaced priorities in this administration and in this country."
Richardson also outlined his plan for universal health care.
"I have a plan that focuses on prevention and streamlining bureaucracy. We spend over $2 trillion a year on health care in this country, and we all know we are not getting what we have paid for," Richardson said. "My plan builds on existing coverage to expand access without creating new bureaucracies or new taxes. It is not a one-size-fits-all plan. Americans deserve better than that."
Please find background documents on Governor Richardson's health care plan here:
http://www.richardsonforpresident.com/issues/healthcare.
  