
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Our Nation's fourth President, James Madison, once observed that "A popular Government, without popular information, or the means of acquiring it, is but a Prologue to a Farce or a Tragedy; or, perhaps both. Knowledge will forever govern ignorance: And a people who mean to be their own Governors, must arm themselves with the power which knowledge gives." President Madison knew that only an educated and informed public can keep a free and democratic government.
Throughout our Nation's history, libraries have been recognized as an invaluable educational tool. Whether located in community buildings, schools, or other academic institutions, libraries are an ideal way to share both the collected wisdom of the ages and recently acquired technical and scientific knowledge. Repositories of literature, information, and ideas, libraries serve as centers of culture and learning in every community.
At their local library, children as well as adults can find books and materials to meet their special needs and interests. Whether reading for pleasure or studying for a particular purpose, a young scholar can discover a wealth of information -- and hours of enjoyment -- at the library. Libraries also provide books suitable for parents to share with little ones who are still unable to read by themselves. In fact, reading together holds rewards for the entire family.
Parents should introduce their children to their local library and encourage them to visit it often. They should ensure that their children sign up for a library card, and they should set a positive example by using their own.
If knowledge can be considered the greatest of all riches, then a library card is a key to a lasting treasure.
In recognition of our Nation's libraries and the importance of owning and using a library card, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 231, has designated September 1989 as "National Library Card Sign-Up Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 1989 as National Library Card Sign-Up Month. I call upon the libraries, schools, and people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  