
    Las Vegas, Nevada – Senator John Edwards today released the following statement in response to the Culinary Union's tentative agreement with MGM Mirage.
I am excited by the announcement of a tentative settlement reached today between the Culinary Local 226 and MGM Mirage.
This tentative agreement addresses many of the issues that workers here in Las Vegas and across America both care about and deserve- living wages, family health care, a secure retirement package, a pathway to a better job, and a deal that provides for union representation for future workers.
This pact further strengthens a collective bargaining model with card check neutrality as its foundation, serving workers and employers alike. The Vegas model for labor has spurred strong corporate growth, a vibrant local union, smart training programs, and a workforce that brings value and enjoys real rights, dignity, and security.
I salute the strength and determination of the Culinary membership. I've met many of them while fighting for a higher minimum wage in Nevada, and more recently in this contract battle. Their solidarity and conviction brought this negotiation to resolution. They have once again proven to be excellent leaders for the Vegas Dream in which hospitality and service sector workers can be part of the middle class.
I celebrate the hard work they do every day to make Las Vegas a destination city, and for the example of leadership and courage they provide to workers across our great nation.
I also want to recognize the leadership at MGM Mirage, who have joined Harrah's in coming to a common sense agreement with the Culinary. This agreement is yet another illustration that collective bargaining works, not only for workers and companies, but also for the best interest of our economy and for America.
Let me be clear- as these major settlements are announced, I remain steadfast in my support of the Culinary members still seeking fair contracts on the rest of the strip, downtown, and in Reno. I will continue to stand with them, and walk with them if necessary, should they be forced to take action to protect their standards, their families, and their future.
  