
    Hillary Clinton made the following statement in recognition of the two year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina:
"Two years after the national tragedy of Katrina, we still don't have a reliable hurricane protection system. We still haven't rebuilt many schools, hospitals, firehouses or parks. And there are more than 60,000 families living in trailers. We need action by our federal government that leads to real, measurable improvements. We don't need more of the Bush administration incompetence that turned a natural disaster into a national disgrace and an international embarrassment.
"Rebuilding New Orleans is not a local obligation, it is an American obligation. And we must finally begin to fulfill it. As President, that will not just be my goal – but my mission. That's why I've outlined a comprehensive 10-point plan to rebuild the Gulf Coast that would begin the hard work of rebuilding the levees, returning people to their homes, cutting red tape to provide needed services and revamping our emergency response system to ensure that another Katrina cannot happen.
"When the history of Hurricane Katrina is written, it will say that the people of this country rallied around New Orleans. While our government stumbled at first, we ultimately found our way. That out of the sludge and ashes and destruction, we rebuilt the Gulf Coast -- stronger, prouder, and more lasting than ever before."
In May, Clinton outlined a 10-point Gulf Coast Recovery Plan, that would:

Elevate the Gulf Coast Rebuilding Director
Cut Red Tape
Attract workers to rebuild New Orleans and the region
Build a reliable hurricane protection system to stop another Katrina
Expand affordable housing
Combat rising crime and give first responders needed tools
Build 21st Century schools in New Orleans
Revitalize a lagging healthcare system
Promote smart development
Revamp federal disaster response so we are ready next time.

To read Clinton's full plan, visit: http://www.hillaryclinton.com/feature/katrina/
  