
    TULSA, Okla. — Texas Gov. Rick Perry today received the endorsement of U.S. Senator James Inhofe (R-Okla.) in his campaign for president of the United States.
"I've known Gov. Rick Perry for a long time, and I am endorsing him because I know he is the strongest leader to run against and defeat President Obama. After three years of Obama's liberal agenda, Rick Perry is the right person to get America working again and turn our country in the right direction," said Sen. Inhofe. "His record as Texas' governor proves that he knows you grow the economy with less government, by controlling spending, cutting taxes, reforming tort laws and reducing regulatory red tape for employers. One of the important areas is reigning in over-regulation. Rick Perry is strong against the Cap and Trade tax that would further devastate our economy and do nothing but move jobs overseas to places like China. He is one of the few who understand this, and he won't cave in to the extreme environmental activists or the Hollywood crowd and their liberal agenda. We can't afford four more years of the Obama malaise. Look at what Rick Perry has done in his state. He is going to be a great president!"
"As one of the leading conservative voices in the United States Senate, Sen. Inhofe will be an important asset to this campaign, and I am humbled to receive his support," said. Gov. Perry. "I am proud to partner with him as I travel the nation to share my vision to get America working again."
Sen. Inhofe was elected to the U.S. Senate in 1994 and is ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, and member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He was recently voted the #1 Conservative in the U.S. Senate by National Journal and "Most Outstanding Conservative U.S. Senator" by Human Events Newspaper and the American Conservative Union. Sen. Inhofe formerly served as congressman from Oklahoma's First Congressional District, mayor of Tulsa, minority leader of the Oklahoma Senate and member of the Oklahoma House of Representatives. He spent 30 years as a small businessman in aviation, real estate, and insurance, and served in the U.S. Army.
  