
    First Woman & Longest Serving University President to Co-Chair Nevada Campaign
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of Dr. Carol C. Harter, President Emerita of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV) and Executive Director of the Black Mountain Institute. Harter was also named co-chair of the Nevada campaign, and a member of the Nevada Women's Leadership Council.
"Hillary Clinton is strong, smart, decisive and experienced," said Harter, "as she has proven time and time again - and not just through her work as an elected official. Long before the world knew her name, she had dedicated her life to a path of public service. She'll bring unmatched experience as First Lady and as an outstanding U.S. Senator that make her uniquely ready and able to lead our nation from her first day in office.
As UNLV's first woman and longest-serving president, Carol Harter led a dramatic period of transformation for the young university. During her eleven-year tenure, UNLV created more than 100 new degree programs, added 17 buildings including the award-winning Lied Library, opened its first regional campus and founded Nevada's first professional schools in Law, Architecture and Dental Medicine. Harter also spearheaded the acquisition of land for the Harry Reid Research and Technology Park in southwest Las Vegas, and led efforts to raise a record amount of private funds, pledges and estate and trust expectancies to support the growing university. She is one of the founding presidents of the Mountain West Conference.
Harter currently serves as executive director of the Black Mountain Institute, an international center dedicated to advancing literary and cross-cultural dialogue. Prior to her arrival at UNLV, Harter served as president of the State University of New York (SUNY) at Geneseo for six years, and spent almost 19 years at Ohio University, where she was a faculty member, ombudsman, and served in two vice presidential roles.
Harter serves on the boards of Lewis and Clark and Sophia Palmer, Risk Retention Groups. She also serves on the advisory boards of the Nevada Ballet Theater, Safe Nest, and Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Southern Nevada. A native of New York City, she is the author of numerous journal articles and published papers in English literature and higher education, and has co-authored two books on American writers.
"Carol Harter's dedication and leadership have really changed the educational and cultural landscape of our community," said Clinton Nevada Chair Rory Reid. "She is one of the smartest, hardest-working people I know – and also knows a thing or two about breaking glass ceilings herself. Her experience and strategic thinking will be incredibly valuable to the campaign in Nevada."
  