
    To the Congress of the United States:
Tropical Storm Agnes caused the most widespread destruction and devastation of any natural disaster in the history of the United States. On July 17, 1972, I sent to the Congress a proposal authorizing special disaster recovery measures which would aid victims of Agnes and also of the flood in Rapid City, South Dakota during June 1972.
As I stated in my transmittal message, the need for prompt enactment of these aid proposals, aimed at short and longterm recovery, is extreme and urgent. I asked the Congress then to consider and enact them within seven days. Sixteen days have passed without final Congressional action on the Disaster Recovery Act of 1972. I again urge the Congress to act immediately, because the victims of these disasters desperately need the help these measures would provide. And they need it now.
Today, I am transmitting an amendment which would make private, nonprofit educational institutions eligible for disaster relief grants under the Act. I urge that the Congress consider and enact promptly this amendment, which would authorize reconstruction relief for these institutions comparable to the disaster reconstruction relief already available to public educational institutions.
The Office of Emergency Preparedness estimates that property loss and damage at private non-profit educational institutions in the storm affected areas has exceeded $ 19 million. Many of these institutions have undergone damage so extensive that they would be unable to rebuild facilities or reopen without extraordinary assistance. For example, at one alone, Wilkes College in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, which is not a large or wealthy institution, the storm caused havoc and destruction estimated at several millions of dollars.
The proposal I am transmitting today would provide financial assistance to restore, reconstruct or replace disaster damaged education facilities, supplies and equipment used primarily for nonsectarian educational purposes. I believe this temporary authority is required if we are to meet our public responsibilities equitably and in a just manner.
Again, I cannot stress too strongly that it is essential that the Congress immediately enact the pending disaster relief legislation I have proposed. It is imperative that this massive recovery program begin at once. Millions of Americans--individual homeowners, farmers and city dwellers, small businessmen--are struggling to rebuild their lives in the wake of these natural disasters. They need their Government's help. And they need it now.
RICHARD NIXON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 2, 1972.
  