
    The President. Thank you very much. I want to extend our condolences to the people of El Paso, Texas, and Dayton, Ohio. They're incredible people, and they've been through a lot.
I just want to also thank the law enforcement in both places. The job they've done is incredible. I also want to congratulate them. I mean, nobody could have done what they've done. This could have been—as bad as it was, it could have been so much worse.
I just have to thank them. The job they've done is incredible. They were right on the ball in El Paso; they were there so quickly. And in Dayton, in less than a minute—think of the damage he did in just a short period of time—in less than a minute, the law enforcement acted and killed him. And it would have been unbelievable. It was—it would have been—it was horrible, but it would have been so much worse. It could have been so much worse.
I just want to say that these are two incredible places. We love the people. Hate has no place in our country. And we're going to take care of it.
I spoke with Attorney General Bill Barr at length; I spoke to Christopher Wray, Director of the FBI; I spoke to the Governors—both Governors—and we're doing a lot of work. A lot of people are working right now—a lot of law enforcement people and others. I spoke to Members of Congress about whatever we can do, and a lot of things are being done right now, as we speak.
I'll be making a statement tomorrow sometime. But just on behalf of our First Lady and myself, condolences to all. We have to get it stopped. This has been going on for years—for years and years—in our country. And we have to get it stopped.
So thank you very much. And I will be making a statement tomorrow at about 10 o'clock. And I'll see you there. Thank you all very much.
Q. What will you be doing to make sure this doesn't happen again?
Gun Control/Mental Illness 
Q. What are you going to do about the problem of automatic and semiautomatic——
The President. You have to talk up.
Q. The gun problem, what are you going to do about it? What—how are you going to address it?
The President. We're talking to a lot of people, and a lot of things are in the works and a lot of good things. And we have done much more than most administrations. And it does—it's not—really not talked about very much, but we've done, actually, a lot. But perhaps more has to be done.
But this is also a mental illness problem. If you look at both of these cases, this is mental illness. These are people—really, people that are very, very seriously mentally ill. So a lot of things are happening. A lot of things are happening right now.
And I will see you tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you. Thank you.
Q. Mr. President, Mr. President——
  