
    Pool Reports by Matt Viser, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




August 23, 202308:59 PDT

Out of town pool report #1 / gathered
Good morning from Lake Tahoe, where we have blue skies and temperatures in the mid-50s. We had an earlier call time here, and pool has moved near the home where POTUS is staying.
We have been swept and are awaiting the as-yet unclear movement(s). Stay tuned.



August 23, 202310:19 PDT

Out of town pool report #2 / rolling
POTUS emerged from the neighborhood at 10:14am local, and press van joined the motorcade. We are rolling, heading south with stunning views off to the right of Lake Tahoe. Destination still unknown.



August 23, 202310:57 PDT

Out of town pool report #3 / arrival at shopping center
Motorcade was fairly uneventful, passing Cave Rock and Zephyr Cove (where a few people on a porch gathered to wave), slowing a bit in Round Hill Village (where people stood with phones out), and going past the casinos in Stateline.
We pulled into a shopping center called The Crossings at Tahoe Valley at 10:42am. There’s a range of places here, and we didn’t see which one POTUS entered and are awaiting confirmation on which he is in (including a wellness and fitness studio that has a bit of a security presence). Pool is holding a few doors away at Cuppa Tahoe, a coffee shop and bookstore.
Pool has also inquired on whether POTUS has been briefed about the plane crash in Russia that was said to be carrying Russian mercenary leader Yevgeny Prigozhin. Will update if we get more.



August 23, 202311:22 PDT

Out of town Pool report #4 / POTUS briefed on plane crash
Just got this from the WH:
The President has been briefed on the reported plane crash in Russia.



August 23, 202311:32 PDT

Out of town pool report #5 / POTUS also briefed on Pittsburgh
In addition to the plane crash, pool was also just informed by WH:
The President has also been briefed on reports of the active shooter situation in Pittsburgh



August 23, 202311:41 PDT

Out of town pool report #6 / Pilates and spin class
WH confirms:
"The President, First Lady, and members of their family are taking a Pilates class followed by a spin class"
As pool has been standing nearby outside, we spotted several other family members, including granddaughters Maisy and Naomi, and her husband Peter Neal. At one point, Hunter Biden's young son, Beau, ran along the sidewalk and into the fitness studio.
They are still inside as pool continues holding outside.



August 23, 202312:12 PDT

Out of town pool report #7 / comments on Prigozin
POTUS emerged just after noon and came to speak briefly with reporters.
Asked by Steve Holland about the plane crash, POTUS said: "You may recall, when I was asked about this by you, I said I'd be careful what I rode in. I don't know for a fact what happened but I'm not surprised."
Asked if Putin was behind it: "There's not much that happens in Russia that Putins not behind. But I don't know enough to know the answer. I've been working out for the last hour and a half."
More to come on GOP debate questions.
The family was in pelodog, a Pilates and cycle studio. We are rolling at 12:05pm.



August 23, 202312:18 PDT

Out of town pool report #8 / GOP debate comment
POTUS, asked if he was going to watch the Republican debate: "I'm going to try to see — get as much as I can, yes."
Asked what his expectations were, he smiled broadly and laughed. "I have none."
"Thank you all," he added, and then walked to the car.
He was wearing a blue ballcap, aviators, and a teal sweater. He had what looked to be an iced coffee in his hand.
Several other family members, including those references in an earlier report, came out before POTUS and the First Lady.



August 23, 202312:36 PDT

Out of town pool report #9 / arrival back and lid
Motorcade arrived back near POTUS residence at 12:33pm local.
Also, to correct an earlier detail, with thanks to eagle-eyed Seung Min Kim and her crisp photo: POTUS appeared to have a purple juice or smoothie upon his exit, as opposed to an iced coffee.
And with that we have a lid.



August 23, 202312:50 PDT

Out of town pool report #10 / smoothie update
We have what is hopefully the last update on what the president was holding when he emerged from his Pilates and spin classes:
The WH says that he had a banana blueberry smoothie.




  