
    The President today announced that he will nominate Donald F. McHenry to be United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations. Ambassador McHenry previously served as U.S. Deputy Representative to the U.N. Security Council.
Coming from a background of extensive study of international law and organizations, he joined the Department of State in 1963. For 8 years, he served in various positions there that were related to U.S. policy on questions arising in international organizations. In 1966 he received the Department of State's Superior Honor Award.
In 1971 Ambassador McHenry went on leave from the State Department to serve as a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution and an International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations. During that period, he also was a professorial lecturer in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University.
Ambassador McHenry resigned from the State Department in 1973 and joined the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, D.C., where he directed humanitarian policy studies. Also during that period, he was a professorial lecturer at American University in Washington, D.C.
Before coming to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, Ambassador McHenry worked on the Carter administration's State Department transition staff. His international organization experience includes: serving as both an adviser and alternate representative to the U.N. Trusteeship Council, alternate representative to the U.N. Seminar on Apartheid and Racial Discrimination, delegate to the U.N. International Conference on Human Rights, and a consultant to the U.S. congressional delegation to the Interparliamentary Union in 1966.
Ambassador McHenry has also been the chief U.S. negotiator on the question of Namibia, as a member of the U.N. Western Five Contact Group.
Prior to joining the State Department, Ambassador McHenry taught English at Howard University in Washington, D.C., from 1959 to 1962. At the same time, he continued to pursue postgraduate studies at Georgetown University.
He is author of "Micronesia: Trust Betrayed" (Carnegie Endowment, 1975) and has had numerous articles published in journals and newspapers.
Born in St. Louis, Mo., 42 years ago, Ambassador McHenry was raised in East St. Louis, Ill. He is a 1957 graduate of Illinois State University and received his master of science degree in 1959 from Southern Illinois University.
Ambassador McHenry is a single parent of one son, who recently completed graduate studies at Oxford University in Great Britain, and two daughters, who reside with him and attend school in New York City.
  