
    "On behalf of all Floridians, I thank our soldiers and veterans for their extraordinary dedication and service to our country. Their selfless dedication to our country commands not only our respect and admiration, but also our willingness to provide them and their families with assistance to improve their quality of life" — Governor Jeb Bush, 2006
When Governor Bush assumed office, the State of Florida had two Veterans' homes with a total of 270 beds. During his eight years in office, four more Veterans' homes were built with a total of 480 beds. In addition, he increased Funding for Department of Veterans Affairs from $14 million to $75 million. Of that $75 million, $67.5 was for the State Veterans' Homes Program.
In 2006, Governor Bush signed legislation that extends the educational benefits of the Children of Deceased or Disabled Veterans Program to the spouses of disabled veterans or soldiers that have been killed or are missing in action. He also passed laws that provides free undergraduate tuition at state colleges and universities to Florida recipients of the Purple Heart (and combat-related decorations ranked superior in precedence to the Purple Heart) and their children.
In 2004, Governor Bush and the Florida Legislature created an employment advocacy and assistance program for military spouses and dependents. The goal was to strengthen the link between military families and Florida's workforce and employment market. Military spouses had access to a variety of resources through "one stop career centers". The centers helped connect them to employers and set up interviews, provided job training, and provided counseling and online resources required to find the kind of work they want to do. The program was a success and expanded in 2006.
Under Governor Bush, Florida increased property tax exemptions for disabled veterans (from $500 to $5,000) and eliminated the fee to get a disabled parking permit.
In 2002, Governor Bush and the Florida Legislature expanded the in-state tuition program to include Florida National Guard members so that they could receive in-state tuition fees at public colleges and universities.
  