
    Pool Reports by Hannah Wiley, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 12, 2022 09:56 PDT

VP pool report #1
Hi all,
Will still be the VP pool reporter today during two events in Oakland. Pool left Fairmont Hotel at 9:45 am with the motorcade. More information to come once we get to the first event at an estimated 10:15 am, but here's what's on the agenda, per VP office:
First event:
Oakland, CA – Vice President Kamala Harris will visit her hometown of Oakland, California on Friday, August 12 to join Mayor Libby Schaaf, Oakland Unified School District, Oakland Promise, and hundreds of supporters as they launch Oakland's "The Generation Fund" – a $50 million quasi-endowment that will support every low-income public-school student and baby born into poverty through the year 2035.

$500 college savings accounts for all Oakland babies at birth from low-income families within 4 years –10,000 Brilliant Babies by 2035.
$1,000-a-year scholarships for all low-income Oakland public school students while they're pursuing their college degree or trade certificate within 4 years -- 20,000 Oakland students served by 2035.

In all, the Generation Fund will serve more than 30,000 Oakland students for the next generation. Led by Mayor Schaaf, the community-raised Generation Fund includes close partnership with OUSD and hundreds of local and regional donors committed to breaking the cycle of poverty by increasing college access and completion for Oakland's most underserved residents.
Second event:
The below is attributable to a White House Official on background.
On Background from White House Official On Friday, August 12, Vice President Harris will visit the Chabot Space & Science Center in Oakland, California. There, she will hear from U.S. space companies about their latest innovations and deliver remarks on how to expand America's robust space industry and economy. In her remarks, Vice President Harris will announce the date of the second National Space Council meeting.
During a tour, private sector leaders will illustrate some of the challenges and opportunities in the U.S. space industry. Some companies, like those using technology to observe earth from space, will demonstrate how technology developments are outpacing our existing regulatory frameworks; others have operations that fall outside of those frameworks, such as companies performing novel activities like servicing satellites on orbit. Other companies, like those helping to build commercial space stations, will highlight the evolution of the relationship between the U.S. Government and the industry, and how leveraging the private sector's unique resources and expertise has propelled the industry forward.
Following the tour, the Vice President will deliver remarks outlining the space industry's rapidly developing capabilities, the benefits to our quality of life, and ways the Administration is fostering a burgeoning and globally competitive U.S. commercial space sector. The Vice President will also highlight how the United States Space Priorities Framework commits to addressing challenges and opportunities in the space economy. Her remarks will be livestreamed at whitehouse.gov/live.
Friday's event will build on the Vice President's leadership as Chair of the National Space Council in underscoring the critical importance of American leadership in strengthening rules-based governance of space activities. The Vice President's visit to the Chabot Space & Science Center illustrates the Administration's commitment to ensuring U.S. cutting edge commercial space technologies continue to make life better on Earth.
The Vice President will be joined by representatives of the Department of Commerce, Department of Transportation, and Federal Communications Commission.
Additional Background on Vice President Harris' Leadership on Space 

In July 2022, the Vice President joined the President and the NASA Administrator to make public the first full-color image from the Webb Space Telescope, illustrating the wonder of space and its power to inspire.
In April 2022, the Vice President announced the United States commitment not to conduct destructive, direct ascent anti-satellite tests at Vandenberg Space Force Base demonstrating global leadership in commitment to norms for sustainable space activities. 
In December 2021, the Vice President chaired the Administration's inaugural National Space Council meeting and announced and presented the United States Space Priorities Framework highlighting whole of government work on climate science, space STEM and workforce issues, and norms and space sustainability. 
In November 2021, the Vice President visited Goddard Space Center to view the first images from Landsat 9, underscoring how the nation's space program studies climate change.
In September 2021, the Vice President visited Hampton University to recognize the contributions of HBCUs and minorities in STEM fields and how their contributions impact the future success of our nation's workforce.
The Vice President has also engaged with NASA Astronauts on earth and aboard the International Space Station, including Mark Vande Hei, Victor Glover, and Shannon Walker, and Katie Rubins. 

Artemis Accords and Foreign Engagements on Space The Artemis Accords are a set of norms and principles that promote values-based cooperation and encourage responsible and safe behavior in space. In her engagements with foreign leaders, the Vice President regularly raises space issues, advances our cooperation on space issues with allies and partners, and has rallied countries to establish rules and norms for responsible behavior in space.

SINGAPORE: In August 2021, during her trip to Singapore, Vice President urged Singapore to join the Artemis Accords. Singapore joined in March 2022 and she and Prime Minister Lee welcomed it during his visit to Washington. While she was in Singapore, she and Prime Minister Lee agreed to create a bilateral dialogue on space.
VIETNAM: During the Vice President's August 2021 visit to Hanoi, Vietnam the U.S. and Vietnam acknowledged the important role international cooperation plays in sustained the outer space environment, and committed to a civil space dialogue, which subsequently met. 
FRANCE: Following the Vice President's meeting with President Macron in Paris in November 2021, the U.S. and France announced a Comprehensive Dialogue on Space to ensure a whole-of-government approach to space cooperation. The Vice President also announced that the U.S. is committed to joining the Space Climate Observatory (SCO). SCO is intended to sponsor projects that help make data from space accessible to local entities to inform decisions and measures to mitigate and respond to the climate crisis. France committed to signing the Artemis Accords.
MEXICO: In November 2021, Vice President Harris met with President Lopez Obrador and urged Mexico to join the Artemis accords. Mexico joined in December 2021. 
BAHRAIN: As part of the Crown Prince of Bahrain's visit to Washington and meeting with the Vice President in March 2022, Bahrain joined the Artemis Accords. 

Background on the National Space Council The National Space Council (NSpC) is the White House policy council responsible for ensuring the United States capitalizes on the rich opportunities presented by our nations' space activities. Under the leadership of its chair, Vice President Kamala Harris, the NSpC advises and assists the President on the development and implementation of space policy and strategy and is comprised of Cabinet-level Secretaries and other senior executive branch officials. More here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/spacecouncil/


August 12, 2022 10:41 PDT

VP Poool report #2
Pool left foggy San Francisco behind and arrived at Oakland Marriott City Center at 10:15. Both events today should be livestreamed at Whitehouse.gov, so pool report won't be as descriptive. First link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PA5rWpakGNk.
A couple hundred people are already seated or milling about the room, where a large stage and a couple dozen chairs are set up. Plenty of Warriors pride in this room, with championship banners and pictures of the team over the years.
More background info on this first event from Mayor Schaaf's office.
Vice President Kamala Harris is in Oakland, CA to join Mayor Libby Schaaf, Oakland Unified School District, Oakland Promise, and hundreds of supporters as they launch Oakland's "The Generation Fund" – a $50 million quasi-endowment that will support every low-income public-school student and baby born into poverty through the year 2035.

$500 college savings accounts for all Oakland babies at birth from low-income families within 4 years –10,000 Brilliant Babies by 2035.
$1,000-a-year scholarships for all low-income Oakland public school students while they're pursuing their college degree or trade certificate within 4 years -- 20,000 Oakland students served by 2035.

In all, the Generation Fund will serve more than 30,000 Oakland students for the next generation. Led by Mayor Schaaf, the community-raised Generation Fund includes close partnership with OUSD and hundreds of local and regional donors committed to breaking the cycle of poverty by increasing college access and completion for Oakland's most underserved residents.


August 12, 2022
[APP Note: Report #3 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


August 12, 2022 12:44 PDT

VP pool report #4
Pool left first event around noon and arrived at the Chabot Space and Science Center in Oakland 12:15.
VP Harris and Gov. Gavin Newsom, who came up together in San Francisco politics, are now hearing from representatives of U.S. space companies about their technology. I attached some pics.
Background info pasted below:
On Background From a White House Official 
Vice President Harris will visit the Chabot Space & Science Center in Oakland, California. There, she will hear from U.S. space companies about their latest innovations and deliver remarks on how to expand America’s robust space industry and economy. In her remarks, Vice President Harris will announce the date of the second National Space Council meeting.
During a tour, private sector leaders will illustrate some of the challenges and opportunities in the U.S. space industry. Some companies, like those using technology to observe earth from space, will demonstrate how technology developments are outpacing our existing regulatory frameworks; others have operations that fall outside of those frameworks, such as companies performing novel activities like servicing satellites on orbit. Other companies, like those helping to build commercial space stations, will highlight the evolution of the relationship between the U.S. Government and the industry, and how leveraging the private sector’s unique resources and expertise has propelled the industry forward. Participating companies include Capella, Maxar, Planet, Hawkeye 360, Northrop Grumman, SpaceX, Axiom, Nanoracks, Sierra Space.
Tour Participants

Acting Administrator Billy Nolan, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration
Jessica Rosenworcel, Federal Communications Commission
Director Richard DelBello, Office of Space Commerce, U.S. Department of Commerce
Governor Gavin Newsom (D-CA)
Mayor Libby Schaaf (D-Oakland, CA)
Adam Tobin, Executive Director & CEO, Chabot Space & Science Center




August 12, 202213:36 PDT

VP pool report #5
Nearing the finish line for the day. After meeting with space industry leaders for about 40 minutes, VP Harris is about to make some remarks during an event on the observation deck of the science center. It’s a beautiful day in Oakland, nice and sunny. Here’s the livestream: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Here’s the list of speakers:

Mayor Libby Schaaf (D-Oakland)
Governor Gavin Newsom (D-CA)
Director Richard DelBello, Office of Space Commerce, U.S. Department of Commerce
Chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel, Federal Communications Commission
Acting Administrator Billy Nolan, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration
Sala Ba, Stanford University Student





  