
    Environmental Leader Calls President Biden's Clean Cars Announcements "The Most Significant Automotive Development in Our Lifetime" 
Yesterday, the President of the Environmental Defense Fund Fred Krupp wrote an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal outlining the historic nature of President Biden's announcements to strengthen American leadership on clean cars and trucks, writing, "we are witnessing is the most significant automotive development in our lifetime."
Krupp applauds the efforts of President Biden to unite automakers, the United Autoworkers (UAW), and environmental leaders around making half of all vehicles in the U.S. zero-emission in 2030: "By forging common ground with business and labor, the administration created a path forward that is more durable, providing certainty to companies and long-term environmental benefits to American families."
Read the full op-ed below:
Wall Street Journal: Opinion: Biden's Drive for the Future By Fred Krupp, 8/5/21
Sometimes it isn't what you say but who'll stand with you when you say it. On Thursday President Biden stood alongside the leaders of the big three U.S. auto makers and the president of the United Auto Workers as he announced his goal that half of all new cars sold by 2030 would produce no tailpipe pollution and directed the Environmental Protection Agency to begin developing new standards for cars, trucks and buses. The Biden administration has unified manufacturers, labor and environmental groups behind a common purpose: to accelerate the manufacturing of zero-emitting vehicles and the economic, health and climate benefits they will provide.
By forging common ground with business and labor, the administration created a path forward that is more durable, providing certainty to companies and long-term environmental benefits to American families.
Ford, General Motors and Chrysler's parent company all back the president's approach, and they have pledged to spend $100 billion to make it a reality. Look no further than Ford's recent introduction of the electric F-150 Lightning—a zero-emitting version of the bestselling U.S. vehicle for the last 40 years—or GM's plans for an electric Chevy Silverado for evidence of the opportunity auto makers see in the transition to zero-emission vehicles. These same companies and many others are investing in zero-emitting freight trucks and buses. Earlier this week, GM announced it will build zero-emitting school buses, and Ford sells an electric version of its Transit delivery van. American consumers and the businesses, truckers and fleets that own these vehicles will benefit, too, saving thousands of dollars in fuel costs.
Mr. Biden is also sending an unmistakable sign that the U.S. intends to lead in developing zero-emitting vehicles—a signal that will provide the long-term certainty that manufacturers need to plan. That will help unlock the next $100 billion in investments and the jobs those investments will create here in the U.S.
As company after company announces a transition to electric vehicles, it is clear that the global auto industry is moving to zero-emissions vehicles. But it is an open question where the vehicles and their parts will be produced. Europe and China have a head start, but the president's announcement makes clear that American workers will play a lead role. Democrats and Republicans alike would rather drive cars built in Georgia, Michigan and Texas than Germany or China.
The opportunities to support American manufacturing and jobs go well beyond vehicles themselves—ensuring that batteries and component parts are developed and produced in the U.S. As a battery-manufacturing CEO once told me, domestic electric-vehicle battery producers have an inherent advantage because these heavy batteries are expensive to ship. But overseas competitors will also be trying to amortize the cost of their battery plants. They will flood the market and squeeze out American companies if the latter don't move decisively.
The goal the president announced will also significantly cut climate-destabilizing and health-harming pollution, putting the U.S. on a pathway to eliminate passenger-vehicle tailpipe pollution by 2035, which is consistent with what the best science tells us is needed. Mr. Biden has likewise directed the EPA to move forward with standards for the suite of harmful pollutants from new freight trucks and buses. Americans need to roll up our sleeves, work together and ensure all new passenger vehicles are zero-emitting by 2035, as GM has recognized, and that the EPA's standards for freight trucks and buses swiftly deploy all zero-emitting solutions at hand and strengthen health protections for vulnerable communities.
What we are witnessing is the most significant automotive development in our lifetime. The global economy is changing rapidly. Driven by the need to slow climate change, the world is moving to electric vehicles powered by clean energy, and consumers are embracing them because they are more capable and more fun to drive. What part the U.S. plays in that transition is being decided now. In this historic moment, with smart policies and ambitious goals, our leaders can ensure that U.S. auto makers maintain their technological and competitive leadership for decades to come. That business, labor and government are united in this effort is a reassuring sign they understand what is at stake.
Mr. Krupp is president of the Environmental Defense Fund.
  