
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail



Sent:
Reports:




 August 24, 2020 10:31

FLOTUS pool report #1 - "Building the Movement" exhibit 
Good morning from Pennsylvania Avenue outside the north lawn of the White House where the first lady will unveil the art works to be part of her "Building the Movement: America's Youth Celebrate 100 Years of Women's Suffrage" initiative. This is the spot where historic pictures show the suffragettes protesting in front of the White House for the right to vote.
Spotted in the crowd: Karen Pence, Kellyanne Conway, Stephanie Grisham, Betsy DeVos, and Elaine Chao. None of whom are wearing face masks although many of them are holding them in their hands.
Announced in June, the initiative solicited drawings from children between grades 3 and 12 depicting imagery related to the suffrage movement as part of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the 19th amendment.
The online version of the exhibit is available here: https://www.womensvote100.org/buildingthemovement
It's a festive atmosphere. A Marine band is playing and there are many parents and children - most of whom are wearing masks.
The art exhibit is set up on Pennsylvania Avenue.
Many of the kids standing among the art exhibit are not wearing masks but a few are.
Event begins at 10:30 am. FLOTUS will make remarks. It is 84 degrees and sunny.
The FLOTUS pool was not tested for COVID ahead of the event. 


 August 24, 2020 10:43

FLOTUS pool report #2 - FLOTUS remarks 
FLOTUS walked into exhibit at 10:35 am and waved to the children standing among the art exhibits as she walked by them. She is not wearing a face mask.
She spoke from a podium with the Be Best logo on it.
She is wearing a white and orange dress. Her mic was not for the first few seconds she spoke but then came on.
"There we go. Can you hear me?" she said.
In her remarks she touted the work the president has done for women - including doubling the child tax credit and hiring women for senior positions.
She encouraged everyone to vote "so that we may continue to build the brightest future for all of our children."
Melania Trump's prepared remarks:
Good Morning Everyone!
Thank you all for joining me today for the opening of the Building the Movement Exhibit. An exhibit that honors and celebrates the 100^thAnniversary of the Ratification of the 19^th Amendment and the women's suffrage movement.
Before I get started, I want to say a special thank you to the young artists joining us. Each of you were selected from hundreds of impressive artwork submissions from across the country to represent your state in this exhibit, congratulations (APPLAUSE).
Your artistic creativity, attention to detail, and talent in each piece of artwork embraces the spirit of this milestone event in our nation's history.
The Ratification of the 19^thAmendment and the women's right to vote was a turning point in the history of women's rights in the United States and stood as an example to the world.
This exhibit creates a platform to encourage parents to engage with their children on the important conversations taking place around equality – giving young people an opportunity to learn and understand the history behind the women's suffrage movement.
Throughout this exhibit you will see historic photographs woven into the artwork, bringing the exhibit to life through the unique lens of our children. Each image and drawing depicts the marches, the symbols, and the inspiring women who tirelessly fought and struggled for equality in our nation's history.
It is these women and their brave actions that have provided strength and inspiration to so many mothers, daughters, and sisters who have stamped their own mark on our country – ensuring future generations of women have the ability to pursue their dreams.
Last week, I joined the President in signing a proclamation recognizing this important day in American history. Since taking office, my husband and this administration have taken historic measures to empower and support women in the United States - and around the world.
Under our administration, the child tax credit has been doubled. American women, who comprise over half of the workforce, experienced their lowest rate of unemployment in over 65 years.
In addition to these achievements, this administration has filled many of its senior positions with women.
I want to thank the Office of the Curator and the Women's Centennial Commission for your partnership in this exhibit that honors the countless contributions of the women who have come before us. Because of the story of progress ignited by the women's suffrage movement, we can all continue to look forward to the important achievements that women of all ages will make in our society.
We, as women, must continue using our greatest tool of empowerment – our voice. Now in 2020, the American woman's voice is more important than ever. Our Nation is depending on each of you. I encourage you all to vote so that we may continue to build the brightest future for all of our children.
Thank you and may God Bless you and your families and may God Bless the United States of America. 


 August 24, 2020 10:49

FLOTUS pool report #3 - FLOTUS talking to kids and they were tested for COVID 
After her remarks, FLOTUS walked among the exhibit to speak to the children. She shook hands with a few of them and stayed one to two feet back from them as she walked among them. One little girl came up to her for a hug, which was given.
The children - there are about 30 here - and their guardian accompanying them were tested for COVID ahead of the event, according to an East Wing official speaking on background. 


 August 24, 2020 11:11

FLOTUS pool report #4 - FLOTUS departure and comments from Kellyanne Conway to pool 
After speaking to all the children, the kids gathered as a group in front of the exhibit and FLOTUS spoke to them in mass where she encouraged them to stand up for themselves. It was hard to hear all of what she said because the Marine band was playing.
FLOTUS then posed for a pic with the group of kids. Then Karen Pence, Betsy DeVos, Elaine Chao and SBA Administrator Jovita Carranza joined them for another group photo.
Joy, 10 years old from Michigan, wearing a white dress hugged FLOTUS and said "my mom wants a picture with you."
FLOTUS waved to the parents and the kids "did a great job."
FLOTUS departed the event at 10:56 am. She arrived and departed via motorcade.
Pool ran into Kellyanne Conway upon its departure. CNN's Kate Bennett asked her how she was doing: "How am I doing? I'm good. I make my own choices."
She confirmed to your pooler she is still speaking at the convention. She also said: "The first lady's speech is amazing. It's the highlight of the week."
That's a wrap for your FLOTUS pool. Thanks to Fox producer Kelly Phares and CNN's Kate Bennett for their help. 



  