
    Alexandria, VA - Today, Senator Lindsey Graham held a "No Nukes for Iran" discussion in Ottumwa, Iowa where he responded to the Associated Press reports that, under the Iran Nuclear Deal, the International Atomic Energy Association (IAEA) has agreed to allow Iran to inspect its own nuclear sites.
Senator Graham's remarks came after a statement he made regarding the report. Graham said, "Allowing the Iranians to inspect their own nuclear sites, particularly a notorious military site, is like allowing the inmates to run the jail." He continued, "As president, I will negotiate a better deal with Iran that will truly protect our national security and the stability of the region."
In case you missed it, read the statement here and watch the full video of his remarks here.

Graham On The IAEA Allowing Iran To Inspect Its Own Sites: "It Would Be Absolutely Irresponsible"
"AP is reporting that under the side deal between the International Atomic Energy Association and Iran, that the Iranians will inspect their own military facilities. That is making this bad deal a joke. I've been told that, by others, the administration has not denied that arrangement. It would be absolutely irresponsible to allow the Iranians to go onto their military sites and tell us what they've done in the past without independent verification. I think this is a game changer."
On Congress Voting To Reject The Deal: "If This Press Report Is True...That Should Be Enough For Every Member Of Congress [To Vote No]"
"I think it's going to be harder for our Democratic colleagues to support this deal, until we see what's actually in the side deal. But if this press report is true that the Iranians — under the agreement — do their own inspecting, that should be enough for every member of Congress to say 'I will not vote for this deal, until I see the side agreement.' How can you make an informed decision about the past military activity of the Iranians, if you have no knowledge about the agreement and you can't look at it for yourself to see if it's solid? If this is true, that the Iranians have a veto basically over the inspection process, it makes a bad deal an incredibly bad dangerous deal."
  