
    In a recess appointment the President today designated General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Commander in Chief of the Allied Forces in North Africa, as a permanent Major General in the United States Army. At present General Eisenhower holds the temporary rank of General and the permanent rank of Colonel.
This promotion is in recognition of General Eisenhower's outstanding services as Commander in Chief of Allied Forces in North Africa. It was under his supervision that the successful landing in North Africa was made by combined British and American forces on November 8, 1942, with all the hazards of amphibious operations.
The Axis' reaction to the occupation of North Africa was immediate and violent and accompanied by the landing of large forces in Tunisia. To meet this issue American, French, and British troops (including the British Eighth Army which had advanced from Tripolitania) were coordinated under General Eisenhower's leadership to carry out the brilliant campaign which completely destroyed the remaining Axis forces in Africa.
More recently General Eisenhower has directed another critical amphibious operation resulting in the conquest of Sicily. The success of this campaign and the perfection of Allied teamwork, air, ground, and naval, have undoubtedly had a decisive effect on the oppressed people of Europe and the course of the war. Mussolini and the Fascists have been eliminated and the fate of Italy lies in the balance as the continent of Europe trembles under the impact of the forward surge of massive Russian forces and the great aerial bombardment increases in fury with each succeeding week.
Coincident with General Eisenhower's advancement to a permanent major generalcy, the Distinguished Service Medal has been awarded to him with the following citation:
CITATION FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE MEDAL (OAK LEAF CLUSTER)
FOR GENERAL DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
As Commander in Chief of the Allied Forces in North Africa General Eisenhower has, by skillful planning and direction, made an outstanding contribution to the war effort of the Allied Nations. The organization and leadership of the expedition to occupy North Africa was a notable contribution. Thereafter by his firmness and sound judgment General Eisenhower was successful in the prompt establishment of a well-organized regime in North Africa, including the invaluable participation of French troops in the military operations which followed. In the face of violent Axis resistance in Tunisia he successfully coordinated the British, American, and French air, ground, and naval forces in a decisive campaign which destroyed the last elements of Axis resistance on the African continent. In a brilliant campaign of 38 days General Eisenhower directed the combined operations leading to the conquest of Sicily and reduced Italy to a state of military impotence.
Throughout the period of these operations, in preparation and execution, General Eisenhower has displayed conspicuous ability to secure complete unity of command and action of a great allied force, with disastrous consequences to the enemy.
  