
    This week, members of President Biden's Cabinet traveled across the country to showcase the efforts the Administration is making to deliver for the American people.
The Administration officials fanned out from Arizona to New Jersey to highlight the growing economy, the historic investments of President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and Build Back Better Agenda, efforts behind the surge in vaccinations, and getting children back to school safely. 
See below for a small sampling of local coverage across the country this week: 
Labor Secretary Marty Walsh in New Mexico
Albuquerque Journal: Labor secretary touts spending bills[By Ryan Boetel, 8/25/21] 
U.S. Labor Secretary Marty Walsh toured New Mexico on Wednesday, visiting an abandoned natural gas well, a Native American reservation, job corps members and union workers while promoting two massive spending bills being considered by lawmakers.
But Walsh said that as America continues its economic recovery, his biggest concern at the moment is the delta variant of COVID-19.
"My concern is that — if we don't keep this under control — I hope we don't have to go back to a situation where we have to start shutting things down again," Walsh told the Journal. "That would be detrimental to businesses and people if we have to go back to where we were."
Walsh, a former mayor of Boston who joined President Joe Biden's Cabinet in March, did much of the tour with Rep. Teresa Leger Fernandez, D-N.M. They were in the Four Corners area Wednesday morning at an abandoned natural gas well. They then met with tribal officials at the Jemez Pueblo Governor's Office, toured the Albuquerque Job Corps Center and met with union workers.
[...]
The NM Political Report: Labor secretary, congresswoman visit orphaned well in Kirtland | The NM Political Report[By Hannah Grover, 8/26/21]
As he stood looking at an orphaned well in Kirtland, U.S. Secretary of Labor Martin Walsh asked, "is this ground dirty here?" 
Activist Don Schreiber said yes and Adrienne Sandoval, the Oil Conservation Division Director for the state's Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department, confirmed that there was surface contamination in places at the site. Sandoval said the contaminated soil will have to be removed from the site and clean soil will be brought in to replace it.
Walsh visited the orphaned well with U.S. Rep. Teresa Leger Fernández, a New Mexico Democrat who has been pushing for increased funding to assist states with cleaning up orphaned wells. They, and Aztec Mayor Victor Snover, met with Schreiber and Sandoval at the private property where the well is located.
The site is one of the hundreds of oil and gas wells in New Mexico that has no operator or responsible party to clean it up.
Walsh's visit came just weeks after the U.S. Senate passed a bipartisan infrastructure bill that includes $4.7 billion in funding for the remediation of orphaned wells. This infrastructure bill is now waiting for the U.S. House of Representatives to approve it. 
He said the $4.7 billion should make a good dent in capping the orphaned wells. 
[...]
Farmington Daily Times: U.S. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh visits Kirtland (daily-times.com)[By Noel Lyn Smith, 8/25/21]
KIRTLAND — U.S. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh visited an inactive well site here on Aug. 25 to talk about bills that seek federal funding for nationwide cleanup of orphaned wells – an issue he said is among the Biden administration's priorities.
[...]
"It's a big issue for our country. It's a big issue for the environmental aspect of our country so we're excited about this," he said adding cleanup activities are a source of job creation.
[...]
The bipartisan infrastructure package would provide states with opportunities to do more plugging and cleanup work, Sandoval said, then added that the department contracts with local companies to complete the work.
Aztec Mayor Victor Snover said he views the federal proposals as job opportunities for communities like Aztec.
KOB (Albuquerque, NM): U.S. Secretary of Labor works to clean up New Mexico wilderness | KOB 4[By Diana Costello, 8/25/21]
FARMINGTON, N.M. - U.S. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh is working to make New Mexico wilderness a little cleaner, and he's focusing on abandoned wells. 
[...]
Walsh was grateful for the opportunity.
"I come from Boston, and you know we're not dealing with issues of orphaned wells. And certainly as secretary of labor this is a priority of the President and Vice President, and they wanted me to make sure to go around the country to see what we're advocating for, so thank you," said Walsh.
Labor Secretary Marty Walsh in Arizona
Univision (Phoenix, AZ): Aprueban plan de infraestructura de 1.2 billones para Arizona
Aprueban plan de infraestructura de 1.2 billones para Arizona que representaría más trabajos y mejores salaries
Funcionarios estatales aseguraron que este plan, calificadode "histórico", significará un mayor número de trabajoscon mejores salarios e influirá en el mejoramiento de infraestructura como vías, transporte, internet y otrosrubros.
Telemundo Arizona: Iniciativa de ley daríamayores oportunidades de empleo para minoríasen Arizona
El impacto del desempleo en la comunidad latina ha sidodel 6.6%. 
Transcript: Esta mañana el secretario del trabajo Marty Walsh se reunió con varios líderes locales para hablarsobre una propuesta de ley de infraestructura que estarácreando trabajos.
Melissa Aguilar, ¿de qué se habló durante esta agenda de trabajo?
Lo interesante es que se habló mucho sobre la oportunidad, oportunidad de empleos para personas en la comunidad que son latinas, afroamericanas y de otrasminorías. Según el Secretario de Trabajo Marty Walsh, eneste año, a nivel nacional, se ha visto un impacto de desempleo en la comunidad latina del 6.6 por ciento, mientras que la comunidad afroamericana reporta un porcentaje del 8.2%.
Esta propuesta de ley se encargará de que todos tengan la misma oportunidad sin importar el color de piel. Además, se trabajará de cerca con sindicatos y se estarán ofreciendomás entrenamientos para empleo.
Un punto importante también es un proyecto que estasobre la mesa: la construcción de la interestatal 11 que conectaría a Phoenix con Las Vegas, ya que según se comentó durante la conferencia de prensa, son las únicasdos ciudades grandes que no tienen acceso directo. El gerente general del sindicato de carpinteros se mostrócontento con esta junta. "Más a parte que va a crear miles de trabajos y abrir oportunidades para nativos, a latinos y a toda la comunidad de Arizona para avanzar y movernoshacia el futuro".
Realmente que se está escuchando como una propuesta de ley muy positiva para la comunidad en temas del empleo, pero será en septiembre cuando se dé a conocer si pasaesta propuesta como ley. Estaremos al pendiente
EPA Administrator Michael Regan in New York
Times Union: 14,000 lead pipes carry Albany's drinking water. The city wants to replace them.[By Rick Karlin, 8/25/21]
There are an estimated 14,000 lead pipes that supply drinking water to people's homes in the city. On Wednesday, workers tore one of them out and replaced it with a safe, lead-free version of a service line that connects the water main to the home.
"One down, fourteen thousand to go," Albany Mayor Kathy Sheehan said at a press conference with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan, U.S. Rep. Paul Tonko and others to promote a cost-sharing program to replace the aging pipes and to rally support for President Joe Biden's $3.25 trillion federal spending plan, which would include money for such infrastructure improvements.
WAMC: EPA Administrator Regan Visits Albany[By Lucas Willard, 8/25/21]
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan visited Albany Wednesday to survey the city's efforts to prevent lead contamination of drinking water. According to officials, about 40 percent of homes in the City of Albany are hooked up to lead service lines.
WNYT (Albany NBC): Tonko touts replacement of lead pipes in Albany[8/25/21]
No child in the United States should drink water out of lead-contaminated pipes. That's the message from Rep. Paul Tonko. He was joined by EPA administrator Mike Regan, Albany Mayor Kathy Sheehan, and other elected leaders to see the ongoing replacement of lead service lines and to highlight the importance of drinking water investments.
EPA Administrator Michael Regan in New Jersey
NJ.com: EPA takes over Raritan Bay Superfund study from company responsible for cleanup[By Steve Strunsky, 8/26/21]
Dissatisfied with the pace of a Superfund site cleanup in Old Bridge, the head of the federal Environmental Protection Agency said the EPA was taking over a study of how to remediate a Raritan Bay beach from the company found responsible for its lead contamination.
"At its core, EPA's Superfund cleanup program is about protecting people's health," EPA Administrator Michael Regan told a crowd of three dozen reporters, environmental activists, and local, county, state, and federal officials gathered Thursday at the Raritan Bay Slag Superfund Site.
"We must address the elevated levels of lead at this site, specifically," Regan added. "A legacy of using slag to build walls and jetties is unacceptable. We're also sensitive to the fact that this important work impacts the availability of a treasured local resource: the beautiful beach behind us."
[...]
Greg Remaud, director of NY/NJ Baykeeper, an environmental group that has followed the Raritan Bay slag project closely but did not take part in Thursday's event, applauded the EPA's takeover announcement as "great news," that would surely expedite completion of the study and, ultimately, the reopening of the beach.
"That doesn happen a lot," Remaud said of the design study's takeover. "But, frankly, we're glad it happened, because NL is a recalcitrant party."
Regan was making his first official visit to New Jersey since being appointed to the country's top environmental post by President Joe Biden.
[...]
New Jersey 101.5: Cleanup of lead-contaminated NJ site getting boost from EPA[By Dino Flammia, 8/26/21]
OLD BRIDGE — The federal government is stepping in to advance cleanup efforts at a Superfund site that's been dealing with contamination issues for decades.
Citing design work by NL Industries that failed to meet U.S. Environmental Protection Agency standards, the EPA on Thursday announced that it will take over completing the design plans to support the Seawall Sector of the site cleanup.
"But I want to make it clear, the polluter will pay us for the resources to do the redesign," EPA Administrator Michael Regan said.
The Raritan Bay Slag Superfund site is contaminated with elevated concentrations of lead, arsenic, and copper. According to the EPA, a seawall and jetty at the site, located in Sayreville and the Laurence Harbor section of Old Bridge, were constructed using slag, which is waste from the bottom of industrial blast furnaces.
"By taking over the work, EPA will ensure that the design is completed in a technically sound manner that will lead to a successful cleanup of the Seawall Sector," Regan said.
[...]
New Jersey Globe: Four Cabinet-level visits for Pallone as EPA's Regan comes to Old Bridge[By Joey Fox, 8/26/21]
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Michael Regan will tour the Raritan Bay Slag Superfund site with Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-Long Branch) at 10:45 a.m. tomorrow, making him the fourth Cabinet-level official to visit Pallone's district this summer. 
Located in Old Bridge and Sayreville, the Superfund site was first targeted for cleanup in 2007, with work beginning in 2014. Tomorrow's promised "significant announcement" may herald news on the completion or continuation of restoration work.
News 12 Bronx: EPA announces takeover of Raritan Bay superfund site[8/26/21]
[...]
Rep. Frank Pallone and EPA administrator Michael Regan and other officials met there Tuesday to announce a federal takeover of the long-stalled cleanup they say will speed it up. They were surrounded by members of a community advisory group who saw the situation and refused to accept it as the norm.
EPA officials say they're taking over the design of the Laurence Harbor project because they were unsatisfied with the plans submitted by National Lead, who are responsible for the cleanup.
It was designated a superfund site in 2009.
HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra in Iowa
Des Moines Register: If you doubt COVID shots, 'go to the morgues' and see who's dying, federal health leader tells Iowans[By Tony Leys, 8/26/21]
Americans who doubt they need a COVID shot should see how many unvaccinated people are struggling with the disease in hospitals' intensive care units, the country's top health care administrator said in Des Moines Thursday.
"Or worse, go to the morgues, and see who the people are who are dying from COVID," Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra said in a visit to the Polk County Health Department.
Becerra said unvaccinated people make up 99% of Americans dying from COVID-19 in the latest wave of illness, which is fueled by the highly transmissible delta variant of the coronavirus. Vaccinated people should continue to take precautions because they still can be infected, he said, but they're much less likely to become critically ill.
[...]
Becerra said he appreciated public health workers' persistence.
"Thank you for believing the facts," he told health department employees gathered in a conference room. "Thank you for trying to persuade everyone that it's in their interest and in ours that we stay safe, that we use the masks, that we keep a distance, and most importantly, that we take the shot and get vaccinated."
Talking to reporters afterward, he was asked if the Biden administration wants more employers to require vaccinations, especially now that the Pfizer version of the vaccine has been fully approved for people 16 and over by the Food and Drug Administration.
"I would want to see everyone get vaccinated," he replied. "I would want to see every employer have a safe workplace for their employees and their patrons. And I believe they should do everything the law permits them to do."
[...]
Becerra vowed that the federal government would continue to support state and local health officials in any way possible. "We will be a partner," he said. "We're not just going to knock on the door, deliver the vaccines, and head out."
Iowa Starting Line: Axne, Becerra Hold Roundtable to Pitch Build Back Better Act[By Nikoel Hytrek, 8/26/21]
A member of President Joe Biden's cabinet joined US Rep. Cindy Axne for a Thursday roundtable at the Southside Senior Center in Des Moines to explain how the Build Back Better Act will improve the lives of older Iowans.
Specifically, Axne and US Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra discussed expanded Medicare benefits, the high cost of prescription drugs, and increased resources for home and community-based services.
The agenda was advanced in the US House of Representatives on Wednesday.
During introductions, Becerra said high prescription drug prices and the lack of coverage for vision, dental, and hearing in Medicare are high-priority issues addressed by the legislation.
[...]
Becerra said with the number of resources in the plan, he and his office want to hear every idea and concern people have so they can put some of those resources behind them. After, he paused to chat individually with some speakers.
"It's not just the right thing to do for our caregivers and for patients across the country who are seniors, but I think it's our New Deal," Axne said. "It is the best opportunity for this country to get back on the right track."
Iowa Capital Dispatch: HHS Secretary urges vaccinations in Des Moines as Iowa COVID-19 cases surge[By Katie Akin, 8/26/21]
Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra toured a Polk County Public Health facility on Thursday afternoon, praising the county's vaccination efforts and emphasizing the need for more people to get shots. He also encouraged vaccinated people to continue to wear face coverings as the more contagious delta variant sweeps across Iowa. 
"We wish we could say that as soon as we're vaccinated we can go back to doing everything the way we wish, even if everyone else hasn't been vaccinated," Becerra told reporters. "That's not the case. We all have to care for each other."
[...]
Becerra reminded Iowans that the delta variant, which is the cause for the vast majority of cases in the state, is more severe and contagious than the initial COVID-19 strain. He acknowledged the variant does seem to pose more of a risk to both vaccinated and unvaccinated people. 
"The Delta variant hits harder, moves faster and moves farther," Becerra said. "It is impacting even those who are vaccinated."
[...]
"I hope that every school district recognizes its responsibility to protect its students, and I applaud those school districts and those superintendents and principals who have taken it upon themselves to make sure that, at their schools, our children and all those who work with those children are safe," he said.
[...]
We Are Iowa: HHS secretary's Polk County visit met with increasing COVID-19 vaccinations, hospitalizations[By Hollie Schlesselman, 8/26/21]
DES MOINES, Iowa — As Polk County COVID-19 activity surges past levels the country has not seen since last fall, the head of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services applauded officials in Iowa's largest county for their efforts in lowering the spread of the virus and getting Iowans vaccinated. 
Secretary Xavier Becerra met with leaders from the Polk County Health Department Thursday to provide an update from the Biden administration on its strategy to fight the virus, which has been raging in Iowa since March 2020. 
"Almost 70% of our eligible population has decided that vaccines are the right course of action to keep Polk County healthy, and our health care workers are truly grateful for this," Polk County Supervisor Angela Connolly said. 
[...]
After thanking Polk County officials and health care workers for their efforts, Becerra pushed for everyone else to step up.
"The vaccine works. If you are dying in America today from COVID, 99 percent chance you're unvaccinated. I don't know if that fact can be amplified more," Becerra said. "But if you don't believe what's going on, go to the hospitals, to the ICU rooms. Or worse, go to the morgues and see who are the people who are dying from COVID."
[...]
He reaffirmed the Biden administration's preference for mask requirements in schools. In Iowa, it is illegal for schools to mandate facial coverings following a law signed in May.
"The safest course of action, if you're a parent, if you're a teacher, if you're a superintendent of schools, a principle is to make sure every child is safe," Becerra said. "Why you would not get vaccinated with all the facts in front of you is something that only someone who's a parent can respond to. But I certainly will tell you that I hope that every school district recognizes its responsibility to protect its students."
[...]
Becerra said everyone needs to understand that "just because your vaccinated doesn't mean you shouldn't wear a mask." 
"We need to protect ourselves from COVID, but certainly this variant, the delta variant, and we also have to make sure we're not unknowingly passing on the virus to others, and that's where the mask becomes so important," the secretary said. "You wish we could say that as soon as we're vaccinated we [can] go back to doing everything the way we wish, even if everyone else hasn't vaccinated. That's not the case."
KIWA (Radio) Des Moines: In Iowa, US HHS Secretary Urges More Iowans To Get Vaccinated[8/27/21]
Des Moines, Iowa — A top health official in the Biden Administration is urging more Iowans to get COVID shots.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra was in Des Moines Thursday, a day after state officials confirmed 42 Iowans had died of COVID in the past four weeks. Becerra says 99 percent of the Americans who are dying of the virus are unvaccinated.
State officials report just under 49 percent of Iowa residents had been fully vaccinated by the middle of this week. Becerra stopped short of saying businesses should mandate vaccinations for employees, but he said employers should do what they believe is necessary to protect their workforce against COVID-19.
Data released this week by the Iowa Department of Public Health shows the number of COVID cases in Iowa has risen to levels not seen since January and the number of COVID patients in Iowa hospitals has increased 20 percent in the past week. About 8 out of 10 of those patients have not been vaccinated.
Iowa Public Radio: U.S. HHS Secretary Visits Polk County To Encourage COVID-19 Vaccinations Amid Growing Hospitalizations[By Natalie Krebs, 8/26/21]
A top health official in the Biden administration visited Polk County on Thursday to encourage more residents to get vaccinated against COVID-19 amid a growing number of infections and hospitalizations in the state.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra visited the Polk County Public Health Department as hospitalizations continue to climb statewide for the sixth week straight.
Becerra told reporters that 99 percent of people dying from the virus are unvaccinated.
"I don't know if that fact can be amplified more. But if you don't believe what's going on, go to the hospitals, to the ICU rooms — or worse, go to the morgues and see who are the people who are dying from COVID," he said.
[...]
When asked by a reporter if employers should consider mandating vaccinations for employees, Becerra said they should do what they believe is necessary to protect their workforce against COVID-19.
"I would want to see every employer have a safe workplace, for their employees and for their patrons," he said "And I believe they should do everything the law permits them to do to make sure we're all safe. Because if you're not safe, I'm not safe."
Radio Iowa: Federal Health Secretary urges more to be vaccinated against COVID[By Natalie Krebs, 8/26/21]
A top health official in the Biden Administration is urging more Iowans to get COVID shots. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra visited Des Moines Thursday, a day after state officials confirmed 42 Iowans had died of COVID in the past four weeks.
Becerra said 99% of the Americans who are dying of the virus are unvaccinated. "I don't know if that fact that can amplified more," Becerra said, "but if you don't believe what's going on go to the hospitals, to the ICU rooms or, worse, go to the morgues and see the people who are dying from Covid."
State officials report just under 49% of Iowa residents had been fully vaccinated by the middle of this week. Becerra stopped short of saying businesses should mandate vaccinations for employees, but he said employers should do what they believe is necessary to protect their workforce against COVID-19.
"I would want to see every employer have a safe workplace — for their employees and for their patrons and I believe they should do everything the law permits them to do to make sure we're all safe," Becerra said, "because if you're not safe, I'm not safe."
[...]
HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra in Louisiana 
WDSU (NBC New Orleans): US Department of Health Secretary visits Children's Hospital amid COVID-19 surge in children[8/27/21]
NEW ORLEANS — The United States Department of Health and Human Services Secretary will visit New Orleans Friday to tour Children's Hospital in New Orleans.
Secretary Xavier Becerra will travel to New Orleans to highlight the Biden-Harris administration's plans to "Build Back Better" by combatting the COVID-19 pandemic and expanding access to quality, affordable health coverage through the Affordable Care Act.
The visit comes as Children's Hospital sees an unprecedented amount of child COVID-19 cases.
This week, Gov. John Bel Edwards and the Louisiana Department of Health announced a COVID-19 death in a child under the age of one.
Gov. Edwards, LDH Chief Medical Officer Joseph Kanter and other Louisiana health officials will join Becerra for the tour of the hospital at 9:45 a.m.
A news conference will be held with Becerra at 10:45 a.m.
Education Secretary Miguel Cardona in Wisconsin 
WFRV (Green Bay): Sec. of Education Miguel Cardona and Sen. Tammy Baldwin visit NWTC to talk affordable college and 'Build Back Better Agenda'[By Danielle Zulkosky, 8/26/21]
Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona and Senator Tammy Baldwin visited Northeast Wisconsin Technical College for a roundtable with students on the affordability and accessibility of college and the Build Back Better Agenda.
Senator Tammy Baldwin said, "I share President Biden's commitment to investing in education and as the secretary just noted building back better begins with education."
Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona said, "The flexibility of these colleges and the ability of these colleges not only to adapt to the needs of their students but to the needs of their work force and the community and the region make me feel confident that this is the ticket to a better economy." the Vice President of Student Affairs at NWTC says the build back better plan creates access and opportunity by proposing two years of free community or technical college.
WBAY-TV (Green Bay): U.S. Education Secretary, during NWTC tour, criticizes mask bans in schools[By Joshua Peguero, 8/26/21]
GREEN BAY, Wis. (WBAY) - U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin was joined by the U.S. education secretary on a visit Thursday of Northeast Wisconsin Technical College. They praised the two-year school's quality education and low costs, calling it a model for others.
Among many items included in the president's plan is investing in community colleges, making it free for students. Both Baldwin and Cardona highlighted statistics that shows college graduates earn more over their lifetime than high school graduates. "This is the ticket to a better economy because we're going to have a more skilled workforce that are going to be contributing to the economy, the local economy, when they have their certificate and when they have their degrees," Secretary Cardona said. Cardona also shared his own experience attending a technical high school and the value he gained from that education, especially as someone whose parents moved to mainland United States from Puerto Rico.
Education Secretary Miguel Cardona also criticized efforts by states, municipalities, and institutions to ban masks in schools. He said they are a proven safe way to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and for schools to stay open.
WLUK (Green Bay): U.S. education secretary touts free community college at NWTC[8/26/21] 
GREEN BAY (WLUK) -- Northeast Wisconsin Technical College officials had the ear of the U.S. Secretary of Education Thursday.
Secretary Miguel Cardona joined U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin to promote President Joe Biden's Build Back Better Agenda. Part of the plan includes two years of free community college. NWTC leaders say that would help with college opportunity and accessibility.
"We want to make sure our students leave here with pretty much no debt so within that plan, it allows us to think about what are some of the affordability, what are some of the financial resources," said Colleen Simpson, NWTC vice president of student services. "This just makes sense not only for these families, but for our economy and our country," Cardona said.
Baldwin has been pushing free two-year college tuition for several years. She advocates raising taxes on wealthy people to pay for it.
  