
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate C. Stephen Allred, of Idaho, to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Land and Mineral Management. Mr. Allred previously served as Director of the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Idaho Department of Water Resources. Mr. Allred received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Idaho.
The President intends to nominate Carl Joseph Artman, of Colorado, to be Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs and to appoint him to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring June 1, 2010. Mr. Artman currently serves as Associate Solicitor for Indian Affairs at the Department of the Interior. Prior to this, he served as Chief Counsel of the Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin. Earlier in his career, he served as Legislative Counsel for Congressman Michael Oxley. Mr. Artman received his bachelor's degree from Columbia College and his JD from Washington University. He went on to receive his master's from the University of Wisconsin and his LLM from the University of Denver.
The President intends to nominate Alex A. Beehler, of Maryland, to be Inspector General of the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Beehler currently serves as Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Environment, Safety and Occupational Health. Prior to this, he served as Vice President for Environmental Programs for the Charles G. Koch Charitable Foundation. Earlier in his career, he served as a Senior Trial Attorney at the Department of Justice. Mr. Beehler received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Wilma B. Liebman, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board, for an additional five-year term expiring August 27, 2011. Ms. Liebman has served as a member of the board since 1997. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Director of the Federal Meditation and Conciliation Service. Earlier in her career, she served as Labor Counsel of the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftsmen and as Staff Counsel of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Ms. Liebman received her bachelor's degree from Barnard College and her JD from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Leland A. Strom, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Farm Credit Administration, for a six-year term expiring October 13, 2012. Mr. Strom has served as Advisor to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and a member of the Board of Trustees of the Country Companies Mutual Fund Trust Board. Prior to this, he served as a Member of the Board of Directors of AgriBank. Earlier in his career, he served as President of the Country Home and Land Realty, Inc. Mr. Strom received his associate's degree from Kishwaukee College.
The President intends to nominate James H. Bilbray, of Nevada, to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service, for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring December 8, 2006 and an additional nine-year term expiring December 8, 2015.
The President intends to nominate Charles R. Christopherson, Jr., of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation.
  