
    Reno, NV -- Today, Cory for Nevada announced that Patricia Gallimore, former president of the Reno-Sparks NAACP endorsed Cory Booker for President.
"Now more than ever we need someone who will speak truth to power, who will fight for our communities and who can bring our country together -- and Cory Booker has shown us he will do just that," said Patricia Gallimore. "As someone who has been fighting on the frontlines of criminal justice reform, I'm deeply inspired by Cory's work and commitment to bring justice for all. Cory has the core values for being a leader and a president for the people. Those values are what's needed to be a good president of the United States of America and I'm proud to support Cory."
Gallimore is a longtime advocate for civil rights and criminal justice, and a respected community leader who also serves as the president of the CWA Retirees, vice president for Nevada Alliance of Retired Americans and the secretary for Democratic Women of Washoe County. Gallimore also serves on the boards for Progressive Leadership Alliance of Nevada (PLAN) and Northern Nevada HOPES. Gallimore is endorsing in her personal capacity and does not reflect the views of the non-partisan organizations above.
Gallimore introduced Cory at a campaign event earlier this year in Washoe County and joins a growing list of prominent community leaders supporting Cory's campaign in Nevada.  "We're building this caucus campaign with community leaders who represent our values and understand what it takes to win in Nevada. We are so grateful and excited to have Patricia Gallimore on our team," said Cory for Nevada State Director Phil Kim.
Cory has been a leader on criminal justice reform and has made it a focus of his campaign. Earlier this month, Cory was the first presidential candidate to visit a state prison when he toured Florence McClure Women's Correctional Center in Las Vegas and discussed his criminal justice reform plan. Cory met with incarcerated women who participate in HOPE for Prisoners and College of Southern Nevada's education program that helps inmates reintegrate into the workforce.
  