
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that State Legislators Gary Nodler (R-MO) and Bryan Pratt (R-MO) have endorsed his campaign for President of the United States. Senator Nodler and Representative Pratt will help expand Governor Romney's grassroots campaign in Missouri and will help communicate Governor Romney's message of conservative change in Washington.
"I am proud to announce the addition of these two distinguished leaders to our strong and growing grassroots team in Missouri," said Governor Romney. "Senator Nodler and Representative Pratt will help me communicate my vision of a stronger military, stronger economy, and stronger families to voters throughout Missouri."
In a joint statement, Senator Nodler and Representative Pratt said, "We're looking forward to helping lead the Romney campaign to victory in Missouri. Governor Romney is a turnaround artist. He has successfully solved difficult problems in both the public and private sectors. He is the only candidate with the experience and leadership needed to get Washington back to conservative principles; less government, lower taxes, and less spending. We are proud to endorse Governor Romney's campaign for President of the United States."
Background On Senator Gary Nodler:
Gary Nodler Was Elected To Missouri's 32nd Senatorial District In 2002. Since entering the Senate, he has risen to the position of Chair of the Appropriations Committee and serves on the Senate Leadership team as the Assistant Majority Floor Leader. Prior to his election, Nodler served as District Staff Director for Congressman Gene Taylor and has also served former President Bush as a Regional Administrator of the Small Business Administration. In addition to his political work, Senator Nodler has served in both the U.S. Army and the Missouri National Guard. He is a member of the First United Methodist Church, National Rifle Association, American Legion, Rotary Club, and Farm Bureau. He has been a lifelong resident of Southwest Missouri.
Background On Representative Bryan Pratt:
Bryan Pratt Is The Chair Of The House's Judiciary Committee. He is in charge of key legislation dealing with the State's courts. In addition to his legislative duties, Pratt is a member of the Missouri Bar Association. A graduate of Blue Springs High School, he obtained both his bachelor's and his law degree from Missouri University in Columbia. Pratt, his wife Sherry, and their two children live in Blue Springs, where they attend St. John La Lande Church.
  