
    Pool Reports by Laura Figueroa, Newsday



Sent:
Reports:




 August 18, 2020 08:50

 In-Town Pool Report #1 - Gathering for first event 
Good Morning,
Pool was tested earlier this morning and is currently holding for POTUS' event with FLOTUS marking the 100th Anniversary of the 19th Amendment ratification.
Will send along details as soon as possible, but the event will also be livestreamed on the WH websitewhitehouse.gov/live
POTUS is scheduled to depart for JBA at 9:15am 


 August 18, 2020 09:13

 In-Town Pool Report 2 — Event Attendees 
Pool waiting on POTUS/FLOTUS in Blue Room...
Passing along from WH:
lToday, President Donald J. Trump will commemorate the 100th anniversary of women in the United States earning the constitutional right to vote by signing a Presidential Proclamation on the Ratification of the 19th Amendment.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpFirst Lady Melania Trump
Trump Administration Jovita Carranza, Small Business Administrator Susan Combs, Assistant Secretary for the United States Department of Interior
External ParticipantsMarjorie Dannenfelser, President of Susan B. Anthony ListHeather Higgins, President of Independent Women's VoiceKay Cole James, President of Heritage FoundationKaren Hill, Chief Executive Officer of Harriet Tubman National Historic ParkAnna Laymon, Acting Executive Director of Women's Suffrage Centennial CommissionCleta Mitchell, Attorney and Former Member of the State of Oklahoma's House of RepresentativesPenny Nance, President of Concerned Women for AmericaColleen Shogan, Deputy Director for National and International Outreach at Library of CongressDebra Wall, Deputy Archivist of the United States 


 August 18, 2020 09:20

 In-House Pool Report 3— Event Starts 
POTUS and FLOTUS entered the Blue Room at 9:19am.
"Congratulations to everyone," he tells group.
10 women, some wearing sashes that read "Votes for Women" stood behind POTUS 


 August 18, 2020 09:26

 In-Town Pool Report 4- PARDON Susan B Anthony 
As for the pardon, POTUS says at event later today he'll be
"Signing a full and complete perdon for Susan B Anthony...she was never pardoned."
Chief of Staff Mark Meadows watched from the sidelines. 


 August 18, 2020 09:50

 In-Town Pool Report 5 
POTUS stopped taking questions at 9:46am.
Asked by about post officePOTUS continued taking aim at mail-in voting. "Win lose or draw we have to get it right."
Suggested there may have to be an election re-do..."They'll have to do it again."
Asked to respond to Michelle Obama's speech, he criticized it for being pre-taped.
"She was over her head.""She gets these fawning reviews"Called it a "divisive" speech
**Asked about Belarus"I like seeing Democracy, it doesnt seem like there's too much Democracy there."
**
Earlier in the event POTUS asked if reporters want to ask women on hand questions.
BBC's Radio pooler asks if Suburban Housewives as Trump has described on Twitter will support Trump.
Nance, one of the women on hand, said Susan B Anthony was "pro-life." 


 August 18, 2020 10:07

 In-Town Pool Report 6- Rolling to JBA 
Pool loaded into vans, did not spot POTUSfrom our vantage point, but motorcade started heading to JBA at 10:07AM 


 August 18, 2020 10:28

 In-Town Pool Report 7- JBA Arrival 
Motorcade arrived at JBA at 10:26am
Handing off to travel pool .... 


 August 18, 2020 10:40

 In-Town Pool Report 8 - JBA Arrival 
POTUS spotted getting off AF1 at 10:38pm
Motorcade started trip back to The White House at 10:40pm 


 August 18, 2020 11:08

 In-Town Pool Report 9 — WH Arrival + Lid 
Motorcade arrived at the White House at 11:01p.m. Lid called at 11:06pm.
...and to all a Good Night. 




Pool Reports below by Rob Crilly, Washington Examiner



Sent:
Reports:




 August 18, 2020 10:36

 Out of town pool report #1: JBA 
Good morning from a bright and sunny Joint Base Andrews.
POTUS arrived by motorcade at 10.31. He saluted USAF guard, waved to pool and headed straight up the stairs, pausing to wave again from the top.
Spotted with the motorcade were Stephen Miller, Mark Meadows and Kayleigh McEnany.
We are bound for Cedar Rapids, Arizona, followed by Yuma, Arizona.
Today's conveyance carries the tail number 28000.
Wheels up imminently. 


 August 18, 2020 11:27

 Out of town pool report #2: Eastern Iowa Airport 
Wheels up from JBA at 10.40.
Wheels down Eastern Iowa Airport, Cedar Rapids, at 11.26 CDT after uneventful flight. 


 August 18, 2020 12:47

 Out of town pool report #3: briefing derecho 
POTUS deplaned at 11.40. He waved to pool and climbed into Beast for short hop across airport for briefing on derecho damage.
Motorcade arrived at hangar three minutes later. Pool entered with event under way 


 August 18, 2020 13:05

 Out of town pool report #4: Derecho briefing participants 
POTUS sits at head of U-shaped table with local and federal officials in a cavernous hangar.
White House sends along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in a disaster recovery briefing in Grand Rapids, Iowa.
The following individuals are expected to attend: 
 The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
 Trump Administration  Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, Department of Homeland Security
Members of CongressChuck Grassley, United States Senator from IowaJoni Ernst, United States Senator from Iowa
State and Local OfficialsGovernor Kim Reynolds, Governor of IowaMike Naig, Secretary of Iowa's Department of Agriculture & Land StewardshipAshley Hinson, State Representative in Iowa's House of RepresentativesBrad Hart, Mayor of the City of Cedar Rapids, IowaNicolas AbouAssaly, Mayor of the City of Marion, IowaJeric Armstrong, Mayor of the City of Clarence & Cedar Co. Roads Superintendent
External ParticipantsWayne Blackford, Farmer
###Image removed by sender. 


 August 18, 2020 13:32

 Out of town pool report 5: Derecho briefing 
Comments were carried on C-Span so please as ever check quotes
POTUS began talking at 11:47 and event finished at 12:17. He describes the derecho as a "powerful hurricane force winds that pummeled" Iowa..."All Americans are united in grief and prayer for the precious life that was lost"
"we've come through for you and will always come through for Iowa."
He heard from officials who described the recovery process and people affected by the damage
Gov Reynolds describes the damage including 332 cell towers"Think of that," says POTUS
Gov Reynolds described how 590k people lost power"We are making progress and getting closer."
POTUS describes signing emergency declaration on Monday."It was done in record time and we are offering the full support of the federal government.
"We are going to help you recover from the storm..we'll get it done..."
"We will rebuild even better than before"
Reynolds thanked POTUS for the fast emergency declaration"It's basically a 40 mile wide tornado that went through..." Iowa, she said.
Grassley to POTUS: "You're stepping up to help with that declaration and we thank you."
POTUS again talks up recent record corn order from China. "That's because they think I'm not happy, I'm not, I'm not, you know, just the opposite."
ERNST: "Our farmers would love to know with these gap-year waivers that refineries are submitting to the EPA" that they be stopped.
"after the crop damage it sets our farmers back what we need is help from the EPA to follow the intent of the law with respect to renewables," she saidPOTUS says he will do that.
He heard from a local official about how they were already suffering from the impacts of Covid, and that this area was already badly affected. Said he
POTUS:"I was reading that NZ was in such good shape and then I read today that they have an outbreak."
"We are going to look very seriously at the individual help. It's a double whammy." he said.
HINSON: said district was getting ready for a delayed return to school and asked that school buildings be prioritized.
"making sure that we take care of our school buildings... they suffered catastrophic damage... like you might see with a hurricane on the East coast
POTUS"We'll take care of it and you'll have a very fast recovery I predict.
BLACKFORDFarmer who says he has insurance. "But we are finding with our buildings we are well insured but we need profitability" to look forward to the future.
POTUS asked McENANY if the world was aware of the plight of Iowa. She said POTUS's presence here would raise awareness."We are going to take care of it," he said.
KIM REEM (not listed in participants)"We're are strong and resilieng as Iowans you have heard that around the table. But we need help Mr President.
POTUS thanked his officials and turned to Reynolds."Governor it's all done now we have to start working. The papers are done."Thank you very much everybody."
The capacity of our utilities to get people back up has been incredible. 


 August 18, 2020 13:36

 Out of town pool report #6: Wheels up for Arizona 
Pool boarded AF1 without seeing POTUS board after Derecho briefing.Next stop is Yuma, Arizona.
Wheels up 12:35 CDT. 


 August 18, 2020 15:19

 Out of town pool report #7: fuller Potus comments from derecho briefing 
POTUS began by previewing trip to Arizona and talking about the wall
"It's had a tremendous impact on people coming into our country illegally, especially with the pandemic, because Mexico has some very big problems with the pandemic. Very heavily infected. We stopped them… The strongest we've been on the border in many, many years, probably decades, so it's been very good."
Thanked members of his administration around the table, and the two Iowa senators, before welcoming local official.s
"Last week, for those of you who don't know what happened, very powerful hurricane force winds pummeled Iowa, like I guess you haven't really seen before. Has this ever happened, anything like this?"
Gov Reynolds "Not to this extent..."
POTUS: "The size and the power of the winds. All Americans are united in grief and prayer for the precious life that was lost. So how many people were lost in this… ?"
Reynolds – 3 lives lost
"When you look at the severity and the damage and how widespread it is, especially in … county which you are in right now, it has been a blessing that we haven't had any more loss of life.
POTUS "Three is too many."
He said his administration had begun "to provide aid and assess the damage from winds of 80 to 110 miles per hour that carved a path of destruction through over half of Iowa… Up to 43 percent of the state's corn and soybean crops have been damaged or destroyed.
"332 cell towers were damaged – think of that -- impacting one million residents."
"Many of the schools that hoped to open are going to be delayed, not for any pandemic reason, but for an unrelated reason that nobody thought would happen.
"So yesterday I approved a disaster declaration for Iowa, you know that.
"It was done in record time and we are offering the full support of the federal government…
"The USDA also has assistance for impacted farmers, just as we've delivered $117 million to the Cedar Rapids flood mitigation project in 2018 — that was another big one. Cedar Rapids has had a rough couple of years when you think about it.
"We took good care of the flooding … and we are going to help you recover from the storm, and we'll get it done. ..
"Iowans are very resilient and strong … great people. From the depths of this hardship we will rebuild even better than before. You're going to be in fantastic shape in a very short period of time." 


 August 18, 2020 15:23

 Out of town pool report #8: Yuma arrival 
AF1 wheels down Yuma, Arizona, at 13.21 MST after uneventful flight.
Local temperature is currently a cooler than expected 42C/108F. 


 August 18, 2020 15:39

 Out of town pool report #9 
POTUS emerged from AF 1 at 13:34 to be met by a line of masked greeters (details below).
Elton John can be heard from a hangar set up for a mini rally with a stars and stripes flag displayed prominently.
POTUS spoke to greeters for about five minutes and posed for a selfie in the hairdryer heat before climbing into the Beast to be driven the 200yards or so to hangar.
Pool will be running.
>From White House:The President is Met By:
Governor Doug DuceyGovernor of Arizona
Senator Martha McSallyUnited States Senator from Arizona
Congressman Paul GosarUnited States Representative from Arizona's 4th Congressional District
Congressman Andy BiggsUnited States Representative from Arizona's 5th Congressional District
Congresswoman Debbie LeskoUnited States Representative from Arizona's 8th Congressional District
Chairwoman Kelli WardChairwoman of the Arizona Republican Party 


 August 18, 2020 16:15

 Out of town pool report #10: Iran China Post Office Russia 
Trump takes questions after inspecting section of border wall in hangar
QuestionsChad Wolf is asked about Miles Taylor, and whetherSays he is disappointed in his behaviour.
"Left the dept over a year ago, praising the administration's procedures..." Has decided now to start talking
POTUS weighs in.I never met him to the best of my knowledge. ... I never heard of him.
"He's a lowlife."
Post Office"I have a much better idea. You raise the price per package ..." For Amazon.
"Amazon will pay for the coat of the Post office.Amazon should pay for it."Then you'll solve problems... I don't want to lay people off."
On Amazon"Unacceptable. And I've been telling people to do this for the last three years. We just got the board. Amazon is going to be paying for the post office.
"We shouldn't get rid of any postal workers."
Russia reportSays it was a hoax
"I don't know about Russia I don't know about Ukraine.... That all came out in the report."
China Trade Deal"I don't want to deal with them now."
Iran bountiesWill he take action?"We're going to see. You'll see very soon."
More on Russia ReportSays details came from faked black book of campaign contacts talking to Russiana
"It was a phony book just like everything else. "We caught the Obama admin spyng on our campaign. That's treason."It's a disgrace that it's taken this long.
Last week they found out.. "A very high level person from the FBI was forging documents to make me look back.... Let's see what happens to him."
"Obama knew about it, I'm sure Michelle knew about it." And Biden knew about it.
On Dem Convention"Their ratings were very bad."
"I think we're going to do great. Thursday night I'm doing it live " not like Michelle. Said it will be on White House south lawn."Live by the way is always much more exciting."
"It wasn't current it was old." About Michelle 


 August 18, 2020 16:19

 Out of town pool report 10: Wall comments plus Post Office, Miles Taylor, Russia, China 
POTUS meets local officials with a section of the border wall in a side room to main hangar where Billy Joel's Piano Man seeps through the walls. He inspected a section of wall that is about 18ft tall.
POTUS says he has just come in from120 degree heat.
"You think Joe Biden could do that? I don't think so.He thanks officials for work on the border, members of the Customs Border and Protection force"You're setting records at the border.
He says 300 miles will be completed in a few weeks"Those are anticlimb plates at the top," he says pointing."You see these guys climbing up with drugs on their back... They say... Let's take a pass on that."
CBP official tells him rate of build:"Over 10 miles a week, two miles a day"
POTUS: "They don't come in like they used. To. Human trafficking I think we down 95%" check?
"You don't hear about the wall any more because we won."
"The wall is something that is the most visible of all. And it's working so incredibly."
Says it has kept the "China plague" from crossing in from Mexico."California is actually v happy that we built the wall." Even if they won't say it
QuestionsChad Wolf is asked about Miles Taylor, and whether"I don't know about that"Says he is disappointed in his behaviour.
"Left the dept over a year ago, praising the administration's procedures... Has decided now to start talking
POTUS weighs in.I never met him to the best of my knowledge. ... I never heard of him.
"He's a lowlife."
Post Office"I have a much better idea. You raise the price per package ..." For Amazon.
"Amazon will pay for the cots of the Post office.Amazon should pay for it."Then you'll solve problems... I don't want to lay people off."
"Unacceptable. And I've been telling people to do this for the last three years. We just got the board. Amazon is going to be paying for the post office.
"We shouldn't get rid of any postal workers."
Russia reportSays it was a hoax
"I don't know about Russia I don't know about Ukraine.... That all came out in the report."
China Trade Deal"I don't want to deal with them now."
Iran bountiesWe're going to see. You'll see very soon."
More on Russia ReportSays details can from faked black book of campaign contacts talking to Russiana
"It was a phony book just like everything else. "We caught the Obama admin spyng on our campaign. That's treason."It's a disgrace that it's taken this long.
Last week they found out.. "A very high level person from the FBI was forging documents to make me look back.... Let's see what happens to him."
"Obama knew about it, I'm sure Michelle knew about it." And Biden knew about it.
On Dem Convention"Their ratings were very bad."
"I think we're going to do greatm Thursday night I'm doing it live " not like Michelle. Said it will be on White House south law."Live by the way is always much more exciting."
"It wasn't current it was old." About Michelle 


 August 18, 2020 16:19

 Out of town pool report #11: Wall comments 
>From before questions:
POTUS meets local officials with a section of the border wall in a side room to main hangar where Billy Joel's Piano Man seeps through the walls. He inspected a section of wall that looks to be about 18ft tall.
POTUS says he has just come in from 120 degree heat.
"You think Joe Biden could do that? I don't think so.He thanks officials for work on the border, members of the Customs Border and Protection force"You're setting records at the border.
He says 300 miles will be completed in a few weeks"Those are anti-climb plates at the top," he says pointing."You see these guys climbing up with drugs on their back... They say... Let's take a pass on that."
CBP official tells him rate of build:"Over 10 miles a week, two miles a day"
POTUS: "They don't come in like they used. To. Human trafficking I think we down 95%" check?
"You don't hear about the wall any more because we won."
"The wall is something that is the most visible of all. And it's working so incredibly."
Says it has kept the "China plague" from crossing in from Mexico."California is actually very happy that we built the wall." Even if they won't say it 


 August 18, 2020 16:33

 Out of town pool report #12: Meadows on Post Office 
Your co-pooler, Mike Shear, talked on the record to White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows about the postal service changes before the Yuma event:
MEADOWS: "So, Postmaster General DeJoy, two weeks ago, and again, recently, has reiterated his commitment to pay overtime to postal workers and letter carriers. If there's an increase in volume that demands that in order to be able to get ballots, or any other first class mail, to its destination as efficiently and as fast as possible."
MEADOWS: "President Trump at no time has instructed or directed the post office to cut back on overtime, or any other operational decision that would slow things down. In fact, much of what is being talked about currently is operational decisions that happened under the Obama administration, and a pause in those operational decisions is not a reversal of a Trump administration directive, as much as it is just stopping a practice that was not increasing, efficiency."This is the removal of the big cup the big sorting machines and the boxes?
MEADOWS: "The sorting machines and the boxeshas been part of a process that started back in 2011. I've been all over the country at postal facilities that have expressed the same concern prior to this president being elected."
And so, out of a perception issue you're gonna they're gonna pause that?
MEADOWS: "This is totally a perception issue that that Postmaster General is addressing. He and his board of governors. But any logistical operational concerns in terms of getting mail as quickly as possible to its destination will be addressed through overtime pay. And there's more than enough money in the bank account."
This President is not using the post office to steal this election? He's not trying to purposely slow the mail?
MEADOWS:"This President believes that the American people, casting their ballot, one at a time, will ultimately make sure that he's the one elected on November 3 and any postal consideration has nothing to do with any ballot initiative or anything else. He wants to make the post office great again."
MEADOWS: "Most Americans love their postmasters and their letter carriers, and he believes that we ought to pay them properly and cutting back on over-time at a critical juncture in terms of increased mail violence is not something that he would support you, or is it something that he directed." 


 August 18, 2020 16:41

 Out of Town pool report #13: More Russia from Q&A 
TRUMP WAS ASKED WHETHER HE AGREED WITH SENATE CONCLUSION THAT PUTIN DIRECTED HACK"I don't know anything about it. I did see Senator Rubio say Donald Trump had absolutely nothing to do with it. He was on before. He said DT had absolutely nothing to do with Russia."It's all hoax. A big hoax. What was in a report by some politicians, on the other side, like Warner... What was in the report? That I don't know. But I know one thing that was in the report, that Donald Trump had absolutely nothing to do with it or with Russia."
Trying to transcribe more but POTUS taking stage now 


 August 18, 2020 16:43

 Out of town pool report #14: POTUS takes stage 
Hangar is set up with lectern in front of Air Force One, as we have become accustomed to. Giant flags to either side.
Several hundred people present - rough estimate is more than 500 (pool counted rows and columns and multiplied out with some estimation required) - with no social distancing. Most are wearing masks, many of them MAGA themed.
On previous question session, please do check video for accuracy of quotes as any transcription just now is impossible above music etc.
POTUS takes stage at 14:40 MST to God Bless the USA. Please do follow live.
Crowd immediately erupts into "four more years". 


 August 18, 2020 17:27

 Out of town pool report #15: Yuma speech 
POTUS finished speaking at 15:23 cue YMCA by the Village People.
Very hot in the hangar, where POTUS joked that crowd should imagine they had paind a lot of money to be in a suana.
Again please check against video
On direction of Joe Biden"I guess his new boss is Bernie Sanders. Can you believe it? Crazy Bernie."
"Biden's plan is the most radical, extreme, reckless, dangerous and deadly immigration plan ever put forward by a major party candidate. It must be defeated. and it will be defeated on November 3."
On his achievements:"The caravans don't come up any more. We were paying hundreds of millions of dollars…" to Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador "when we caught a murderer and we wanted to bring them back to one of those countries. They wouldn't take them." Because of that..."We stopped paying them."
Says the number of people crossing border is way down."More important than these numbers is that we ended catch and release… They say, come back in four years, No more. We take em out, we bring em out.
"We have people coming into this country. Some great people, some really bad people too... I mean murderers, I mean rapists"… they don't come back"
"Under the Trump administration when you cross our border illegally you are apprehended immediately and swiftly returned back home."
"MS13 is totally on the run. Many of its leaders are behind bars"We are deporting its members in record numbers"But if Biden wins it will be a … jailbreak for MS13."
Highlights appointment of hundreds of federal judges and two supreme court justices"The next president will pick two, three or even four justices of the supreme court.… they could be on there for 40 or 50 years. This is going to be the most consequential, … the most important election of your life." 


 August 18, 2020 17:37

 Out of town pool report #16: leaving Yuma 
POTUS boarded AF1 after speech at 15:28 MST.
Wheels up for JBA at 15:37. 


 August 18, 2020 19:32

 Out of town pool report #17: Senior administration officials 
Several administration officials came back to talk to the pool during the flight back to DC from Arizona. Some remarks were on the record, some were on background or off the record.
* Here are key points from White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows on the record:
ENERGY OF TODAY?
"I didn't travel with him in 2016 until towards the end…
"Yesterday was the first time that I'd seen the mojo back. And then today definitely…"
CONVENTION SURPRISES?
"I think probably the biggest thing is the untold stories that will be told next week. I think that will be the biggest surprises.
ABOUT HIM, ABOUT HIS PRESIDENCY?
"Just a different side of President Trump that a lot of people don't really see, not even all of you that travel with him on a regular basis."
HOW WILL YOU DO IT DIFFERENTLY FROM DEMS?"I think that it's really hard in a virtual setting to see perhaps interactions that give you hopefully a feel for America
ENERGY OF THE CROWD LIKE TODAY?"And so what happens is the president's so engaging that he does get energy from other people."
WILL THERE BE A CROWD AT THE WHITE HOUSE FOR THE CONVENTION SPEECH?
"I would hope that there would be some individuals there for there to be that interaction back and forth.
IS PROGRAM LOCKED IN?"I mean, is it structured? Do we have an idea of what it's going to look like? Yes. But I wouldn't be taking notes if we weren't going to be making changes.
"For example, one of the lines that Bernie used last night. I think he quoted as a positive…
"You talk about a radical idea becoming mainstream. That speaks volumes to the independent voter, they may not be a progressive supporter. Now it speaks to those that are energetic about him but it's very problematic for that independent, undecided voter who says I don't want a radical idea to be mainstream.
"Any time that you have a real good line it's worth repeating whether it's for you or for anybody else.
"One thing I've learned, never underestimate the president's political instincts. I've done it several times much to my detriment.
"He's able to really read the crowd, he's able to get energy from other people and he's able to speak to Americans in a way that no other presidential candidate has ever done."
ON THE POSTAL SERVICE:
There's plenty of money to be able to continue to run with operations. This postmaster general made zero, zero operational decisions when it came to mail sorting, the blue boxes. all of that happened starting back in 2011.
ON OVERTIME:
The amount of overtime that's being paid is exactly what it was, which is 13 percent.
But the unions, when their truck or van does not leave on time, actually it bumps it back, and when they do their daily route, they get paid overtime.
what the postmaster general was doing is at 8 oclock or 9 oclock, whenever the route is supposed to leave, they leave.
If you go to airline terms, more on time departures than ever before.
MORE ON THE OVERTIME ISSUE:
When that was raised, with senator schumer and speaker pelosi in the room, he made a firm commitment, i;ll pay whatever overtime it takes to make sure we get the delivery of the mail there properly as a lede up to the election.
DID THE PRESIDENT GET THIS WRONG?
The president didn't get it wrong because he had nothing to do with it.
you have got a postmaster general that has been on the job for two months. all of this is really just a carryover from megan brennan when she was in there. and what you've got is trying to get in and figure out logistics.
WAS A SLOWDON IN THE MAIL INTENTIONAL?
"It definitely was not intentional because it was not directed by the President of the United States."
Postmaster general has committed to overtime for not just any first class mail between now and the election time
Dejoy was trying to do a good service just telling the secretary of states that if there's a three day window between when you're mailing in ballots when they're supposed to get back, there could be a problem.
Let's Separate for a second Universal ballots and absentee ballots.
If we are saying you requested a ballot and it comes to you and you're going to mail back in the ballot, is the president supportive of that? Yes. Can he help with that? Yes.
In some states it's called "no excuse absentee" and essentially it's saying that if you don't feel comfortable and you request an absentee ballot it goes back.
Some states already have that. Honestly some states do it really well. My concern is changing it this close to an election and trying to do 100% mail in...
COULDN'T PEOPLE DROP OFF THEIR BALLOTS AT THE LOCAL ELECTION OFFICE?
If they're going to get out and do that why don't they just get out in person and vote?
The problem we're going to run into —on the record —is one day 4 or 5 right before the election they're going to say my ballot is not in. The PO didn't deliver it. So Then what do you do? You have a real problem cause you have a qualified ballot you sent it. It's not there. You want your vote to count.
So part of what we're doing is trying to figure out enough lead time to make it work for mail in ballots with the Secretaries of State so they're not trying to request it—so you're not sitting there 2 days before November 3rd saying well I need to vote, I want to vote for President Trump. I want to vote for Joe Biden
DID DEJOY CONSULT WITH THE WHITE HOUSE BEFORE DECIDING TO SUSPEND SOME OF THESE CHANGES?
I knew he was going to hold off on the changes based on convorsation we had the other day. Didn't instruct him to do that. Met with board of governors.
PAYROLL TAX:
Q: on tax incentives to companies that bring workers back.
"That's part of the proposal."
I think it's Graham's $7.6 billion proposal
"That's all that one was."
Q: On the payroll tax - seems like IRS is going to to tell companies in their guidance that they're on the hook if congress doesn't forget this.
"We'll see what they say... I think if I were a business person, based on what has been said and based on knowing Congress, I would give the deduction immediately because there no way that any member in Congress is going to force somebody to pay that back. They'll forgive it."
Q: They could force the company.
"Which would in turn, if the employee's still there, force the employee to pay it back. It's only the employees who are not there that would get off. And so, as a business guy, I would give the break immediately knowing that it's going to get forgiven."
Q: Do you think that's actually going to happen?
"Oh yeah..." but wouldn't speak to the guidance.
"Mark Meadows believing that Congress will always take the easiest way out is consistent and this is the easiest way out is just to forgive. To collect it is not easy. Forgiving is easy and Congress will take the easy way out, if given.
QUESTION ABOUT CHINA: Trump said today that he postponed the US/China six-month review, did he postpone it or did he cancel it?
Did he cancel what?
THE TALKS?
There's not going to be any talks. obviously the trade representatives talk to each other on a pretty regular basis and i think there's a real frustration by the president and by many americans about the lack of transparency and what happened with this virus and even still, the lack of transparency with what happened, how it happened, and how contagius it was. I have a bigger problem with the lack of transparency with how contagious it was, because we knew of human to human transfer in contagion much earlier.
QUESTION: SAO including Lighthizer and Kudlow have talked about Chinese evading their commitments… there are people who say if you cancel trade deal…
I don't think he said he was walking away from the trade deal, he said he was reviewing it
HAVE THE TALKS BEEN RESCHEDULED?
There are no rescheduled talks. There are no scheduled talks at this point. Ambassador lighthizer continues to have discussions with his Chinese counterparts involving purchases and fulfilling their agreement. We're not yet a year into the agreement and so it's real easy to say you're going to buy so much volume of produce or manufacturing or whatever, over a year if you know that year comes up in February … they have made some significant purchases in agricultural aspect other than soybean.
WHY NOT USE MECHANISM TO PUT PRESSURE ON THE CHINESE?
Without getting too much into specifics, I think it's fair to say amb. lighthizer is having regular discussions with his chinese counterparts
SHOULD WE EXPECT MORE PARDONS THIS WEEK?
No
TRUMP'S REACTON TO APPLE CONCERNS ABOUT TIKTOK / WECHAT WAS "WHATEVER" DID HE MEAN THAT?
I think what he really feels is national security is of paramount importance and at this particular point, if you knew what i knew about the devices that you have in your hand, you would never carry them again.
national security is — such a big issue and that's really the reason why tiktok and wechat — there's a number of others….
THOSE NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUES ARENT NEW
Yeah, i can't talk about that… I would just say that we continue to evaluate national security risks on a regular basis and sometimes in reviewing national security risks — if things appear to be of more concern than they might have been in previous times.
UAE AGREEMENT
It's a historic agreement truly viewed by those in the region as historic. If other countries follow on, you can see a big difference that it will make. And if they don't, it has the potential of strengthening things. You had Egypt, Jordan, UAE, you pick up a couple others, it's significant, it's very significant - it's kind of like running the four minute mile, once it's broken, people say, well it's not so bad. It was very bold for UAE to do it and hopefully it leads to a number of other countries to normalize relations.
DOES THAT STRENGTHEN YOUR HAND RE IRAN?
Iran is such a rogue nation. I'm one of the few people who have spent an hour one on one with PM Zarif.
HE'S CHARMING?
He is extremely charming, and his English is better than mine. And yet their values and the values of most in the Middle East and around the world are different. They're the no. 1 state sponsor of terror and that's hard to have a normal relationship with Iran if that's their modus operandi.
IS THE US GIVING F35S TO UAE
I can't comment on that.
QUSTION: Does Israel's qualitative military edge have to be maintained?
I think it will be maintained. Never underestimate the Israelis.
HOW'S THE JOB GOING?
I'm having a great time, I really am. It's the hardest job I've ever had but I'm having a great time.
Q: What sort of tone can we. expect from the speech?
I think it's about the vision for America, it's some of what he ran on in 2016, his vision for what the next four years will look like.
Q: Audience for acceptance speech? How many people can you fit on south lawn?
Well the National Mall is really big.
Q: Talk from Biden supporters about decency and empathy - is highlighting president's personal side an acknowledgment of needing to address that?
I don't mean to get into that. I think our side has been planned long before last night. After 47 years you know what Joe Biden can do and what he can't do.
A senior administration official said the following about the negotiations on Capitol Hill over a Cares 4 bill
"I think there's a real desire by some in the Democratic causes and some in the Republican conference, both in the House and the Senate to do a smaller deal on the things that we can agree upon. Postal, we happen to agree upon. PPP, we can agree upon. Schools, we probably get there and can agree upon it. State/local we can't agree on. And probably the stimulus check, I don't know that we can agree upon."
It could be about $500 billion. With a B. 


 August 18, 2020 22:40

 Out of town travel pool report #18: JBA arrival 
AF1 Wheels down at JBA 22:28.
Potus deplaned two minutes later and boarded motorcade.
Handing on to in town pool.
Today was a real team effort. With thanks to Michael, Jill, Justin, Weija, Andrea et al.
Time to rehydrate. 



  