
    "With unemployment at a five-month high and stagnant economic growth, President Obama and his campaign are willing to say and do anything to hide the President's disappointing record. But they're not entitled to repeatedly mislead voters. Americans deserve better — they deserve a president who's willing to run an honest campaign and be honest about his own record." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Yesterday And Today, Top Obama Campaign Advisers Repeatedly Denied Any Knowledge About The Content In A Disgraced Ad From Obama Allies:
Obama Campaign Senior Adviser Robert Gibbs: "I Certainly Don't Know The Specifics Of This Man's Case." TIME'S MARK HALPERIN: "Robert we all feel bad for that man. It's a heartfelt testimonial. Do you feel that's an appropriate injection in this campaign of basically making the accusation that Governor Romney basically caused that woman's death." ROBERT GIBBS: "Look, Mark, I think as you said, this is an ad by an entity that's not controlled by the campaign. I certainly don't know the specifics of this man's case" (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 8/8/12)

Click Here To Watch

Obama Deputy Campaign Manager Stephanie Cutter: "I Don't Know The Facts..." CNN'S JOHN BERMAN: "He's suggesting she died because of the action that Mitt Romney took. Mitt Romney of course had left Bain years before that Bain took over this company and then his wife died years after. What's going on? Is that accurate? Is that fair?" CUTTER: "Well John, here are the facts. I don't know the facts about when Mr. Soptic's wife got sick, or the facts about his health insurance, but here's what I do know. That Mitt Romney personally handled the deal to take over GS Steel and he personally handled some of the decisions made to load that company up with debt so much that it went underwater.  It went bankrupt." (CNN, 8/8/12)

Click Here To Watch

Obama Campaign Spokesperson Jen Psaki: "We Don't Have Any Knowledge Of The Story..." PSAKI: "We have no involvement with any ads that are done by Priorities USA, we don't have any knowledge of the story of the family. And you know campaign finance rules in that regard are in place for a reason." (CNN's "The Situation Room," 8/7/12)

Click Here To Watch

Just Months Ago, The Obama Campaign Hosted A Conference Call And Ran Ads Featuring The Same Story They Claim To Know Nothing About:
"When President Obama's Aides Said They Weren't Familiar With Former Missouri Steelworker Joe Soptic's Life Story, All They Had To Do Was Check Their Own Campaign Archives." (Reid J. Epstein, "Team Obama Denies Knowing Story Of Man In Its TV Ad, Call," Politico, 8/8/12)
In May, Cutter Hosted A Conference Call That Featured The Same Subject As The Disgraced Ad. "But Cutter hosted an Obama campaign conference call in May in which Soptic told reporters the very story featured in the Priorities spot." (Reid J. Epstein, "Team Obama Denies Knowing Story Of Man In Its TV Ad, Call," Politico, 8/8/12)
"The Former Kansas City Steelworker ... Has Appeared In Obama Campaign Videos Before — Despite Claims By A Top Obama Adviser..." "The former Kansas City steelworker featured in a scathing ad tying Mitt Romney to his wife's death has appeared in Obama campaign videos before — despite claims by a top Obama adviser Wednesday that he doesn't know 'the specifics of this man's case' amid charges that the ad is inaccurate and misleading." ("Obama Campaign No Stranger To Steelworker In Disputed Ad," Fox News, 8/8/12)
Politico Headline: "Team Obama Denies Knowing Story Of Man In Its TV Ad, Call" (Reid J. Epstein, "Team Obama Denies Knowing Story Of Man In Its TV Ad, Call," Politico, 8/8/12)
  