
    Pool Reports by Emilie Munson, Hearst Newspapers



Sent:
Reports:




 August 11, 2020 11:11

 WH In Town Pool Report #1 
Good morning from the White House.
Your pooler has taken her Covid-19 test.
Today, the president will hold a press briefing at 5:30 PM – that was added to the guidance this morning. President Trump will also have a phone call with "America's sheriffs" at 12:30 PM in the Oval Office and that is closed press.
I'll let you know if there are any updates. 


 August 11, 2020 13:31

 WH In Town Pool Report #2 -- lunch lid 
We have a lunch lid until 2:30 PM. 


 August 11, 2020 16:12

 WH In Town Pool Report #3 -- sheriffs call 
Your pooler just received the following from Judd Deere:
Today President Donald J. Trump held a briefing call with hundreds of America's county Sheriffs from across the country. Sheriffs are on the front lines of law enforcement policy and public safety, and the President has remained committed to supporting and partnering with them on key issues and priorities including safe communities, border security, human trafficking, combating COVID-19, and disaster recovery and resilience. President Trump discussed how his Administration continues to devote unprecedented resources to our nation's sheriffs and law enforcement officers. Between FY 2017 and FY 2019, for example, the Administration has provided an estimated $2.9 billion to law enforcement for law enforcement activities through the Department of Homeland Security.
Sheriff Manny Gonzales from Bernalillo County, New Mexico discussed the important progress the Department of Justice has made in partnering with State and local law enforcement to restore law and order in Bernalillo County and Albuquerque, New Mexico through Operation Legend. President Trump highlighted the expansion of Operation Legend to help bring peace to cities plagued with violence. Through Operation Legend, Federal agents and other resources will be surged to communities troubled with an increase in violence.
Sheriff Eric Severson from Waukesha County, Wisconsin discussed how Antifa and other extremist groups have created an environment where terrorizing law enforcement families is unfortunately seen as acceptable. President Trump reaffirmed his support for law enforcement and his commitment to prosecute the perpetrators who commit acts of violence against law enforcement.
Sheriff James Stuart from Anoka County, Minnesota discussed the importance of Federal, State, and local partnerships to hold sponsors of violence against law enforcement accountable for their actions. In Minneapolis and other major metropolitan areas around the country, including New York, Seattle, Portland, and Chicago, extremists continue to be highly organized to undermine the rule of law. President Trump highlighted his Administration's commitment of federal agents working to quell violent crime and take out organized gangs .
Sheriff A.J. Louderback of Jackson County, Texas thanked the President for his work in securing the border through construction of 265 new miles of border wall. By partnering with the 31 sheriffs of the Southwestern Border Sheriff's Coalition to disrupt transnational organized crime, human trafficking, illegal immigration, and the flow of illegal drugs, the President continues to take decisive action to keep Americans safe by securing the border. 


 August 11, 2020 17:35

 WH In Town Pool Report #4 -- two min warning to briefing 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.] 


 August 11, 2020 17:47

 WH In Town Pool Report #5 -- briefing has begun 
The briefing is underway.
You can watch at: https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f... 


 August 11, 2020 18:07

 WH In Town Pool Report #6 -- briefing ended 
The briefing ended at 6:05 p.m. after the President took a handful of questions on Sen. Kamala Harris, FISA, evictions and other topics. 


 August 11, 2020 18:13

 WH In Town Pool Report #7 -- travel/photo lid 
A travel/photo lid was called at 6:10 p.m.
Have a wonderful evening, 



  