
    "Four years ago today, Candidate Obama pledged to purge the 'politics of insult' from Washington. But with unemployment on the rise in 44 states and sluggish economic growth, President Obama is acting just like the Washington politicians he used to criticize – dodging calls to condemn shameful ads and ignoring false charges made by his own campaign. If Americans want to finally change Washington for the better, they'll need to change presidents." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Four Years Ago Today, Candidate Barack Obama Promised To Change "The Politics Of Insult" In Washington:
Candidate Obama, Four Years Ago Today: "The Kind Of Politics That's All About Division And Resentment And Making People Mad At Each Other Hasn't Gotten Us Very Far." OBAMA: "I will say, the kind of politics that's all about division and resentment and making people mad at each other hasn't gotten us very far. It may help you win elections, but it sure hasn't put more income in the American family's budget. It hasn't brought down gas prices. It hasn't made college easier to finance.  ... You know, if you applied the same morality to -- of our current national politics to everyday life, imagine what life would be like. Every day you'd be going to work and people would be lying about you and calling you names. Well, how would you get anything done in the office? Seriously. You wouldn't. Right?" (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Chester, VA, 8/21/08)

Candidate Obama: "That's Part Of The Politics We've Got To Change, The Politics Of Insult. I Mean, Who Goes Around Spending All Their Time Insulting Each Other?" (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Chester, VA, 8/21/08)

Click Here To View Candidate Obama's Remarks
But Four Years Later, President Obama Won't Even Condemn Vicious Insults Run By His Own Super PAC:
At Yesterday's Press Conference, President Obama Again Ducked Calls To Condemn His Super PAC's Disgraceful Attack On Mitt Romney. CORDES: "But why not send a message to the top Super PAC that's supporting you and say I think an ad like that is out of bounds? That we shouldn't be suggesting--" OBAMA: "So let's take that particular issue as opposed to, you know, because you lumped in a whole bunch of other stuff that I think was entirely legitimate. I don't think that Governor Romney is somehow responsible for the death of the woman that was portrayed in that ad. But keep in mind, this is an ad I didn't approve, I did not produce, and as far as I can tell, [had] barely run. I think it ran once." (President Barack Obama, Press Conference, Washington, DC, 8/20/12)
"Obama Campaign Officials Have Refused To Disavow The Ad..." "Obama campaign officials have refused to disavow the ad, claiming independence from the outside group and no knowledge of the woman's story." (Steve Portnoy, "'Disgusting' Pro-Obama Ad Criticized By Democrat," ABC News, 8/9/12)
And President Obama Won't Even Own Up To His Campaign's Baseless Charge That Mitt Romney Is A Felon:
President Obama, Yesterday: "Nobody Accused Mr. Romney Of Being A Felon." OBAMA: "Well I'm, not sure all those characterizations that you laid out there were accurate. For example, nobody accused Mr. Romney of being a felon." (President Barack Obama, Press Conference, Washington, DC, 8/20/12)


    "That Statement Runs Contrary To What Obama's Own Deputy Campaign Manager Stephanie Cutter Said In July, When She Told Reporters That Romney Either Lied To The American People Or Committed A Felony." (Byron Tau, "Obama: Tax Returns Release 'Is Pretty Standard Stuff,'" Politico, 8/20/12)
  

FLASHBACK: In July, Obama Deputy Campaign Manager Stephanie Cutter Claimed Mitt Romney "Could Be Guilty Of A Felony." "Mitt Romney either lied in federal filings that show he worked at Bain Capital through 2002 and could be guilty of a felony, or has lied to the American people in saying he left the company in 1999, the Obama campaign is arguing in light of news reports on the firm's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ... Deputy campaign manager Stephanie Cutter laid out the issue as the Obama team sees it: 'Either Mitt Romney, through his own words and his own signature, was misrepresenting his position at Bain to the SEC, which is a felony.'" (Jennifer Epstein, "Obama Team: Romney Committed A Felony Or Lied To Voters," Politico, 7/12/12)
  