
    "Focused" ad details Richardson's economic successes in New Mexico, Fourth "Job Interview" continues to demonstrate that Richardson is the most experienced candidate to become President
DES MOINES, IA -- Governor Bill Richardson today launched two new television ads in Iowa. The first ad "Focused" showcases his record of achievement creating jobs and building economic momentum in his home state of New Mexico and explaining how he will do it nationally as President. The second ad is the fourth in the unique "Job Interview" commercial series. The new ads come two days before Governor Richardson will formally unveil his plan on jobs and the economy during a major speech in Cedar Rapids, IA.
See both ads and background materials at: http://www.richardsonforpresident.com/focusedandcandidates .
"Bill Richardson's success in New Mexico is well documented. He has the experience creating new, high-wage jobs, expanding existing industries, supporting R&D and start-up businesses, and building a growing, vibrant economy," said Richardson campaign manager Dave Contarino. "The Governor also has a proven record of fiscal responsibility, balancing five budgets, while cutting taxes and investing in jobs, health care and education. Others talk about it, he's done it."
Governor Richardson's fourth "Job Interview" commercial emphasizes the message that he is the only Democratic Presidential candidate with executive experience and is most prepared on day one to start the necessary work to get our country back on track. The ad touches on a number of the Governor's achievements as Governor of New Mexico, including his record of helping create jobs, balancing budgets and investing in education.
In the last five years, Governor Richardson has created over 80,000 new jobs. New Mexico's unemployment is at its lowest in history. His vision, his ideas, and his leadership have been integral in each of these steps and have paved the way for what is being called the "New Mexico Comeback".
Governor Richardson passed a permanent rural jobs tax credit to spur employment and economic growth in rural New Mexico. And while making New Mexico the clean energy state, Governor Richardson focused on the development of renewable energy initiatives involving wind, solar and biomass to help reduce dependence on fossil fuels and help the fight against global climate change while simultaneously creating jobs.
"For several years now, the leadership of our country has lost its focus on what is important," Contarino said. "People have lost their jobs, either due to a floundering economy or the outsourcing of jobs. Governor Richardson has retained and created quality jobs in New Mexico, when he's President he will do the same for the country."
The commercials were produced by Steve Murphy and Mark Putnam of Murphy Putnam Media in Alexandria, Virginia. In recent months, Richardson's message has spread and support has grown among Iowans. According to an American Research Group poll conducted in late July, Governor Richardson is now in the double digits in Iowa and within two points of Barack Obama among likely caucus-goers.
  