
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced that he has nominated the following individuals as United States Attorneys:
•      Kenyen Brown, Southern District of Alabama
•      Neil MacBride, Eastern District of Virginia
•      Benjamin Wagner, Eastern District of California
"These three men have proven themselves to be not only top-flight attorneys but dedicated public servants," President Obama said. "I am grateful for the work they have already done on behalf of the American people and confident that they will ensure justice is served as United States Attorneys."
Kenyen Brown, Nominee for U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama 
Kenyen Brown is Acting Staff Director and Chief Counsel for the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct for the U.S. House of Representatives. Previously, he served as Deputy Chief Counsel and Director of Advice and Education for the Committee and as Senior Counsel and Director of Training for the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He was an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of Alabama from 1996 to 1999. He received his BA from the University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa and his JD from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville.
Neil MacBride, Nominee for U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia
Neil MacBride is currently an Associate Deputy Attorney General in the Justice Department. Previously, he was Vice President and General Counsel of the Business Software Alliance. He served as Staff Director and Chief Counsel to Senator Biden from 2001 to 2005, and as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia from 1996 to 2001. He received his BA from Houghton College and his JD from the University of Virginia School of Law. After graduating from law school, he clerked for Judge Henry Coke Morgan, Jr., on the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia.
Benjamin Wagner, Nominee for U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of California
Benjamin Wagner is the Chief of the Special Prosecutions Unit in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of California. He joined the office in 1992, after spending six years in private practice at Cahill, Gordon and Reindel in New York. He has held several leadership positions in the office, including Coordinator of the Eastern District Task Force on Violence Against Abortion Providers, Violence Against Women Act Coordinator, Anti-Terrorism Coordinator, and Hate Crimes Coordinator. From May 2005 to June 2006, he was detailed to Indonesia as the Department of Justice's first Resident Legal Advisor to that country. He received his BA from Dartmouth College and his JD from the New York University School of Law.
  