
    "The American people are the source of our strength... And when you need to call on the strength of America, you don't strengthen government, you strengthen the American people." – Gov. Mitt Romney (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Young Republican National Convention, Hollywood, FL, 7/6/07)
THE ROMNEY VISION: STRONG MILITARY, STRONG ECONOMY, STRONG FAMILIES
Gov. Romney Believes We Should Keep Taxes Low And Encourage Economic Growth:
Gov. Romney: "Raising Taxes Hurts Working People. It Stifles Innovation." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The National Press Club, Washington, DC, 7/14/04)
- Gov. Romney: "You Don't Create Economic Prosperity By Raising Taxes." (John J. Miller, "Matinee Mitt," National Review, 6/20/05)
Gov. Romney Would Make The Bush Tax Cuts Permanent. ROMNEY: "It's absolutely critical that we don't have that massive tax hike and instead we make the Bush tax cuts permanent." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Detroit Economic Club, Detroit, MI, 2/7/07)
Gov. Romney Proposes Lowering Tax Rates For All Americans. ROMNEY: "We should strive to keep marginal tax rates on America's families and businesses no higher than those imposed by our major global competitors. We should end tax penalties against saving and investment, and promote fairness and simplicity by ending special interest loopholes and lowering tax rates for all Americans." (Romney For President, "Governor Romney's Remarks At The Club For Growth," Press Release, 3/29/07)
Gov. Romney Believes In Private, Market-Based Health Insurance And Encouraging Personal Responsibility:
Gov. Romney's Plan In Massachusetts Stressed Personal Responsibility. ROMNEY: "This is fundamentally a plan, which is based on individuals being helped to get their own private health insurance policy." (Fox News' "Journal Editorial Report," 6/3/06)
- Gov. Romney: "[M]y plan calls for a personal responsibility principle: Everyone must either become insured or maintain adequate savings to cover their medical expenses." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Health-Care Reform Gets A Fair Shake," Boston Herald, 6/21/05)
Gov. Romney Supports The Troop Surge, And Has Called For A Surge Of Support Here At Home:
Gov. Romney Supports Giving The Current Troop Surge A Chance To Work. GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "I think the surge is the best course we have at this stage. We're seeing some positive reports coming from the Brookings Institution. We're going to see a report from General Petraeus soon. I think it's the best shot we have to see stability in Iraq and I certainly hope it's successful." (ABC's "Good Morning America," 8/6/07)
Gov. Romney Has Called For A Surge Of Support Here At Home For Our Troops Abroad. "'At a time when American families and individuals are making a surge of sacrifice to support this troop surge, I think it's time for American citizens and politicians to make a surge of support,' Romney said..." (Glen Johnson, "Romney Donates $25,000 Amid Plea For Patriotic 'Surge'," The Associated Press, 8/2/07)
SEN. HILLARY CLINTON: BIG GOVERNMENT, HIGHER TAXES, SOCIALIZED MEDICINE, AND CUT MILITARY FUNDING
Sen. Hillary Clinton Ad:
Sen. Clinton's New Ad Claims That Americans Won't Be Invisible If She Were President. CLINTON: "As I travel around America, I hear from so many people who feel like they're just invisible to their government... Americans from all walks of life across our country may be invisible to this President, but they're not invisible to me and they won't be invisible to the next President of the United States..." (Clinton For President, Television Ad, "Invisible," 8/15/07)
But It's Money In Americans' Wallets That Would Become Invisible:
Sen. Clinton Wants To Eliminate The Bush Tax Cuts. "Joining other Democratic women senators at an event for Sen. Barbara Boxer, who's seeking re-election, Hillary Clinton told hundreds of party faithful to expect to lose some of the tax cuts passed under President George W. Bush if Democrats take control in Washington next year." (Beth Fouhy, "San Francisco Rolls Out Red Carpet For The Clintons," The Associated Press, 6/28/04)
- Sen. Clinton: "We're Going To Take Things Away From You On Behalf Of The Common Good." (Beth Fouhy, "San Francisco Rolls Out Red Carpet For The Clintons," The Associated Press, 6/28/04)
"Clinton Also Said She Would Raise Taxes For The Wealthy, Who She Said 'Aren't Paying Their Fair Share.'" (Mike Glover, "Clinton Would Make Husband Roving Ambassador To Repair U.S. Image," The Associated Press, 4/21/07)
Sen. Clinton: "Shared Responsibility For Shared Prosperity." SEN. HILLARY CLINTON: "It's time for a new beginning, for an end to government of the few, by the few and for the few, time to reject the idea of an 'on your own' society and to replace it with shared responsibility for shared prosperity. I prefer a 'we're all in it together' society." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Remarks At Manchester School Of Technology, Manchester, NH, 5/29/07)
Sen. Hillary Clinton Ad:
Senator Clinton's New Ad Claims That She Will Address Health Care For Families. CLINTON: "You know, if you're a family that is struggling, and you don't have health care, well you are invisible to this President. ... but they're not invisible to me and they won't be invisible to the next President of the United States..." (Clinton For President, Television Ad, "Invisible," 8/15/07)
But Hillary Clinton Has Already Tried And Failed To Pass Socialized Medicine:
Sen. Clinton Has Vowed To Have A "Universal" Health Care System Paid For By Taxpayers If Elected. "Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham Clinton vowed Monday to create a universal health care system if elected, saying she 'learned a lot' during the failed health care effort of her husband's presidency. 'We're going to have universal health care when I'm president - there's no doubt about that. We're going to get it done,' the New York senator and front-runner for the 2008 nomination said." (Mike Glover, "Clinton Touts Universal Health Care Plan," The Associated Press, 3/26/07)
"Universal Healthcare" Is Just A Rehash Of The Failed HillaryCare Of The Early 1990s. "But in the longer term, it's a just one more step on the road to 'HillaryCare' - the program of government-run, universal health-care that Americans rejected so decisively in the early Clinton years. The problem, as the Clinton plan foretold, is that eventually bureaucrats will decide which medical procedures are covered and which aren't, with patients forced to see a government-approved doctor instead of choosing their own, and health-care services rationed (again, by bureaucrats) to hold down costs." (The Heritage Foundation Website, www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed101403c.cfm, Accessed 8/14/07)
Sen. Hillary Clinton Ad:
Sen. Clinton's New Ad Claims That She Would Respect Our Troops. CLINTON: "And I never thought I would see that our soldiers who serve in Iraq and Afghanistan would be treated as though they were invisible as well." (Clinton For President, Television Ad, "Invisible," 8/15/07)
But Sen. Clinton Flip-Flopped, Voting Against Funding Our Troops:
In 2003, Sen. Clinton Voted For The $87 Billion Supplemental Appropriations To Fund US Troops In Iraq And Afghanistan. (S. 1689, CQ Vote #400: Passed 87-12: R 50-0; D 37-11; I 0-1, 10/17/03, Clinton Voted Yea)
- At The Time, Sen. Clinton Called The Funding " A Vote For Our Troops" And "A Vote For Our Mission." (Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, "Senator Clinton Votes for Iraq Appropriation In Support of U.S. Troops," Press Release, 10/17/03)
But This Past May, Sen. Clinton Voted Against The Iraq Supplemental Spending Bill Funding The Troops In Afghanistan And Iraq. (H.R. 2206, CQ Vote #181: Passed 80-14: R 42-3; D 37-10; I 1-1, 5/24/07, Clinton Voted Nay)
  