
    In response to Jeb Bush's trip to the border, Hillary For America Director of Hispanic Media, Jorge Silva, released the following statement:
Following Donald Trump's tour of the Texas border, Jeb Bush decided to follow his lead once again by touring the South Texas border to discuss his opposition to a pathway to citizenship and doubling down on the hateful term "anchor babies" when describing the children of immigrants. The Jeb Bush that will visit the border today is not the same Jeb Bush that many in the Latino community thought they knew.
Bush now opposes a path to citizenship for the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants and supports creating a second class status for families. He has also made it one of his top five priorities to repeal the President's executive actions that protect DREAMers and stop families from being torn apart. And following the lead of several other Republican candidates, he's used the derogatory term "anchor baby" when talking about American children of undocumented parents.
These days, there's not much daylight between Jeb Bush and his Republican colleagues when it comes to immigration. Since launching his presidential campaign, Bush has proven with his extreme, out-of-touch views that he'll do anything to outdo Donald Trump and Scott Walker.
Jeb Bush Opposes a Path to Citizenship. HANNITY: At one point you supported a path to citizenship. BUSH: Yes. HANNITY: You really – now you're saying a path to residency, no citizenship if you didn't respect our laws and sovereignty? BUSH: Yes. The plan that I proposed, and it's there for anybody that wants to read it. It's called "Immigration Wars." It's a book, you know, that I put out a couple years ago with Clint Bolick. The plan says you earn legal status. You get a provisional work permit. You don't receive government assistance. You pay a fine. You learn English. You don't receive any federal government assistance. And you work, you don't commit crimes. And over an extended period of time you earn legal status. You don't cut in front of someone who has been patiently waiting – HANNITY: Legal status but not citizenship. BUSH: Exactly. [Fox News, Hannity, 6/16/15]
Jon Ralston: Jeb Bush "Left No Daylight Possible On A Path To Citizenship. No Way. No How." "Jeb also, even when I pressed, left no daylight possible on a path to citizenship. No way. No how." [Jon Ralston (@RalstonReports), 7/17/15]

QUESTION: "Does That Include Citizenship Or Not?" JEB BUSH: "No, Legal Status, Legalized Status." QUESTION: "What about a path to citizenship? Should they be allowed to become citizens?" JEB BUSH: "I think a path to legal status, given the environment we're in now, given the need to build consensus on how we craft an immigration policy that allows us to grow, it is the right one." QUESTION: "Does that include citizenship or not?" JEB BUSH: "No, legal status, legalized status." [Jeb Bush media availability, 7/17/15]

Jeb Bush Said "Yes" He Would Repeal President Obama's DACA And DAPA Executive Orders. "Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush on Tuesday said he would overturn President Barack Obama's executive actions that limit deportations of some undocumented immigrants. Mr. Bush, who has been critical of Mr. Obama's use of executive authority, told radio host Michael Medved that he would repeal Mr. Obama's deferred action policies, known as DACA and DAPA. 'The DACA and DAPA? Yes I would [repeal them],' Mr. Bush said." [Wall Street Journal, 4/21/15]
Jeb Bush Said Repealing President Obama's Executive Orders Was Among His Top Five Priorities For The First 100 Days Of His Presidency. HANNITY: "The top five agenda. If you become president, what are your top five priorities in the first 100 days?" JEB BUSH: "Undoing… (INAUDIBLE SHOUT FROM CROWD) Yes, right. Undoing the – by executive order, undoing what the president has done, you know, using authority he doesn't have." [CPAC, 2/27/15]
Jeb Bush: We Need "Better Enforcement So That You Don't Have These, You Know, 'Anchor Babies'…" "'If there's abuse, if people are bringing — pregnant women are coming in to have babies simply because they can do it, then there ought to be greater enforcement,' Bush said on Bill Bennett's conservative radio show, 'Morning in America' Wednesday. 'That's [the] legitimate side of this. Better enforcement so that you don't have these, you know, "anchor babies", as they're described, coming into the country.'" [Politico, 8/19/15]
HEADLINE: "Jeb Bush Doubles Down On 'Anchor Baby' Remark" [MSNBC, 8/20/15]
  