
    Steyer says he's the Democrat who can take on Trump on the economy and win in TV ad that will air on Fox in the DC market
(San Francisco, August 1, 2019) — Today, presidential candidate Tom Steyer will run his "Trump is a Fraud" ad during Fox & Friends and Hannity. The ad is set to air in the DC market, with a total spend of $3,800, and is part of a $500,000 national TV buy. The 30-second ad debuted during the Democratic debates on July 30 and July 31, airing nationally on CNN and MSNBC and locally in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, and Nevada. In the ad, Steyer asserts: "Unlike other candidates, I can go head to head with Donald Trump on the economy and expose him for what he is — a fraud and a failure." The ad is his campaign's first TV ad to directly take on Trump.
"By airing this ad on Fox News, we are taking the fight directly to Trump. It's necessary to call Trump what he is: a phony with a long history of exploiting working families, bankruptcies and shady business deals," Campaign Manager Heather Hargreaves said. "Tom is the only candidate with the experience to call out Trump as a fraud, beat him on the economy, and start putting the American people before corporations."
Steyer is uniquely suited to expose Trump as a fraud on the economy because of his successful private sector career, and believes that as the Democratic nominee he can turn Trump's perceived strength on the economy into a weakness by exposing Trump's fraudulent business career and his economic policies which have benefited big corporations at the expense of working families.
The ad comes as Steyer continues to surge in the polls. According to a recent Morning Consult poll, Steyer is already polling at 4% in the early primary states of New Hampshire, Iowa, South Carolina and Nevada just three weeks into his presidential campaign. He also recently secured two qualifying polls that put him on track to appear on the debate stage in September.
See below for the full script:
Donald Trump failed as a businessman.
He borrowed billions, and left a trail of bankruptcy and broken promises.
He hasn't changed.
I started a tiny investment business and, over 27 years, grew it successfully to 36 billion dollars.
I'm Tom Steyer and I approve this message.
I'm running for President because unlike other candidates, I can go head to head with Donald Trump on the economy and expose him for what he is – a fraud and a failure.
  