
    (SAN FRANCISCO, August 27, 2019) — Today, the Tom Steyer 2020 campaign announced some of its initial senior staff. The list is predominantly comprised of national leadership roles based out of the campaign headquarters in San Francisco, CA, and early primary state directors.
"We are thrilled about the political talent and experience our staff brings to Tom's campaign," said Campaign Manager Heather Hargreaves. "Our senior staff members are experts in their fields, winning several races across the country and bringing decades of campaign experience with them. Their ability to effectively lead their teams and apply their expertise will be invaluable as we work together to ensure Tom is the Democratic nominee for president of the United States."
The staff the Steyer campaign announced today are:
Campaign Manager – Heather HargreavesHeather has more than 15 years of experience in politics, serving in senior positions in Democratic political campaigns across the country. Previously, she was the executive director of NextGen America where she oversaw all of NextGen's electoral and advocacy programs, comprising a budget of more than $75 million for the 2018 cycle. Heather also worked on both of President Obama's presidential campaigns, including serving as general election director in Nevada in 2008.
Deputy Campaign Manager, Digital – Martha PatzerMartha is a former principal with 270 Strategies, and most recently served as head of digital at Need to Impeach, where she led the mobilization of more than eight million impeachment activists to help turn out the vote in 2018. In 2012, she was deputy email director for OFA, leading the team of digital strategists that raised more than $690 million online for the reelection effort.
Deputy Campaign Manager, Battleground States – Abdul HendersonAbdul is the former executive director of the Congressional Black Caucus where he served as the strategic operations and policy advisor for the Caucus and its 46 members. He is also a veteran that served in Operation Iraqi Freedom with the United States Marine Corps.
Senior Advisor – Doug RubinDoug is the founding partner at Northwind Strategies and a veteran communications and political strategist. He served as a senior strategist for Elizabeth Warren's 2012 US Senate campaign, Joe Kennedy III's US Congressional campaign, and for both of Governor Deval Patrick's successful gubernatorial campaigns. He also spent nearly three years as chief of staff for Governor Patrick and three years as the first deputy treasurer for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts under Treasurer Tim Cahill.
Senior Advisor, Finance – Jenna NarayananJenna is a former vice president at NextGen America. Before joining NextGen, Jenna was the development director at Democracia and worked for John Edwards' presidential campaign. She has over 15 years of experience as a political advisor and social impact strategist, advising funders, issue advocates, and thought leaders to achieve their policy, political, and philanthropic goals.
Senior Advisor, Policy – Arnie SowellArnie is currently taking a leave as executive director of the NextGen Policy Center to work on the campaign. Prior to joining NextGen, Arnie spent almost two decades as the policy director in the California Assembly Speaker's Office — working for a total of five speakers.
National Press Secretary – Alberto LammersFormerly the deputy director of communications at Need to Impeach, Alberto has over 15 years of communications and media relations experience working in politics, policy, impact litigation, and social justice issues with various companies and organizations in New York, Washington, D.C., and San Francisco.
Political Director – Malik HubbardMalik worked in Ohio state leadership for Obama in '08 and '12 and was the national deputy African American vote director for Hillary Clinton in '16. He brings a breadth of Midwest, state & national electoral experience combined with his movement-building expertise from his work at 1199 SEIU and the Center for Popular Democracy Action.
Director of Strategic Planning and Advance – Samantha CouchPrior to joining the campaign, Samantha was the deputy director of strategic initiatives at NextGen America. She has spent her career focused on electoral and issue advocacy-based campaigns centered around immigrant rights, climate change, and education.
Chief Operating Officer – Chris FadeffChris has worked with Steyer since 2013, serving as chief financial officer and vice president of legal for both NextGen America and Need to Impeach. Chris is a Truman National Security Project partner and serves on an advisory committee for the Tides Foundation.
Iowa State Director – Michael EdwardsA native of Davenport, IA, Michael began his work in politics as a field organizer in Iowa during the 2004 election cycle. He has more than 15 years experience managing and advising campaigns all across the country.
South Carolina State Director – Jonathan MetcalfJonathan has worked on nine presidential campaigns and has more than 30 years of political experience. In 2008, he served as political outreach coordinator for Obama for America in South Carolina. He was also the chair of Ready for Hillary in South Carolina in 2016.
New Hampshire State Director – Michael MorrillMichael, a native of New England, is the former executive director of Greyroots Action, and the interim ED of Progress South Carolina. He has served as executive director of Keystone Progress, Pennsylvanians United for Quality Care, Pennsylvania's Campaign for Choice, Pennsylvania Citizen Action and Christian Churches of the Tri-County Area.
Nevada State Director – Jocelyn SidaJocelyn is formerly with MoveOn.Org, and served as deputy campaign manager for Amy Vilela for Congress and was the Mi Familia Vota Nevada state director. She has over 10 years of political campaign experience as well issue-based advocacy work in areas of immigration, climate, and health care.
The campaign is rapidly growing and will announce additional staff leadership as state teams continue to develop.
  