
    President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden are excited to continue the tradition of welcoming volunteer holiday decorators, Holiday Open House volunteers, and volunteer holiday performers to help celebrate the holiday season at the White House. Starting today, applications are now open for those interested in volunteering for the 2023 holiday season.
The White House welcomes volunteer applicants from all U.S. states and territories, and encourages military-connected family members, educators, frontline workers, and students to apply. The deadline to submit a volunteer application to be a holiday decorator, Holiday Open House volunteer, or volunteer holiday performer will be on Thursday, September 7, 2023 at 5:00 P.M. ET. Selected applicants will be notified on or after Thursday, September 28, 2023 at 5:00 P.M. ET.
All selected volunteers are responsible for their individual travel and personal expenses.
VOLUNTEER HOLIDAY DECORATOR APPLICATIONThose interested in volunteering to decorate the White House ahead of the holiday season may apply HERE. Please note each person must apply individually, and group applications will not be accepted. Any individual applying to decorate at the White House must be 18 years of age or older to participate. Volunteers must be available to be in Washington, D.C. the week of Sunday, November 19, 2023.
HOLIDAY OPEN HOUSE VOLUNTEER APPLICATION Those interested in volunteering to assist with White House Holiday Open Houses may apply HERE. Any individual applying to volunteer for an open house at the White House must be 18 years of age or older to participate. White House Holiday Open Houses range from Tuesday, December 5, 2023 to Sunday, December 24, 2023.
VOLUNTEER HOLIDAY PERFORMER APPLICATIONPerformers and musical groups, including school bands, choirs, and holiday-themed entertainers, may apply HERE for the opportunity to perform during a White House Holiday Open House. White House Holiday Open Houses range from Tuesday, December 5, 2023 to Sunday, December 24, 2023.
For any questions regarding application or process, please reach out to Volunteers@who.eop.gov.
  