
    "[I] hope people understand who Mitt Romney is. Because his business career has been well documented and his success is extraordinary in the business realm, but he's so much more than that. He was a successful governor. The job he did at the Olympics in Salt Lake City was extraordinary by all accounts. And then, look at his personal life. This man is a personal role model to younger men like me, as a father, as a husband."–Sen. Marco Rubio
Face the Nation
CBS
August 26, 2012
Click Here To Watch Sen. Marco Rubio
BOB SCHIEFFER, CBS NEWS: "Now you're going to introduce Governor Romney at the convention. How is that speech coming along? Give us a little insight into how that works. What will be the tone? What will be the line...?"
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: "The two things I think will be clear by the end of this week is that this election's not just a choice between two men or two political parties. It's literally a choice about which direction we want this country to go. Do we think that the way forward is for us to become more like the rest of the world or is the way forward for us to help the rest of the world become more like us, a nation that's bought into free enterprise, that believes that opportunity is created when people are given the confidence and the ability to go out and start businesses and grow existing businesses and then what can government do help that happen. I think the stakes are important for people to understand what's at stake here. We're not just voting for the person we like more. We're also voting for two very different directions for our country. And in addition opted that, I hope people understand who Mitt Romney is. Because his business career has been well documented and his success is extraordinary in the business realm, but he's so much more than that. He was a successful governor. The job he did at the Olympics in Salt Lake City was extraordinary by all accounts. And then, look at his personal life. This man is a personal role model to younger men like me, as a father, as a husband. You look how successful his family has been. Everywhere that he has ever gone, whether in his church or his community, he has made it better, using his talents and his time. I think Mitt Romney is a role model for people like me and, I think that Mitt Romney, as a person especially, and the kind of person we would all be proud for our kids to grow up and be like."
  