
    This week, 19 Republican senators joined the Democratic caucus to pass historic infrastructure legislation that would transform the lives of Latinos. This bill creates opportunities for Latinos to access union jobs with fair wages and guaranteed benefits to help immigrant families get back on their feet; helps close the education gap and increases access to more economic opportunities by investing in broadband so more low-income families have access to reliable, high-speed internet; helps improve Latino health by making significant investments to upgrade our water infrastructure, improve air quality and pollution levels in communities of color; and much more. It's a one-in-a-generation investment that will better the lives of Latinos across the country.
The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will position America not just to return to where we were, but to build back better towards a more sustainable, resilient, equitable, and prosperous future. The deal will deliver results for working families and Latinos alongside the President's Build Back Better Agenda, which will lower costs, cut taxes, and create jobs for Latinos, and achieving a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, TPS holders, farmworkers, and essential workers. Read more about how President Biden's Build Back Better agenda helps Latino communities HERE.
See below for what Latino leaders are saying about the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act:
Congressional Hispanic Caucus
Sen. Bob Menendez: "The American people expect bold and transformative investments in their future, and with this vote we are one step closer to making this a reality."
Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto: "BREAKING: We just passed the bipartisan infrastructure package, and the funding I helped secure makes historic investments in Nevada's roads, broadband, water recycling projects, and wildfire mitigation."
Sen. Ben Ray Lujan: "The passage of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act marks a significant investment in New Mexico's infrastructure – bringing new jobs and an economic boost to our state."
Rep. Pete Aguilar: "This bipartisan bill represents a generational investment in our infrastructure, and will create good-paying jobs, reduce traffic and lower pollution in communities like the Inland Empire. To paraphrase @POTUS, it's a big deal."
Rep. Darren Soto: "Thank you to the 69 Senators who voted to pass the @ProbSolveCaucus' $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package today. Improving our infrastructure will allow us to continue to #BuildBackBetter."
Rep. Teresa Leger Fernandez: "Today, the Senate passed an infrastructure plan that will create millions of jobs & invest in our infrastructure, clean water & affordable broadband. We can't stop there. We must continue to #BuildBackBetter to address climate change, uplift families & support communities."
Rep. Antonio Delgado: "The bipartisan Senate infrastructure bill will finally address the immediate physical infrastructure needs of upstate NY and our country. It will create jobs by investing in roads, bridges, and high-speed Internet, grow our economy, and improve our communities."
Latino Organizations
The National Hispanic Leadership Agenda: "President Biden's #BipartisanInfrastructureDeal, just approved by the Senate, includes NHLA priorities like access to clean water, improving broadband equity, and natural disaster resilience. Now we need a companion budget that advances climate and social equity to go with it."
UnidosUS: "We applaud Senate passage of the bipartisan infrastructure bill that'll create vital jobs to rebuild our nation. Full recovery depends on investments in families, too, which must also pass the Senate w/o attacks on immigrants, health coverage or education"
Latino Victory Project: "This is a monumental win for President Biden's agenda and for working families and communities of color who will benefit from the economic and environmental provisions in this sweeping, once-in-a-generation investment. The infrastructure bill will create millions of good-paying jobs, rebuild roads and bridges, modernize our airports, rail and public transit systems, and address the climate crisis. It's evident that President Biden and his administration are governing with the Latino community's well-being in mind, and we applaud their inclusive vision."
US Hispanic Chamber of Commerce: "The @USHCC would like to thank the U.S. Senate for passing the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill today which opens new doors for small minority-owned businesses, for U.S. supply chains, & increases federal procurement opportunities. It also expands #broadband access & much more."
Hispanic Technology & Telecom Partnership: "This bipartisan infrastructure agreement makes it clear that President Biden is committed to addressing and redressing the uneven distribution of essential resources by taking critical steps to make our country's infrastructure and economy more fair, equitable, and just. With over $40 billion allocated to broadband deployment and $14.2 billion focused on broadband affordability this robust package addresses the most significant barriers stalling broadband adoption for Latino, Black, and indigenous communities of color - access, affordability, and digital preparedness."
The Hispanic Federation: "Congratulations @POTUS @SenSchumer on the Senate passage of another piece of historic legislation. Today's #infrastructure bill puts us one step closer to making critical investments in clean water and resilience in the face of disasters. #BIF From the largest investment in clean drinking water  to building resilience to natural disasters  & creating good-paying jobs to clean the environment, the #BIF is good for Latinos and good for the country. he infrastructure bill also takes us one step closer to advancing racial justice, including in #Latino communities. 40% of clean energy benefits must go to impacted communities It's time we make this nation more fair and just for all. #Justice40 #BIF"
The National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators: "Senate passage of the #BipartisanInfrastructureDeal is an important 1st step to redressing the structural racism in our infrastructure. It's not perfect, but ensures #Hispanics and POC get broadband and good-paying jobs, and improve bridges/roads. Now we need an equitable budget."
Green Latinos: "The bipartisan infrastructure deal is an incredible achievement in and of itself, but it does not go far enough to make the critical climate and clean energy investments scientists tell us are necessary to address the rising climate crises our communities are facing everyday. These significant climate investments must be included and pass in the upcoming budget reconciliation bill."
Forward Latino: "The bill makes a $65 billion investment in high-speed internet access. This will ensure that children of color will have access to the resources needed so they too can complete their homework, go online to gain technical training, or apply to college or a job. The bill also provides much overdue funding so that lead pipes in approximately 10 million homes and 400,000 schools and childcare facilities can be replaced, allowing our children to drink water without putting themselves at risk of the life-altering effects and dangers of lead poisoning. The bill will also make historic investment in transportation. These investments will reduce commute times and increase economic opportunity for our nation's Hispanic community, as it will provide cost effective and eco-friendly transportation, maximizing productivity, health, and quality of life for all."
Mi Familia Vota: "The Senate has approved an infrastructure bill to rebuild the nation's roads and bridges & fund new climate resilience. Now we must move to a budget reconciliation that will provide relief to immigrants and further investment in the Latino community."
Latino Community Foundation (California): "Today's passage of the bipartisan infrastructure bill by the Senate will move us towards a more just economy. This is a crucial step in ensuring Latinos in California can equitably benefit from investments in transportation, water, and broadband."
Voto Latino: "BREAKING: The Senate passed a $1.2 trillion bipartisan bill that will make the largest investment in our nation's infrastructure in nearly a century. This is good. Now we need them to deliver bolder investments that support moms, immigrants, and climate action. #BuildBackBetter"
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO): "We applaud @POTUS and the U.S. Senate for their unwavering courage and collaboration in passing the #BipartisanInfrastructureDeal on behalf of the American people. This major piece of legislation will help Latino communities and all Americans."
The National Latino Evangelical Coalition: "We applaud @POTUS and the U.S. Senate for their unwavering courage and collaboration in passing the #BipartisanInfrastructureDeal on behalf of the American people. This major piece of legislation will help Latino communities and all Americans."
The Labor Council for Latin American Advancement (LCLAA): "As we emerge from one of the darkest times in recent history for Latino workers, who disproportionately bore the front-line brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is imperative that both chambers of Congress work together to support the Latino community's growth and prosperity agenda. The Labor Council for Latin American Advancement (LCLAA) therefore implores members of the House to follow suit and pass this crucial infrastructure bill."
Mayors
Mayor Todd Gloria: .@usmayors are grateful to the Senate for passing the bipartisan $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill. It will help cities like San Diego make wise investments that improve quality of life and keep us competitive in the global economy. Great leadership by @POTUS. #BuildBackBetter
Mayor Robert Garcia - Long Beach, CA: "Mayors across America are ready to put this historic infrastructure bill to work. We are ready to rebuild our roads, upgrade airports, expand public transit, and connect neighborhoods to high speed broadband. Thank you @POTUS for keeping your promise. LFG."
Mayor Martha Guerrero - West Sacramento, CA: "The deal is done thank you @SenFeinstein @AlexPadilla4CA @POTUS for the #Bipartisaninfrastructuredeal which will strengthen our cities!"; "This is great news and I am grateful that the Senate approved the @POTUS Biden's #Bipartisaninfrastructuredeal with funds for local govs to build a stronger, safer and equitable future. Let's get to work!"
Mayor Eric Garcetti - Los Angeles, CA: "Thanks to the Senate & @POTUS for supporting this historic investment in our nation's infrastructure. This deal will strengthen L.A.'s public transit, water systems, bridges, railways & broadband & create a strong foundation for generations of Angelenos."
  