
    President Trump increased police funding and was endorsed by major law enforcement organizations.
Joe Biden is spreading lies about President Trump's record because he knows President Trump is right: Joe Biden said he would cut police funding.
Biden is an empty vessel for the radical left and fully embraced their dangerous agenda. Biden said he would "yes, absolutely!" "redirect" funding away from police to other things like housing. Moreover, the Biden-Sanders unity platform's proposed destruction of qualified immunity for police would financially eviscerate local police departments even further, effectively bankrupting and destroying them.
No amount of synonym games will change the facts. Further, Joe Biden already cut police funding as Vice President:

Despite Biden's promise in 2008 to fully fund the COPS program, the Obama-Biden administration slashed funding. COPS funding went from $1.55 billion to $792 million. At the time, police groups protested the Obama-Biden cuts, calling the funding reductions "simply irresponsible."
Federal aid to state and local law enforcement fell during the Obama-Biden Administration. Total federal grants to state and local governments from the Justice Department were cut by $833 million.

Joe Biden broke his promise and cut police funding when he was Vice President. If he's elected president, he will do it again. 
In stark contrast to Biden's abandonment of law enforcement, the Trump Administration increased federal aid to police:

Under the Trump Administration, total Justice Department grants to the states for justice functions have increased by nearly $4 billion.
Total federal grants to state and local law enforcement, including non-Justice Department programs, increased under President Trump after falling under the Obama Administration.
Under President Trump, COPS funding increased to $276 million in 2018 and $304 million in 2019, the highest levels since fiscal year 2011.

President Trump's strong record of support for the law enforcement community has won him endorsements from major law enforcement organizations. They recognize the threat posed to them by the radical left agenda supported by Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
  