
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the endorsement of North Dakota Public Service Commissioner Kevin Cramer, who will serve as the campaign's North Dakota State Chairman. Cramer was also on hand to help open Rudy's North Dakota campaign headquarters in Fargo earlier today.
"Rudy's strong leadership and record as a problem solver resonates with North Dakotans," said Commissioner Cramer. "I am proud to join the growing team of supporters in our state and help promote Rudy's 12 Commitments to the American People."
"Commissioner Cramer's endorsement demonstrates our strong support in North Dakota," said Giuliani's National Political Director Mark Campbell. "He is a great addition to our efforts and will help us strengthen our team."
The announcement of Cramer as North Dakota State Chairman follows the recent endorsements of Bismarck Mayor John Warford and fellow State Public Service Commissioner Susan Wefald.
About Commissioner Kevin Cramer:
Cramer was elected to the North Dakota Public Service Commission in November 2004, with over 65% of the total vote. Governor John Hoeven appointed him to fill an unexpired term on the Commission in August 2003.
Prior to serving on the Commission, Cramer was the first director of the Harold Schafer Leadership Foundation. Cramer served for eight years in the cabinet of Governor Ed Schafer as the State Tourism Director from 1993 to 1997 and State Economic Development Director from 1997 to 2000.
Cramer previously served as the Chairman of the North Dakota Republican Party, and at age 30 became the youngest member of the Republican National Committee. He is also a regular host of the popular radio show "Hot Talk" on WDAY in Fargo. Cramer is also an adjunct instructor of marketing and management and serves on the Board of Trustees at the University of Mary.
A native of Kindred, ND, Cramer received a B.A. degree from Concordia College and Master's degree in Management from the University of Mary. He and his wife Kris have two sons and two daughters.
  