
    
  If The Obama Administration Thinks Job Creation Is "Ahead Of The Curve," It's No Wonder The President Thinks The Private Sector Is "Doing Fine"

This Morning, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis Called The Disappointing Jobs Report Evidence That The Obama Administration Is "Ahead Of The Curve":
U.S.  Labor Secretary Hilda Solis, On The Latest Jobs Report: "We're Actually Somewhat Ahead Of The Curve." SOLIS: "Well, you know, what I like to look at is where we've come from. Because, you know, think about it: when the president took office, we were losing so many jobs, 800,000 jobs on the average in a month, on a monthly basis. And now we're actually somewhat ahead of the curve where we're adding more jobs." (CNBC, 8/3/12)
Click Here To Watch
What Does The Obama Administration Think Is "Ahead Of The Curve" About "The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had"?
CBS News: "This Is The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had." CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("CBS Evening News," 7/17/12)
Neal Soss, Chief Economist At Credit Suisse: "This Is The Weakest Recovery We've Ever Seen..." "'This is the weakest recovery we've ever seen, weaker even that the recovery during the Great Depression,' said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse. 'If you're not scared by that then you're not paying attention.'" (Catherine Rampell, "U.S. Added 163,000 Jobs In July; Jobless Rate Ticked Up," The New York Times, 8/3/12)
Politico Headline: "Jobs Numbers Show Economy Still Sluggish" (Patrick Reis, "Jobs Numbers Show Economy Still Sluggish," Politico, 8/3/12)
The Truth? Measuring By President Obama's Own Standard, The Economy Is Well Behind The Curve:
Before Taking Office, President Obama's Advisers Predicted The Stimulus Would Lower Unemployment To 5.6% By Today — But It's Remained Above 8% For 42 Straight Months. (Christina Romer and Jared Bernstein, "The Job Impact Of The American Recovery And Reinvestment Plan," 1/9/09; Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 8/3/12)
President-Elect Obama, On His Advisers' Stimulus Report: "The American People Can See Exactly What This Plan Will Mean For Their Families, Their Communities, And Our Economy." OBAMA: "I asked my nominee for Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, Dr. Christina Romer, and the Vice President-Elect's Chief Economic Adviser, Dr. Jared Bernstein, to conduct a rigorous analysis of this plan and come up with projections of how many jobs it will create — and what kind of jobs they will be. Today, I am releasing a report of their findings so that the American people can see exactly what this plan will mean for their families, their communities, and our economy." (President-Elect Barack Obama, The President Elect's Radio Address, 1/10/09)
If President Obama Had Kept His Promise And Lowered The Unemployment Rate To 5.6%, 8.9 Million More Americans Would Be Working Today. (Jobs Calculator, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Accessed 8/3/12)
"The 8.3% Unemployment Rate Way Above The 5.6% Unemployment Rate That Team Obama Predicted For July 2012 If Congress Passed The $800 Billion Stimulus Plan." "Not only is the 8.3% unemployment rate way above the 5.6% unemployment rate that Team Obama predicted for July 2012 if Congress passed the $800 billion stimulus plan. It's way above the 6.0% unemployment rate they predicted if no stimulus was passed." (James Pethokoukis, "July Jobs Report: America's Labor Market Depression Continues," American Enterprise Institute, 8/3/12)
"The Unemployment Rate Has Been Stuck Above 8 Percent For More Than Three Years, The Longest Run Since The Great Depression." (Lucia Mutikani, "Jobs Increase In July, But Jobless Rate Rises To 8.3 Percent," Reuters, 8/3/12)
The Growth In Jobs Is "Barely Fast Enough To Absorb The Growth In The Labor Force." "And the pace at which the economy has been adding jobs last few months is just barely fast enough to absorb the growth in the labor force. As a result, the unemployment rate ticked up, to 8.3 percent, from 8.2 percent." (Catherine Rampell, "U.S. Added 163,000 Jobs In July, Jobless Rate Ticked Up," The New York Times, 8/3/12)
  