
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Susan D. Page - Ambassador to the Republic of South Sudan, Department of State
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:

Modesto E. Abety-Gutierrez - Member, President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics
Lily Eskelsen - Member, President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics
Christopher Stephen Hart - Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
Choco Gonzalez Meza - Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
E. Faye Williams – Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars

President Obama said, "I am grateful these accomplished men and women have agreed to join this Administration, and I'm confident they will serve ably in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
Susan D. Page, Ambassador to the Republic of South Sudan, Department of State
Susan D. Page currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of African Affairs. Prior to this assignment, she was Regional Director for Southern and East Africa at the National Democratic Institute. From 2005 to 2007, she served as the Director of the Rule of Law and Judicial System Advisory Unit at the United Nations Peace Support Mission to the Sudan. From 2002 to 2005, Ms. Page was the legal advisor to the Intergovernmental Authority on Development Secretariat for Peace in the Sudan. Prior to that role, she served as Senior Legal Adviser and Chief of the Justice and Human Rights Unit for the United Nations Development Programme in Rwanda. Ms. Page served as a Foreign Service Officer from 1993 to 2001, working as a Political Officer in Rwanda from 1999 to 2001 and as a Regional Legal Adviser for USAID in Botswana (1995-1998) and Kenya (1993-1995). Ms. Page began her career at the State Department in 1991, where she served as an Attorney-Adviser for Politico-Military Affairs in the Office of the Legal Adviser. Ms. Page received an A.B. from the University of Michigan and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Modesto E. Abety-Gutierrez, Member, President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics
Modesto E. Abety-Gutierrez is the founding President and CEO of The Children's Trust. Mr. Abety-Gutierrez previously served as an Operations Field Manager for the Children's Trust Political Action Committee. Prior to his work with the Children's Trust Political Action Committee, Mr. Abety-Gutierrez was an adjunct professor at the Florida International University. Mr. Abety-Gutierrez has also worked as a Director for the Miami-Dade County Children's Services Council, as an Executive Assistant at Metro-Dade Community Action Agency, and as a HUD Liaison Officer at Metro-Dade County. Mr. Abety-Gutierrez holds a B.S. in Sociology from Florida State University and an M.P.A from Bernard M. Baruch College.
Lily Eskelsen, Member, President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics
Lily Eskelsen is the Vice President of the National Education Association. She previously served as the National Education Association Secretary-Treasurer from 2002 to 2007. Prior to her work with the National Education Association, Ms. Eskelsen was a teacher at Orchard Elementary in Utah and, in 1989, she was awarded Utah Teacher of the Year. Ms. Eskelsen has also taught at the Salt Lake Homeless Shelter and at the Christmas Box Children's Shelter, and served as President of the Utah Retirement System. She holds a B.S. in Elementary Education from the University of Utah and a M.Ed. in Instructional Technology from the University of Utah.
Christopher Stephen Hart, Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
Christopher Stephen Hart is the Director of Urban and Transportation Projects for the Institute for Human Centered Design. He has also served as a consultant on transportation issues for the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority and Boston's disability community. Currently, Mr. Hart is an appointed member of the Governor's Transportation Advisory Reform Committee in Massachusetts and the National Steering Committee for Project ACTION, a national organization dedicated to promoting universal access to transportation for people with disabilities. Mr. Hart also serves as a board member for LivableStreets Alliance, Disability Law Center, and Agassiz Village. He is a graduate of the College of Public and Community Service at the University of Massachusetts, Boston.
Choco Gonzalez Meza, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
Choco Gonzalez Meza is founder of CGM Consulting. Previously, she was the President of American Sunrise, an organization that creates housing, economic and educational opportunities in local neighborhoods for working families. Ms. Meza previously served as Realtor and Property Manager for RE/MAX Associates from 2000 to 2005, where she was named a Top Platinum 50 Realtor Finalist for several years. Ms. Meza has also worked as a Senior Vice President for Housing Operations for the San Antonio Housing Authority, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Intergovernmental Relations for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and as the Executive Director for Partnership for Hope. She holds a B.A. in Political Science and Health and Physical Education from St. Mary's University.
Dr. E. Faye Williams, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
Dr. E. Faye Williams is the Chair of the National Congress of Black Women. Previously, she was both Congressional Counsel and Chief of Staff for a District of Columbia Councilmember. Dr. Williams has also worked as Chair of the Board of the Black Leadership Forum. Dr. Williams previously served as a teacher in the Los Angeles Unified School District. She received a B.S. degree from Grambling State University of Louisiana, an M.P.A. from the University of Southern California, a J.D. from Howard University, and a D.Min. from Wesley Theological Seminary.
  