
    "The future of Romania and Romania's relationship with the United States is very, very bright." -President Donald J. Trump
CELEBRATING OUR PARTNERSHIP: President Donald J. Trump is reaffirming and strengthening the United States' partnership with Romania. 

President Trump is welcoming President Klaus Iohannis of Romania to the White House to reaffirm and celebrate the strong strategic partnership between our two countries.
Romania is celebrating 30 years of freedom and democracy in 2019 and continues to make great progress in overcoming the legacy of communism.
The United States and Romania have growing security, energy, civil nuclear, and cyber relationships that benefit both of our countries.
Our two countries will continue to work together to meet common security challenges and enhance our economic and energy partnership even further.
President Trump intends to expand ties between our two countries by supporting Romania's efforts to become eligible for entry into the Visa Waiver Program in accordance with the requirements of United States law.

SUPPORTING OUR STEADFAST ALLY: Romania is an invaluable NATO ally and supports United States and international security efforts in the region and globally. 

Marking 15 years since joining the Alliance, Romania has proven to be a strong NATO ally and is meeting its commitment to dedicate at least 2 percent of its GDP to defense spending.

Romania provided one of the largest troop contributions to NATO's mission in Afghanistan and supports missions in Kosovo, Bosnia, and the Defeat-ISIS Coalition.


Our militaries are working together to strengthen deterrence on NATO's Eastern Flank.
Following a previous meeting with President Trump, Romania is modernizing its military with several American systems, including Patriot air and missile defense systems.
Romania hosts a rotational presence of roughly 1,000 United States troops as well as a United States Aegis Ashore site that supports NATO Ballistic Missile Defense.
Romania is committed to working with the United States to combat the cybersecurity threats posed by Chinese vendors in 5G networks.

STRENGTHENING ENERGY SECURITY AND INVESTMENT: The United States will continue working with Romania to support energy security in Europe. 

The United States will work with Romania to improve its investment climate and help the country better use its vast natural gas resources.

These efforts will increase investment opportunities for American companies, increase prosperity for the Romanian people, and improve energy security across the region.


Romania supports the Trump Administration's energy diversification efforts in Europe, which decrease European countries' dependence on Russian energy sources.

Romania opposed Nord Stream II and other pipeline projects that increase Europe's dependence on Russia.


The United States and Romania are strong supporters of the Three Seas Initiative, which is important to increasing energy market access and security
  