
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve as United States Attorneys and his intention to nominate two individuals to serve as members of the federal judiciary.
The President intends to nominate Timothy M. Burgess to be United States Attorney for the District of Alaska. He has served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Alaska since 1989, and was an Associate with Gilmore and Franklin in Anchorage, from 1987 to 1989. Burgess received his undergraduate degree and M. B. A. from the University of Alaska and his J. D. from Northeastern University.
The President intends to nominate Harry S. Mattice, Jr. to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee. He is presently Of Counsel to Baker, Donelson, Bearman and Caldwell in Chattanooga. In 1997, he served as Senior Counsel to the United States Senate Committee on Government Affairs. From 1981 to 1997, and then again from 1998 to 2000, Mattice was with Miller and Martin in Chattanooga, first as an Associate and then as a Partner. He received both his undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Tennessee.
The President intends to nominate Robert G. McCampbell to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Oklahoma. He is currently a Partner with Crowe and Dunlevy in Oklahoma City, and from 1987 to 1994, he was an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Oklahoma. Before joining the U.S. Attorneys office, he was an Associate with Crowe and Dunlevey. He is a graduate of Vanderbilt University and Yale Law School.
The President intends to nominate Paul J. McNulty to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. He presently serves as Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General at the U.S. Department of Justice and from 1999 to 2001, he was Chief Counsel and Director of Legislative Operations in the Office of Majority Leader of the House of Representatives. From 1995 to 1999, he served with the House of Representatives Judiciary Committee, first as Chief Counsel to the Subcommittee on Crime and then as Director of Communications and Chief Counsel to the Committee. McNulty was Counsel to Shaw, Pittman, Potts and Trowbridge from 1993 to 1995, and he served with the Department of Justice from 1990 to 1993 as Deputy Director of the Office of Policy Development and then as Director and Chief Spokesman for the Office of Policy and Communications. He was Minority Counsel to the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime from 1987 to 1990, and from 1985 to 1987 he was Director of Legal Services at the Legal Services Corporation. From 1983 to 1985, he served as Counsel to the U.S. House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. He is a graduate of Grove City College and Capital University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Michael W. Mosman to be United States Attorney for the District of Oregon. He has served as Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Oregon since 1988. From 1986 to 1988, Mosman was an Associate with Miller, Nash in Portland. He is a graduate of Utah State University and Brigham Young University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Strom Thurmond, Jr. to be United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina. He has served as Assistant Solicitor for the Second Judicial Circuit for South Carolina since 1999. From 1998 to 1999, he was a Partner with Strom, Young and Thurmond. He received both his undergraduate and Law degrees from the University of South Carolina.
The President intends to nominate Marian B. Horn to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims.
The President intends to nominate Charles F. Lettow to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims.
  