
    Pool Reports by Tyler Katzenberger, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel 



Sent:
Reports:




August 3, 2023 12:13 EDT

VP travel pool report #1/AF2 delay
On background from a WH official: Air Force Two departure from JBA was delayed due to mechanical issues with the aircraft. Air Force 2 is now en route and expected to land at Milwaukee Mitchell International Airport at 12:40p CT.


August 3, 2023 12:32 CDT

VP travel pool report #2/AF2 wheels down
VP touched down at 12:30 p.m. CDT at General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, a few minutes earlier than expected in the previous report. Weather here is hazy with temps approaching 90 degrees.
Today's schedule is pushed back slightly, with VP expected to give remarks around 2:15 p.m. CDT at a Sanmira Corporation manufacturing facility near Kenosha, per a WH official.


August 3, 2023 12:52 CDT

VP travel pool report #3 - rolling
VP disembarked AF2 with Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and greeted a few folks, including Milwaukee Mayor Cavalier Johnson. Short wave to pool before getting in motorcade.
Motorcade rolled out at 12:49 p.m. en route to a Sanmira Corporation electronics manufacturing plant in Pleasant Prairie, about 45 mins south of Milwaukee.


August 3, 2023 13:37 CDT

VP travel pool report #4
VP motorcade rolled up to Sanmira facility in Pleasant Prairie at 1:26 p.m. Motorcade passed a dozen or so pro-Trump demonstrators with a flag and signs complaining about U.S.-Mexico border management and "Bidenomics failed America" on approach to facility.
A tour of the facility happened as planned without VP in attendance, per a WH official.


August 3, 2023 15:07 CDT

VP travel pool report #5 - Sanmina remarks
VP addressed a crowd of over 100 gathered at the Sanmina facility in a speech lasting roughly 10 minutes. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and Wisconsin Democratic Sen. Tammy Baldwingave remarks before VP took the stage. VP applauded the Biden administration's broadband expansion efforts and investment in working-class Americans, saying "Bidenomics is working." Applause and cheers from the crowd dotted the remarks.
A full recording is available at whitehouse.gov/live/. Motorcade departed at 2:46 p.m.
Baldwin and Raimondo held a gaggle with reporters not in the pool following VP remarks.


August 3, 2023 15:23 CDT

VP travel pool report #6 - Sanmina remarks
More quotes from VP remarks:
"Our economy has not worked for working people. Entire communities have been left out and left behind by trickle-down economics."
"When President Biden and I took office, we decided to invest in the working people of America — to create millions of jobs, to rebuild American manufacturing, to repair our roads and bridges, to expand clean energy production, to replace every lead pipe in our nation, to connect every home to high-speed internet and to make sure that every person, no matter where they start, has access to opportunity and the tools that they need to thrive. All that is called Bidenomics."
"Together, we are rebuilding America through Bidenomics. We are showing that when we invest in workers and families, when we create jobs and opportunity, when we roll up our sleeves and get to work, there is no limit to what we can achieve."


August 3, 2023 16:39 CDT

VP travel pool report #7 - campaign event
On background from the Biden-Harris Campaign:
On Thursday, August 3, the Vice President attended a fundraising event in Milwaukee, Wisconsin at the home of Alex and Lauren Lasry benefitting the Biden Victory Fund.


August 3, 2023 16:59 CDT

VP travel pool report #8 - second fundraiser
On background from the Biden-Harris Campaign:
On Thursday, August 3, the Vice President will attend a fundraising event in Milwaukee, Wisconsin benefitting the Biden Victory Fund.
For clarification, this fundraiser is separate from the event mentioned in the last report.


August 3, 2023 17:54 CDT

VP travel pool report #9 - fundraiser remarks
VP made a campaign stop at a North Point Lighthouse in Milwaukee, a few blocks from former U.S. Senate candidate Alex Lasry's home, with remarks starting at 4:49 p.m. A few dozen individuals were at the event and cheered frequently for VP and other politicians present, including chants of "four more years" for VP.
VP's remarks, lasting about 15 minutes, were similar to those made in Pleasant Prairie, focusing heavily on Biden administration economic policy. VP also criticized Wisconsin's 1849 near-total abortion ban, a law "written before the elevator was invented," she said.
VP also touched on curbing gun violence and replacing lead pipes.
SELECT QUOTES:
"Our fight has always been about understanding that the true measure of strength is not based on who you beat down, but who you lift up."
"We are looking at ... a full-on attack against fundamental rights and freedoms and liberty. We must organize and we must stand strong and stand united in the face of these attacks, to stand for what is right and the foundational principles of who we are as a country."
"Right now in our country, one in five Americans have a family of seven killed by gun violence. Yet we have feckless so-called leaders who don't have the courage to agree that it's a false choice that you're either in favor of the Second Amendment or you want to take everyone's guns away... We need to pass reasonable gun safety laws."
"We've got work to do, in terms of being that role model that we have been for the world... When you're a role model, people watch what you do to see if it matches what you say."
Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., Sen. Mark Kelly, D-Ariz. and Wisconsin Democratic Party chair Ben Wikler made short remarks before VP took the podium.


August 3, 2023 18:21 CDT

VP travel pool report #10 — rolling
Motorcade en route to General Mitchell Int'l Airport, ETA around 5:25.


August 3, 2023 18:33 CDT

VP travel pool report #11 - wheels up
VP boarded AF2 at 5:28 p.m., wheels up shortly after. Two quick waves to the press.
Signing off for the day from Milwaukee.



  