
    In the 1980's thousands of members of the Jewish community had fled their homeland due to famine for a refugee camp in Sudan. Jeb, hearing of the conditions in the camp and the persecution these Jews were suffering, suggested to Reagan-Bush officials that the United States had a duty to support a massive airlift. The resulting effort, Operation Joshua, made history when Israeli planes, with American support, brought these Jews to the homeland of the Jewish people, the State of Israel.
Throughout his life, he has been an outspoken critic of anti-Semitism and bigotry, and he has been a champion of Jewish American institutions. In 2003, as Governor of Florida, he signed a bill dedicating January as Jewish History month. Florida was the first state in the country to dedicate a month to the celebration of Jewish American history.

  Throughout his life, he has been an outspoken critic of anti-Semitism and bigotry, and he has been a champion of Jewish American institutions.

Governor Bush is committed to the security and prosperity of the Jewish State of Israel, and to America's alliance with Israel. He has visited Israel five times, and as Governor of Florida he actively sought to boost trade ties between the two nations.
Now, as a candidate for the presidency, Jeb Bush continues to stand for the interests of the Jewish people and the State of Israel.

  "We keep dependable friends in this world by being dependable ourselves. I will rebuild our vital friendships. That starts by standing with the brave, democratic State of Israel."


He is a forceful and principled critic of the Obama Administration's nuclear deal with Iran. He has called out the growing threat of radical Islamist terrorism and has a detailed plan to address it. And one of his chief foreign policy priorities is to rebuild America's relationship with its longtime strategic ally and friend, the State of Israel.

Update: The page previously cited Operation Moses, as reported by the Tampa Bay Times. It has been updated to reflect the correct name of the mission: Operation Joshua.
  