
    Speaker of the House Announces Endorsement; Aggressive Schedule to Criss Cross the State for Hillary
Manchester, NH - At coffee shops in Portsmouth and Concord today, New Hampshire Speaker of the House Terie Norelli announced her decision to endorse Hillary Clinton for President, citing Clinton's experience and her ability to deliver the change Americans want. The Clinton campaign also announced she will serve as a Co-Chair of New Hampshire for Hillary.
"Knowing what is at stake in this election and the caring leader that Hillary Clinton is, I am getting straight to work on her behalf - traveling across the state starting now," said Speaker Norelli. "Hillary has outlined big goals for our country like her plans for universal pre-kindergarten for every child, a comprehensive government reform plan, a real exit strategy for Iraq and reforming our tax code that has benefited the rich on the backs of America's Middle Class."
Norelli is scheduled to attend 10 events on Hillary's behalf in the next two weeks, including coffees with voters in North Conway, Laconia, Lebanon and Keene. Today, she met with supporters in Portsmouth, Concord and Manchester.
"I am thrilled to have Terie's support in my quest to win the White House," said Clinton. "Americans want change, and with Terie's help, I am going to be the President who can deliver that change."
Norelli is currently serving as the first female Democratic Speaker of the New Hampshire House, and has a strong background in grassroots organizing. During her first year as Speaker, the New Hampshire House passed historic legislation, including increasing the minimum wage, protecting the rights of same-sex couples to join in civil unions, and ending straight-ticket voting.
Prior to being elected to the New Hampshire House, Norelli was a high school mathematics teacher at Winnacunnet High School in Hampton. Norelli has long been committed to women's advocacy. She attended the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, China in l995, and helped to organize follow-up conferences in New Hampshire in 1996 and 2000, and has served as Chair of the NARAL-NH PAC Board of Directors. Norelli received several awards for her work in the legislature, including Legislator of the Year by the Women's Lobby and the National Association of Social Workers. She also received the Public Service Award from the Bi-State Primary Care Association.
For more information on Hillary's New Hampshire campaign, please visit www.hillaryclinton.com/nh.
  