
    Delivers major speech about how we can make Washington work for the American people instead of establishment elites
Hanover, New Hampshire – During a major speech at the start of his "Fighting for One America" bus tour in New Hampshire, Senator John Edwards today outlined the choice facing our country -- whether we have a government that benefits the establishment or a government that works for the American people -- and his vision of One America where Washington works for regular families, instead of powerful interests and every American has the chance to go as far as their hard work and God-given talents will take them.
"We as a nation must choose whether to do what America has always done in times like these - change direction and move boldly into the future for the sake of our children, if not for ourselves, or wander in the same stale direction we have traveled in our recent past," said Edwards. "The choice we must make is as important as it is clear. It is a choice between looking back and looking forward. It is caution versus courage. Old versus new. Calculation versus principle. It is a choice between the failed compromises of the past and the bright possibilities of our future. Between resigning ourselves to Two Americas or fighting for the One America we all believe in."
Edwards discussed how our system is rigged against regular Americans. With more than 60 lobbyists for every member of Congress, powerful interests and their Washington lobbyists write our policies to give themselves every break imaginable, while regular families struggle to get by, let alone get ahead. From our health care policies to our energy policies to our economic policies, Washington insiders write the laws to increase their power and benefit their bottom lines. Edwards believes the American people need to take responsibility for our country, and end the game in Washington, so we can return our government to a government of, by and for the people.
"It's time to end the game," said Edwards. "It's time to tell the big corporations and the lobbyists who have been running things for too long that their time is over. It's time to challenge politicians to put the American people's interests ahead of their own calculated political interests, to look the lobbyists in the eye and just say no. And it's time for the American people to take responsibility for our government - for in our democracy it is truly ours."
Edwards has been fighting powerful interests his entire life and knows that they will not give up their power without a fight. He believes we need courage, conviction and big ideas to change our country. Edwards is a strong supporter of public financing of campaigns and has called for federal candidates to stop taking money from Washington lobbyists. Edwards believes getting rid of Washington lobbyist money is an important step to ending the game in Washington, but to truly end the game, the American people need to stand up and take our government back. He has seen firsthand the power of the American people and believes that by joining together and taking action today, we can fundamentally change our country and build One America.
"I carry the promise of America in my heart, where my parents placed it," said Edwards. "Because of them, I believe in people, hard work and the American Dream. I believe the future belongs to us if we only dare to seize it. And I believe to seize it, we must blaze a new path, firmly grounded in the values that first made America great. On that new path lies One America, where possibility is unbound and opportunity the birthright of every American. Where the voices of the people are heard again in the halls of government, and government heeds their call. One America, where every individual takes responsibility for our common good, and the chance to reach one's God-given potential is every individual's common right. I am the son of Wallace and Bobbie Edwards. And I believe in the promise of America."
To read the full text of the speech, please click here.
  