
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Office (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Coolidge, Arizona Mayor Tom Shope has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Mayor Shope will help organize grassroots efforts in the state and will communicate Governor Romney's message of conservative change in Washington.
With today's announcement, Governor Romney said, 'I am pleased to have the endorsement of Mayor Shope. He will play an important role in helping organize our campaign in Arizona. He has been a strong leader in his community for many years, and I am grateful to have him on our team.'
Announcing his endorsement, Mayor Shope said, 'Governor Romney has demonstrated time and time again that he is a proven turnaround artist. Now more than ever, Washington needs someone with Romney's proven ability to solve the problems that we face as a nation. I am proud to join his campaign in Arizona and look forward to helping him to victory in November 2008.'
Mayor Shope joins a growing list of Arizonans who have endorsed Governor Romney's presidential campaign. Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, Arizona State Senator Chuck Gray, Arizona State Representative Mark Anderson, Arizona State Representative Rich Crandall and Queen Creek Mayor Art Sanders are among the Arizonans who have endorsed Governor Romney.
Background On Mayor Thomas Shope, Coolidge, Arizona:
Thomas Shope Has Served As Mayor Of Coolidge, Arizona Since 2006. He previously served as Coolidge Mayor from 1988 to 1990, and again from 1994 to 1998. He was also a Coolidge City Councilman from 1986 to 1988. By trade, Shope is a self-employed grocer and served as President and board member of the Arizona Food Marketing Association in 1991. Shope is heavily involved in community service. He is the past President of the Coolidge Chamber of Commerce, Rotary Club member, and is currently the finance committee chairman for the St. James Roman Catholic Church. He has lived in Coolidge for more than 50 years.
  