
    
  Jon remains the only candidate with a proven track record of creating jobs, both in business and as governor. America needs an experienced leader with serious solutions. That's Jon Huntsman.

This morning, Jon took to Twitter to condemn the alarming lack of leadership from Washington in addressing the single most urgent priority of our time: creating jobs and restoring confidence and stability in our economy.
Earlier this month, President Obama pledged to make jobs his "singular focus."
Then-candidate Obama pitched the same promise in 2008. Then he wasted an entire year pushing through a government health care plan that the American people didn't ask for and businesses can't afford. He's persistently pursued job-killing taxes and regulations. He's turned a blind eye as his union-friendly National Labor Relations Board attempts to stymie job growth and make a mockery of the free-market system.
And in another nod to labor bosses, President Obama has failed to send Congress three free trade agreements - with Korea, Colombia and Panama - which could provide an immediate jolt to our economy.
In dozens of speeches, the president has lauded the economic benefits of the trade deals. Yet for the last 2.5 years he has refused to act, demanding they be coupled with additional funding for a union-backed entitlement program.
Three weeks ago, a coalition of business groups begged the president and congress to act immediately, noting that every day of inaction hinders their ability to compete.
Yet on the heels of the first credit downgrade in our nation's history and jarring plunges in the stock market, President Obama and Congress bolted town for summer vacation.
The American people don't need lip service. They need leadership.
In stark contrast to President Obama, Jon's record is one of offering serious solutions and delivering real results.
The centerpiece of Jon's gubernatorial campaign in 2004 was a 10-point plan to jumpstart Utah's economy. He made a promise to voters, and he delivered. He signed the largest tax cut in Utah history, including a flat tax. He cut regulations and created an environment conducive to growth. He signed free-market healthcare reform, without mandates and massive bureaucracies. He embarked on trade missions and helped double Utah exports.
Under his leadership, Utah ranked number one in job creation - above Massachusetts and Texas -- and its economy grew at more than triple the national rate.
Jon remains the only candidate with a proven track record of creating jobs, both in business and as governor.
America needs an experienced leader with serious solutions. That's Jon Huntsman.
  