
    Right now, every-day Americans are fed up. The ruling-class of special interests and bureaucrats in Washington think they're above playing by the same rules as everyone else. No one personifies this more than Hillary Clinton, who put her personal convenience ahead of the safety and security of the American people by using a homebrewed email server to store classified information.
Apparently, Hillary Clinton also thinks her special-interest friends are exempt from the same rules that govern everyone else. Just recently, Hillary kowtowed to union bosses by pledging to reconsider Obamacare's so-called "Cadillac Tax" on cushy union health care plans. Yet, in being a champion for ObamaCare and the architect of its precursor, HillaryCare, Clinton has never seemed the least bit concerned with the burdens these policies inflict on ordinary Americans.
There shouldn't be two separate sets of rules for regular Americans and Hillary Clinton's circle of Washington elites. That's why in my plan to repeal and replace Obamacare, the Day One Patient Freedom Plan, one of the first steps we'd take is issuing an executive order ending the ObamaCare exemption the president gave to members of Congress. The best way to motivate Congress to repeal ObamaCare and pass real reforms is to make sure lawmakers have to live under the same ObamaCare rules everyone else has been forced to suffer under over the past few years.
While many candidates talk about defeating the special interests, we've actually done it before and have a real plan to do it again. After we compel Congress to repeal Obamacare, we will build a better system that puts people back in charge of their own health care, gives patients more options, and makes health care insurance more affordable. Our plan makes affordable health care accessible for all Americans, while eliminating ObamaCare's government interference and messy red tape. We will protect those with pre-existing conditions and provide tax credits that allow people to obtain affordable coverage. Our plan will move power over health care out of Washington by returning regulatory authority to state and local leaders and giving states the power to administer Medicaid.
So while we have a plan to free all Americans from the burdens of ObamaCare, Hillary Clinton is only interested creating loopholes that protect her special-interest allies from the dysfunctional and destructive law. That's the difference between a candidate who fights for the middle class and someone like Hillary Clinton, who is only looking out for the ruling class.
  