
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

On September 8, 1892, the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag first appeared in print. Today, nearly a century later, the words penned by Francis Bellamy in observance of the 400th anniversary of the discovery of America are among the most widely recited verses of American literature.
The simple yet eloguent words of the Pledge of Allegiance capture both the character of the American people and the principles upon which our Nation was founded. They are a fitting tribute to our Flag.
The Flag is the unique symbol of our Republic and the freedom that we cherish. It embodies the faith and unity of the men and women who have carried forth this bold experiment in self-government, and it stands in honor of those who have sacrificed their lives to defend it. This proud emblem, the glorious banner of a great and blessed Nation, is worthy of our abiding respect and loyalty.
A diverse people, we Americans are united by what we believe. We believe in God; we believe that all men are created equal; we believe in freedom; and we believe in equal opportunity and justice for all. We rededicate ourselves to these eternal truths every time we pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States.
In recognition of the significance of the Pledge of Allegiance, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 253, has designated September 8, 1989, as "National Pledge of Allegiance Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation calling for the observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 8, 1989, National Pledge of Allegiance Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day by displaying the United States Flag, by reciting publicly the Pledge of Allegiance, and by participating in other appropriate activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my handthis fifteen day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  