
    Washington D.C. — Republican presidential candidate Michele Bachmann issued the following response to President Obama's statement on the debt limit agreement:
"Mr. President, the real losers in the budget deal were the American people who will continue to be subjected to your failed economic policies. The President got what he wanted — a blank check, debt ceiling increase of at least $2.1 trillion to continue his wasteful spending next year, while in exchange the American people got $21 billion of spending cuts. It should be noted that $21 billion is 1/2 of one percent of total spending for the year; only in Washington does a 1/2 percent cut in spending count as 'austerity.' That's not the kind of deal that makes government live within its means, like American families and businesses have had to do during this recession. We needed real cuts and a fundamental restructuring in the way Washington spends taxpayer dollars to solve the spending crisis we are in. What's worse is that this deal puts our national security at risk because of the severe cuts to defense that kick in should the President not do his job in the next few months. But it's hard for the President to understand the importance of national security when he's 'leading from behind.'
"And it took less than an hour after the deal passed the Senate for the President to pledge to raise taxes on the American people and on American job creators through his insistence on a 'balanced approach.' After two-and-half years of a failed trillion dollar stimulus, bank and auto bailouts, the President still believes that government can create jobs and turn the economy around. Tell that to the millions of people who have lost their jobs while Washington continues to grow with its wasteful spending. Mr. President, it's time for you to take responsibility for this failed economy and stop blaming the American people, earthquakes, the previous administration and the wind. It's time to stop the 'hot air' in Washington and let the winds of true change, economic growth and job creation spurred by the private market sweep through this country. Someone has to say NO to more spending. I will."
  