
    Washington, DC – Today, Second Lady Karen Pence hosted a breakfast at the Vice President's Residence for the Military Family Advisory Network (MFAN), a community of spouses from all military branches. Mrs. Pence met with 24 leaders within the organization to kick off their network's fifth anniversary and annual MFAN Solutions Summit on Saturday, August 11 in Washington, DC.
During the breakfast, Mrs. Pence offered words of support and encouragement to MFAN.
"The Military Family Advisory Network serves an important purpose to our Armed Forces," said Mrs. Pence. "I am encouraged by the organization's commitment to address some of the greatest challenges facing military families such as military spouse employment, education, and the effects of frequent moves. Their work on these issues will play an important role in helping to identify how we can better assist military families."
This year's MFAN Solutions Summit will discuss the primary challenges of military families highlighted in their 2017 Military Family Support Programming Survey. According to their report, military families' greatest challenges are health care coverage, employment, childcare, education, food security, and the effects of frequent moves. The goal of their research is to understand which military family support resources are effective, and identify where military families need more assistance. Based on their recent survey, MFAN has recommended prioritizing health care, encouraging community involvement, and offering financial education for active duty serving families and retirees.
Since starting the role of Second Lady of the United States, Mrs. Pence has participated in roundtable discussions with military spouses throughout the United States and parts of the world. Through those listening sessions, she has gained a better understanding of life in the military.
To stay updated on Mrs. Pence's events, follow her on Twitter at, @SecondLady.
About Military Family Advisory Network
The Military Family Advisory Network is a nonprofit organization comprised of military and veteran families who connect fellow military families with the right resources to support their unique needs. To learn more about the Military Family Advisory Network, visit https://militaryfamilyadvisorynetwork.org/.
  