
    Nevada UTU Chapter to Mobilize Caucus Support for Hillary
The Clinton Campaign Tuesday announced the endorsement of the United Transportation Union. UTU represents 125,000 active and retired members in the railroad, bus and public transit sectors across America.
The Nevada chapter of the UTU represents over 800 active and retired members in all corners of the state. Members of the Nevada branch are primarily involved in the railroad industry, and have been active advocates for railroad safety and homeland security issues surrounding public transportation infrastructure.
"Our nation's railroad system lacks the necessary safeguards to protect it from national security threats and also fails short on public safety standards," said Jack Fetters, Nevada state legislative director of the United Transportation Union. "We need a leader in the White House who understands the importance of securing the country's open railroads, keeping travelers and cargo safe. As a cosponsor of the Railroad Safety Enhancement Act of 2007, Senator Clinton has demonstrated that she is an outspoken advocate for expanding railroad safety and security. Throughout her presidency, Senator Clinton's leadership and commitment to the railroad industry and homeland security will play an important role in keeping our borders safe. The Nevada UTU will work hard to mobilize support for Senator Clinton's campaign spreading her message of change to voters throughout the Silver State."
Incoming UTU President Mike Futhey Jr. said Clinton's detailed plan to rebuild the nation's infrastructure and her strong performance at the AFL-CIO Presidential forum in Chicago were deciding factors in the union's national endorsement.
"Hillary Clinton's record has been friendly to working men and women of this country. She consistently has endorsed the necessity of a strong middle class," Futhey said. "The UTU will encourage its 125,000 active and retired members to caucus for Hillary and other labor friendly candidates in 2008."
"I am honored to receive the support of the United Transportation Union," Clinton said. "America's workers and the nation's infrastructure have been invisible to this administration. It is time we focus our attention on repairing and securing our railroads and roadways and ensuring our hardworking Americans receive the benefits and quality care they deserve."
  