
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate Floor)(Sponsors: Byrd (D), West Virginia; Harkin (D), Iowa)
This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 4606, the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1995, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee. While the Administration has some concerns, the most critical of which are discussed below, we urge the Senate to approve the bill.
President's Investment Initiatives 
The Administration appreciates the Committee's funding of high-priority investment proposals such as Goals 2000, the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Ryan White Act AIDS treatment, immunization, and Social Security disability processing. Funding for these programs will help advance the Administration's investment priorities, and we are hopeful that the Senate will continue to support these programs.
The Committee's funding levels for Head Start, School-to- Work, Job Corps, drug treatment, and certain other investment programs are well below the request. Although we understand the constraints facing the Senate, these programs remain a high priority. We urge the Senate to consider shifting funding from lower priority programs within this bill, such as the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program.(LIHEAP), 21 Education programs proposed for termination, and seven new categorical Education programs. These funds could be used to improve further the funding levels for the President's investment initiatives in selected areas that received small increases in the Committee- reported bill.
Head Start 
Head Start is one of the President's highest priority investment programs. The Committee bill would provide $3.5 billion for the Head Start program, approximately $500 million below the request. The funding level proposed in the President's budget would enhance the quality of the Head Start program, expand the scope of services, and increase the number of children served. The Administration is pleased that the Committee provided funds above the House level. However, we strongly urge the Senate to provide additional funding for the Head Start program by shifting funds from other areas that the Committee has funded above the President's request.
School-to-Work 
While the Administration appreciates the severe funding constraints facing the Senate, the School-to-Work Opportunities initiative remains a top investment priority. This bold initiative will fundamentally change the way our nation's high schools prepare youth for highly skilled careers or further education. While the Committee has provided $200 million for School-to-Work Opportunities (split equally between the Departments of Education and Labor), this is well below the $280 million provided by the House. We urge the Senate to shift funds from lower priority programs to provide the House-recommended level of $280 million for School-to-Work.
Job Corps 
The President's budget for job training programs is built on solid evidence of what works. The request to continue expansion of Job Corps is based on research documenting the program's success in breaking the cycle of poverty and welfare dependence facing many disadvantaged youth. While the Administration acknowledges the severe constraints facing discretionary spending now and in the future, we strongly believe that the Job Corps' proven track record merits a long-term commitment of scarce resources to this successful program. We urge the Senate to provide the House level of $1,107 million, including $15 million to enable the Job Corps to initiate six new centers.
Department of Education: Program Proliferation 
The Committee has funded 21 programs in Education, at a cost of $418 million, that the Administration has proposed to terminate. In addition, the Committee has funded seven new programs at a cost of $134 million. The Administration is committed to the streamlining and reform of the hundreds of Education programs, consistent with the recommendations of the National Performance Review. The Administration urges the Senate to reconsider the Committee's actions, to join in the commitment to reduce program proliferation, and to use the funds thus made available to increase funding for important national priorities, such as the investment requests for School-to-Work, Goals 2000, and Title I Education for the Disadvantaged.
Drug Abuse Treatment for Hard-Core Users 
The President's budget includes a two-part initiative to increase the availability of drug treatment for hard-core users — the President's top anti-drug priority. The initiative includes a large, targeted expansion of the Substance Abuse Block Grant and a smaller demonstration grant program to generate information about the services most effective in treating hardcore users. The Administration urges the Senate to provide funding for this initiative at the requested level.
Automation and Disability Investments 
The Committee has reduced requested funding for the Social Security automation investment by $321 million while increasing funding for the disability processing investment by $40 million. This approach would address the backlog of disability cases by emphasizing a short-term solution rather than the long-term effort of which automation is a key part. The President's investment for automation is intended to alleviate the systemic problems that are contributing to the disability backlogs. The automation investment would provide the new systems and communications essential to improve service and efficiency at both the Federal and State levels.
Vaccines for Children (VFC) Program 
The Administration commends the Committee for fully funding the President's immunization Initiative, a priority investment program to ensure that all children who do not have health insurance coverage for immunizations have access to immunizations at the appropriate age. However, the Administration has strong concerns about bill language that would delay the start of the vaccine distribution system, which is scheduled to begin on October 1, 1994. The Administration notes the Committee's concerns regarding the distribution system for VFC, but we want to work with Congress to address the Committee's concerns while ensuring that the program starts on time.
Department of Health and Human Services: Office of AIDS Policy 
The Administration objects to the Committee's action that would delete funding for the National AIDS Program Office. This Office plays an important leadership and coordination role in ensuring that AIDS research, services, and prevention activities are carried out. The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to define further the role of this Office, and urges the Senate to restore funding for this office to the requested level.
Additional Administration concerns with the Committee- reported bill are contained in the attachment.
Attachment

Attachment (Senate Floor)
ADDITIONAL CONCERNS 
H.R. 4606 — LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS BILL, FY 1995 
(AS REPORTED BY THE SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE) 
The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress later in the process in an effort to address the following concerns:
Department of Health and Human Services 

Foster Care. The Administration objects to Committee report language that directs HHS to refrain from conducting IV-E (foster care and adoption assistance) financial reviews in FY 1995 or from conducting reviews of State compliance with foster care protections. Absent a legislative change, the Administration must continue to follow current procedures designed to protect the well-being of children in substitute care and to protect Federal payment integrity, as set out by statute.   
Program Direction. The Administration is concerned about the amount of program direction contained in the Committee bill and in the accompanying report. For example. Section 208 of the bill requires the Administration to seek the approval of the Appropriations Committee for actions required by the authorizing statute. Also, the Committee report earmarks funds for specific programs not included in the authorizing statute. 

Department of Education 

Safe and Drug-free Schools and Communities. The President's budget includes $660 million under a reauthorized Safe and Drug-free Schools and Communities Act, to expand the scope of school drug abuse prevention programs to encompass violence prevention as well. The Committee has included $482 million. The Administration urges the Senate to provide funding for this initiative closer to the requested level. 

  