
    Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
As we near the end of our brief visit to Romania, we only regret that we were unable to entertain the President and the members of the Romanian Government at the American Embassy. I recall in 1967, when Ambassador [Richard H.] Davis had a luncheon for me at the Embassy, that it was rather difficult to get more than 25 or 30 in the room. So regardless of whatever else comes out of these talks that we have had, and much good will come from them, one decision I have made: We will build a new embassy residence so that we can have this party next time in the embassy residence.
After seeing the splendid Titan housing project, I am sure we can find a good architect for the residence.
Mr. President, it is very difficult on this occasion to tell you how deeply we have appreciated the courtesies that you have extended to us, and also to tell you how deeply moved we have been by the reception we have received from the people of Bucharest on this visit.
We have tried on this occasion to bring as much of the United States to Bucharest as we could. The place cards, the matches, and the menus were all printed in the United States. The beef came from Kansas City; the peas came from California; the tomatoes came from Florida; and the hearts of palm came from Hawaii. But one thing we could not bring were the flowers, because no place in the world can you go and find more beautiful flowers than in Bucharest.
So, consequently, I simply want to conclude by saying that we have had very exhaustive talks, but they have not been exhausting because talk is exhausting only when it is boring, and when President Ceausescu and I talk, it is never boring. We have discussed matters of tremendous importance to relations between the United States and Romania, and also the whole problem of world peace. I know that from the talks we have had that much good will come in terms of bringing closer the day when we can have world peace.
One final point I would make on a personal
  