
    CNBC's John Harwood: "They Got Underway With A Bang." HARWOOD: "They got underway with a bang. Chris Christie, who's known as a very good speaker, came out very powerful delivery in his speech." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 8/29/12)
The New York Times: "A Full-Throated Defense Of Entrepreneurship And Free Enterprise..." "Sher Valenzuela, a candidate for Delaware lieutenant governor, kicked off the Republican National Convention's theme du jour Tuesday evening with a full-throated defense of entrepreneurship and free enterprise against what she called President Obama's stifling regulations. The message: We Built It." (The New York Times, 8/28/12)
Los Angeles Times: "Giving Voice To Those Disillusioned By The Promise Of The Obama White House." "One of the president's early supporters, former Democratic Rep. Artur Davis, emerged on the prime-time stage at the Republican convention – giving voice to those disillusioned by the promise of the Obama White House." (Los Angeles Times, 8/28/12)
Politico: "Romney Spoke Directly To The Women Of America..." "The Romney campaign rolled out its most powerful female surrogate on Tuesday night: Ann Romney, who delivered a single-minded speech aimed directly at women. Addressing the opening night of the Republican National Convention here, Romney spoke directly to the women of America, telling them 'you are the best of America, you are the hope of America, there would not be an America without you.'" (Politico, 8/28/12)
CBS's Jan Crawford: "Christie's Speech Was Pitch Perfect, A Speech For Our Time." CRAWFORD: "In many ways, Christie's speech was pitch perfect, a speech for our time. He talked directly to all those people, Charlie and Norah, who are worried our best days are behind us. And he said, you know, we're not going to sugar coat this. He made an indirect hit on President Obama and said we're not going to pander to you. We're going to tell you the truth, the hard truths, and we're going to get this done. It was never, never give up, almost like Winston Churchill. But also morning in America, Reagan, we can get to those better days." (CBS's "This Morning," 8/29/12)
MSNBC's Willie Geist: "A Rousing Keynote Address ... An Appeal To Women..." "It started a day late but with a bang on a rousing keynote address from New Jersey Governor Chris Christie preceded as you saw there by an appeal to women from Ann Romney." (MSNBC's "Way Too Early," 8/29/12)
Tampa Bay Times: "Ann Romney Caressed And Chris Christie Punched, Delivering Rousing Speeches Tuesday Night..." "Ann Romney caressed and Chris Christie punched, delivering rousing speeches Tuesday night at the Republican National Convention that were designed to rally Republicans behind Mitt Romney and show him on more personal terms." (Tampa Bay Times, 8/28/12)
The Hartford Courant: "The Night Belonged To Ann Romney" (The Hartford Courant, 8/29/12)
ABC's Rick Klein: "Ann Romney Handled The Man, Chris Christie The Message." (Twitter.com, 8/28/12)
NBC's David Gregory: "Appealed To Independent Voters..." GREGORY: "I think he did say some things that also appealed to independent voters that are tough messages that would apply to both parties." (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 8/29/12)
The Washington Post's Chris Cillizza: "Ann Romney Isn't — And Never Has Been — A Politician. That Makes Her Performance That Much More Impressive." "Unlike almost everyone who spoke on Tuesday night, Ann Romney isn't — and never has been — a politician. That makes her performance that much more impressive." (The Washington Post, 8/28/12)
The Washington Examiner's Michael Barone: "A Brilliant Job..." "Ann Romney. A brilliant job of relating her and Mitt's experiences to those of millions of ordinary Americans." (The Washington Examiner, 8/29/12)
The Washington Post's Jennifer Rubin: "No One In The GOP Gives A Speech Like New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie." "No one in the GOP gives a speech like New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. Clapping his hands and punching the air he strode onto the stage at the RNC, and then he proceeded to wow the crowd. If Ann Romney was empathetic, he was tough. If she vouched for her husband, he vouched for Americans. They were the yin and yang of the first night of the convention." (The Washington Post, 8/29/12)
  