
    
  "Shook Up The Presidential Race" ... "A Bold Set Of Ideas" ... "A New Promise For Presidential Politics"

CBS News' John Dickerson: "The Choice Offers The First Real Hints About What Kind Of President Romney Will Be. ... He's Willing To Campaign On A Bold Set Of Ideas..." "Mitt Romney has made his first presidential-level decision, picking Paul Ryan, the 42-year-old, seven-term Congressman from southern Wisconsin, as his running mate. The choice offers the first real hints about what kind of president Romney will be. Here's what we learned: He takes risks, he can adapt, and he's willing to campaign on a bold set of ideas rather than generalities." (Slate, 8/11/12)
National Journal's Ron Fournier: "A New Promise For Presidential Politics And Leadership: Authentic, Bold, Positive And Focused On Results Over Partisan Gridlock." "Mitt Romney used the choice of running mate Rep. Paul Ryan to script a new promise for presidential politics and leadership: Authentic, bold, positive and focused on results over partisan gridlock." (National Journal, 8/11/12)
Time: "Romney Shook Up The Presidential Race Saturday Morning With A Single Stroke..." (Time, 8/11/12)
The Atlantic's Molly Ball: "Overnight, It Was Clear, Romney Has Reoriented The Campaign Around A New, Daring Premise." (The Atlantic, 8/11/12)


The Atlantic Headline: "Paul Ryan's Message: 'Courage'" (The Atlantic, 8/11/12)


Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: "In Ryan, Romney Is Getting His Party's Most Influential Politician On The Budget And Economy..." "In Ryan, Romney is getting his party's most influential politician on the budget and economy, a huge favorite of pro-business and free-market conservatives, a skilled politician and self-styled 'policy wonk,' a prolific fundraiser and ubiquitous cable news presence..." (Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, 8/11/12)
BuzzFeed's Ben Smith: "The Ryan Pick Is Going To Take What Has Felt Inside The Beltway Like A National Debate And Turn It Into An Actual National Debate." "The Ryan pick is going to take what has felt inside the beltway like a national debate and turn it into an actual national debate, I think." (Ben Smith, Twitter Feed, 8/11/12)
Yahoo News' Walter Shapiro: "What Stays With Me Was The Earnestness And Policy-Oriented Seriousness Of Ryan..." "I recall the fledging candidate walking me around downtown Janesville to show the houses and the historical markers that trace his family's influence on this small industrial city since the late nineteenth century. But what stays with me was the earnestness and policy-oriented seriousness of Ryan, even then." (Yahoo! News, 8/11/12)
National Review Editorial: "Governor Romney Has Made An Inspired Choice." (National Review, 8/11/12)


"Paul Ryan Is The Republican Who Has Made The Most Pointed Critique Of The Philosophy That Underlies Obama's Economic Policies..." "Paul Ryan is the Republican who has made the most pointed critique of the philosophy that underlies Obama's economic policies: the notion that government can direct resources toward rising industries. Solyndra is not just a scandal, Ryan notes: It is the kind of crony-capitalist fiasco to which Obama's view inevitably leads." (National Review, 8/11/12)


  