
    AT THE invitation of the President of the Socialist Republic of Romania, Nicolae Ceausescu, and Mrs. Elena Ceausescu, the President of the United States, Gerald R. Ford, and Mrs. Elizabeth Ford, paid an official visit to Romania on August 2-3, 1975.
The distinguished guests visited places of cultural and social interest at Bucharest and Sinaia. They were given a warm welcome everywhere as an expression of the esteem and high regard in which the Romanian people hold their friends, the American people.
During the visit, President Ford and President Ceausescu held talks regarding the present stage of relations between Romania and the United States, as well as an exchange of views on a wide range of international problems of mutual interest. The talks took place in a cordial and friendly atmosphere reflecting mutual esteem and respect as well as the favorable course of Romanian-American relations in recent years.
The two Presidents noted with satisfaction that bilateral relations in the political, economic, technical-scientific, cultural and other fields have developed and diversified in recent years in the spirit of the principles inscribed in the Joint Declaration signed at Washington on December 5, 1973.
Reaffirming the adherence of their countries to the principles in the Joint Declaration, the two Presidents resolved to continue to develop relations between the two states on the basis of these principles, in order to promote peace, international cooperation and the traditional friendship between the Romanian and American peoples.
The two Presidents gave a positive assessment to the evolution of economic links between the two countries. They resolved to continue to act to expand. economic, industrial and technical-scientific cooperation and trade based on the principles and provisions of the Joint Declaration on Economic, Industrial, and Technological Cooperation between Romania and the United States adopted at Washington on December 5, 1973.
They noted also the importance of actions taken in recent years to encourage and intensify bilateral commerce, among these being the establishment and activity of the Romanian-American Joint Economic Commission and the Romanian-U.S. Economic Council, as well as joint production and commercial ventures.
The two Presidents hailed with deep satisfaction the conclusion of the Trade Agreement between the Socialist Republic of Romania and the United States of America, which represents a major Contribution to the expansion of economic relations between the two countries. The two sides expressed the conviction that the entry into force of the Trade Agreement on August 3, 1975, by exchange of notices of acceptance during the visit, will help Romanian-American trade to grow and diversify, thereby influencing favorably the entire range of relations between the two states.
The two Presidents, taking note of the positive evolution of cooperative ties between economic organizations of the two countries, resolved to encourage wider links through joint activities, including the establishment of joint production and commercial ventures. To this end, the Romanian-American Joint Economic Commission, whose next session is scheduled soon in Washington, will examine appropriate ways and measures. The two Presidents decided that appropriate departments will begin, as soon as possible, the negotiation of a long-term accord on economic, industrial and technical collaboration, as well as an agricultural agreement. Possibilities for a bilateral maritime agreement will also be discussed.
The two Presidents welcomed progress achieved in technical and scientific cooperation and expressed themselves in favor of exploring possibilities for mutually beneficial cooperation through the conclusion of collaborative agreements on energy, including nuclear energy, environmental protection, public health, and in other fields.
Both sides noted the conclusion, in December 1974, of the first long-term governmental agreement on cooperation and exchanges in the fields of culture, education, science and technology and will continue to give it full support. The two sides stressed the importance of this agreement for better mutual understanding of spiritual and material values, for expansion of links in these fields between their respective institutions, organizations and associations, and for contacts between citizens of both countries. In this context, the two Presidents welcomed exchanges and contacts between youth groups.
Regarding the coming anniversaries of major events in the histories of both nations--the Bicentennial of the United States and the Centennial of Romanian State independence--the two Presidents agreed that these events will provide occasions for further expanding mutual understanding.
The two Presidents noted that, in the spirit of the 1973 Declaration, a number of humanitarian problems have been solved. They agreed to continue to take action in this field.
President Ford expressed his concern over the recent disastrous floods which had affected Romania. He voiced admiration for the valiant efforts of the Romanian people to overcome the effects of this natural calamity. President Ceausescu thanked President Ford for his concern and the aid extended by the United States.
The two Presidents agreed that the successful conclusion of the work of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe represents an important step toward the achievement of greater security and cooperation on the continent. In order to achieve broader understanding among all the peoples of Europe, they stressed the need for abiding by and implementing all the pro, visions of the final act adopted at Helsinki. The two Presidents expressed their determination to strive for effective disarmament measures which strengthen the peace and security of all peoples in Europe.
The two Presidents emphasized their support for a just and equitable international order in which the right of each country, regardless of size or political, economic or social system, to choose its own destiny free from the use or threat of force will be respected. In such an international order, each country may develop freely on the basis of strict respect for independence, national sovereignty, juridical equality, and non-interference in its internal affairs.
During the talks, the two Presidents held an exchange of views on the complex economic problems which confront mankind. They noted that to solve these problems, account must be taken of the need to establish fair economic relations among all states and to create and consolidate an economic equilibrium which can assure stability on a world scale, in the interest of peace, international security and the general progress of all nations. Attention was given to effective means of reducing the gap between developed and developing countries.
The two Presidents reaffirmed the indissoluble link between security and effective disarmament measures as well as the pressing need for continued vigorous negotiations toward further progress in the limitation of armaments, including nuclear armaments.
The two sides expressed their concern over the situation in the Middle East and underlined the need to reach, as soon as possible, a just and lasting peace in the region, in the spirit of Resolution 338 of the Security Council of the United Nations, taking into account the legitimate interests of all the peoples of the area, including the Palestinian people, and respect for the right to independence, sovereignty and security for all states in the area.
The two sides expressed concern over the evolution of the situation in Cyprus and favored a solution based on respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Cyprus. They noted that the talks between the two communities on the island can contribute fruitfully to a solution of the situation.
The two Presidents agreed that good-neighborly relations of friendship among Balkan countries would contribute toward cooperation, security and improvement of the climate in Europe.
The two Presidents agreed to support the United Nations so that it may fulfill its mission of maintaining world peace and developing international cooperation and understanding.
The two Presidents welcomed the Romanian-American exchange of visits in many fields and at various levels which have taken place in recent years. In order to continue the positive direction of Romanian-American relations, they agreed to develop and intensify these periodic exchanges of views at all levels.
President Ford and Mrs. Ford expressed to President Nicolae Ceausescu and Mrs. Elena Ceausescu their deep appreciation for the extremely cordial reception which was accorded them in Romania.
The two sides agreed that this visit was another contribution to friendship and understanding between the Romanian and American Governments and peoples and to the valuable tradition of constructive dialogue which has evolved between the two countries.
Sinaia, August 3, 1975
GERALD R. FORD
President of the United States of America
NICOLAE CEAUSESCU
President of the Socialist Republic of Romania
  