
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
Pursuant to section 203 of the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) (19 U.S.C. 3202), I wish to inform you of my intention to designate Peru as a beneficiary of the trade-liberalizing measures provided for in this Act. Designation will entitle the products of Peru, except for products excluded statutorily, to duty-free treatment for a period ending on December 4, 2001.
Designation is an important step for Peru in its effort to fight against narcotics production and trafficking. The enhanced access to the U.S. market provided by the ATPA will encourage the production of and trade in legitimate products.
My decision to designate Peru results from consultations concluded in July 1993 between this Administration and the Government of Peru regarding the designation criteria set forth in section 203 of the ATPA. Peru has demonstrated to my satisfaction that its laws, practices, and policies are in conformity with the designation criteria of the ATPA. The Government of Peru has communicated on these matters by a letter to the Office of the United States Trade Representative and in so doing has indicated its desire to be designated as a beneficiary.
On the basis of the statements and assurances in Peru's letter, and taking into account information developed by the United States Embassy and through other sources, I have concluded that designation is appropriate at this time.
I am mindful that under section 203(e) of the ATPA, I retain the authority to suspend, withdraw, or limit the application of ATPA benefits from any designated country if a beneficiary's laws, policies, or practices are no longer in conformity with the designation criteria. The United States will keep abreast of developments in Peru that are pertinent to the designation criteria.
This Administration looks forward to working closely with the Government of Peru and with the private sectors of the United States and Peru to ensure that the wide-ranging opportunities opened by the ATPA are fully utilized.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  