
    DES MOINES -- Bernie 2020 today announced endorsements from Latinx community leaders and activists across Iowa ahead of Sen. Bernie Sanders' upcoming Unidos con Bernie campaign event in Des Moines.
"Even in the face of President Trump's xenophobia and racism, the Latinx community continues to bravely stand up and fight for justice in our communities here in Iowa," said Bernie 2020 Iowa State Director Misty Rebik. "These endorsers are on the front lines of that fight and our grassroots movement stands inspired by their leadership and looks forward to working with them to win the caucus in February." 
The slate of Iowa endorsements includes:
Maria Bribriesco - Former Deputy State Director - LULAC Iowa*Maria Bribriesco is a community activist and Deputy State Director for LULAC-Iowa. She is a former president of the Davenport-Bettendorf American Association of University Women and has served on numerous boards of not for profit organizations. She is currently on the boards of Footbridge and Quad City Alliance for Immigrants and Refugees. 
Jazmin Devora - Community Activist and DACA RecipientJazmin Devora is a student and DACA beneficiary from North Iowa. She is a community activist fighting for comprehensive immigration reform.
Denise Diaz -  Small Business Owner Denise Diaz is a community leader and a small business owner with strong roots in community activism and social justice in Des Moines. She is a proud Chicana, granddaughter of immigrants and lover of justice.
Manny Galvez - Owner, El TruequeManny Galvez is the founder of El Trueque, a Spanish language media outlet based in North Liberty. He is a prominent activist and advocate for the Latinx community across the state of Iowa.
Claudio Hidalgo - Activist and Professor Claudio Hidalgo is a professor at The University of Iowa and Kirkwood Community College. He is a Chilean immigrant, community activist and a 2018 Diversity Catalyst Seed Grant Recipient.
Vanessa Marcano-Kelly -  Business Owner and Community Activist Vanessa Marcano-Kelly is the owner of Caracas Language Solutions, LLC in Des Moines. She is a community leader and proud immigrant from Venezuela.
Patrick Bourgeacq Pinzón - Academic Director and Community LeaderPatrick Bourgeacq Pinzón is the Assistant Director of International Admission at Drake University and a long-time active community leader in Des Moines.
Antonia Rivera - Activist, Writer and DACA RecipientAntonia Rivera was born in Distrito Federal, Mexico and at age six crossed the border to the United State. She spent her youth in California organizing for local and federal policies that would help undocumented youth and their families. She is a recipient of the Bicultural Iowa Writers' Fellowship and a contributing author to "We the Interwoven", where she writes about migration and what it means to be part of the 1.5 generation.
Maria Romero -  Community Activist Maria Romero a Des Moines immigration activist, mother of five, and community leader.Reverend Alejandro Alfaro Santiz - Pastor, Trinity Las Americas Methodist ChurchReverend Alejandro Alfaro Santiz is the Lead Pastor at Trinity Las Americas in Des Moines. He is a community leader for many progressive causes and is one of the leading organizers for the Iowa chapter of the Poor People's Campaign. 
*Organization listed for identification purposes only
  