
    THE PRESIDENT of the United States takes pleasure in presenting the Legion of Merit to
COMMANDER W. R. ANDERSON, UNITED STATES NAVY
for services as Commanding Officer of the U. S. S. Nautilus during operations in the Arctic Ocean as set forth below:
CITATION:
For exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding service while serving as Commanding Officer, U. S. S. Nautilus (SSN-571) during the period 8 June 1958 to 5 August 1958. Commander Anderson, by farsighted planning, skilled seamanship and thorough study of the Arctic area, succeeded in cruising Nautilus across the top of the world from the Bering Sea to the Greenland Sea, passing submerged beneath the geographic North Pole. Under his intrepid leadership, Nautilus pioneered a submerged sea lane between the Eastern and Western hemispheres. This points the way for further exploration and possible use of this route by nuclear powered cargo submarines as a new commercial seaway between the major oceans of the world. Commander Anderson's leadership, skillful application of professional knowledge, and courage were in keeping with the highest traditions of the Armed forces of the United States.
The President of the United States takes pleasure in presenting the Presidential Unit Citation to the
U. S. S. NAUTILUS (SSN--571).
for services in connection with operations in the Arctic Ocean as set forth below:
CITATION:
For outstanding achievement in completing the first voyage in history across the top of the world, by cruising under the Arctic ice cap from the Bering Strait to the Greenland Sea. During the period 22 July 1958 to 5 August 1958, U. S. S. Nautilus (SSN-571), the world's first atomic powered ship, added to her list of historic achievements by crossing the Arctic Ocean from the Bering Sea to the Greenland Sea, passing submerged beneath the geographic North Pole. This voyage opens the possibility of a new commercial seaway, a Northwest Passage, between the major oceans of the world. Nuclear powered cargo submarines may, in the future, use this route to the advantage of world trade.
The skill, professional competency and courage of the officers and crew of Nautilus were in keeping with the highest traditions of the Armed forces of the United States and the pioneering spirit which has always characterized our country.
  