
    Your Imperial Majesty, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is an honor and a very real pleasure to welcome you again to our country.
When Your Majesty was here in Washington 3 years ago, you spoke of Iran's determination to build "a society in which men may prosper and feel happy and secure, a society in which the benefits of a sound education and a healthy economy are shared not by a few, but by all." We have admired Iran's steady progress toward that goal which you announced.
The changes in Iran represent very genuine progress. So far as economic growth rates tell the story of a nation's achievements, Iran's recent record--an annual growth of about 10 percent--is surpassed by very few countries on this earth. In the 5 years since we visited Iran, 6,500 village schools have been established by your new Literacy Corps. In 1962 only 8 percent of your rural population went to elementary schools. Now--a short 5 years later under your leadership--the figure is more than 20 percent and still rising.
Iran has risen to the challenge of new times and new generations--through its land reform--through a drive against illiteracy-through a sharp increase in private investment-- and through so many other vital reforms, all of which you discussed with me in your planning when I was privileged to visit there.
Iran is a different country now from the one that we saw in 1962. The difference has sprung from Your Majesty's dedicated, inspirational, and progressive leadership.
I see another difference--another lesson that your leadership provides for all who prize real progress. Because you are winning progress without violence and without any bloodshed--a lesson that others still have to learn.
To destroy the existing order--to dismiss the past without a plan for the present and the future--that is never enough.
We Americans challenge every propagandist and every demagogue--whether he speaks on the radio waves of the world or in the streets of our own cities--to demonstrate his commitment to progress with the facts and the figures. The people of the world cry out for progress--not for propaganda. They hunger for results--knowing they cannot eat rhetoric.
Progress in Iran has not meant discarding the past; it has meant keeping the best of the past and forging it to a brighter future.
Your Majesty, we understand this kind of progress. We are proud to have seen you make it and we are pleased that we could help along the way. But the accomplishments are yours.
You and your people we think have sown good seed. I hope to hear a great deal more about that harvest after we go to the office. I hope also to draw on Your Majesty's very wise counsel--so valuable to me in the past-as we discuss our common interest in building peace and security, particularly in the Middle East.
Mrs. Johnson and I are very pleased that you are with us here again. We hope to return now--with special warmth--the welcome that you have so generously extended to many Americans over many years, and particularly to us on our cherished visit to Tehran 5 years ago.
Thank you.
  