
    Pool Reports by Meridith McGraw, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




August 9, 202011:26

WH Travel #1 - Lebanon conference call readout
Good morning —
A readout of the conference call on Lebanon from Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump participated in a virtual conference on Lebanon with international leaders. The President expressed his deepest condolences for those killed and injured in the Beirut explosion. President Trump reaffirmed that the United States stands ready and willing to continue providing aid to help the people of Lebanon in their recovery. The President agreed with the other leaders to work closely together in international response efforts. President Trump also urged the Government of Lebanon to conduct a full and transparent investigation, in which the United States stands ready to assist. The President called for calm in Lebanon and acknowledged the legitimate calls of peaceful protestors for transparency, reform, and accountability.


 August 9, 2020 16:01

 WH Travel #2 - Pool leaving for Long Branch 
The pool has departed for President Trump's fundraiser in Long Branch, NJ via Osprey.
The president is flying separate from the pool, and I'll keep you posted on when I have word from the WH he has taken off from Bedminster. He's expected to leave in 15 min. 


 August 9, 2020 16:31

 WH Travel #3 - POTUS wheels up 
According to the White House, President Trump was wheels up from Bedminster at 4:26p.
The pool is waiting for his arrival in Long Branch where crowds of people — almost none wearing masks — have gathered to see his helicopter land here on the field of a local school. 


 August 9, 2020 17:02

 WH Travel #4 - POTUS lands and arrives at fundraiser 
At 4:50p President Trump landed in Long Branch, NJ.
The pool stood pretty far away from where the President touched down, so from my vantage point I was only able to spot RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel getting off Marine One, too.
On our short drive, there were people standing outside waving at Trump's motorcade and waving signs that read "thank you Trump," "Trump 2020," "Trump lies," "Thank Q," and "Dump Trump."
The fundraiser is being held at a mansion overlooking the Atlantic. 


 August 9, 2020 19:17

 WH Travel #5 - Left fundraiser, Trump takes off on M1 
President Trump left his final fundraiser of the weekend in NJ and is now wheels up in Marine One.
A man in a red hat was seen getting on the chopper before the President. I think I saw McDaniel too, but from far away it was hard to tell who exactly was with POTUS.
An RNC official said this last fundraiser raised $5millon for Trump Victory.
A small group of people stood outside of a barricade on the street yelling and holding anti-Trump signs. People stood along the motorcade route waving and giving either a thumbs up or a thumbs down as we passed.
The pool is traveling by Osprey again to get back for our AF1 ride home to DC. 


August 9, 202019:57

WH Travel #6 - POTUS board AF1, takes Qs
President Trump has boarded AF1 but took questions from the press on the tarmac. Rep Zeldin was seen boarding the plane before POTUS.
Rough notes from Tolu from the gaggle (thank you!) —
We has a very important call this morning with Lebanon"
"We has it and a lot of things were worked out... a lot of countries are going to be helping."
Q How much aid will the US be giving?
"It will be substantial," he said, declining to give a number. He said three planes have already gone over
Q: how will talks go forward on pandemic stimulus"
"The Democrats were Unwilling to do anything."
"It was time to act... we have to get money out to the people."
"I've heard mostly positive."
Q: would you like the talks to start again?"I hear that's what the Democrats want to do."
Said Democrats want Bail out their states.
Q: what about the states that can't afford to chip on?
"It will depend on the states... it may be they pay nothing"
States will make an application, he said. 
"I've been involved personally" and "through my representatives."
"We've gotten much of what we wanted without having to give up anything."
"They're much more inclined to make a deal now."
Q: postal service cuts?
"I didn't speak to the Postmaster General" but he's a good man who "wants to make it successful."
"It's been losing massive amounts of money"
Q: what about the election?
"In light of all of the problems that are coming out" on mail in voting... "I hear it's a catastrophe, mail in voting" and we can't have that. 
Q: on Stanley Chera
"He was a great man" who died of COVID and "one of my early supporters."
Q: Do you want to cut payroll taxes permanently?
"It may be permanent"
Q: what about Social Security, how will it be funded?
It will be replenished from the general fund. "This will have no impact on Social Security."
"We protect Social Security. They don't protect it."
Q: how long can you pay unemployment? Four or five weeks?
We can pay it longer than that


August 9, 202020:58

WH Travel #7 - POTUS on his way back to the WH
At 8:51p President Trump stepped off AF1 and walked over to Marine One after giving a wave.
Marine One is now wheels up at 8:56p, bound for the WH.
Trump was followed onto M1 by Johnny McEntee and Dan Scavino. 
In addition to Lee Zeldin, RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel and Chris Ruddy were also on the flight back to DC with POTUS. 
Apologies for the previous rushed note! We were on the smaller plane and don't have service, so didn't have a chance to beef up Trump's remarks. Please reach out if you need anything. 
With that, I am handing off to our colleagues waiting for the president at the WH. 
Good night from your pooler!




Pool Reports below by Todd Gillman, The Dallas Morning News



Sent:
Reports:




 August 9, 2020 21:13

 Intown pool report #1/Marine One return and lid 
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 9:06 pm.
The rotors drowned out the crickets and other insects on this typically humid summer evening.
The president stepped off at 9:08, saluted the Marine and walked past the pool without stopping. He flashed thumbs up a couple of times with his right hand, and did a fist pump and final wave to the pool just before entering the White House at 9:09.
Pool was assembled on the east side, a somewhat disorienting vantage, having reached the South Lawn via the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden that roughly mirrors the Rose Garden and where a soccer net is at the far end.
We have a lid. 



  