
    Hillary Clinton to Attend Watch Party in Miami
The Hillary Clinton for President Campaign today launched an online effort to ask the Latino community to organize forum watch parties on September 9th. The appeal was made in anticipation of the presidential forum hosted by Univision and the University of Miami that will focus exclusively on issues of particular interest to the Hispanic community.
"I am very proud of the increasing involvement of the Latino community in the political process and in every aspect of society. It's important to motivate people to get involved and to take an active role in our democratic process so that their voices are heard," said Clinton. "I hope people take this opportunity to gather at watch parties with friends and family to learn how we can work together to bring the change that America needs."
From Iowa to California, and from Florida to Michigan, supporters will be holding parties in different venues across the country. To find out more information on how to organize your own watch party, [Click here] http://www.hillaryclinton.com/americaconhillary .
The organization of watch parties is part of the campaign's ongoing outreach to the Latino community. In June, the campaign announced its National Hispanic Leadership Council comprised of more than 130 local and national Latino elected officials, business leaders, community and civic activists, demonstrating Hillary's growing support among the Hispanic community. The members of the Council are playing an active role helping the campaign with outreach, fundraising, policy advice and counsel, and organizing efforts among Hispanics in their communities and across the country.
Hillary Clinton has spent 35 years fighting to expand access to high quality childcare, improve our schools, provide job training, and help students go to college, support people in purchasing homes and provide assistance to minority-owned businesses. As First Lady, she helped bring attention to key issues for Latinos by conveying the first ever White House Conference on Hispanic Education and the first ever White House Conference on Hispanic Children and Youth. Clinton has pledged to fight for comprehensive immigration reform and to continue making issues of concern to Latinos a high priority when she is President.
  