
    
  Team demonstrates Cruz's incredible strength in Iowa

HOUSTON, Texas – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today announced the addition of another lawmaker as well as several activists, pastors, and courageous conservatives to his Iowa Leadership Team. The ten new members will join the current team of 24 other individuals who make up the Iowa Leadership Team, headed by Iowa State Chairman, Matt Schultz, the former Iowa Secretary of State.
"Iowa is an extraordinarily important state to our campaign, and I am incredibly excited to have these 10 courageous conservatives join our already exceptional Iowa Leadership Team," said Sen. Cruz. "I am tremendously encouraged to see how much our grassroots support in Iowa has grown since the launch of our campaign in March, particularly with the addition of several pastors and our Religious Liberty Ambassadors Dick & Betty Odgaard. It is profoundly important that we have a strong leadership team to win the Iowa caucuses, and today, the campaign took another step in that direction."
"We have an incredibly experienced and energized team to build our Iowa organization," said State Director Bryan English. "This team is a testament to Cruz's incredible strength in Iowa."
The new additions to the Cruz Iowa Leadership Team are the following:
State Senator Bill and Angie Anderson, Pierson
Pastor Robert "Bob" Deever, West Des Moines
Pastor John Desaulniers Jr., Mingo
Jason Hamann, Correctionville
Pastor Edward Mast, Epworth
Dick & Betty Odgaard, Religious Liberty Ambassadors, Grimes
Professor Gregory Tapis, Davenport
Linda Stickle, Anamosa
Previously announced Cruz for President Iowa Leadership Team:
Matt Schultz, Chair, Truro
Marlin and Becky Bontrager, Kalona
State Senator Jake Chapman, Adel
Pastor Bradley Cranston, Burlington
Vicki Crawford, Granger
Pastor Mike Demastus, Des Moines
State Senator Dennis Guth, Klemme
State Representative Greg Heartsill, Melcher
State Representative Steve Holt, Denison
James Knox, Cedar Rapids
Joel Kurtinitis, Perry
Kelsey Kurtinitis, Perry
Bill Salier, Nora Springs
Dick Schlitter, Onawa
Dorothy Schlitter, Onawa
State Senator Jason Schultz, Schleswig
State Representative Larry Sheets, Moulton
Councilman Mick Snieder, Orange City
Adam Steen, West Des Moines
Chad Steenhoek, Ames
John Wacker, Garner
State Representative Ralph Watts, Adel
Pastor Darran Whiting, Marion
State Senator Bill Anderson, Pierson
Angie Anderson, Pierson
Pastor Robert "Bob" Deever, West Des Moines
Pastor John Desaulniers Jr., Mingo
Jason Hamann, Correctionville
Pastor Edward Mast, Epworth
Dick Odgaard, Grimes
Betty Odgaard, Grimes
Professor Gregory Tapis, Davenport
Linda Stickle, Anamosa
  