
    Business Owner and Community Advocate Nationally Known for Philanthropy in Higher Education
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of Nevada System of Higher Education Chancellor James E. Rogers, and named him co-chair of the Nevada campaign.
"Hillary Clinton is a smart, tough and tested leader who believes, as I do, that education is the foundation of a strong society," said Rogers. "Fixing our broken education system will help restore our nation to its place of prominence and leadership in the global marketplace. I know that as president, Senator Clinton will work to broaden access to education and empower innovation. Of all the great candidates in the field this year, she is the most prepared to get America back on track. She has my enthusiastic endorsement, and I'm proud to be a part of her leadership team in Nevada."
As Chancellor of the Nevada System of Higher Education, Rogers serves as chief executive officer for the state's system of eight institutions of higher learning. An active supporter of higher education, he has served on numerous boards and executive committees for colleges and universities across the country.
Rogers and his wife, Beverly, have contributed or pledged more than $275 million to various colleges and universities. Their gift of $115 million to the University of Arizona College of Law is to date the largest gift to any American law school. In November 1998, the Arizona Board of Regents renamed the University of Arizona college of Law The James E. Rogers College of Law. Most recently, Rogers was listed as one of the top twelve philanthropists in the Nation by Time Magazine, recognizing his work on behalf of higher education. Beverly Rogers, who recently completed her MA in English Literature and is pursuing her Ph.D. in Literature at the University of Nevada Las Vegas, has made substantial contributions on her own to universities including the English Departments at the University of Arizona and UNLV.
Rogers is the founder and owner of Valley Broadcasting Company, which made application in 1971 to the Federal Communications Commission for its first broadcast license. Sunbelt Communications Company, now the parent company, owns and operates 16 NBC and FOX affiliate television stations in five western states. A member of the State Bar Associations of Nevada, Arizona and California, he was in active law practice in Las Vegas until 1988, when he ceased practicing law to devote 100% of his time to the development of the television and radio stations of Sunbelt and various banks.
An avid collector of western motion picture memorabilia, antique automobiles and all varieties of western folklore, Rogers serves on the board of the Motion Picture and Television Fund. He is one of the first nine leaders elected to the University of Nevada, Las Vegas School of Business Hall of Fame.
"I can't think of a more passionate advocate for education in the state of Nevada – and even in the nation - than Jim Rogers," said Clinton Nevada Chair Rory Reid. "As a businessman and community leader, Jim has worked to make our state stronger, and encouraged others to do the same. His endorsement makes a strong statement about Hillary Clinton's experience, leadership and commitment to the issues that matter most."
As State Co-Chair, Rogers joins Clinton's Nevada campaign leadership team, which in addition to Reid includes former Attorney General Frankie Sue Del Papa, State Treasurer Kate Marshall, Pastor Robert Fowler of Victory Baptist Ministries, Clark County Commissioner Chris Giunchigliani and Las Vegas Latin Chamber of Commerce Chairman Robert Gomez.
  