
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Kathryn Kimball Mizelle, of Florida, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida.
Kathryn Mizelle is an attorney at Jones Day, where her practice focuses on complex civil and criminal litigation and appeals. Ms. Mizelle previously served at the Department of Justice as Counsel to the Associate Attorney General, a Trial Attorney in the Tax Division, and as a Special Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. Ms. Mizelle also serves as an adjunct professor of law at the University of Florida Levin College of Law. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Mizelle served as a law clerk to Justice Clarence Thomas of the United States Supreme Court, Judge Gregory G. Katsas of the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, Chief Judge William H. Pryor, Jr., of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, and Judge James S. Moody, Jr., of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida. Ms. Mizelle earned her B.A., summa cum laude, from Covenant College, and her J.D., summa cum laude, from the University of Florida Levin College of Law, where she served as the Executive Notes & Comments Editor of the Florida Law Review.
Benjamin J. Beaton, of Kentucky, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky.
Benjamin Beaton is a Partner at Squire Patton Boggs LLP, where he co-chairs the firm's Appellate & Supreme Court practice group. Mr. Beaton's represents clients engaged in complex commercial litigation in Federal and State courts, and before administrative agencies. Mr. Beaton also serves as an adjunct professor at the University of Louisville Brandeis School of Law, where he teaches constitutional interpretation. Before joining Squire Patton Boggs, Mr. Beaton practiced in the Washington, D.C. office of Sidley Austin, LLP, and also served as a legal fellow with the International Justice Mission in Kampala, Uganda. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Beaton served as a law clerk to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the United States Supreme Court, and to Judge A. Raymond Randolph of the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Mr. Beaton earned his B.A., summa cum laude, from Centre College, and his J.D. from Columbia Law School, where he served as an Articles Editor on the Columbia Law Review.
Hector Gonzalez, of New York, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Hector Gonzalez is a Partner at Dechert, LLP in New York, New York, and is the Chair of the firm's global litigation group. Mr. Gonzalez's practice focuses on complex commercial litigation and corporate investigations. Mr. Gonzalez previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York, where he was Chief of the Narcotics Unit, and as an Assistant District Attorney in the Manhattan District Attorney's Office. Mr. Gonzalez earned his B.S. from Manhattan College, and his J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania Law School, where he was an Editor of the University of Pennsylvania Law Review.
Ryan T. McAllister, of New York, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York. 
Ryan McAllister is a Counsel at Boies Schiller Flexner, LLP, in Albany, New York, where his practice focuses on complex commercial litigation. Mr. McAllister previously served as District Director for Representative John J. Faso, Senior Counsel in the New York State Senate Office of Majority Counsel & Program, and Assistant Counsel to New York Governor George E. Pataki. Mr. McAllister also practiced at the Law Office of Ryan T. McAllister in Schoharie County, New York. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. McAllister served as a law clerk to Judge Richard C. Wesley of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Mr. McAllister earned his B.A., summa cum laude, from The Catholic University of America, and his J.D., cum laude, from Harvard Law School.
David C. Woll, Jr., of New York, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. 
David Woll serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development at the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. Before joining HUD in 2017, Mr. Woll served as a Senior Counsel for the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Offices for the Eastern District of New York, and the District of Columbia, Counsel to the United States Deputy Attorney General, and as a Senior Counsel at the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to his public service, Mr. Woll was also the Managing Counsel for the Bank of New York Mellon, and in private practice. Mr. Woll earned his B.A., magna cum laude, from the University of Maryland, and his J.D. from the University of Virginia School of Law.
  