
    The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Massachusetts State Auditor Joe DeNucci, demonstrating Hillary Clinton's growing support in the Bay State.
"Americans are ready for change, and Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to deliver it," DeNucci said. "There's no doubt in my mind that Hillary Clinton is the best candidate to strengthen America's forgotten middle and working classes."
"Joe has spent his career looking out for the little guy as a public watchdog," Clinton said. "I'm honored to have his support as we take our message of change across the Bay State and the nation."
DeNucci has served as State Auditor since 1987, identifying more than $2.5 billion in cost savings, uncollected revenue and wasteful spending. Now in his sixth term, DeNucci has audited major projects like the Big Dig and the MBTA, while fighting fraud and abuse through his Bureau of Special Investigations.
Prior to his election as Auditor, DeNucci served 10 years in the State House of Representatives, including six years as House Chairman of the Joint Committee on Human Services and Elderly Affairs, passing laws to fight child abuse and neglect, establishing a foster care review system, providing better nutrition for children, combating homelessness and preventing abuse of the elderly.
He currently serves as chairman of both the State Inspector General's council and the Municipal Finance Oversight Board. He is the vice chairman of the Public Employee Retirement Administration Commission. He also serves as a member of the Massachusetts Teacher's Retirement Board, the School Building Assistance Advisory Board, Health Care Quality and Cost Council, the Witness Protection Board, the County Government Finance Review Board, and the Comptroller's Advisory Board. Before entering public life, DeNucci was a professional boxer, ranking among the world's top middleweights.
DeNucci joins a host of Massachusetts leaders already endorsing Clinton, including Boston Mayor Tom Menino, Congressmen Jim McGovern and Richard Neal, Suffolk County Sheriff Andrea Cabral and Boston City Council President Maureen Feeney.
  