
    
  "Electrified An Eager Crowd" ... "A Sweeping Broadside" ... "Romney Pledges To Lead"

National Journal: "A Sweeping Broadside Against Obama's Economic Policies..." "In a sweeping broadside against Obama's economic policies, Romney told delegates in Tampa that the president's promises 'gave way to disappointment and division;' that families and businesses expected to be doing better by now; college graduates 'thought they'd have a good job by now, a place of their own ...' and the nation expected by now to be 'paying down the national debt and rolling back those massive deficits.'" (National Journal, 8/30/12)
The Hill: "The Speech Electrified An Eager Crowd..." "The speech electrified an eager crowd of delegates packed into the Tampa Forum, who rose repeatedly to their feet to cheer and applaud the GOP nominee while waving signs that exclaimed 'Mitt!' and 'Believe!'" (The Hill, 8/30/12)

The Hill: "Romney: What America Needs Is Jobs, Not Hope And Change" (The Hill, 8/30/12)

The Washington Post: "Where Obama Lacked Business Experience, Romney Has It In Spades..." "Romney's best moment (to our mind) was when he talked wistfully (and emotionally) about missing the joys of raising kids — a genuinely human moment that almost anyone, no matter their party registration, could relate to. Romney also did well in casting himself as the anti-Obama. Where Obama lacked business experience, Romney has it in spades. Where Obama made sweeping promises, Romney made simple ones. (The most quoted line of the speech will almost certainly be this one: 'President Obama promised to begin to slow the rise of the oceans and heal the planet. My promise...is to help you and your family.')" (The Washington Post, 8/30/12)
Politico: "Threw Down The Gauntlet Against President Barack Obama." "Mitt Romney accepted the Republican nomination for president with a speech on Thursday night that not only laid out his personal history and his ticket's policies, but threw down the gauntlet against President Barack Obama." (Politico, 8/30/12)
Miami Herald's Marc Caputo: "Romney Is Killing It. Strong Speech. Crowd Can't Get Enough."(Twitter.com, 8/30/12)
USA Today: "Romney Vows To Put His Soul Into Restoring America"(USA Today, 8/30/12)
NBC News: "Romney Accepts Nomination, Projects Forward-Looking Vision For Nation" (NBC News, 8/30/12)
Reuters: "Romney Makes Appeal To Americans Disillusioned With Obama"(Reuters, 8/30/12)
Fox News: "Romney Pledges To Lead, After 'Disappointment And Division' Under Obama" (Fox News, 8/30/12)
The Washington Times: "Romney: Election About Jobs, Obama Failures; Promises To Help Families" (The Washington Times, 8/30/12)
  