
    Pool Reports by Adam Cancryn, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




August 26, 202312:15 EDT

Pool report #1 — Call and arrival time moved up
Hi all,
I'll be your print pooler today for the president's arrival back in DC, which has been moved up q couple hours.
The pool call time is now 5:30 pm, with POTUS scheduled to land on the South Lawn at 7:25pm.



August 26, 202317:51 EDT

In-town pool report #2 — Gather time
Good early evening -- pool is currently scheduled to gather at 7:15pm for POTUS' arrival on the South Lawn.



August 26, 202319:24 EDT

In-town pool report #3 — Gathering
Pool is gathering now for POTUS' arrival back at the White House



August 26, 202319:35 EDT

In-town pool report #4 — Arrival and no comments
POTUS landed on the South Lawn at 7:30 pm. He exited Marine One at 7:32 accompanied by the First Lady. He was wearing aviators, a dark blue blazer, blue pants and a light blue shirt.
POTUS briefly acknowledged the pool but did not come over, or respond to shouted questions, including about the shooting in Jacksonville. POTUS and the First Lady entered the White House at 7:34pm.



August 26, 202319:37 EDT

In-town pool report #5 — Biden briefed on Jacksonville
The WH passes along this on the Jacksonville shooting:
The President was briefed on the Jacksonville shooting. He also received updates on other shootings over the last 24 hours across the nation.



August 26, 202319:42 EDT

In-town pool report #6 — Lid
We've got a lid at 7:41pm. Have a good night all




 
Pool Reports below by Meryl Kornfield, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




August 26, 202311:00 PDT

Out of town pool report #1- rolling
Good morning all,
It's another sunny, pleasant day in Lake Tahoe. Pool joined the motorcade at 10:56 p.m. outside of the gated Glenbrook community where the president has stayed for his weeklong vacation on the Nevada side. He's expected to return to Washington tonight (as the in-town pooler noted, that will be earlier than previously planned). We're rolling to the Reno-Tahoe International Airport.
The White House sent along this list of travelers:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior AdvisorMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomJordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady



August 26, 202312:03 PDT

Out of town pool report #2 - airport
After an uneventful ride, the motorcade arrived at the Reno-Tahoe International Airport at 11:50 a.m. Along the way, we passed onlookers with their phones out, forested mountain slopes and at least one sign that warned of a "high" wildfire danger. As we drove by where traffic was at a standstill in Carson City, your pooler saw several people gesturing with their middle fingers, while others waved.
The president and first lady, as well as members of the Biden family who were unidentifiable to the pool, boarded Air Force 1 via the small staircase at 11:51 a.m. POTUS was already ascending the staircase as the pool staged under the wing. At noon, we're about to be wheels up.
Traveling with the President and First Lady aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior AdvisorMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomJordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady



August 26, 202319:25 EDT

Out of town pool report #3 - landed
Air Force 1 landed at JBA at 6:59 p.m. after an uneventful ride. There were no visitors to the press section of the plane, and the televisions played Saturday football.
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off AF1 at 7:13 p.m., taking the shorter staircase. It was difficult to shout any questions over the loud rumble of the AF1 and Marine One engines.
Ashley Biden, Naomi Biden, Peter Neal and Maisy Biden were among family members who descended from the plane after them. Naomi was walking a small dog.
At 7:15, POTUS and FLOTUS boarded Marine One, and it lifted at 7:19 p.m.
According to the White House: Traveling with the President and First Lady aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyJordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
I'm now handing off to my in-town-pool colleague Adam Cancryn.
Thanks to my WHCA colleague Erica Green for her help with pooling today.
Enjoy your weekend.




  