
    After Biden spent eight years coddling terrorists, President Trump brought them to justice.
Last night, Joe Biden accused President Trump of "coddling terrorists." It's an absurd, false claim without any basis in reality. It's also hypocritical: Biden spent eight years coddling terrorists as vice president. Biden allowed ISIS to run rampant, opposed the raid to get Osama bin Laden, and funded Iran's efforts to fuel terrorism and destabilize the Middle East. And when President Trump eliminated Iran's top terrorist, Biden and Phony Kamala Harris opposed the decision.
Iranian terrorist Qasem Soleimani was responsible for the deaths of hundreds of American soldiers in Iraq and actively plotted attacks on Americans. Soleimani should have been terminated long ago, yet Biden did nothing about Soleimani's reign of terror. Quite the opposite – Biden coddled the regime by delivering pallets of cash to Iran as part of a terrible deal that would have allowed them to attain nuclear weapons. When President Trump took action in January to bring Soleimani to justice and end his plotting against Americans,Biden and Harris opposed it, whining and shamelessly politicizing the death of a dangerous terrorist with the blood of American troops on his hands.
While ISIS flourished during Biden's time as vice president, President Trump destroyed the ISIS caliphate and brought its evil leader al-Baghdadi to justice.
Biden even opposed to raid to get Osama bin laden, and then lied about it.
Biden has been wrong about nearly every major foreign policy issue of the past four decades, according to former Obama-Biden Secretary of Defense Robert Gates. If Biden had his way, ISIS would still be inflicting death and destruction in the Middle East and the terrorist Soleimani would still be plotting attacks on Americans. Biden warned that holding Soleimani accountable was an "escalatory move" that put America "on the brink of a major conflict across the Middle East." None – not a single one – of Biden's predictions came true.
President Trump is cleaning up Joe Biden's messes and will not hesitate to keep Americans safe at home and abroad. No one should take lectures about coddling terrorists from serial failure Joe Biden.
  