
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate Cynthia L. Quarterman to become the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation.
President Obama also announced that he will designate Mary Lucille Jordan, currently serving as a Commissioner on the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, as Chair of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.
President Obama said, "I am grateful these talented and dedicated individuals have chosen to serve in my administration. I look forward to working with them to strengthen safety and preparedness in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual today:
Cynthia L. Quarterman, Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
Cynthia L. Quarterman is a partner in the Washington, DC office of the law firm Steptoe & Johnson LLP, where she has a regulatory and litigation practice in the areas of transportation and natural resources. She has more than 20 years of experience in the transportation of hazardous materials by pipeline. Quarterman served as a past Director of the Minerals Management Service at the Department of the Interior, which oversees the leasing, exploration and resource development on the Nation's outer continental shelf, including the transportation of hazardous materials by pipeline. Quarterman earned a Juris Doctorate degree from Columbia University's School of Law and a Bachelors of Science in Industrial Engineering degree from Northwestern University.
President Obama also made the following announcement today:
Mary Lucille Jordan, Chair, Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
Mary Lucille Jordan previously served as Chair of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission from 1994 until 2001. She then served as a Commissioner until 2002, and again from 2003 until the present. Previously, Ms. Jordan was senior staff attorney for the United Mine Workers of America from 1977 to 1994. In that capacity, she was responsible for directing litigation under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, and advised the United Mine Workers of America of relevant changes in legislation and case law. Ms. Jordan earned her B.A. from St. Bonaventure University in New York in 1971 and a J.D. from Antioch School of Law in Washington, D.C. in 1976.
  