
    "We are losing confidence in the institutions of power in this country because there are two standards, one for the elite and one for the rest of us" – Tim Scott
CHARLESTON, SC –  This morning, Tim Scott joined FOX News' Cavuto Live to discuss Merrick Garland's appointment of a special counsel to the Hunter Biden probe.
Watch the full interview here
Tim ScottCavuto LiveAugust 12, 2023
Charles Payne: Let's get reaction to Attorney General Garland's appointment of special counsel to the Hunter Biden probe from GOP 2024 candidate Tim Scott. Senator Scott, thanks so much. So I read your post on Twitter where you say "he can't be trusted and this decision raises further questions about the independence of Biden's DOJ."
Sen Scott: Well, Charles, what we know for sure is that David Weiss cannot be trusted. Kid Gloves is the treatment that Hunter Biden has received from this Department of Justice. Appointing David as the special counsel is like keeping the concept of the DOJ protecting Democrats while hunting Republicans. I can't think of a more forceful sign that nothing has changed and that's bad for America. It's bad for justice and frankly, it's bad for everyday Americans who ask the question, "can I trust the DOJ?" The answer is emphatically no. We have to fire Joe Biden so that I, as the next president, will fire Merrick Garland and restore confidence and integrity to the Department of Justice.
Charles Payne: You know, it's as if well, we know for a fact that the pendulum in public opinion has swung. Right? Not long ago a lot of folks in the mainstream media blew us off. You know? Right wing conspiracy. Now they are admitting something is there, right? There's smoke there, there's fire there. And maybe this was done to head off the fact that the House has been so successful in changing the narrative. The question for you though swirling around is, is there enough out there now for a probe, not an impeachment of President Biden, but for at least an official probe into his role in this?
Sen Scott: The answer is yes. The cookie crumbs lead right back to the Biden family, not just to Hunter Biden. We need to gather all the facts, all the information so that justice can be served before the American people. The one thing I have confidence in is Kevin McCarthy and the House's ability to do their job and to bring all that information that's been hidden since as early as 2019 to light. That's what the American people want to see is the truth. We are losing confidence in the institutions of power in this country because there are two standards, one for the elite and one for the rest of us. That won't hold. We cannot allow that to happen. Thank God for a House Majority in the hands of the Republican party that are looking forward to presenting the truth. Not a biased approach, but just as simple facts so the American people can make their own decision and come to the same conclusions that the rest of everyday Americans are coming to. Your justice system cannot last.
  