
    Five Grand Strand women leaders announced today their support of U.S. Senator Hillary Clinton to be the next President, praising Clinton's leadership and experience as the best choice for South Carolina and specifically the Grand Strand region.
"My support of Hilary Clinton is based upon her experience, ability and vision. Senator Clinton's dedication to women, children, and families is unparalleled and her commitment to restore America's standing in foreign policy and improve upon domestic programs is exactly what our country needs at this time," Sarah McCollum, president of the Horry County Democratic Women's Club said.
Grand Strand Women for Hillary had its first organizational meeting July 24 with approximately 50 women in attendance. The meeting was led by National Campaign Advisor Ann Lewis. The group has since been preparing to organize across the Grand Strand region to turn out the vote in the Democratic Primary for Hillary Clinton.
"We're going to get to work. Over the next six months, we're going to be spreading the message from person-to-person that Hillary Clinton is the right choice for our country and she's the right choice for the Grand Strand region and our state because her time in the White House and in the Senate have given her the tools to immediately go to work on the problems we face," Grand Strand business leader and President of Wordsmith Incorporated Public Strategies Mary Eaddy said.
Women from the Grand Strand region joining the Clinton campaign today include McCollum, Eaddy, former Horry County Democratic Party Chair and two-term former City Council member Mary Jeffcoat, Grand Strand area hotel and hospitality entrepreneur Dorothy Anderson, and social activist Mary Riley.
"Hillary has visited over 82 countries worldwide, and spent over 30 years working on policies to help families, women and children," Jeffcoat said. "She can effectively restore America's respect in the world and get our allies to work with us."
The Hillary campaign's South Carolina state co-chair, Aiken Councilwoman Lessie Price, said the experience and leadership amassed amongst the Grand Strand group is key to the campaign.
"This is a significant momentum builder for the Hillary campaign in the Grand Strand region, and part of a long-term effort by the campaign," Price said. "This group includes industry leaders, entrepreneurs, civic leaders and party leadership all getting behind Hillary, bringing their own unique talents and leadership to the campaign."
  