
    Chicago, IL- "Generation Obama," or "GO," is the Obama campaign's newest organizing drive for channeling the energy and excitement of the youth generation into organized efforts to change America. GO chapters are local grassroots groups formed, run and maintained by supporters that will hold events every month. This network of young supporters, directly plugged into the campaign, will host creative low-dollar fundraising events, organize volunteers in early states, conduct voter registration drives, and help turn out the vote.
"This campaign has truly brought out a new generation of young people who are eager for change," said campaign manager David Plouffe. "Obama's youth support is thriving and Generation Obama will help turn interest and support into organizing action. GO chapters are a clear indication that Senator Obama has created a nationwide movement for change.
Throughout the campaign Barack Obama has enjoyed unprecedented nationwide grassroots support and GO is the next step in driving young people to play an active role with the campaign. The GO chapters will design their own organizing events in order to most effectively reach their communities. Future events could include basketball tournament or bowling outing fundraisers, community service events or house parties centered around discussion of issues important to their communities. The chapters will be able to connect and share event ideas with chapters across the country through the GO website at: http://my.barackobama.com/page/content/gohomepage
Senator Barack Obama will host the Generation Obama launch event in Miami this Saturday. Twenty other GO chapters will launch their groups simultaneously with events in cities and towns across the country. Senator Obama will speak to young supporters at Mansion in South Beach on Saturday where he will discuss not only the importance of involving young voters in the political process, but the need for Generation Obama to act in their communities.
The following cities are some of the GO chapters launching this weekend
Miami, FL
Chicago, IL
Los Angeles, CA
Huntsville, AL
St. Louis, MO
San Francisco, CA
Salt Lake City, UT
And more...
  