
    "We're delivering results for Iowa — and we're just getting started."
The evidence is clear: America is back
By Vice President Mike Pence
The Des Moines Register
August 14, 2018
...
We're delivering results for Iowa — and we're just getting started.
Just look at the economy. Since our election, job creators across America have added nearly 4 million new jobs. This includes more than 17,000 jobs in Iowa, and the state's unemployment rate is tied for the third-lowest in the nation.
We've also reached record-low unemployment for Hispanic-Americans, African-Americans, and Asian-Americans, and confidence is soaring for consumers and small businesses. American manufacturers have never been this confident.
And after years of slow growth and stagnant wages under the last administration, under this president, the American economy is on track to grow at its fastest pace in nearly 15 years. This means more jobs and higher wages for Iowa's working families.
The evidence is clear: America is back.
...
We've also unleashed American energy. We approved the Keystone and Dakota Pipelines. We're rolling back the Clean Power Plan and the Waters of the United States rule. And we've withdrawn America from the job-killing Paris Climate Accord.
We're standing up to predatory trade practices from countries like China, and we're fighting for free, fair, and reciprocal trade deals that will benefit Iowa farms and families. We're making significant progress on improving the North American Free-Trade Agreement, and we've already reached historic deals to send American pork to Argentina, American wheat and corn to Vietnam, and American beef to China and Australia. The European Union has also agreed to buy more American soybeans.
Working with Iowa's leaders in Congress, President Trump is also fighting for a multi-year farm bill that will provide rural America and all of our farmers the long-term certainty they need to prosper and thrive.
And last December, thanks to the strong support of every Iowa Republican in Congress, President Trump signed into law the largest tax cuts and reform in American history.
....
Read the full op-ed here.
  