
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 16
The President declared a major disaster for the State of West Virginia as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning on or about August 4, which caused extensive property damage.
August 18
The President transmitted to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the House Committee on the Judiciary his report on administration actions relating to Billy Carter's activities with the Libyan Government.
August 19
The President declared a major disaster for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning on or about August 14, which caused extensive property damage.
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
August 20
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the President.
August 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Swiss Ambassador to the United States Raymond Probst.
The White House announced that the President will meet President Ziaur Rahman of Bangladesh in Washington on August 27. The President of Bangladesh will be in the United States to address the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Global Economic Issues.
August 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Mr. Watson, and Dr. Brzezinski.
In an Oval Office ceremony, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Don Carmelo Nvono Nca Menene Oluy of Equatorial Guinea, Abdelkader Braik al-Ameri of Qatar, Prok Amaranand of Thailand, Juan Jose Amado of Panama, Aboubacar Bokoko of the Gabonese Republic, and Jose Luis Fernandes Lopes of Cape Verde.
  