
    "Bold Leadership" ... "Big Ideas" ... "Real Change" ... "Blockbuster Selection"
The Washington Post: "An Influential Player ... A Welcome Addition To The 2012 Race." "That has made Mr. Ryan an influential player in the Washington debate and makes him a welcome addition to the 2012 race. The 42-year-old Mr. Ryan has been something of a one-man idea factory..."(Editorial, "A Bold And Stark Choice," The Washington Post, 8/11/12)
·         The Washington Post Headline: "A Bold And Stark Choice" (The Washington Post, 8/11/12)
USA Today: "By Picking A Running Mate Who Has Demonstrated Bold Leadership And Produced Big Ideas, Romney Enhanced The Chances That The Fall Campaign Will Be About Tough Choices And Contrasting Visions..."  "By picking a running mate who has demonstrated bold leadership and produced big ideas, Romney enhanced the chances that the fall campaign will be about tough choices and contrasting visions, not just attack ads and half-truths, and that's something the country sorely needs." (Editorial, "Romney-Ryan A Bold Ticket," USA Today, 8/11/12)
·         USA Today Headline: "Romney-Ryan A Bold Ticket" (USA Today, 8/11/12)
Chicago Tribune: "With A Choice Bold Rather Than Safe, Mitt Romney Is Chiding His Fellow Americans — Politicians Included — To Get Serious." (Editorial, "What Paul Ryan Delivers," Chicago Tribune, 8/12/12)
·         "In Ryan, Romney Has A Running Mate Who, With His Gravitas And His 14 Years In Congress, Could Step In As President." (Editorial, "What Paul Ryan Delivers," Chicago Tribune, 8/12/12)
The Wall Street Journal: "Made It More Likely That The Election Debate Will Be As Substantial As America's Current Problems." "When these columns asked last week 'Why Not Paul Ryan?', we had no idea that Mitt Romney would choose the Wisconsin Congressman as his running mate. ... Mr. Romney has embraced the GOP's reform wing and made it more likely that the election debate will be as substantial as America's current problems."(Editorial, "The Ryan Choice," The Wall Street Journal, 8/11/12)
·         "As Mr. Romney's First Presidential-Level Decision, The Selection Speaks Well Of His Governing Potential." (Editorial, "The Ryan Choice,"The Wall Street Journal, 8/11/12)
Detroit News: "Ryan Is Arguably The Foremost Budget Expert In Congress." "Ryan is arguably the foremost budget expert in Congress. He wrote the Republican budget, which includes true reform of Social Security and Medicare. He was the most articulate challenger of Obamacare." (Editorial, "Ryan On Ticket Will Pivot Campaign," Detroit News, 8/12/12)
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review: "Serious Times Require Serious People Who Have Not Only The Courage To Formulate Serious Solutions But The Skill To Simply Enunciate Them." "Serious times require serious people who have not only the courage to formulate serious solutions but the skill to simply enunciate them. Thus, it's pretty clear why presumptive Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney chose Paul Ryan to be his running mate." (Editorial, "Romney-Ryan: A Solid Ticket," Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, 8/11/12)
·         Pittsburgh Tribune-Review Headline: "Romney-Ryan: A Solid Ticket" (Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, 8/11/12)
New York Post: "Blockbuster Selection..." "Americans are desperate for a serious, intelligent, down-to-bedrock debate on the economy — and on the nation's future. With Mitt Romney's blockbuster selection yesterday of Paul Ryan as his running mate, they're now sure to get one." (Editorial, "The Ryan Blockbuster," New York Post, 8/12/12)
Boston Herald: "Romney's Choice Of Paul Ryan For The GOP Ticket Means He Is Serious About Real Change — And The Real Hope That Comes With It." (Editorial, "Romney's Bold Choice," Boston Herald, 8/12/12)
 
·         Boston Herald Headline: "Romney's Bold Choice" (Boston Herald, 8/12/12)
San Diego Union-Tribune: "A Welcome Decision That Cast November's Election In A Stark, Clarifying Fashion." "Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney's selection of Wisconsin Rep. Paul Ryan as his running mate is a welcome decision that cast November's election in a stark, clarifying fashion." (Editorial: "Ryan choice underlines GOP Contrast With Obama-Biden," San Diego Union-Tribune, 8/11/12)
The Washington Examiner: "The Choice Of Ryan Reinforces Romney's Reputation As A Practical Businessman Who Is Less Concerned With Claiming Accolades And Credit Than He Is With Getting Results." "In addition to framing the election with the right issues, pleasing the conservative base, and putting a key swing state in play, the choice of Ryan reinforces Romney's reputation as a practical businessman who is less concerned with claiming accolades and credit than he is with getting results." (Editorial, "In Ryan, Romney Makes A Solid Choice," The Washington Examiner, 8/12/12)
  