
    President Bush to Appoint Nine and Designate One to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint nine individuals and designate one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to appoint Dee Hansen to be United States Commissioner and Chairman of the Bear River Commission for Idaho, Utah, and Wyoming. Mr. Hansen is currently the Director of Water and Natural Resources at Psomas and Associates in Salt Lake City. He has a BS degree from Utah State University, where he also did post graduate work and was the Distinguished Alumnus of 1980 from the College of Engineering.
The President intends to designate W. Scott Railton to be Chairman of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. He is currently a member of the commission, having previously been a partner with Reed Smith LLP since 1977. Prior to joining Reed Smith, Railton was Chief Counsel for the U.S. Occupational Safety & Health Review Commission. Mr. Railton has a JD degree from George Washington University, and a BSEE degree from the University of Washington.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Community Development Advisory Board:
William Bynum of Mississippi, to be Community Development Financial Institution Representative, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring November 27, 2003.
Robert Gauthier of Montana, to be Native American Tribal Development Representative, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring November 27, 2003.
Richard Jaramillo of Texas, to be Insured Depository Institution Representative, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring November 27, 2003.
Mark Pinsky of Pennsylvania, to be Community Development Financial Institution Representative, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring October 16, 2003.
John Rigler, II of Iowa, to be Insured Depository Institution Representative, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring October 16, 2003.
Debra Schwartz of Illinois, to be Consumer/Public Interest Organization Representative, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring October 16, 2003.
Carolyn Williams of Florida, to be Community Development Representative, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring October 16, 2003.
Pablo Wong of California, to be Consumer/Public Interest Representative, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring October 27, 2003.
  