
    CNBC's "Kudlow & Company"
August 28, 2007
Governor Romney: "You know, I think it will always be considered a plus to have somebody who is President of the United States who understands how the economy works. We're in a global competitive race with nations around the world to make sure that we have good jobs here and that we're the nation of growth and vitality. And frankly, we've got three people on the Democratic side who are all running for president, not one of whom has ever had any experience really leading or managing. And, you know, the government of the United States is the largest enterprise in the world with millions of employees, trillions of dollars of revenue - these guys have never run a corner store let alone run an enterprise. And it would be helpful, in this country, particularly as we face the competitive array that we do, to have somebody that understands how jobs are created, why businesses decide to locate where they do, why they leave. And that's something I certainly understand."
CNBC's Larry Kudlow: "Have you come out on the proposals coming out of the Democratic Congress to raise taxes on hedge funds, private equity funds, venture capital funds and so forth?"
Governor Romney: "Yeah, I don't think it's a good idea to raise taxes. My view is make the Bush taxes permanent, kill the death tax once and for all. I also have a special savings rate for middle-income and modest-income individuals on their savings, which would be for interest, dividends and capital gains - that tax rate is zero. I want people to be able to save their money and invest in America's economy tax-free. So my policies are just the opposite of the Democrats. I want to lower taxes. I want to lower marginal rates across the board. I want to lower taxes for corporations - we're high relative to our competition around the world. We want to create jobs, the best thing we can do for the economic vitality of our citizens is to make sure that we have vibrant and thriving employers. And taxing them such that they go to other nations is not the right way to go."
Kudlow: "Well, it doesn't get much clearer than that actually."
To watch Governor Romney discuss his pro-growth policies, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QjS6jZcMap0
  