
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 27
In the morning, the President participated in a conference call concerning the bombing in Centennial Olympic Park, Atlanta, GA, with Director Louis J. Freeh and Special Agent in Charge Woody Johnson, Federal Bureau of Investigation; Attorney General Janet Reno; and Deputy Attorney General Jamie S. Gorelick. He then participated in a second conference call with Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia; Mayor Bill Campbell of Atlanta; William P. Payne, president, Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games; and Juan Antonio Samaranch, president, International Olympic Committee. Later, he had telephone conversations on the bombing with House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senate minority leader Thomas A. Daschle.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
July 28
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Andrews Air Force Base, MD. The President then traveled to New Orleans, LA.
In the afternoon, the President met with the families of slain New Orleans police officers. Later, he attended a private political reception at the New Orleans Riverside Hilton Hotel. He then returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening.
July 29
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Denis Antoine of Grenada; Lionel Alexander Hurst of Antigua and Barbuda; Mohammed Aly Thiam of Guinea; Marcos Namashulua of Mozambique; Ramtane Lamamra of Algeria; Bilal Ould Werzeg of Mauritania; Chitmansing Jesseramsing of Mauritius; Tom Eric Vraalsen of Norway; Chan Heng Chee of Singapore; Arlington Griffith Butler of the Bahamas; and Alhaji Hassan Adamu of Nigeria.
In the evening, the President attended Democratic National Committee dinners at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel and the Jefferson Hotel.
July 30
In the afternoon, the President had a working lunch with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt in the Old Family Dining Room.
In the evening, the President attended a reception for Arkansas Attorney General Winston Bryant, Democratic senatorial candidate for the U.S. Senate, at the Hay Adams Hotel. He then attended Democratic National Committee dinners at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel and the Jefferson Hotel.
July 31
The President announced his intention to appoint Doris Eggers Huseboe and Ann McKay Thompson to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The White House announced that the President invited President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia to a working visit in Washington, DC, on August 2.
The President authorized an increase in Federal funding to the U.S. Virgin Islands for disaster recovery costs incurred from Hurricane Bertha, July 8-9.
August 1
The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur I. Blaustein to the National Council on the Humanities.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ida L. Castro to be the Director of the Women's Bureau at the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donna H. Cunninghame to be Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate Regina Keeney to serve on the Federal Communications Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rose M. Ochi to be Director of the Community Relations Service at the Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin L. Thurm as Deputy Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services.
In the evening, the President attended Democratic National Committee dinners at the Jefferson Hotel and the Sheraton Carlton Hotel.
August 2
In the morning, the President met with President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ernestine P. Watlington to the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mary K. Gaillard, Eamon M. Kelly, and Richard A. Tapia to be members of the National Science Board.
The President declared a major disaster in Wisconsin and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by tornadoes, severe storms, and flooding July 17-22.
  