
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today that former U.S. Representative Scott Klug and former state Senator Cathy Stepp will serve as co-chairs of the Mayor's campaign in Wisconsin.
They will join former U.S. Senator Robert Kasten in leading Mayor Giuliani's campaign efforts in Wisconsin.
"These two additions to the Mayor's campaign team show the strength of support for Rudy Giuliani in Wisconsin," Kasten said.
"Mayor Giuliani has shown the kind of strong leadership that the people of Wisconsin want in their next president — not just on 9/11 and the days following, but over eight years as the Mayor of New York who reduced taxes, cut crime rates, and strengthened the city's economy," Klug said. "President of the United States is not a learn-as-you-go position, and Mayor Giuliani has the most public executive leadership experience of anyone running."
Stepp added: "I am eager to help promote Mayor Giuliani's 12 Commitments to the American People, which include keeping us on offense in the Terrorists' War on Us, cutting taxes, giving us more control over our health care, and protecting the quality of life for our children. Mayor Giuliani is the only Republican who can compete in all 50 states in the general election."
The campaign announced earlier this month that Kasten would serve as state chairman. Kasten also serves as a senior member of the campaign's Foreign Policy Advisory Board.
About The Wisconsin State Co-Chairs:
Cathy Stepp
Stepp, a former state senator who represented Wisconsin's 21st Senate District in the state Legislature from 2003 through 2006, is currently treasurer of the Republican Party of Wisconsin. She is a homebuilder and lifelong Wisconsinite who was born in Kenosha and currently lives in Sturtevant.
Scott Klug
Klug served for 8 years in the U.S. House of Representatives representing Wisconsin's 2nd Congressional District (1990-1998). Prior to being elected, he spent 14 years as a television broadcast journalist. Klug, who lives in Madison, currently is a managing director for public affairs at the law firm Foley and Lardner. He also is CEO and founder of Trails Media Group, a regional publisher of books and magazines. He was twice appointed by President George W. Bush to the President's Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
  