
    Ron DeSantis joined Jack Heath on Good Morning New Hampshire. The highlights are below.
Listen to the full interview HERE.
On campaigning the Granite State:
If you want to know how politics works, just look at, who is the one that people are going after. And I'm basically the one that the current president is going after, the Vice President is going after, the former president is going after, and all these other Republicans are going after. So I think that's an indication that people understand that we have the ability to beat Joe Biden and bring all these important things to fruition. And New Hampshire, you know, this is something--you got to be in these communities. We did a four-day swing at the end of July, beginning of August. We were doing house parties, we did a town hall on WMUR, I spoke at a rotary club. You got to do that over and over over the next six months. And I'm committed to doing that. We're going to work hard. I want to get in front of as many New Hampshire voters as I can. And what we've found is when people get to see me, they say, 'oh, man, you know, you're really good. You're nothing like what the media says about you.' And so that shows that we have to. We got a lot of work to do, but we are going to be successful. And I look forward to continuing to do it. And you know, the thing about it, when you're in a place like New Hampshire, you hear what the national corporate media always obsesses and wants to talk about, and it's like you're in another world when you're talking to just normal New Hampshire voters. Because they're actually concerned about the issues that affect this country's future. And those are their concerns, and they want to hear how you're going to address all these great challenges that our country has. And so I really enjoyed going. We're going to do more in August, of course, as you said, but I think after Labor Day, I think you're gonna start to see a lot of the voters in New Hampshire start to key in on the race a little bit more.
On the upcoming debate:
I think the most important thing is, is deliver the message that our country is in decline across a variety of fronts, including the economy, military, and our culture. And the reason I'm running for president is to reverse this decline and get this country on a better path going forward. And that's autonomy, border, energy, national security, all these things that I'm sure we'll talk about in the debate. But part of the reason people know that I'm the guy that can beat Biden, and that can actually get this done, is because I did it in Florida. Most people that run for office over-promise and under-deliver. I made bold commitments to the people. And I actually not only met the commitments, I over-delivered on my promises, and have been able to win a landslide victory in a state that's been very competitive. So that's a formula that we can take nationally. And Republicans need to win again, we've developed a culture of losing in this party. We can turn it around, but the time for excuses is over. We're either going to get it done in 2024, or we're going to have a lot of problems in this country over the next four years.
On his plan to secure the border:
Open border does not work. We know that. Even New York City mayor is acknowledging you can't be a sanctuary jurisdiction. The fact that she's doing the state of emergency in Massachusetts shows this doesn't work. So let's shut this border down. Stop the invasion. Yes, I'm going to build the border wall, but I'm going to have the military at the border, and I'm going to go after these Mexican drug cartels. They're bringing fentanyl in. I met a lady down in Texas, her son died from a fentanyl overdose, and then another lady in Florida who was sexually assaulted by a criminal alien who came in over the border under Joe Biden, so this has got to stop. So we're going to have military on the border. If a cartel member has fentanyl or something and they're trying to break into our country, we're using deadly force. They're going to end up stone cold dead. And you know what, if they see that kind of push back, the cartels are going to think twice before they take advantage of our country going forward. But what's happened has been humiliating for our country. You talk about a country that's on the downswing, when we cede control of our borders to Mexican drug cartels, that is pathetic. And that stops with the day I become president.
  