
    Pool Reports by Meridith McGraw, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




August 6, 202012:19

WH Travel #1 - POTUS arrives at JBA
Good afternoon from Joint Base Andrews where President Trump has just arrived on Marine One.
At one point while we were waiting on the tarmac, Thunderbirds flew overhead. Meanwhile Peter Navarro was spotted standing at the top of AF1 stairs chatting with aides and watching for Marine One.
I'll be your pooler for this long weekend to Ohio and then to New Jersey and New York, too. For the aviation geeks, we are taking the smaller plane this weekend. With that comes the usual reminder that cell service isn't the best aboard this plane.
Please reach out with any questions this weekend and I'll do my best to get them answered. Thanks!


August 6, 202012:28

WH Travel #2- On the plane
President Trump exited Marine One and then walked over to the press.
"I think we're doing great in Ohio" he said when asked if he was going to the state because he was losing ground there.
"Probably tomorrow afternoon" for the executive order, or the next morning, he said, noting that a legislative deal was still possible.
We have 3 or 4 choices for the convention speech, and will be making an announcement soon, he said. One of them is the White House.
H/T Toluse for help with quotes!
McEnany, McEntee, Scavino, Kushner and Miller boarded M1 after Trump


 August 6, 2020 13:38

 WH Travel #3 - Arrived in Cleveland for speech at airport 
Hello from the Buckeye State. At 1:20p we touched down in Cleveland at Burke Lakefront Airport on Lake Erie. President Trump is expected to make remarks on "Economic Prosperity" here shortly at the airport shortly, where a sizable crowd has gathered. Almost all are wearing masks, and a few are wearing red MAGA hats.
A podium with the presidential seal has been set up in front of Marine One, and a playlist with rally-like tunes like "Billy Jean" blasted from the speakers.
The pool has seen the statement from Gov. DeWine's office that he tested positive for coronavirus. DeWine was expected to meet Trump on the tarmac here, but his name is no longer included on the list below from the WH.
Also on AF1 with POTUS (wasnt seen getting on the plane earlier) was Ronna McDaniel.
>From the WH:The President is met by:
Lieutenant Governor Jon Husted (Tarmac)Lieutenant Governor of Ohio
State Speaker Bob Cupp (Tarmac)Speaker of the Ohio House of Representatives and State Representative from Ohio's 4th State House District
Christina Hagan (Tarmac)Candidate for United States Representative from Ohio's 13th Congressional District
Chairwoman Lisa Stickan (Tarmac)Chairwoman of the Cayahoga County Republican Party
Bob Paduchik (Air Force One)Senior Advisor for Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. 


August 6, 202013:54

WH Travel #4 - Remarks at airport 
President Trump gave rally-like remarks from a podium in front of Marine One that focused on the economy and Joe Biden.
Trump said he is doing better than the last election in Ohio according to his former state director Bob Paduchik.
The president addressed DeWine's positive Covid test:
"A very good friend of mine just tested positive...we want to wish him the best. He'll be fine," Trump said.
Trump said he looked forward to seeing the governor but was informed he tested positive.
With cheers from the group of supporters, Trump came out swinging against Joe Biden and the "radical left."
"He's not all there," Trump said.
Reading from prepared remarks, the President criticized Biden's record in office. "During Joe Biden's decades in office he's done nothing...and I wouldn't say he's at the top of his game."
"Biden's policies our China first and America last," Trump said. He then predicted a crash in the markets because he is "following the radical left agenda...hurt the Bible, hurt everything. He's against God...guns."
"We're going to win bigger in Ohio now than years ago," Trump predicted.
Then with cheers from the crowd Trump boarded Marine One for Clyde


 August 6, 2020 14:38

 WH Travel #5 - Arrived in Clyde, now off to Whirlpool 
President Trump touched down in Clyde at 2:30p on Marine One and we are now motorcading to the Whirlpool factory just a few minutes away.
The pool traveled ahead of the President by Osprey and had a beautiful view of northern Ohio and Lake Erie on our quick trip.
While at Whirlpool, Trump will take a tour of the plant and will be signing an executive order requiring the federal government to purchase certain medications and equipment from US manufacturers. Background from the WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will travel to Ohio to tour Whirlpool Corporation Manufacturing Plant and sign an Executive Order on Combating Public Health Emergencies and Strengthening National Security by Ensuring Essential Medicines, Medical Countermeasures, and Critical Inputs Are Made In the United States.
During a time when Americans are fearing for their health and suffering financially due to the effects of the China Virus, President Trump is taking bold action. Today's Executive Order will expand Made in America manufacturing, bring blue-collar jobs back to the United States, and ensure Americans have critical access to the medicines they need.
The following individuals are expected to attend: 
 The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
Trump AdministrationEugene Scalia, Secretary of the Department of Labor
Members of Congress Jim Jordan, United States Representative from Ohio's 4th Congressional District
State and Local Officials Jon Husted, Lieutenant Governor of Ohio
External Participants Marc Bitzer, Chief Executive Officer, Whirlpool CorporationDan O'Brien, Vice President of Operation at Whirlpool CorporationJim Keppler, Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain and Quality, Whirlpool Corporation 


August 6, 202014:57

WH Travel #6- Drive to Whirlpool factory
At 2:52p we arrived at the Whirlpool factory.
The motorcade moved slowly along our route so supporters could wave and cheer on the president.
Hundreds stood along the side of the road and along green fields of corn to chant "4 more years" and wave signs and flags that read "Trump 2020," "Thank you," and "MAGA." There were also signs that read "Q" and at the beginning of the drive there was a flag that was one half Confederate stripes, one half the American flag. Your pooler did not see anyone wearing a mask on the short trip.
My co-poolers spotted a few "IBEW Biden" and "We love Joe" signs as well, but the majority of the crowd appeared there to see POTUS.
We are now inside the factory and in place for the start of the president's tour.


 August 6, 2020 15:15

 WH Travel #7 - Trump wears mask for factory tour 
President Trump, wearing a black mask, toured the Whirlpool factory in Clyde.
The pool was only briefly with Trump for the tour, but he could be seen laughing and talking to the executives and lawmakers, including Rep. Jim Jordan, as he was shown different parts of the plant. We could not hear the president.
We are now in another wing of the massive factory, waiting on Trump to make his remarks as Billy Joel's "Piano Man" plays to a socially distanced and mask wearing seated crowd.
To liven up the crowd, a man in a pink glittery hat stood up to do the Ohio State University chant "OH-IO." A few in the crowd joined him.
And now we wait for POTUS. The remarks should be broadcast live. 


August 6, 202015:20

WH Travel #7a - Excerpts from POTUS remarks at Whirlpool
Just passed along from the WH….
Excerpts from President Donald J. Trump's remarks at Whirlpool Corporation Manufacturing Plant (as prepared)…As we celebrate Whirlpool's 109-year legacy of American Manufacturing excellence, today I want to lay out my vision to bring millions more jobs and thousands more factories back to American shores, where they belong....For decades, you watched as politicians let foreign nations steal our jobs, loot our factories, and plunder the crown jewels of the U.S. Economy....The Obama-Biden Administration was perfectly happy to let China win, your jobs disappear, and your factory close....On January 23rd, 2018, at my desk in the Oval Office, I proudly signed the order to impose a 50 percent tariff on foreign-made washing machines. As a result, Whirlpool's nine factories across the United States were soon thriving like never before....In my speech in Pittsburgh in June of 2016, I made seven big promises to American Workers. Many politicians before me promised change on the campaign trail—only to back down in the face of corporate and international pressure. But I didn't back down from my promises—I have kept every single one....Earlier this year, I finally ended the NAFTA nightmare, and signed the brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law....Today, to define our path forward, I am making our incredible workers six more promises that I will keep over the next four years. First and foremost, we will defeat the China virus....Our strategy shelters those at highest risk while allowing those at lower risk to get safely back to work and school. Instead of a never-ending blanket lockdown, causing severe long-term public health consequences, we have a targeted and data-driven approach....Today, using the Defense Production Act, we are engaged in the most rapid industrial mobilization since World War II. Over the last six months, we have witnessed one manufacturing miracle after another....Over the course of the next four years, we will bring our pharmaceutical and medical supply chains HOME and we will end reliance on China and other foreign nations....I signed a new Executive Order to ensure that when it comes to essential medicines, we BUY AMERICAN. This executive order will require that U.S. government agencies purchase all the Essential Medicines we need from American sources....My fifth promise to American Workers is to bring back American jobs and factories using every tool at my disposal—including tariffs, countervailing duties, and new trade deals based on the principle of fairness and reciprocity. …As long as I am President of the United States, I will fight for you with every ounce of energy and strength that I have. I will be your voice. I will defend your jobs. I will stand up to foreign trade cheaters and violators.



 August 6, 2020 16:35

 WH Travel #8- Speech and leaving Whirlpool plant 
The pool is now leaving the Whirlpool plant after President Trump spoke for almost a hour. We're now returning to Cleveland for a fundraiser.
In front of a wall of cardboard Whirlpool boxes, the President delivered a speech that was half on script, half off, as he touted his administration's economic policies but then veered off the teleprompter to muse about topics ranging from lightbulbs to water pressure, and got in several attacks on Joe Biden.
Please refer to the live-streams and excerpts from the White House.
A smattering of highlights —
-"For 8 years under the Obama administration, American factory workers received broken promises and lost jobs…The suffering of our workers was met with cruel betrayal and callous indifference," Trump said.
-Trump announced that he signed a proclamation that will reimpose tariffs on Canadian aluminum.
-The president mused that he had "such a beautiful life before."
-At one point, the president said that young children's immune system is "incredibly powerful" against the virus and was encouraging of some states opening up.
-The president received a standing ovation from some in the audience when he said that he is committed to bringing back American jobs.
-Trump said he's going to be signing something that's "very important" in the coming week that will have a big impact on "fairness and trade."
-The president poked fun at Biden multiple times: "Do you ever watch Biden?" Trump asks. "He's always saying the wrong state…there's something going on."
-Trump on water pressure: "You turn on the shower, if you're like me, you can't wash your beautiful hair properly," he said to laughs.
-Trump says he prefers the old lightbulbs: "I like it because I don't look so orange. I don't like that look."
-Trump asked if there was a child in the room and said the child probably knows more than AOC. "You know Venezuela was one of the wealthiest countries, and now they don't have food, water, medicine, the same thing could happen. Same ideology."
-On Portland: If I didn't send in the same people from Homeland Security you'd have courthouses burned down and blown up…the mayor and the governor have no idea what they're doing." 


 August 6, 2020 16:49

 WH Travel #9 - Wheels up for Cleveland 
The pool is now taking off for Cleveland.
I did not have an eye on POTUS taking off on Marine One so I hope he's on his way there, too! 


August 6, 202017:32

WH Travel #10 - Off to fundraiser, info
At 5:25p, President Trump landed back in Cleveland and the motorcade quickly zipped off for a fundraiser and roundtable at Shoreby Yacht Club, a 15 minute drive up the short of Lake Erie from the airport.
According to an RNC official, $5M will be raised for Trump Victory, a joint fundraising committee benefiting the Trump campaign, RNC, and 22 state parties.


 August 6, 2020 17:49

 WH Travel #11 - Arrived at fundraiser 
At 5:45p the pool arrived at Shoreby Yacht Club.
As we approached the club there were Trump and Biden supporters lining the drive, but then outside the gate was a small group of protesters chanting. Cleveland police and mounted police stood on guard as they shouted and waved signs.
We are now heading to a hold located next to the sparkling water of Lake Erie and a marina filled with pretty big yachts, as the club's name would suggest. 


August 6, 202019:55

WH Travel #12 - Motorcade rolling
At 7:50p the president's motorcade left the yacht club and is now zipping down I-90 along Lake Erie.
A small group of protesters was gathered outside the club gates, but most of the gawkers had dispersed by the time we left.
Next stop AF1, then NJ. 


August 6, 202020:04

WH Travel #13 - Boarded AF1
President Trump boarded AF1 with a wave, and soon we will we taking off from Cleveland for NJ... 



August 6, 202021:21

WH Travel #14 - Landed in NJ, Trump on TN race
After waiting for a few minutes on the tarmac, President Trump stepped off Marine One at 9:15p, and then walked over to the press to say "Hagerty won the race in Tennessee. They just announced."
Bill Hagerty won the Republican Senate primary in Tennessee. He was Trump's former ambassador to Japan.
I shouted a question about negotiations in Congress but Trump walked off.
McEntee, Scavino and Kushner were seen boarding Marine One ahead of POTUS.
At 9:17p M1 is taking off for Bedminster now.



August 6, 202021:42

WH Travel #15 - Trump landed at Bedminster
Per the WH, President Trump landed at his private golf club in Bedmister, New Jersey at 9:32p. We have a travel/photo lid.
And apologies - in my previous note I meant to say POTUS stepped off **AF1** and not Marine One to remark in the TN race.
Have a good night. You'll hear from me again tomorrow!




  