
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, in Florida, Barack Obama once again demonstrated that his words really don't matter. When discussing NASA programs, Barack Obama said that "it's still being reported" that he would delay the NASA Constellation Program to pay for his early education program. Unfortunately for Barack Obama, that is what he proposed and has been saying for months: 
BARACK OBAMA: "It's Still Being Reported"...
Barack Obama Said "It's Still Being Reported That We Were Talking About Delaying Some Aspects of The Constellation Program To Pay For Our Early Education Program." OBAMA: "I mentioned this earlier, I want to tell you that, you know, I know it's still being reported that we were talking about delaying some aspects of the Constellation program to pay for our early education program. I told my staff we're going to find an entirely different offset, because we've got to make sure that the money that's going into NASA for basic research and development continues to go there. That has been a top priority for us." (Barack Obama, Remarks, Titusville, FL, 8/208 



    Watch Barack Obama.
  



WORDS MATTER: Barack Obama Said He Would Pay For His Early Education Program By Delaying The NASA Constellation Program...
According To The Early Education Program Plan On His Own Website, Barack Obama Pays For His Program By In Part Delaying The NASA Constellation Program. "The early education plan will be paid for by delaying the NASA Constellation Program for five years, using purchase cards and the negotiating power of the government to reduce costs of standardized procurement, auctioning surplus federal property, and reducing the erroneous payments identified by the Government Accountability Office, and closing the CEO pay deductibility loophole. The rest of the plan will be funded using a small portion of the savings associated with fighting the war in Iraq." (Obama For America, "Barack Obama's Plan For Lifetime Success Through Education,"
www.barackobama.com , 11/20/07) 

In November, Barack Obama Proposed Cutting NASA's Budget To Fund His Education Programs. "To pay for his education program, Obama would eliminate tax-deductibility of CEO pay by corporations and delay NASA's program to return to the moon and then journey to Mars. (Martha T. Moore, "Obama's Education Plan Includes New Standards," USA Today, 11/21/2007)

Houston Chronicle: Barack Obama's Proposals To Delay Space Programs Would Hurt The Houston Area. "Houston is home to the Johnson Space Center. Obama has said he wants to postpone NASA's Constellation program for five years. Should that happen, the gap between the end of the shuttle program and flight testing of a new spacecraft would exceed 10 years -- years with no U.S. ability to fly humans in space. Would Obama really force such a gap, deterring Americans from pursuing careers in space science and crippling the U.S. space program for a generation?" (Editorial, "How Would Barack Obama's Positions Affect Houston And Its Residents," Houston Chronicle, 7/31/08)


Today, In An Interview With The Orlando Sentinel, Barack Obama Also Criticized The Constellation Program. BARACK OBAMA: "I think the constellation project is a bold vision but we haven't thought through all the steps to get there and what the funding sources are." (Barack Obama, Interview With The Orlando Sentinel, 8/2/08)

  