
    Mr. President, Madame Houphouet-Boigny, Mr. Vice President, Secretary Rusk, Secretary Weaver, distinguished Governors, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
We are honored today to have with us one of the most respected statesmen of our time.
President Houphouet-Boigny is the beloved father of a thriving nation. He is a powerful force for reason in the affairs of his great and diverse continent. His presence here with us today is a very fitting symbol of the strong bonds of friendship and mutual respect which unite his country, the Ivory Coast, and our country, the United States of America.
Mr. President, as you so well know--and as all of those of you here today know-most of mankind is today engaged in a fateful race to turn the restless energies of deprived people to the peaceful works of economic development--rather than to violent self-destruction.
The President and I talked about affairs in his continent. We talked about our problems here in the United States. We looked at the challenges that face us in this hemisphere, in Europe, and in Asia.
We both were in agreement that there was so much to be done, that this is such an exciting period in which to do it, and we just hoped that we would have time to make a contribution together.
The world doesn't make progress in a straight line. No nation is immune to failure and frustration. Nor does social change happen quickly. It takes patience, and it takes very hard work.
Perhaps it is inevitable that some will lose heart along the way and drop out. Some observers will regard temporary reverses as-and the pressures of the moment will look like--certain defeat. Some will announce morosely that the developing countries are doomed. "Why should we look at other parts of the world, when we have so many problems of our own?" Some will say that the arithmetic of development is really beyond human capacity, after all--particularly in Africa.
To those that tell us that the developing countries are really doomed, to those Cassandras, Mr. President, we have a very simple answer. We say to them: Look at the Ivory Coast.
Economists have a rule of thumb that a country needs an annual increase of somewhere around 5 to 6 percent in gross national product in order to generate the forward momentum essential to proper development. Over the past 3 years, the Ivory Coast has averaged not 5 percent, but 9 percent.
Agricultural experts regard 4 percent as a quite respectable growth in food production. But over the past 3 years, the Ivory Coast has averaged not 4 percent, but nearly 8 percent. Industrial output has risen during this period by more than 16 percent per year.
These numbers and these achievements reflect what are the real benchmarks of history. I speak for every American, Mr. President, in applauding your people.
Mr. President, we are grateful to you for expressing to me this morning in most eloquent terms your concern for the developmental process and your feeling of distress that there has not been more unification and coordination among the nations that are able in the world to bring this about through the presentation of a unified program where better progress could be made.
Those of us who are concerned, as you are, with the developmental process have tried to learn from your example. We have tried to isolate the elements that you have put together to produce the economic miracle in your own country.
I think we have done fairly well at identifying the mechanics of this process. We can describe them in mathematical terms, yet it is your astute combination of land, labor, capital, and entrepreneurship that has made this possible.
But, Mr. President, there is one element that we cannot assign numbers to. This is vision.
The Bible tells us that "Where there is no vision, the people perish." You have proved that where there is vision--and where there is leadership--then the people can prosper.
My friends, the capacity to plan and to provide genuine leadership for his people are qualities that distinguish our guest here today. We are mindful of the great good that he has already done in the service of mankind. We are grateful for his wise counsel. We look forward with great pleasure to a close association with him and with his people in the years ahead.
Above all, we bid him the warmest of welcomes.
I ask those of you who have come from all across this land to join me now in a toast to His Excellency, President Houphouet-Boigny, to Madame Houphouet-Boigny, and to all of the people of the Ivory Coast.
  