
    "President Obama is on the third day of his bus tour – but the 939th day of his presidency. The publicity and spin of the last three days cannot make up for the failures of the last two and a half years." –Mitt Romney
On Day Three Of President Obama's Magical Misery Tour, Expect Even More Stale Rhetoric, Blame-Shifting, And Lack Of Ideas:
On Day One, President Obama "Didn't Announce Any New Ideas" But Criticized Republicans "For Their Opposition To Raising Taxes." "President Obama used some of his harshest words of the burgeoning 2012 presidential campaign Monday, criticizing the Republican candidates for their opposition to raising taxes as part of a deal to lower the nation's debt. ... Obama, who arrived in a special black armored bus, didn't announce any new ideas, but he repeated calls for pairing measures to tame the deficit with efforts to boost the economy." (Zachary Goldfarb, "Obama Kicks Off Midwest Bus Tour With Harsh Words On The Economy," The Washington Post, 8/15/11)
On Day Two, A White House Spokesman Said President Obama "Will Have Some New Ideas ... Beyond Those That He's Discussed, But I Won't Get Into Any More Specifics Than That." CARNEY: "[President Obama] has been talking a lot about some of his ideas that he believes could get bipartisan support for further economic growth and to spur economic growth and create jobs. And I'm sure he will have some new ideas as well beyond those that he's discussed, but I won't get into any more specifics than that." (Jay Carney, White House Press Gaggle, 8/16/11)
As The President's Campaign-Style Trip Winds Down, America Continues To Suffer The Consequences Of Failed Leadership From The White House:
As President Obama Wraps Up His Midwest Campaign Tour, Manufacturing Activity Continues To Decline Across The Region While Unemployment Has "Ticked Up" And Home Prices Have Fallen. "As President Barack Obama stumps his jobs message across the Midwest this week, he is encountering a regional economy that has lost some of its post-recession luster. A key gauge of Midwest manufacturing activity – a sector that helped lead the region out of the recession – has fallen four of the past five months. The jobless rate has ticked up in recent months in Minnesota, Wisconsin and some other Midwestern states. Housing prices are falling faster than in other regions." (Dee Depass and Jennifer Bjorhus, "Obama Visit Comes As Midwest Economy Falters," [Minneapolis] Star Tribune, 8/16/11)
Data Released Yesterday Show The Housing Market Remains Depressed As Permits And Construction Levels Declined In July. "Housing starts fell 1.5 percent to a 604,000 annual rate, in line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from June's 613,000 pace that was less than previously estimated ... Building permits, a proxy for future construction, also dropped. Falling sales, foreclosures and a lack of jobs may keep delaying a rebound in homebuilding, depriving the world's largest economy of a source of strength seen in the early stages of past recoveries." (Shobhana Chandra, "Housing Starts in U.S. Weaken As Construction Stagnates; Permits Decline," Bloomberg, 8/16/11)


    "There Were 413,000 Units Under Construction [In July], The Fewest Since Records Began In 1970." (Shobhana Chandra, "Housing Starts in U.S. Weaken As Construction Stagnates; Permits Decline," Bloomberg, 8/16/11)
  

Consumer Confidence Is At Its Lowest Level Since The Carter Administration. "A gauge of consumer sentiment tumbled in August to the lowest level since May 1980, according to a report released Friday, as a volatile stock market, weak employment and worries about federal debt took their toll. Consumer sentiment dropped to 54.9 from 63.7 in July, according to preliminary University of Michigan/Thomson Reuters index released Friday. ... 'This is an extraordinarily weak reading on consumer sentiment,' wrote analysts at RDQ Economics in a research note." (Ruth Mantell, "August Sentiment Drops To Lowest Since 1980," MarketWatch, 8/12/11)
Democratic Consultant And Former Clinton Adviser Douglas Schoen: President Obama "Has Veered From Approach To Approach" And Lacks "Direction ... And A Sense Of Where The Country Is Heading." "[President Obama] has veered from approach to approach over the last six months – sometimes proposing more spending, other times proposing cuts in spending and reining in entitlements – all the while never offering specifics. Moreover, the administration veers from populist rhetoric, attacking yacht owners and hedge fund operators, to proposing non-partisan conciliation. But what is missing from this White House is a clear set of policy options, a direction for the administration and a sense of where the country is heading." (Douglas E. Schoen, "Obama Doesn't Need A Bus Tour, He Needs A Plan To Get Americans Back To Work," FoxNews.com, 8/15/11)
  