
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to protect the interest of the Federal Government, to deal only with responsible persons, and to insure proper management and integrity in Federal activities, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Definitions. For purposes of this order:
(a) "Procurement activities" refer to all acquisition programs and activities of the Federal Government, as defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(b) "Nonprocurment activities" refers to all programs and activities involving Federal financial and nonfinancial assistance and benefits, as covered by Executive Order No. 12549 and the Office of Management and Budget guidelines implementing that order.
(c) "Agency" refers to executive departments and agencies.
Sec. 2. Governmentwide Effect.
(a) To the extent permitted by law and upon resolution of differences and promulgation of final regulations pursuant to section 3 of this order, the debarment, suspension, or other exclusion of a participant in a procurement activity under the Federal Acquisition Regulation, or in a nonprocurement activity under regulations issued pursuant to Executive Order No. 12549, shall have governmentwide effect. No agency shall allow a party to participate in any procurement or nonprocurement activity if any agency has debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded (to the extent specified in the exclusion agreement) that party from participation in a procurement or nonprocurement activity.
(b) An agency may grant an exception permitting a debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded party to participate in procurement activities of that agency to the extent exceptions are authorized under the Federal Acquisition Regulation, or to participate in nonprocurement activities of that agency to the extent exceptions are authorized under regulations issued pursuant to Executive Order No. 12549.
Sec. 3. Implementation.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget may assist Federal agencies in resolving differences between the provisions contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulation and in regulations issued pursuant to Executive Order No. 12549. The Office of Management and Budget may determine the date of resolution of differences and then shall notify affected agencies of that date.
(b) To implement this order, proposed regulations amending the Federal Acquisition Regulation and the agency regulations issued pursuant to Executive Order No. 12549 shall be published simultaneously within 6 months of the resolution of differences.
(c) Final regulations shall be published simultaneously within 12 months of the publication of the proposed regulations, to be effective 30 days thereafter.
George BushThe White House,August 16, 1989.
  