
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
July 31
The President met at Camp David, Md., with:
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President;
—Vice President Mondale.
The President returned to the White House from Camp David.
The President met with leaders of religious organizations in the Cabinet Room at the White House to discuss foreign assistance programs.
August 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary Brown and Representatives George H. Mahon of Texas and Jack Edwards of Alabama;
—members of the Vietnam Veterans in Congress;
—Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Senator Thomas F. Eagleton of Missouri;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President attended a portion of the White House reception for Asian Americans held on the State Floor.
The President announced the persons who will represent the United States at the inauguration ceremonies for Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala as President of Colombia, held August 6-9. Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal will head the delegation, attending as Personal Representative of the President and with the rank of Special Ambassador. The members of the delegation, also with the rank of Special Ambassador, will be:
DIEGO C. ARSENCIO, U.S. Ambassador to Colombia;
VIRON P. VAKY, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs;
JOHN V. BEHEN, president, Advisory Realty Corp., and president, Behen Storage and Warehouse Corp., Everett, Mass.;
ALBERT BILDNER, president, Business Marketing Corp. for New York City, N.Y.;
OSCAR GARCIA-RIVERA, member, U.S. National Commission for UNESCO, Washington, D.C.;
PHYLLIS LANDRIEU, vice president, Louisiana State Health Coordinating Council, New Orleans;
LUIS J. LAUREDO, director of international commerce, State of Florida, Miami;
WILLIAM B. SCHWARTZ III, First National Bank of Atlanta, Ga.;
JOAN F. TOBIN, president, Tobin Enterprises, Washington, D.C.
August 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Members of the House of Representatives to discuss civil service reform;
—Assistant Secretary of Energy Omi G. Walden;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambasadors U Hla Shwe of the Socialist Republic of Burma, Noor Ahmad Noor of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, Klos Visessurakarn of the Kingdom of Thailand, Mohamed Morlai Turay of the Republic of Sierra Leone, and Jose Llado y Fernandez-Urrutia of Spain.
The President attended a portion of the briefing on civil service reform given by administration officials for business leaders in the State Dining Room at the White House.
August 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representatives Thomas J. Downey of New York and Bob Carr of Michigan.
The President attended a portion of the briefing on administration policies given by administration officials for civic leaders from the New Jersey area in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
August 4
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Vance, Secretary Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Robert J. McCloskey, U.S. Ambassador to Greece.
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of Texas as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about August 1, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The White House announced that applications are now available for the White House Fellowship program for 1979-80. The program is open to all U.S. citizens, except those in civilian Federal positions. Each fellow works for a Cabinet officer or senior member of the White House staff, and participates in a program including seminars with top Government officials, leading scholars, and journalists who deal with the National Government. Application forms and additional information can be obtained by sending a postcard to the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, Washington, D.C. 20415.
  