
    The Hillary Clinton Campaign announced the endorsements of Los Angeles City Council Members Wendy Greuel, Jan Perry and Jack Weiss today. The endorsements illustrate the growing support Senator Clinton has in the City of Los Angeles and California.
"I am honored to receive the endorsement of City Councilmembers Greuel, Perry and Weiss," said Clinton. "As President, I will work closely with city leaders and ensure a strong partnership between the Federal and municipal governments for the betterment of our cities and residents."
Wendy Greuel is President Pro Tempore of the Los Angeles City Council and represents the Second District in the Northeast San Fernando Valley. The Second Council District includes the communities of Lake View Terrace, La Tuna Canyon, North Hollywood, Shadow Hills, Sherman Oaks, Studio City, Sunland, Sun Valley, Tujunga, Valley Village, Valley Glen and Van Nuys.
"I am proud to endorse Senator Clinton for President," said Los Angeles City Council President Pro Tem Wendy Greuel. "Senator Clinton's experience makes her the most qualified and best prepared candidate to take our country in a new direction."
Councilwoman Jan Perry represents the Ninth Council District of Los Angeles, which encompasses one of the most culturally diverse communities in Los Angeles, including Bunker Hill, Little Tokyo, and South Los Angeles.
"Hillary Clinton understands the challenges that our communities face and she has the experience to bring the change that our residents need. Hillary Clinton is committed to working with local governments to improve our schools, make our neighborhoods safer and create good jobs with good pay," said Councilwoman Jan Perry. I am proud to endorse Hillary Clinton and trust that she will make a great President for all communities."
City Councilman Weiss represents District 5 of Los Angeles which includes the communities of Encino, Sherman Oaks, Valley Village, and Palms, Westwood, Century City, Beverlywood, the Fairfax District, Cheviot Hills and Carthay Circle.
"At a time when our nation faces many serious challenges including ending the war in Iraq and bringing our troops home, ensuring our families have quality, affordable healthcare and protecting our environment over corporate interests, I believe that Hillary Clinton has the experience and know-how to lead our nation forward. I strongly support her candidacy," said Councilman Weiss.
  