
    "We must protect those who protect us. When our service members are in uniform, it is our obligation to ensure that they have the finest equipment, the finest training, care, and resources— better than any military on earth." – President Donald J. Trump
REBUILDING OUR MILITARY: President Donald J. Trump is continuing to deliver on his pledge to rebuild our military by signing legislation authorizing $716 billion for our national defense.

President Trump is signing the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019, authorizing $716 billion for national defense.

The Administration worked in close partnership with Congress to complete the NDAA.
This is the earliest in the year Congress has completed an NDAA in over two decades.  


The NDAA helps develop a more lethal and resilient force, and grows the size of our forces by authorizing an increase of 15,600 troops across the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.

The NDAA authorizes end strengths of 487,500 in the Army; 335,400 in the Navy; 186,100 in the Marine Corps; and 329,100 in the Air Force.  


The NDAA authorizes $7.6 billion to procure 77 F-35 fighter jets and $24.1 billion to fund the construction of 13 new battle force ships and accelerates funding for several future ships. 

HONORING OUR SERVICE MEMBERS: The Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 NDAA honors President Trump's commitment to our service members and their families. 

President Trump and Congress are honoring our Nation's duty to our service members by authorizing a 2.6 percent military pay raise, the largest pay raise in nine years.

The NDAA also extends special pay and bonuses for those in high demand fields. 


The NDAA will address the employment challenges facing military spouses by enhancing the My Career Advancement Program. 

READYING FOR ALL THREATS: The FY 2019 NDAA will help ensure that our military is ready and able to defend against the threats of today and tomorrow

The NDAA supports key aspects of President Trump's National Defense Strategy, which will better prepare our Nation for the strategic competition it is facing today.
The NDAA will increase training and improve readiness, authorizing 20 Combat Training Center Rotations for the Army as well as improvements to the readiness of naval surface ships.
The NDAA takes positive steps that are in line with President Trump's commitment to maintaining a strong and resilient defense and manufacturing industrial base.
Furthering President Trump's goal of developing our warfighting capabilities in space, the NDAA authorizes the United States Space Command to be established under the United States Strategic Command.

STANDING WITH ALLIES AND PARTNERS: The FY 2019 NDAA authorizes funds for critical operations and defense engagements and activities with our allies and partners.

The NDAA keeps faith with President Trump's full-hearted support of Israel, authorizing $500 million for the co-development and co-production of missile defense systems.
Funds authorized by the NDAA will help the United States and its partners continue the fight to destroy ISIS, including $850 million to train and equip Iraqi Security Forces.  
The NDAA will strengthen the efforts of the United States to bolster the defenses of its European partners, including $250 million dedicated to security assistance for Ukraine.

  