
    While participating in a town hall meeting in Aiken, South Carolina today, Mayor Rudy Giuliani will unveil his commitment to end illegal immigration, secure our borders and identify every non-citizen in our nation. It is important to accomplish these goals in order to preserve and expand legal immigration. He will discuss his plan throughout the day, including at a town hall meeting in Columbia, South Carolina.
The Mayor's commitment recognizes that illegal immigration is an issue of national security for America and change begins with securing our borders because the federal government has failed to solve the problem. To help protect our nation in the Terrorists' War on Us, Rudy Giuliani is committed to ending illegal immigration by enforcing immigration laws and controlling America's borders. The Mayor's commitment calls for deporting any illegal alien who commits a felony and building both a physical and a high-tech border fence, while deploying a larger and better-trained border patrol.
Rudy's plan also includes the tamper-proof Secure Authorized Foreign Entry Card (SAFE Card) for all foreign workers and students, a single national database of non-citizens to track their status, and tracking those who leave the country. In addition, Giuliani will encourage Americanization by requiring immigrants to truly read, write and speak English.
"Real immigration reform must put security first because border security and homeland security are inseparable in the Terrorists' War on Us," Mayor Giuliani has said. "The first responsibility of the federal government is to protect our citizens by controlling America's borders, while ending illegal immigration and identifying every non-citizen in our nation. We must restore integrity, accountability and the rule of law to our immigration system to regain the faith of the American people."
Ending illegal immigration, securing our borders and identifying every non-citizen in our nation is one of Rudy's Twelve Commitments to the American People, his bold vision aimed at moving America forward. He will continue to travel the country detailing the remaining Commitments. For more about Rudy's Twelve Commitments, please click here.
  