
    Pool Reports by Annie Linskey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




August 25, 202310:52 PDT

Travel pool report #1 - POTUS rolling to unknown destination
Good morning from the Nevada side of Lake Tahoe where the weather is sunny, the temperature is just cracking 70 degrees and the trees are impossibly tall.
Pool joined Biden's motorcade at 10:50 am local as it emerged from the gated Glenbrook community where POTUS is renting Tom Steyer and Kat Taylor's lakefront home for a weeklong vacation.
We are rolling to a location unknown to the pool.
For those keeping track: The WH moved up call time this morning to about 9:15 am from the initially advised noon.



August 25, 202311:26 PDT

Travel pool report #2 - arrival at strip mall w pelodog studio
POTUS's motorcade arrived at a strip mall that features a Pelodog Pilates and Cycle studio at 11:16 am after an uneventful drive with stunning views of Lake Tahoe. Note that he crossed over the state line and he's now in California.
Pool did not see POTUS enter the Pelodog, and is awaiting confirmation that he's in there, though the location of security suggests that he is.
Close readers will recall POTUS made what appears to be a similar outing on Wednesday.



August 25, 202311:42 PDT

Travel report 3 - Pilates
The White House sends this note about the president's activities. Pool is holding in a nearby coffee shop.
From White House:
"The President and members of his family are enjoying a Pilates class together."



August 25, 202313:03 PDT

Travel pool report # 4 - POTUS departs, gaggles
POTUS emerged from the Pelodog studio at 12:40 pm local. Pool was rolling at 12:45 p.m.
POTUS spoke briefly to reporters outside the studio, taking questions on the UAW strike, Trump's mugshot, the GOP debate (he watched most of it) and the bump in covid cases.
POTUS on his concern of a UAW strike: "I'm talking with the UAW. Obviously I'm concerned. I think that there should be a circumstance where jobs that are being displaced are replaced with new jobs and" those go to members "and the salary should be commensurate." (partially paraphrased due to audio quality)
POTUS on if he has seen the Trump mugshot: "I did see it on television. Handsome guy."
On what brought down the Wagner leader's plane: "I'm not at liberty to speak to that precisely. But as you know because you and I have talked about this, I find no surprise. We're trying to nail down precisely but I don't have anything to say."
POTUS on upswing in covid cases and new variant: "I signed off this morning on a proposal to present to the Congress requests for additional funding for a new vaccine"
POTUS on the new vaccine: "Tentatively " he said it will be "likely recommended" that everyone get it.
POTUS on the GOP debate: "I don't remember them speaking to any of the issues. ... what are they going to do to deal with economic growth?"
POTUS said he "didn't have an interest or inclination" to watch Trump's interview with Tucker Carlson
POTUS on whether he would split up the supplemental into two chunks, Ukraine and disaster, he would not do it. (Responding "none" to the question of whether there was a possibility he would split up the two)
POTUS said there has been no request for him to be interviewed by the special counsel looking into the classified documents found at various locations he has used.
Before he walked out First daughter Ashley Biden and POTUS's granddaughter Finnegan Biden were visible through the window around 12:35 pm. As was the president's grandson Robert Hunter Biden (not to be confused with the elder Hunter Biden)
A crowd gathered outside the studio , with one person playing a guitar and singing "God Bless the USA" (which has been associated with Trump ). One person yelled "USA"
Others just wanted to catch a glimpse of the president.



August 25, 202313:24 PDT

Travel pool report 5 - more quotes from gaggle and a lid
After an uneventful ride, Biden's motorcade dropped the pool at the gate outside the community where he is staying in Nevada at 1:13 pm local. the White House called a lid at 1:14 pm local
NOTE: Biden gaggled earlier in South Lake Tahoe, CALIFORNIA (He's staying in Nevada, but exercising in Calif.)
Because it was a bit unclear, I'm sending a longer version of Biden's remarks on getting the covid vaccine. After POTUS said that he has signed off on a proposal for more funding for a new covid vaccine he made a tentative recommendation that all Americans take the vaccine.
POTUS: "Tentatively, not decided finally, tentatively it is recommended - it is likely to be recommended - that everybody get it."
MORE on POTUS on the GOP debate: "There was a lot of talk. But what are they going to do to deal with economic growth? What are they going to do to deal with the notion that maintaining the job pace that we have now? What are they going to do to deal with education?"
Also, toward the end of his gaggle, Biden remarked on his time at Lake Tahoe.
AP photographer Evan Vucci asked POTUS how he was enjoying his time in Tahoe, "I tell you, if I had your biceps, I'd feel better," POTUS said. "I've been to Tahoe before, not here, but I've been a number of times when Harry Reid was the leader," he said. "It's magnificent."
Print pool would like to thank the Washington Post's Meryl Kornfield for assisting in getting Biden quotes and for her five star internet connection.



August 25, 202315:35 PDT

Travel pool report 6 - POTUS briefed on Hawaii
The White House sends the following update:
"The President received a detailed update on response and recovery efforts in Hawaii from FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell and Bob Fenton, Chief Federal Response Coordinator for the Maui wildfires."



August 25, 202316:27 PDT

Travel pool 7 - week ahead
The White House send this sked for next week
Week Ahead 8/26-9/3
On Saturday, the President and the First Lady will depart Lake Tahoe, Nevada and return to the White House.
On Monday, the President and the First Lady will visit a Public School to welcome students back to school.
In the evening, the President will deliver remarks at a reception to commemorate the 60th Anniversary of the founding of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.
On Tuesday, the President will deliver remarks at an event on lowering healthcare costs. The Vice President will participate.
Later, the President will host President Rodrigo Chaves Robles of Costa Rica for a bilateral meeting at the White House.
On Friday, the President will travel to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, where he will remain over the weekend.




  