
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Alexandra Dapolito Dunn of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for Toxic Substances.
Ms. Dunn currently serves as the regional administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency Region 1 in Boston, Massachusetts. She previously served as executive director and general counsel for the Environmental Council of the States (ECOS). Since 2014, Ms. Dunn has assisted State governments in shaping environmental policy and enhancing economic development. Prior to joining ECOS, Ms. Dunn served as executive director and general counsel for the Association of Clean Water Administrators. Ms. Dunn also has extensive experience in environmental education having served as dean of Environmental Law Programs at the Elisabeth Haub School of Law at Pace University. In addition, she has taught at the Columbus School of Law, Catholic University of America, and, most recently, as an adjunct associate professor of law at the American University's Washington College of Law. Ms. Dunn received a B.A. in political science from James Madison University and a J.D. from the Columbus School of Law. She is a member of the bar in Washington, DC, Maryland, and New York, as well as the United States Supreme Court.
Dennis Walter Hearne of Virginia to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mozambique.
Mr. Hearne, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1985. He is currently Principal Deputy High Representative, Office of the High Representative, in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, a United States Department of State position he has held since 2017. Other senior leadership positions in which he has served include: Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, from 2016 to 2017; senior advisor to the Under Secretary for Political Affairs from 2015 to 2016; United States Consul General in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 2009 to 2012; and as foreign policy advisor to United States military commanders, including two years of service in combat operations in Afghanistan. Mr. Hearne earned a B.A. from Wake Forest University and an M.S. from the National War College. He is the recipient of the United States Army Outstanding Civilian Service Medal. He also speaks Croatian and Portuguese.
Raymond David Vela of Texas, to be Director of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
Mr. Vela, a 28-year career veteran of the National Park Service (NPS), currently serves as the superintendent of Grand Teton National Park and the John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Memorial Parkway. He began his NPS career at San Antonio Missions National Historical Park. Prior to Grand Teton, Mr. Vela served as associate director for Workforce, Relevancy, and Inclusion in the NPS headquarters in Washington, DC. He also served for over four years as director of the NPS' Southeast Region. In addition, Mr. Vela held park superintendent posts at Palo Alto Battlefield National Historic Site, Lyndon B. Johnson National Historical Park, and the George Washington Memorial Parkway. Mr. Vela is a graduate of Texas A&M University with a B.S. in recreation and parks. He is also a graduate of the United States Department of the Interior Senior Executive Service Candidate Development Program. He and his wife, Melissa, have two children, Christina and Anthony, and six grandchildren.
---
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jay Angle of Alabama, to be Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Department of Agriculture, for a term of six years.
Dr. J. Scott Angle received his B.S. in Agronomy and M.S. in Soil Science at the University of Maryland. He obtained his Ph.D. from the University of Missouri with an emphasis on Soil Microbiology. Dr. Angle worked for 24 years as a professor of soil science and administrator for the Maryland Agricultural Experiment Station and Maryland Cooperative Extension at the University of Maryland. His work focused on heavy metals and their interaction with the environment. In 2005, he moved to Athens, Georgia, where he served as dean and director of the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences at the University of Georgia for 10 years. He is a fellow in the American Society of Agronomy and the Soil Science Society of America. He is also a Fulbright Fellow, having worked at the Rothamsted Research Experimental Station in the United Kingdom. Most recently, Dr. Angle was the president and CEO of the International Fertilizer Development Center.
Jayne Harkins of Nevada, to be the Commissioner of the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission for United States and Mexico.
Ms. Harkins has led the Colorado River Commission of Nevada (CRC) as executive director since 2011. The CRC holds the State of Nevada's Colorado River water and hydropower rights in trust for the benefit of the State. Before joining the CRC, she served as the deputy regional director of the Lower Colorado Region of the United States Bureau of Reclamation. Ms. Harkins received her B.S. degree in geological engineering with an emphasis in hydrology and groundwater from the University of North Dakota and her M.P.A. from the University of Nevada–Las Vegas. Ms. Harkins is a registered professional engineer in Nevada and California. Ms. Harkins is on the Board of Directors for the National Water Resources Association and the Colorado River Energy Distributors Association, and the Board of Trustees of the Colorado River Water Users Association.
  