
    She slammed Biden as a failed "Washington insider." Now she supports him anyway.
Fresh off of her appearance at the Democrats' Native American Caucus, Pocahontas is taking the stage tonight to endorse the man she described as a "Washington insider" backed by "Washington insiders" who "will not meet this moment." Now, Elizabeth Warren sees Joe Biden for what he truly is: an empty vessel for her far-left agenda.
Biden has embraced nearly every extreme policy Warren campaigned on, no matter how far-left. The only person further left than Warren is Biden's new handler – Kamala Harris.

Biden, Harris, and Warren all support raising taxes on middle-class American families to fund their far-left liberal wishlist. The Biden-Harris agenda will increase Americans' taxes by $4 trillion.
Just like Elizabeth Warren, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris support giving taxpayer-funded health care to illegal aliens. Biden even suggested illegal immigrants deserve to receive Social Security benefits.
Kamala Harris's health care plan would ban private insurance. It's the same plan supported by Warren.
Biden wants the same job-killing Green New Deal agenda Warren endorsed, and Harris agrees with Warren that Americans need to curtail their meat consumption and use of plastic straws.
Biden, Harris, and Warren all agree on the same open-borders and sanctuary city policies that will put the safety of American families at risk.
Warren and Harris introduced legislation allowing a baby to be aborted all the way up through the moment of birth. Biden agrees, and even wants to force taxpayers to fund the heinous practice.

Warren knows Joe Biden is a trojan horse for her far-left agenda. That's why she's completely abandoned her "believe survivors" mantra and supports Biden, despite Tara Reade's sexual assault allegations against him.
Warren supported the woman who made allegations against former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg in February, asking, "why shouldn't I believe her?" She proudly and gleefully participated in the evidence-free, politically motivated smearing of Brett Kavanaugh and was adamant that women who make allegations must be believed. Warren even supports the Title IX standards that Biden set for students on college campuses. The same standards would find Biden guilty. 
Warren is just like Kamala Harris – a total phony.
  