
    A White House Conference on Balanced Growth and Economic Development will be held in Washington in early 1978. I strongly endorse the action of Congress requesting and authorizing this Conference.
This country has been committed to the goal of economic growth and full employment with stable prices since the 1940's. We need to provide jobs for a growing work force--our labor force increased by 3 million people within the last year--so that all of our people who want to and are able can work to create a better life for all Americans. The economy is improving, and unemployment is down almost a full point since its peak last November, but much remains to be done if future recessions, high inflation, and high unemployment are to be prevented and if we are to make real progress in getting the remainder of our people back to work.
Balanced growth does not mean neglecting the environment or making our energy problems worse. We must make wise use of our Nation's land, water, and energy resources. We must also remain sensitive to the wide variations in local and regional resources, needs, and economic conditions, so that our national economic progress will not be at the expense of any one group or area.
This Conference is an important opportunity for citizens organizations, public interest groups, labor and business representatives, and State and local officials to recommend ways in which my administration can work toward balanced economic growth and development in the years ahead.
I am pleased to announce the appointment of Dr. Michael S. Koleda, former vice president of the National Planning Association, as Director of the Conference. Under his able leadership, the Conference will become a national forum through which our concern about these issues and our determination to seek solutions can be expressed.
I have asked Secretary of Commerce Juanita M. Kreps to coordinate the efforts of her Department with those of the Departments of Agriculture and Housing and Urban Development and other departments and agencies in preparing for this Conference.
  