
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 13
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Anne Wexler, Assistant to the President, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Esther Peterson, Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs, and representatives of the food industry, to discuss food prices.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Sadek Jawad Sulaiman of the Sultanate of Oman, Bernard Kendrick Radix of the People's Revolutionary Government of Grenada, and Sukru Elekdag of the Republic of Turkey.
August 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Vice President Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President participated in a briefing on the administration's programs and policies given for civic and community leaders from Texas in the East Room at the White House.
August 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, Secretary-designate of Housing and Urban Development Moon Landrieu, Secretary Bergland, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, and Mr. Eizenstat, to discuss domestic policies;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Ambassador Andrew Young, U.S. Representative to the United Nations.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation treaty held for community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
The President announced that he will nominate Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller to be U.S. Governor of the International Monetary Fund, Governor of the Enter-American Development Bank, U.S. Governor of the Asian Development Bank, and U.S. Governor of the African Development Fund. He also announced that he has designated Miller as a member of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Chairman of the U.S. Section of the Joint U.S.-U.S.S.R. Commercial Commission, and U.S. Chairman of the U.S.-China Joint Economic Committee. All of these positions are normally filled by the Secretary of the Treasury.
August 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Gustave Speth, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President was presented the International Mediation Medal by officials of the American Arbitration Association for his efforts in resolving the conflict in the Middle East.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation treaty held for community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
August 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Mr. Jordan, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
The President announced that he has appointed Paul A. Volcker to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund. This position is normally filled by the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
The President left the White House for St. Paul, Minn. In St. Paul he participated in a briefing on energy for city officials and citizens (transcript will be printed next week). He then boarded the riverboat Delta Queen for a week-long trip down the Mississippi River, to end in St. Louis, Mo., on August 24.
  