
    The President. Hello, everybody. I think many of you are aware that the partnership between the United States and Japan is one of tremendous importance. It's one of the cornerstones of our both security and economic well being. We have an extraordinarily close relationship that's based on shared values and shared interests. There is enormous respect between the people of Japan and the people of the United States.
And it's for that reason that my administration wants to get off on a strong footing diplomatically in our relationship. And I placed great importance in the selection of who would represent the United States as Ambassador to Japan. After careful consideration, I made the determination that the person who I thought could best do this is somebody with superb judgment, somebody with an outstanding intellect, somebody who is a very close friend of mine and a close adviser, somebody who has worked both in the private sector with cutting-edge technologies, but also is somebody who has a deep interest in public service. And that's my friend John Roos.
He is somebody who I'm confident is going to be able to help to strengthen both the regional and global relationship between the United States and Japan. He's somebody who will be able to advise me directly on issues that may arise and opportunities that may arise in the U.S.-Japanese relationship. He is somebody who, I know, is going to be working incredibly hard to make sure that he is listening to and understanding the full scope of Japanese concerns. And so I very much appreciate his willingness to take on this task.
And he and his wife, Susie, and his family are prepared to and eager to travel to Japan. It's a sacrifice to, obviously, uproot yourself, but John has shown nothing but great enthusiasm for what is one of the most important diplomatic tasks that we have in the country. And I'm grateful for his service and confident that he is going to represent not only my administration but the United States of America with extraordinary ability.
So thank you so much, John.
Ambassador-Designate Roos. Thank you, Mr. President.
The President. I appreciate it. Thank you.
  