
    Meet the most radical, far-left Vice Presidential nominee in U.S. history
Key Takeaways:

Harris is the most radical, far-left Vice Presidential nominee in U.S. history

Harris was one of the first Democrats to co-sponsor Bernie Sanders' socialist health care plan, which would cost over $32 trillion, and Harris said she wanted to eliminate private insurance even if individuals like their plan
Harris supports the radical Green New Deal, voted against the Trump tax cuts for the middle class, and voted against a bill that would limit abortions to the first 20 weeks of pregnancy
Harris has even said that we should have a "conversation" about whether felons like the Boston Marathon bomber should vote from prison


Harris has endorsed the far-left's immigration policies that are tantamount to open borders

Harris supports sanctuary cities, and said in 2018 that "we need to probably think about starting from scratch" when referring to ICE


Harris has repeatedly slammed Biden, going so far as to say that he supported racist policies that hurt the Black community

Harris called Biden's praise of segregationists "personal" and "hurtful," saying Biden's record of opposing busing in the 1970s was an issue that "directly impacted" her
Harris said Biden's 1994 crime bill "contribute[d] to mass incarceration" in the U.S.


Harris was more focused on playing politics than fighting crime as a prosecutor, with San Francisco's homicide rates rising when Harris was the city's District Attorney

As DA, Harris' office padded its stats by offering plea deals to defendants accused of serious crimes
When cases went to trial, Harris' office underperformed compared to other prosecutors


As San Francisco's District Attorney, Harris let murderers off the hook and put predators back on the streets

In 2004, Harris chose not to seek the death penalty against a gang member who killed a San Francisco police officer, going against the wishes of the officer's wife
Harris chose not to seek the death penalty against an illegal immigrant and MS-13 gang member who shot a father and his two sons
Harris' office granted probation to a violent criminal who then went on to murder two men while released


Harris would do anything to appear "tough on crime"

Harris' office fought to keep inmates locked up in prison so they could be used for cheap labor
Harris "championed" a law to put the parents of truant kids in jail
Harris' office prosecuted a mentally ill woman who was shot by San Francisco Police



BACKGROUND
Work History:
1990-June 1994: Alameda County – Deputy District Attorney (Kayleigh Roberts, "Who Is Kamala Harris? 8 Things You Need To Know About The California Senator," Cosmopolitan, 6/16/17; Dan Morin, "2 More Brown Associates Get Well-Paid Posts : Government: The Speaker Appoints His Frequent Companion And A Longtime Friend To State Boards As His Hold On His Own Powerful Position Wanes," Los Angeles Times, 11/29/94)
June 1994-November 1994: Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (Dan Morin, "2 More Brown Associates Get Well-Paid Posts : Government: The Speaker Appoints His Frequent Companion And A Longtime Friend To State Boards As His Hold On His Own Powerful Position Wanes," Los Angeles Times, 11/29/94; Mark Pulliam, "The Next Obama: Meet Kamala Harris, California Attorney General, Aspiring Senator . . . And Future President?" City Journal, Winter 2016)
November 1994-1999: California Medical Assistance Commission (Dan Morin, "2 More Brown Associates Get Well-Paid Posts : Government: The Speaker Appoints His Frequent Companion And A Longtime Friend To State Boards As His Hold On His Own Powerful Position Wanes," Los Angeles Times, 11/29/94; Mark Pulliam, "The Next Obama: Meet Kamala Harris, California Attorney General, Aspiring Senator . . . And Future President?" City Journal, Winter 2016)
February 1998-2000: San Francisco District Attorney Terence Hallinan – Assistant District Attorney (Demian Bulwa, "Harris Defeats Hallinan After Bitter Campaign," San Francisco Chronicle, 12/10/03; Pat Lynch, "This DA Makes A Difference," Women's Radio, 12/19/10)
August 2000–2003: City/County Of San Francisco's City Attorney Louise Renne – Family and Children's Services Division Attorney (Pat Lynch, "This DA Makes A Difference," Women's Radio, 12/19/10; Peter Byrne, "Kamala's Karma," SF Weekly, 9/24/03)
January 8, 2004–January 3, 2011: City/County Of San Francisco – District Attorney (Demian Bulwa, "Harris Defeats Hallinan After Bitter Campaign," San Francisco Chronicle, 12/10/03; Kayleigh Roberts, "Who Is Kamala Harris? 8 Things You Need To Know About The California Senator," Cosmopolitan, 6/16/17; "Kamala D. Harris," United States Senate, Accessed 8/10/20)
January 3, 2011–January 3, 2017: State Of California – Attorney General (Donna Owens, "Meet Kamala Harris, The Second Black Woman Elected To The U.S. Senate," NBC News, 11/8/16; Marisa Lagos, "Kamala Harris Wins: 1st Female Attorney General," San Francisco Chronicle, 11/25/10)
January 3, 2017–Present: United States Senate – Junior Senator For California (Donna Owens, "Meet Kamala Harris, The Second Black Woman Elected To The U.S. Senate," NBC News, 11/8/16; "About, Kamala D. Harris – U.S. Senator For California, Accessed 8/10/20)

Committee On The Budget, January 3, 2017 – Present (John Myers, "Kamala Harris Nabs National Security, Environment Assignments In The U.S. Senate," Los Angeles Times, 12/19/16)
Committee On Homeland Security And Governmental Affairs, January 3, 2017 – Present (John Myers, "Kamala Harris Nabs National Security, Environment Assignments In The U.S. Senate," Los Angeles Times, 12/19/16)
Select Committee On Intelligence, January 3, 2017 – Present (John Myers, "Kamala Harris Nabs National Security, Environment Assignments In The U.S. Senate," Los Angeles Times, 12/19/16)
Committee On The Judiciary, January 9, 2018 – Present (Press Release, "Schumer Announces Updated Senate Democratic Committee Memberships For The 115th Congress, 2nd Session," Senate Democrats, 1/9/18)
Committee On Environment And Public Works, January 3, 2017 – January 9, 2018 (John Myers, "Kamala Harris Nabs National Security, Environment Assignments In The U.S. Senate," Los Angeles Times, 12/19/16; Press Release, "Schumer Announces Updated Senate Democratic Committee Memberships For The 115th Congress, 2nd Session," Senate Democrats, 1/9/18)

Affiliations: 
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights – Co-Chair (Pat Lynch, "This DA Makes A Difference," Women's Radio, 12/19/10)
Partners Ending Domestic Abuse – President of the Board of Directors (Pat Lynch, "This DA Makes A Difference," Women's Radio, 12/19/10)
San Francisco Bar Association – Board Of Directors Member (Pat Lynch, "This DA Makes A Difference," Women's Radio, 12/19/10)
San Francisco Museum Of Modern Art – Founder (Pat Lynch, "This DA Makes A Difference," Women's Radio, 12/19/10)
Coalition To End The Exploitation Of Kids (CEEK) – Founder ("Speaking Of People: Kamala D. Harris," Ebony, 3/04)
National District Attorney's Association – Former Vice President ("Attorney General: Who Is Kamala Harris?" All Gov-California, 7/2/12)
California District Attorneys Association – Former Board Of Directors Member ("Attorney General: Who Is Kamala Harris?" All Gov-California, 7/2/12)
The Aspen Institute - Former Rodel Fellow ("Kamala Harris Bio," Kamala Harris For Attorney General, Accessed 8/10/20)
HARRIS IS A FAR-LEFT RADICAL
Harris Supports Bernie Sanders' $32 Trillion Socialized Health Care Plan Outlawing Private Insurance
In 2017, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) Introduced His "Medicare For All" Bill.("S.1804 - Medicare For All Act Of 2017," Congress.gov, Accessed 9/14/17)

Harris Became The "First Democrat" To Announce That She Would Support Sanders' Single-Payer Socialized Health Care Plan. "Sen. Kamala Harris is the first Democrat to announce she'll co-sponsor Sen. Bernie Sanders' single-payer health care bill when it's introduced in September."(Eric Bradner, "Kamala Harris To Co-Sponsor Bernie Sanders' Single-Payer Health Care Bill," CNN, 8/30/17)

The Mercatus Center Found That Sanders' Single-Payer Plan Would Cost $32.6 Trillion Over Ten Years. "M4A would add approximately $32.6 trillion to federal budget commitments during the first 10 years of its implementation (2022–2031)." (Charles Blahous, "The Costs Of A National Single-Payer Healthcare System," The Mercatus Center, 7/30/18)

The Mercatus Study Also Concluded That Doubling The Projected Federal Individual And Corporate Income Taxes Would Be "Insufficient To Finance The Added Federal Costs Of The Plan." "A doubling of all currently projected federal individual and corporate income tax collections would be insufficient to finance the added federal costs of the plan." (Charles Blahous, "The Costs Of A National Single-Payer Healthcare System," The Mercatus Center, 7/30/18)

Harris Said She Wanted To Eliminate Private Health Insurance Even If You Like Your Plan
In January 2019, Harris Said She Wanted To "Eliminate" Private Insurance Even If You Like Your Plan, Saying "Let's Move On." SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): "Well, listen, the idea is that everyone gets access to medical care, and you don't have to go through the process of going through an insurance company, having them give you approval, going through the paperwork, all of the delay that may require. Who of us has not had that situation where you've got to wait for approval, and the doctor says, well, I don't know if your insurance company is going to cover this. Let's eliminate all of that. Let's move on." (Sen. Kamala Harris, Remarks At A CNN Town Hall, Des Moines, IA 1/29/19)

Click To Watch 
Under Sanders' Medicare For All Bill, Which Harris Co-Sponsored, It Would Be "Unlawful" For Private Insurers To Sell Health Insurance To Americans. (S.1804, Introduced 9/13/17)

Harris Supports The Job-Killing Green New Deal
Harris Endorsed The Green New Deal. "Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) on Monday endorsed the 'Green New Deal,' a proposal that sets a goal of getting 100 percent of U.S. electricity from renewable energy. 'I support a Green New Deal,' she said during a CNN town hall in Iowa. 'Climate change is an existential threat to us, and we have got to deal with the reality of it,' she added." (Michael Burke, "Kamala Harris Endorses Ocasio-Cortez's 'Green New Deal,'" The Hill, 1/28/19)


Harris Is A Cosponsor Of The Green New Deal. (S.Res. 59, Introduced 2/7/19) 

In September 2019, Kamala Harris Said That She Supported A Ban On Plastic Straws. "Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., came out in favor of banning plastic straws on Wednesday during CNN's climate change-focused town hall marathon. When asked what she would do as president to curb the country's reliance on 'single-use plastics, Harris pointed to the 'images' of plastic bags and bottles that are found in the ocean and celebrated California's ban of plastic bags. "I think we have to create incentives," Harris told CNN anchor Erin Burnett. "We have seen innovation take place when leaders lead.'" (Joseph A. Wulfsohn, "Kamala Harris Says She Supports Plastic Straw Ban During CNN Climate Change Marathon," Fox News, 9/4/20)
Harris Voted Against President Trump's Tax Cuts For The Middle Class
In December 2017, Harris Voted Against President Trump's Tax Cuts. (H.R. 1, Roll Call Vote #323: Passed 51-48: R 51-1; D 0-48, 12/20/17)
The Tax Cuts And Jobs Act Gave A $2,000 Tax Cut To The Average American Middle Class Family Of Four. "The TCJA will provide more than $2,000 in tax cuts in 2018 for an average family of four with an income of $75,000."("President Donald J. Trump's Historic Tax Cuts Are Delivering Real Savings And Creating More Opportunity For All Americans," The White House, 4/15/19)
Harris Voted To Against A 20 Week Abortion Ban
In 2017, Harris Voted Against A Bill That Would Limit Abortion To the First 20 Weeks, And She Even Used Her Position As California's Attorney General To Investigate A Pro-Life Activist. "A supporter of abortion rights, Harris voted against a bill that would limit abortions to the first 20 weeks of pregnancy. As California state attorney general, she launched an investigation of anti-abortion activist David Daleiden, whose undercover videos later sparked charges of breaking privacy laws. His supporters said Harris' relationship with Planned Parenthood was a conflict of interest." ("What Does Kamala Harris Believe? Where The Candidate Stands On 9 Issues," PBS, 1/21/19)
Harris Said We Should "Have That Conversation" About Allowing Felons To Vote From Prison
In April 2019, Kamala Harris Said "We Should Have That Conversation" About Allowing Felons Including The Boston Marathon Bomber To Vote From Prison. CNN'S DON LEMON: "Another issue that I want to talk to you about this is really important I'm not sure if we were watching earlier but Senator Bernie Sanders said that that he is in favor of felons being able to vote while serving in prison. He was asked specifically, about people like the Boston marathon bomber, also people were convicted of sexual assault. He said, this is a quote, 'the right to vote is inherent to our democracy, yes even for terrible people.' Do you agree with that Senator?" SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): "I agree that the right to vote is one of the very important components of citizenship and it is something that people should should not be stripped of needlessly, which is why I have been a long, advocate of making sure that the formerly incarcerated are not denied a right to vote, which is the case in so many states in our country, in some states permanently deprived of the right to vote, and these are policies that go back to Jim Crow, these are policies that go back to the heart of policies that have been about disenfranchisement policies that continue until today and we need to take it seriously." LEMON: "People who are in convicted in prison like the Boston Marathon bomber, death row, people who are convicted of sexual assault they should be able to vote?" SENATOR HARRIS: "I think we should have that conversation." (Sen. Kamala Harris, Remarks At A CNN Town Hall, Manchester, NH, 4/22/20)

Click To Watch
Harris Argues That ICE Needs To Be Re-Evaluated "From Scratch" And Has Consistently Backed Sanctuary Cities
In 2008, San Francisco Created An Ad Campaign To Notify Illegal Immigrants That The City Would "Not Report Them To Federal Authorities." "In what may be the first such campaign of its kind, the city plans to publish Multilanguage brochures and fill the airwaves with advertisements relaying assurance that San Francisco will not report them to federal immigration authorities. Mayor Gavin Newsom said the campaign was simply an amplification of a longstanding position of not cooperating with immigration raids or other enforcement. The city passed a so-called sanctuary ordinance in 1989." (Jessie McKinley, "San Francisco Reaches Out To Immigrants," The New York Times, 4/6/08)

Harris Supported The Ad Campaign Advertising That Illegal Immigrants Would Be Reported To Federal Immigration Authorities. "'It is a trademark of a criminal predator to convince victims that because of the victims' immigration status that they – not the predator – will be treated as the criminal,' said Kamala Harris, the city's district attorney. 'We want to remove that tool from the criminal's tool belt.'" (Jessie McKinley, "San Francisco Reaches Out To Immigrants," The New York Times, 4/6/08)

In 2018, Harris Said That ICE Needs To Be Reevaluated "From Scratch" "Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., said the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency should be reevaluated 'from scratch' following the political fallout of the Trump administration's zero tolerance policy that resulted in family separations at the border. 'I think there's no question that we've got to critically reexamine ICE, and its role, and the way that it is being administered, and the work it is doing,' Harris said during an interview on MSNBC's 'Kasie DC.' 'And we need to probably be thinking about starting from scratch because there's a lot that is wrong with the way that it is conducting itself. Harris' comments, made in an interview broadcast on Sunday, come after New York gubernatorial candidate Cynthia Nixon this week called for the abolition of ICE, describing it as a 'terrorist organization.'" (Naomi Lim, "Kamala Harris: ICE Should Be Reassessed 'From Scratch.'" Washington Examiner 6/24/18)
HARRIS HAS REPEATEDLY SLAMMED JOE BIDEN
In June 2019, Harris Attacked Biden After He Touted His Work With Segregationists In The U.S. Senate. "Joseph R. Biden Jr. repeatedly found himself on the defensive in the Democratic debate on Thursday over his record as well as his personal views, with the most searing moment of the night, and the primary campaign to date, coming when Senator Kamala Harris confronted him over his comments on working with segregationists in the Senate." (Jonathan Martin And Alexander Burns, "Biden Comes Under Attack From All Sides In Democratic Debate," The New York Times, 6/27/19)

Harris Said That Biden's Praise Of Segregationists Was "Personal" And "Hurtful," Particularly For Him To "Talk About The Reputations Of Two United States Senators Who" Built Their Careers "On The Segregation Of Race In This Country." SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): "And I will say also that -- that, in this campaign, we have also heard -- and I'm going to now direct this at Vice President Biden, I do not believe you are a racist, and I agree with you when you commit yourself to the importance of finding common ground. But I also believe, and it's personal -- and I was actually very -- it was hurtful to hear you talk about the reputations of two United States senators who built their reputations and career on the segregation of race in this country." (Sen. Kamala Harris, Remarks At The NBC News Democratic Primary Debate, Miami, FL, 6/28/19)


Click To Watch
Harris Also Called Out Biden For Working With Those Segregationist Senators To Oppose School Busing In The 1970s. SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): "And it was not only that, but you also worked with them to oppose busing. And, you know, there was a little girl in California who was part of the second class to integrate her public schools, and she was bused to school every day. And that little girl was me. So I will tell you that, on this subject, it cannot be an intellectual debate among Democrats. We have to take it seriously. We have to act swiftly. As attorney general of California, I was very proud to put in place a requirement that all my special agents would wear body cameras and keep those cameras on." (Sen. Kamala Harris, Remarks At The NBC News Democratic Primary Debate, Miami, FL, 6/28/19)

Click To Watch

Harris's Presidential Campaign Starting Selling "That Little Girl Was Me" Shirts Shortly After The Attacks During The Debate. "Harris herself ended up settling on a line that within minutes would appear in social media memes and just a few hours later would be screen printed on t-shirts selling for $29 on her website: "That little girl was me," she said, of her desegregated class." (Christopher Cadelago, "Kamala's Attack On Biden Was Months In The Making," Politico, 6/28/19)

Senator Harris Defended Her Remarks On Biden's Take On Busing Because It "Directly Impacted" Her. SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): "I have no intention of attacking Joe Biden, but I am going to point out our differences of opinion on a very critical moment in the history of the United States. 1954, the United States Supreme Court unanimously decided Brown v. Board of Education, because there were segregationists in the history of our country, including those members of the United States Senate who lived their careers and their reputations on the basis of ensuring that racists would not be educated together. So, the issue came up before the debate many days if not weeks, which was the comments made about those segregationists, and our difference of opinions of who they were, and that they worked on an issue that directly affected me, which was this issue of busing." (ABC The View, 6/12/19)

Click To Watch
Harris Implied That If Biden Was Not Prepared To Take Her Questions, Perhaps He Was Not Ready To Be President. SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): "Listen, this is a presidential race, and I absolutely agree and believe and maintain that we should not have personal attacks against each other we should not be attacking each other but we are on a debate stage." ABC's MEGHAN MCCAIN: "Biden called you, 'slick and slippery,' a Biden advisor called you that." HARRIS: "You know what, we are on a debate stage and if you're not prepared, if you are not ready for somebody to point out a difference of opinion about the history of segregation in our country and what was necessary to deal with that, which at that time was busing, then you're probably not ready." (ABC The View, 6/12/19)

Click To Watch
Harris Later Doubled Down On Her Attacks, Responding To Criticism That She Delivered A "Low Blow" To Biden By Saying She Was "Speaking Truth." "In an interview with 'CBS This Morning' Friday, Harris responded to criticism from Biden's camp that the contentious moment was a 'low blow.' 'It was about just speaking truth and as I've said many times, I have a great deal of respect for Joe Biden...but he and I disagree on that,' Harris said. She added, 'My purpose was to really just make sure that in this conversation we are appreciating the impact on real people of policies that have been pushed in the history of our country.' The California Democrat stood out amongst the packed crowd of 10 candidates on stage, eliciting some of the loudest applause after she forced moderators to give her time to answer a question on race relations -- noting that she was the only African American present on the debate stage. Harris later said she does not believe the former vice president is a racist but called his statement about finding 'common ground' with segregationists personally 'hurtful' to people of color like her." (Emily Tillett, "Kamala Harris Responds To Criticism That She Delivered 'Low Blow" To Joe Biden," CBS News, 6/28/19)

Click To Watch
Harris Said Biden's 1994 Crime Bill "Contributed To Mass Incarceration"
Senator Kamala Harris Said She Disagreed With Biden Over The 1994 Crime Bill, Which "Contributed To Mass Incarceration" In The U.S. "Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) knocked Joe Biden on Wednesday after the former vice president said the 1994 crime bill he helped write did not lead to mass incarceration. 'I have a great deal of respect for Vice President Joe Biden, but I disagree with him,' Harris, a former prosecutor, told reporters in New Hampshire. 'That crime bill, that 1994 crime bill, it did contribute to mass incarceration in our country. It encouraged and was the first time that we had a federal three-strikes law. It funded the building of more prisons in the states. So, I disagree, sadly.'" (Tal Axelrod, "Harris Knocks Biden On Crime Bill: 'It Did Contribute To Mass Incarceration In Our Country'," The Hill, 05/15/19)

Click To Watch
AS PROSECUTOR, HARRIS WAS MORE FOCUSED ON PLAYING POLITICS THAN FIGHTING CRIME
As San Francisco's District Attorney, Harris Inflated The Office's Conviction Rate By Offering Plea Deals To Defendants Accused Of Serious Crimes
During Her Time As San Francisco's District Attorney, Harris' Overall Conviction Rate Was Inflated Due To Cutting Plea Deals With Criminals, Which Were Negotiated Before Defendants Accused Of Serious Crimes Went To Trial. "The records show that while Harris' overall conviction rate has reached new highs over the past several years, that success is based almost entirely on plea deals negotiated before defendants accused of serious crimes proceed to trial. (Such pleas form the bulk of any D.A.'s convictions.) By contrast, felony convictions for cases that actually go to trial and reach a jury verdict — a comparatively small group that nevertheless includes some of a district attorney's most violent and emotionally charged cases — have declined significantly over the past two years." (Peter Jamison, "A Lack Of Conviction," San Francisco Weekly, 5/5/10)
Harris' Office Underperformed Compared To Other Prosecutors In California
In 2009, Harris' Office Underperformed Comparable Prosecutors' Offices, Achieving Only A 76 Percent Conviction Rate In Felony Jury Trials. "In 2009, San Francisco prosecutors won a lower percentage of their felony jury trials than their counterparts at district attorneys' offices covering the 10 largest cities in California, according to data on case outcomes compiled by officials at the San Francisco Superior Court as well as by other county courts and prosecutors. (Officials in Sacramento, the state's seventh-largest city, did not provide data.) Harris' at-trial felony conviction rate that year was 76 percent, down 12 points from the previous year." (Peter Jamison, "A Lack Of Conviction," San Francisco Weekly, 5/5/10)
In The First Quarter Of 2010, The Trend Continued And Harris' Office Achieved Only A 53 Percent Conviction Rate During That Period. "In the first quarter of 2010, things got worse. During that time, Harris' office secured guilty verdicts in just 53 percent of its felony trials — a remarkable figure, revealing that defendants accused of serious crimes who took their case to trial had an even one-in-two shot at winning an acquittal. By contrast, the most recent recorded statewide average was 83 percent, according to statistics from the California Judicial Council." (Peter Jamison, "A Lack Of Conviction," San Francisco Weekly, 5/5/10)
During Harris' District Attorney Tenure, San Francisco's Homicide Rates Rose
Homicides Went Up In San Francisco During Harris' First Years As The City's District Attorney. "A recent surge in homicides and violent crime has put the spotlight on The City's law enforcement efforts, with city leaders looking to a variety of solutions — including surveillance cameras, foot patrols, enforcement of a city curfew. To date, San Francisco has had 66 homicides in 2006; in 2005, there were 96 murders, up from 88 in 2004." (Bonnie Eslinger, "S.F.'s Felony Conviction Rate Improves," San Francisco Examiner, 9/15/06)
According To The San Francisco Violence Prevention And Intervention Unit, "The Homicide Rate In San Francisco Rose Steadily From 2005 To 2008." "The homicide rate in San Francisco rose steadily from 2005 to 2008, with 100 homicides in 2007. Table 1 illustrates the violent crime trends from 2005 to 2009. Prior to 2009 San Francisco experienced over 80 homicides a year. Nonetheless, of the 98 homicides reported for 2008, approximately 38% were youth and young adults aged 14 to 25. Of those youth and young adult victims 94% were high school dropouts12. Although 50 homicides were reported in 2010 in San Francisco13, 2011 presents a significant challenge for the community since by April 20 homicides have been reported; five more than were reported in 2010 and nine more than reported in 2009 at this time of the year. There is a clear need for intervention strategies and techniques to reduce the harm caused by street violence in the City and County of San Francisco." ("Street Violence Reduction Initiative," Violence Prevention And Intervention Unit, Accessed 10/12/18)
HARRIS' ATTEMPTS TO INFLATE HER OFFICE'S CONVICTION RATES LET MURDERERS OFF THE HOOK AND PUT PREDATORS BACK ON THE STREETS?
In 2004, Harris Chose Not To Seek The Death Penalty For A Cop-Killer, Defying The Wishes Of The Officer's Wife?
In 2004, San Francisco Police Officer Isaac Espinoza Was Fatally Shot And Murdered By David Hill, A Reputed California Gang Member. "Espinoza, an undercover gang officer, and his partner were on patrol in an unmarked car April 10 when they spotted David Hill, 21, a reputed gang member. Police say Espinoza got out of the car, identified himself as a police officer and approached Hill. According to police, Hill produced an AK-47 rifle and fatally shot Espinoza, who police said never drew his weapon." (Lee Romney And Carl Ingram, "Officer's Murder Divides San Francisco," Los Angeles Times, 5/8/04)
Then-San Francisco District Attorney Kamala Harris Refused To Pursue The Death Penalty For Hill. "While Lockyer did not mention San Francisco Dist. Atty. Kamala Harris by name at the gathering, his office confirmed that he has opened an informal inquiry into whether Harris abused her discretion by declining to pursue a death sentence in the murder of Officer Isaac Espinoza." (Lee Romney And Carl Ingram, "Officer's Murder Divides San Francisco," Los Angeles Times, 5/8/04)
Espinoza's Widow Danielle Bologna, The Widow Of Espinoza, Pleaded For Harris To Seek The Death Penalty. "Danielle Bologna says she wants San Francisco District Attorney Kamala Harris - who has pledged never to seek the death penalty - to understand a little of what she must endure and to seek the death penalty for her family's killer. 'The district attorney really needs to pay attention - she doesn't have kids, she doesn't know what this means,' Bologna said." (Jaxon Van Derbeken, "Widow Pleads For Death Penalty," San Francisco Chronicle, 6/27/08)
Harris Received Harsh Criticism From Her Own Supporters, Including Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) And Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Who Both Encouraged Harris To Seek The Death Penalty. "But the murder of Espinoza triggered an uproar over Harris' blanket opposition to capital punishment. Democratic U.S. Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer have called for the death penalty in the case." (Lee Romney And Carl Ingram, "Officer's Murder Divides San Francisco," Los Angeles Times, 5/8/04)
The Police Union President Gary Delagnes Also Criticized Harris' Decision Not To Seek The Death Penalty. "But police union President Gary Delagnes said the candidates were never asked how they would handle the prosecution of a murdered officer. 'Let's face it. We're cops in San Francisco. We're realistic,' Delagnes said of the city's aversion to capital punishment. 'But when it's one of our own, that's a different ballgame. When it comes to protecting the safety of our cops on the street, we believe a clear message needs to be sent.'" (Lee Romney And Carl Ingram, "Officer's Murder Divides San Francisco," Los Angeles Times, 5/8/04)
Kevin Martin, Vice President Of The San Francisco Police Union, Said "He Would Have Still Liked To Have Seen A Death Sentence." "Today, however, Kevin Martin, vice president of San Francisco police union, said officers are 'grateful for the efforts of the court and certainly the D.A.'s office.' He said officers would have still liked to have seen a death sentence, but, 'given the cultural environment and political terrain of San Francisco, life without parole is probably the best we're going to get.'" (Jaxon Van Derbeken, Marisa Lagos, And Wyatt Buchanan, "AK-47 Cop Killer Gets Life," San Francisco Chronicle, 4/20/07)
District Attorney Harris Released A Violent Criminal That Later Confessed To Committing Two Murders While Out On Probation?
In 2005, DeVaughndre Broussard And Several Other Juveniles Assaulted San Francisco Resident Christopher Hall. "Dixon was arrested again in September 2005 after officers found heroin and cocaine on her and in her house. A month later, Broussard — less than three weeks past his 18th birthday — and several juveniles assaulted art student Christopher Hall, then 20, aboard a Muni bus full of Halloween revelers, robbing him of his iPod, wallet and money. The attack was recorded by a surveillance camera. Hall didn't return phone calls seeking comment." (Josh Richman, "Bailey Suspect Had Hard Youth," East Bay Times, 6/22/08)

Broussard Served One Year In San Francisco County Jail After The Attack. "Debbie Mesloh, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco District Attorney Kamala Harris, said Broussard pleaded guilty to the charge in January 2006, and served one year in San Francisco county jail. Broussard was 18 at the time of the crime, and it was his first criminal offense, Mesloh said. 'He was sentenced as consistent with first-time offenders,' Mesloh said in an e-mailed statement. ' … (Broussard) was also ordered to three years supervised probation so authorities could track his activities.'" (Paul T. Rosynsky, "Bakery Leader Charged In Kidnapping; Associate Charged With Bailey Murder," East Bay Times, 8/7/07) 
Harris' Office Allowed Broussard To Be Put On Probation In 2006. "'He should have gone to state prison,' said Hall's father, San Francisco attorney Christopher Hall, who expressed outrage after being told by The Chronicle that his son's attacker was now accused of killing Bailey. Hall blamed the office of San Francisco District Attorney Kamala Harris for allowing Broussard to be put on probation in February 2006. 'That's great,' the elder Hall said. 'Blame it on Kamala Harris.'" (Henry K. Lee And Matthai Kuruvila, "New Details On Man Who Confessed To Killing Editor/ Oakland Police Don't Think He Acted Alone; He Was On Probation For Robbery-Assault," San Francisco Chronicle, 8/7/07)

In 2007, Broussard Murdered Oakland Post Editor Chauncey Bailey, Shooting Him Three Times As Bailey Walked To Work. "A 19-year-old handyman who investigators say has confessed to killing Oakland Post Editor Chauncey Bailey with a shotgun is not believed to have worked alone, police said Monday. Police said Devaughndre Broussard, 19, admitted pulling the trigger in Thursday's ambush killing in downtown Oakland. However, 'we don't believe he worked on his own, and I can't get into specifics,' said Assistant Police Chief Howard Jordan. 'We're still trying to investigate how the plan was developed and who was involved in the plan.'" (Henry K. Lee And Matthai Kuruvila, "New Details On Man Who Confessed To Killing Editor," San Francisco Chronicle, 8/7/07)

Broussard Later Confessed To The Crime. "Bey is accused of ordering the hit on Bailey. Mackey is accused of helping to hunt Bailey down and driving the getaway car. Both have pleaded not guilty. Broussard admitted to shooting Bailey three times as the Oakland Post editor walked to work August 2, 2007. Prosecutors say Bey wanted the journalist dead because he planned to publish an article on the bakery's financial troubles." (Cecilia Vega, "Confessed Killer To Testify In Bailey Murder Trial," ABC News 7, 3/24/11)

Broussard Also Killed A Second Man In 2007, Odell Roberson, And Broussard Was Later Sentenced To 25 Years In State Prison For The Crimes. "The man who killed journalist Chauncey Bailey by shooting him three times at point-blank range while he was walking to work in downtown Oakland four years ago was sentenced today to 25 years in state prison. Devaughndre Broussard, 23, could have faced life in prison for killing Bailey, 57, on Aug. 2, 2007, and a second man, Odell Roberson Jr., 31, on July 8, 2007, as he initially was charged with two counts of murder. But on May 7, 2009, prosecutors allowed Broussard to plead guilty to two counts of the lesser charge of voluntary manslaughter and receive a shorter prison term in exchange for his testimony against Your Black Muslim Bakery Yusuf Bey IV." (Bay City News, "Devaughndre Broussard Gets 25 Years For Killing Chauncey Bailey And A Second Man," San Francisco Examiner, 8/12/11)
Harris Chose Not To Seek The Death Penalty Against A MS-13 Gang Member Who Killed A Father And His Two Sons
In 2009, Edwin Ramos Shot And Killed A Tony Bologna And His Two Sons After Mistaking Them For Rival Gang Members. "A San Francisco judge ordered a 22-year-old alleged gang member Monday to stand trial in the slaying of a father and his two sons, citing the testimony of a surviving family member who said he got a good look at the defendant's face as he opened fire on an Excelsior district street. Superior Court Judge Teri Jackson said Edwin Ramos should be tried on charges that he murdered Tony Bologna, 48, and his sons Michael, 20, and Matthew, 16, as they drove near their home the afternoon of June 22, 2008. Authorities believe Ramos mistook one of the younger men for a rival while looking to retaliate for the shootings of two fellow MS-13 gang members earlier that day." (Demian Bulwa, "Suspect To Be Tried On 3 Murder Counts," San Francisco Chronicle, 6/30/09)

Ramos Was Believed To Be A Member Of The Gang MS-13. "Ramos, 22, believed to be a member of the MS-13 gang, was ordered in June to stand trial for the killings of the Bolognas, who were shot to death in the Excelsior district by someone in a passing car as they were driving home from a family outing." (Jaxon Van Derbeken, "Edwin Ramos Won't Face Death Penalty," San Francisco Chronicle, 9/11/09)
Ramos Was An Illegal Immigrant, And Despite Previous Convictions, Was Not Reported To Federal Authorities Under San Francisco's Sanctuary Policy. "Ramos had a record as a juvenile before the Bologna killings - a gang-related attack on a Muni passenger and an attempted assault on a pregnant woman, both of which he committed when he was 17. Although the Salvadoran immigrant was not in this country legally, juvenile justice officials did not report him to federal authorities, under their interpretation of a city law granting sanctuary to illegal immigrants." (Demian Bulwa, "Judge Orders Ramos Tried On 3 Murder Counts," San Francisco Chronicle, 6/30/09)

Again, Harris Chose Not To Seek the Death Penalty Against Ramos. "San Francisco District Attorney Kamala Harris will not seek the death penalty for an alleged gang member accused of murdering a father and two of his sons, a prosecutor said Thursday." (Jaxon Van Derbeken, "Edwin Ramos Won't Face Death Penalty," San Francisco Chronicle, 9/11/09)

Harris Decision Was Seen An Attempt To Keep A Campaign Promise To "Never" Seek The Death Penalty. "The decision is in keeping with Harris' campaign promise never to seek the death penalty. There had been speculation, however, that with Harris running for state attorney general next year, she might shift direction in an especially notorious crime." (Jaxon Van Derbeken, "Edwin Ramos Won't Face Death Penalty," San Francisco Chronicle, 9/11/09)

HARRIS' OFFICE INSTEAD TRIED TO JAIL TRUANT PARENTS, KEEP NON-VIOLENT CRIMINALS IN PRISON FOR CHEAP LABOR, AND PROSECUTED A MENTALLY ILL WOMAN WHO WAS SHOT BY POLICE
Harris Boasted That As San Francisco District Attorney Her Office Nearly Tripled Misdemeanor Prosecutions. "But Harris took a different approach as San Francisco district attorney from 2004-11. In a 2008 letter to the editor in The Recorder, a legal newspaper, Harris boasted that her office 'nearly tripled the number of misdemeanor cases taken to trial' since 2003 and argued that misdemeanor crimes "erode our quality of life and are often a gateway to more serious offenses that jeopardize public safety.'" (Joseph Simonson and Emily Larsen, "Harris Criminal Justice Plan A Reversal From Her Prosecutorial Record," Washington Examiner, 9/11/19)
Harris' Office Fought To Keep Inmates Locked Up In Overcrowded Prisons So They Could Be Used For Cheap Labor
In 2014, Harris' Office Argued Against Releasing Non-Violent Criminals So That They Could Use Their Cheap Labor During The State's 2014 Forest Fire And Drought Mitigation Efforts. "Lawyers under the oversight of then-Attorney General of California Kamala Harris argued in 2014 against the release of nonviolent criminals because they wanted to keep them for cheap labor. 'Extending 2-for-1 credits to all minimum custody inmates at this time would severely impact fire camp participation — a dangerous outcome while California is in the middle of a difficult fire season and severe drought,' lawyers from Harris's office wrote in a filing. The attorney general arrived at that stance in reaction to a chain of events following a 2011 Supreme Court decision ruling that California's prison overcrowding was in violation of the Constitution's cruel and unusual punishment clause. In 2014, as overcrowding persisted, a three-judge panel in California ordered the state to make eligible for parole nonviolent prisoners with only two felonies that had served half their sentences. Harris' lawyers argued early release would harm the prison's labor program, which included its work program to help fight California's wildfires. The judges rejected the argument." (John Gage, "Kamala Harris Office Sought To Keep Inmates Locked Up So That California Could Use Them For Cheap Labor," Washington Examiner, 2/11/19)
Harris "Championed" A Law To Put The Parents Of Truant Kids In Jail
As San Francisco District Attorney, Kamala Harris Boosted School Attendance Rate By "Threatening To Prosecute Parents Whose Kids Missed Too Many School Days." "When she was the San Francisco district attorney, Harris took it upon herself to boost school attendance rates. She did this by threatening to prosecute parents whose kids missed too many school days without good reason. 'I believe a child going without an education is tantamount to a crime, so I decided I was going to start prosecuting parents for truancy,' Harris said in a 2010 speech." (Salvador Rizzo, "Kamala Harris's Careful Answer On Jailing Parents Whose Kids Missed School,"The Washington Post, 3/29/19)
Harris Prosecuted A Mentally Ill Woman Who Was Shot By San Francisco Police
In 2008, Harris Prosecuted A Schizophrenic Woman Who Was Shot And Severely Injured By San Francisco Police When The Police Broke Down The Door Of A Group Home For The Mentally Disabled. "When San Francisco police broke down a door inside a group home for mentally disabled people in 2008 and shot a 56-year-old resident, then-District Attorney Kamala Harris didn't charge the officers with a crime. Instead she prosecuted the schizophrenic woman who was severely injured in the shooting. Harris charged Teresa Sheehan with assaulting the officers, alleging she came at them with a kitchen knife after they forced their way into her room." (Laurel Rosenhall, "Kamala Harris Prosecuted A Mentally Ill Woman Shot By SF Police. The Jury Didn't Buy It.," The Mercury News, 9/11/19)

Loyola Law School Professor Laurie Levenson Said "Somebody Used Very Poor Judgement In Deciding To Bring These Charges." "'Somebody used very poor judgement in deciding to bring these charges,' said Laurie Levenson, a criminal law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles." (Laurel Rosenhall, "Kamala Harris Prosecuted A Mentally Ill Woman Shot By SF Police. The Jury Didn't Buy It.," The Mercury News, 9/11/19)

  