
    "We are going to continue to expand energy production, and we will also create more jobs in infrastructure, trucking, and manufacturing." -President Donald J. Trump
ENERGY AND MANUFACTURING VICTORIES: President Donald J. Trump's policies have paved the way to energy dominance and rejuvenated United States manufacturing. 

Today, President Trump visited the Pennsylvania Shell ethylene cracker plant to demonstrate his continued commitment to United States energy and manufacturing.
Under the Trump Administration, burdensome regulations that unfairly punished the energy industry have been replaced, initiating a great increase in American energy production.

President Trump withdrew from the awful Paris Climate Agreement and helped the coal industry by ending oppressive regulations such as the Clean Power Plan.
The Administration expanded energy production through the approval of oil pipelines and by unlocking America's abundant natural resources.


Onerous regulations on American manufacturers have also been removed, allowing manufacturers to focus on production, expand their operations, and hire more employees.

Fewer regulations combined with lower energy costs have led to the current American manufacturing boom.



AMERICAN ENERGY DOMINANCE: President Trump's policies have allowed American energy production and exports to soar to new heights.

By 2020, the United States is expected to export more energy than it imports for the first time since 1953.
The United States is now the largest crude oil producer in the world, with production breaking a nearly 50-year-old record in 2018.

Crude oil production grew by nearly 20 percent in 2018, reaching a total of 10.96 million barrels per day.


The United States is trending towards becoming a net exporter of oil and refined fuels.
Coal exports have risen more than 90 percent since 2016, increasing every year since President Trump took office.
Today, the United States is the world's top producer of petroleum and natural gas.
American exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) to the European Union (EU) reached an all-time high in March 2019.

The EU aims to more than double the level of LNG imports per year from the United States by 2023.



MANUFACTURING BOOM: President Trump's pro-American agenda has allowed United States manufacturing to boom for the first time in decades.

Since President Trump took office, American manufacturing has added a total of 523,000 jobs, compared to the 287,000 created during Obama's last three years in office.

The 264,000 manufacturing jobs created in 2018 was the most since 1997.


In 2018, manufacturing optimism reached a record high.
Eighty-five percent of blue-collar workers believe their lives are heading in a positive direction.

Blue-collar wages have increased substantially, with workers on track to receive an additional $2,700 in annual wages, on average.


  