
    In "Trust the People," Steyer advocates for term limits and a national referendum— the first for a Democrat seeking the nomination
(SAN FRANCISCO, August 14, 2019) — Today, candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination Tom Steyer released his campaign's latest ad "Trust the People," which highlights the stranglehold corporations have on Washington politicians. In the ad, Steyer advocates for term limits for Congress and a national referendum in order to put the power of our Democracy back in the hands of the American people.
The ad will run today through August 20 locally in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, and Nevada — the first four primary and caucus states.
"I trust the people, not the politicians in Washington, to fix this. As president, I'll establish a national referendum to make your voice heard. And term limits for Congress, to ensure politicians focus more on you than getting re-elected," Steyer said in the ad.
On Tuesday, August 13th, Steyer reached the donor requirement of 130,000 to make the September debate. He is now just one qualifying poll away from making it onto the September DNC debate stage in Houston, TX. In only a few weeks, Steyer has surpassed candidates who have been in the race much longer, in polling from Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, and South Carolina. Steyer has been steadily gaining traction in early primary states, as indicated by three qualifying polls in Iowa and South Carolina, the most recent of which, from Monmouth University, had the candidate polling at 3%. Other non-DNC sanctioned polls show Steyer joining the top tier of Democratic contenders. On Monday, Morning Consult had Steyer polling at 6% in early states, tying for fourth place with Kamala Harris, Pete Buttigieg, and Cory Booker. A new Change Research Poll has Steyer at 3% in Nevada, besting Beto O'Rourke.
See below for the full script:
Our democracy is under attack. It's been bought by corporations that put profits over people.
I've been taking on corporations and winning for 10 years.
I trust the people, not the politicians in Washington, to fix this.
As president, I'll establish a national referendum to make your voice heard.
And term limits for Congress, to ensure politicians focus more on you than getting re-elected.
I'm Tom Steyer and I approve this message. Let's make change happen.
  