
    "Millions of middle-class Americans are struggling to find work — but President Obama's policies have only made matters worse. In Ohio and around the nation, the President's energy policies have resulted in fewer jobs and higher costs at home. As president, Mitt Romney will reverse President Obama's disastrous energy policies and get to work creating more jobs and more take-home pay for middle-class Americans." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Across The Nation, The Obama Administration Has Waged A War On Coal And Even Promised To Bankrupt Coal Plants:
Candidate Barack Obama, On His Energy Policies: "If Somebody Wants To Build A Coal Plant, They Can — It's Just That It Will Bankrupt Them." OBAMA: "So, if somebody wants to build a coal plant, they can — it's just that it will bankrupt them, because they are going to be charged a huge sum for all that greenhouse gas that's being emitted." (Sen. Barack Obama, Interview With San Francisco Chronicle's Editorial Board, 1/17/08)
Senator Joe Biden, While Campaigning In Ohio In 2008: "No Coal Plants Here In America." (Joe Biden, Remarks, Maumee, OH, 9/16/08)
Under The Obama Administration, 111 Coal Power Plants Are Expected To Close By The End Of 2012. "But in the past two years, an increasing number of coal-powered electricity plants across the country have announced closures. Estimates vary, but banking and industry analysis firm Credit Suisse put expected and known closures for 2009-2012 at 111 plants, that's one-fifth of the nation's nearly 500 coal plants." (Lisa Desjardins, "The War Over Coal Is Personal," CNN, 7/17/12)


The Wall Street Journal: "For Three Years The Environmental Protection Agency Has Imposed A De Facto Ban On New Coal-Fired Power While Doing Everything It Can To Harm Existing Coal Plants." (Editorial, "Killing Coal," The Wall Street Journal, 4/5/12)


President Obama's Regulations Will "Effectively Prohibit New Coal-Fired Power Plants." "President Barack Obama's proposed emission rules for power plants effectively prohibit new coal- fired power plants, buttressing the nation's shift away from a power source that fueled the Industrial Revolution to cheap natural gas." (Mark Drajem, "Obama Power-Plant Rule Signals Demise Of 'Old King Coal,'" Bloomberg, 3/28/12)
President Obama's Crackdown On Coal Plants Will Raise Electricity Costs For Consumers. "Some utility officials said the new rules and others that the Obama administration plans to enact in the coming months could force the retirement of several coal plants. That, in turn, will raise electricity costs for consumers, said American Electric Power spokesman Pat Hemlepp." (Juliet Eilperin and Darryl Fears, "EPA To Impose New Power Plant Rules," The Washington Post, 7/7/11)
And In Ohio, Coal Plants And Mines Are Being Forced To Close Or Lay Off Workers Because Of President Obama's Policies:
OhioAmerican Energy Announced The Closure Its Coal Mining Operations In Brilliant, Ohio, Citing President Obama And His Appointees As The Reason. "OhioAmerican Energy, Inc. ('OhioAmerican'), a Subsidiary Of Murray Energy Corporation ('Murray Energy'), today announced the closure of its coal mining operations near Brilliant, Jefferson County, Ohio. Regulatory actions by President Barack Obama and his appointees and followers were cited as the entire reason." (Murray Energy, "OhioAmerican Energy, Inc. Coal Mining Operation Closed In Eastern Ohio," Press Release, 7/31/12)


    "The Obama Administration Has Destroyed 2,868 Jobs In Eastern Ohio With This Forced Mine Closure..." "'At its peak, OhioAmerican employed 239 local people in high-paying, well-benefited jobs,' said Mr. Stanley T. Piasecki, General Manager and Superintendent. 'University studies show that our Mines can create up to eleven (11) secondary jobs in our communities, for store clerks, teachers, etc., to serve our direct employees. Thus, if one uses the eleven (11) to one (1) multiplier, the Obama Administration has destroyed 2,868 jobs in eastern Ohio with this forced Mine closure,' stated Mr. Piasecki." (Murray Energy, "OhioAmerican Energy, Inc. Coal Mining Operation Closed In Eastern Ohio," Press Release, 7/31/12)
  

    Murray Energy General Manager Stanley Piasecki: "There Will Be Additional Layoffs, Not Only At Murray Energy, But Also Throughout The United States Coal Industry Due To Mr. Obama's 'War On Coal'..." 'There will be additional layoffs, not only at Murray Energy, but also throughout the United States coal industry due to Mr. Obama's 'War on Coal' and the destruction that it has caused to so many jobs and families in the Ohio Valley area and elsewhere,' said Mr. Murray. 'Both Mr. Obama and Vice President Biden stated that there would be 'no coal in America' prior to their elections,'" said Mr. Piasecki. 'They are making good on their intentions while they destroy so many lives and family livelihoods in this area for no benefit whatsoever,' he concluded." (Murray Energy, "OhioAmerican Energy, Inc. Coal Mining Operation Closed In Eastern Ohio," Press Release, 7/31/12)
  

"Regulatory Excess Of The Obama Administration" Cited For Layoffs At The Ohio Valley Coal Company's Powhatan No. 6 Mine In Belmont County, Ohio.  "The Ohio Valley Coal Company announced Friday it has been forced to reduce its workforce at the Powhatan No. 6 Mine in Belmont County, Ohio. According to a news release 29 hourly jobs will be cut. The company cites regulatory excess of the Obama Administration as a direct cause to the layoffs." (Colin Lawler, "Ohio Valley Coal Co. Announces Layoffs," WTRF, 7/21/12)
In Ohio, FirstEnergy Will Begin Downsizing Its Bay Shore Plant In September; Eventually 73 Workers Will Lose Their Jobs. "Electric utility FirstEnergy Corp., Toledo Edison's parent firm, said this week it will begin its planned downsizing of the Bay Shore plant in Oregon on Sept. 1 by permanently laying off workers. The number of workers to be laid off eventually will total 73." ("Layoffs To Begin Sept. 1 At Bay Shore Plant," Toledo Blade, 7/20/12)
The Plain Dealer: Plant Closures In Ohio "Will Be A Punch In The Gut For Communities Already Battling Sour Unemployment Numbers." "These plant closures will be a punch in the gut for communities already battling sour unemployment numbers. Three of the plants are in Cleveland, Eastlake and Ashtabula, which stand to lose millions in property taxes as well as many jobs." (Editorial, "Coal Plants' Loss Will Hurt Ohio," The Plain Dealer, 1/29/12)
  