
    Today in South Carolina, Governor Bush announced additions to his South Carolina Veterans for Jeb Steering Committee. These committee members include combat veterans, Distinguished Service Cross and Navy Cross recipients.
Co-Chairman Tom Hanton said, "No one is better able to handle issues affecting veterans than Jeb Bush. Jeb has a proven record of leadership as Governor, and both the active duty military and veterans need him as our new Commander-in-Chief."
Major General James E. Livingston, U.S. Marine Corps (ret.); Medal of Honor recipient and a National Veterans for Jeb Co-Chair said, "Governor Bush's strong record on veterans' issues makes him the best choice to serve as our next Commander-in-Chief. We need a strong leader with executive experience who knows how to lead in a dangerous world while also maintaining the highest standard of care for our veterans back home. Jeb Bush is that leader."
Governor Bush added, "It's an incredible honor to have the support of these heroic individuals. I am committed to a safe America through a strong military, and having a strong military includes having policies that will keep our country's commitment to our veterans."
The additional members of the Veterans for Jeb Steering Committee include:
Co-Chairmen

Tom Hanton, Lt. Colonel, U.S. Air Force (ret.); President, NAM POWs — Mt. Pleasant
Myron Harrington, Colonel, U.S. Marines (ret.); Navy Cross recipient; Board of Visitors, The Citadel — Charleston
Gerard "Jerry" Devlin, Major, U.S. Army (ret.); Distinguished Service Cross, 5 Bronze Stars recipient; Author of the book Paratrooper — Bluffton
Rudi Gresham, Special Forces (ret.); former Senior Advisor to the Secretary of the Veterans Administration — Mt. Pleasant

Steering Committee Members

Henry Auton, U.S. Army — Prosperity
Michael Berry, U.S. Marines- Dalzell
Kevin Borem, U.S. Army — Easley
Mike Fowler, U.S. Army — Spartanburg
Bart Harris, U.S. Air Force — Prosperity
William May, U.S. Army — Spartanburg
Moultrie Plowden, U.S. Army — Walterboro
Ryan Small, Gunnery Sergeant, U.S. Marines (ret.) — Marion
Paul Tamburrino, U.S. Army Reserves; Vice President, The Citadel Alumni Association — Charleston


Release from July 30, 2015
Jeb Bush releases Veterans Steering Committee
Group includes two Medal of Honor recipients, leaders from throughout South Carolina
Today, Governor Jeb Bush released his Veterans for Jeb Steering Committee, a group of veterans and military leaders who will be tasked with advising the South Carolina campaign on veteran's issues and encouraging veterans and their families to join the campaign and help spread Governor Bush's message. The steering committee is comprised of leaders with decades of experience in uniformed military service and veterans' affairs.
In officially welcoming them to the campaign, Governor Bush said, "It is an absolute honor to be endorsed by such a distinguished group. This group of leaders represents the best and brightest of South Carolina, and our nation. I'm proud to have their support."
Retired Major General James Livingston added, "Governor Bush's strong record on veteran's issues makes him the best choice to serve as our next Commander-in-Chief. We need a strong leader with executive experience who knows how to lead in a dangerous world while also maintaining the highest standard of care for our veterans back home. Jeb Bush is that leader."
The Veterans for Jeb Steering Committee includes:
Chairman
Major General James E. Livingston, U.S. Marine Corps (ret.); Medal of Honor recipient; National Veterans for Jeb Co-Chair — Mt. Pleasant
Co-Chairmen

Corporal Kyle Carpenter, U.S. Marine Corps (ret.); Medal of Honor recipient — Lexington
Major General Charles Baldwin, U.S. Air Force (ret.); Former, Chief of Chaplains for the U.S. Air Force — Johns Island
Major General Darwin Simpson, S.C. Army National Guard (ret.) — Spartanburg
Statewide Campaign Co-Chairman
Rear Admiral Bill Schachte, U.S. Navy (ret.) — Kiawah Island

Steering Committee Members

Matt Alexander, Army National Guard — Greenville
Mark Cowan, U.S. Air Force; former CIA Operations Officer — Kiawah Island
Madison Dye, Colonel, S.C. Army National Guard (ret.) — Columbia
Jermaine Husser, U.S. Army — Goose Creek
Jeremy Kouba, U.S. Air Force — Charleston
James Lorraine, Lt. Colonel, U.S. Air Force (ret.); Former, Special Asst. to the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff — Aiken
Rebecca Lorraine, Colonel, U.S. Air Force (ret.) — Aiken
Susan Marlowe, Board of Directors, Patriots Point; Board of Directors, National Medal of Honor Museum Foundation — Mt. Pleasant
Manuel Martinez, U.S. Air Force — Charleston
Barbara McKnight, U.S. Air Force — Aiken
Kenneth Morrow, U.S. Navy — Loris
Deane Pennington, Colonel, S.C. Air National Guard (ret.) — Columbia
George Patton Waters, U.S. Navy Reserves; Grandson of General George S. Patton — Mt. Pleasant


Use of military rank does not imply endorsement by the Department of Defense of Service Branch
Use of organization names is for identification purposes only and does not imply endorsement by the organization
  