
    Shows the nation that he is ready to beat Joe Biden and lead as Commander-in-Chief
Milwaukee, WI - Ron DeSantis dominated tonight's debate by laying out what he will do as President to reverse our nation's decline and revive the American Dream.
"Tonight, Ron DeSantis showed the nation that he is ready to beat Joe Biden, reverse our nation's decline, and revive the American Dream," DeSantis for President Campaign Manager James Uthmeier said. "While other candidates attacked each other, Governor DeSantis stayed focused on the American people and fighting for their future with a clear vision to fix our economy, secure the border, empower parents, back law enforcement, and stand up to the leftist elites and the DC establishment. It is clear from tonight's debate that Ron DeSantis is the only candidate who has what it takes to fight – and win – against Joe Biden and the Democrats. Ron DeSantis won the night in Milwaukee, and we look forward to continuing to build on this momentum on the ground in Iowa and the rest of the early states."
The top two moments of the night came when DeSantis talked about his plan to reverse Bidenomics so that middle class families have a chance to succeed again, and when he shared how his background as a Navy veteran will inform his leadership philosophy as president.
Watch DeSantis' answer on the economy HERE.

Our country is in decline. This decline is not inevitable. It's a choice. We need to send Joe Biden back to his basement and reverse American decline. And it starts with understanding we must reverse Bidenomics so that middle class families have a chance to succeed again, we cannot succeed as a country. If you are working hard and you can't afford groceries, a car or a new home while Hunter Biden can make hundreds of thousands of dollars on lousy paintings, that is wrong. We also cannot succeed when the Congress spends trillions and trillions of dollars. Those rich men north of Richmond have put us in this situation. And finally, we need to lower your gas prices. We're going to open up all energy production, we will be energy dominant again in this country. I showed it could be done in the state of Florida. I pledge to you as your President, we will get the job done and I will not let you down."
Watch DeSantis' answer on his military background HERE.
"I'm somebody that volunteered to serve inspired by September 11. And I deployed to Iraq, alongside US Navy SEALs in places like Fallujah, Ramadi. It's something that I think has taught me... you know, when you go in that type of environment, anything you have - your personal agenda - you check it at the door. You go there, and it's about focusing on the mission, above all else. Guys come together and they get it done. That's how I would view being the President of the United States. It's not about me. It's not about all these other side issues. My sole focus will be on your future and reversing this country's decline."
  