
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today unveiled its Connecticut Leadership Team. The team includes the two highest-ranking Republicans in the Connecticut State Legislature, Senate Minority Leader John McKinney and House Republican Leader Lawrence F. Cafero, Jr. They will serve as the campaign's State Chairmen.
Also joining the team as State Co-Chairs are House Assistant Republican Leader Dave Labriola and State Representative Penny Bacchiochi. This team will help communicate to voters Mayor Giuliani's strong leadership and optimistic vision for America, while growing grassroots support across Connecticut.
"Mayor Giuliani is the candidate with the most public executive leadership experience and his track record as a real fiscal conservative makes him the clear choice for Connecticut voters," said Senate Minority Leader John McKinney.
House Republican Leader Lawrence Cafero, Jr. added, "Rudy is the right man to keep America safe and secure for generations to come. He will bring the same strong leadership to our country that he brought to New York City."
About the Connecticut Leadership Team:
John McKinney, State Campaign Chairman and State Senate Minority Leader
McKinney is serving his fifth term in the Connecticut General Assembly representing the towns of Easton, Fairfield, Newtown and Weston. He is the son of the late U.S. Congressman Stewart B. McKinney. As the lead budget negotiator for his caucus, John fought and defeated several proposed increases to state sales and income taxes in 2007.
Lawrence F. Cafero, Jr., State Campaign Chairman and State House Republican Leader
Cafero serves on the Appropriations, Judiciary, Legislative Management and Public Employees Committees in Connecticut. He is a recognized leader in education, serving as the ranking member of the Education Committee and previously on the Governor's Education Improvement Panel. He led the development and advocacy of the "no tax increase" state budget this past session.
Penny Bacchiochi, State Campaign Co-Chair and State Representative
Bacchiochi has been involved in local and state politics for the past twenty years. She currently represents the rural towns of Stafford, Somers and Union. She also serves on the Public Safety and Security Committee.
Dave Labriola, State Campaign Co-Chair and State House Assistant Republican Leader
Labriola was first elected to the Connecticut General Assembly in 2002 and was re-elected in 2004 and 2006. Labriola graduated from Yale University and practices law with his brother, Jerry. He is a former Naugatuck Police Commissioner and a former Naugatuck Town Attorney.
  