
    Mr. Secretary General, Congressman Halleck, Members of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen::
On behalf of the American people, I am very privileged this morning and very 'proud to welcome you, Mr. Secretary General, to our Capital City.
Our honor today is not honor alone for the office you hold or just the organization that you serve. It is rather an expression of our esteem and our respect for you and for your achievement as the faithful public servant of the entire world.
The world has lived through difficult hours during your tour as Secretary General. Your wise and willing search for reason during those seasons of unreason has served us all well. The people of my country are grateful.
The United Nations lives today as evidence of the wish and the will of men everywhere for peace. That wish and that will runs nowhere stronger in all the world than in the United States of America.
In all that we do, America's purpose is to prevent war and to prevent others from provoking war.
This Nation has acted and this Nation will always act when necessary in self-defense.
Our actions have been and will be consistent with the principles and the purpose of the Charter of the United Nations.
Our Nation has great strength and, with it, a sense of great trust. Our strength supports all men who cherish their independence and stand up for their freedom and respect the rights of others to govern themselves.
Likewise, our strength opposes those who would abridge the independence, those who would breach the peace, those who would violate the rights of other men or other nations.
These convictions are deep in the character of my country, and that is why American Presidents and American Congresses and the American people support and will continue to support the United Nations.
That is why the United States believes in--and the United States works for--a stronger United Nations.
We want a United Nations that is better able to help keep the peace wherever and whenever and by whomever the peace is threatened.
We want a United Nations that is better able to arrive at peaceful solutions, to help settle world problems through negotiation and mediation and conciliation, arbitration, and adjudication.
We want a United Nations that is better able to foster and to expand and to respect the rights of man.
We want a United Nations that is better able to serve as a center for growing cooperation among nations in the sciences and the arts and in all the works of human 'progress.
Yes, Mr. Secretary General, we want in our country a United Nations that is better able to serve the world community by virtue of being solvent.
We stand ready today as we always have in the past to pay our fair share of the necessary cost. The pledges we make to the support of the United Nations are pledges that we shall keep.
So it makes me very happy this morning to be able to welcome you here to Washington, to the White House, to our Rose Garden where many of the leaders of this Nation have come to greet you and to express their personal welcome.
Our Nation is honored to have you as our guest, and we are so pleased that you can spend the next few hours with us.
  