
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 15
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Camp David, MD, to New Rochelle, NY, and in the afternoon, they returned to Camp David.
August 16
In the morning, the President traveled to Kansas City, MO, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Camp David, MD.
The President declared a major disaster in Utah and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a tornado, severe thunderstorms, and hail on August 11.
The President declared a major disaster in Wisconsin and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding beginning on July 4 and continuing through July 31.
August 17
In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard Brown as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
August 18
The President announced his intention to nominate Jay W. Johnson to be Director of the Mint at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to appoint Raj Reddy and Irving Wladawsky-Berger as Co-Chairs of the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee.
August 19
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Martha's Vineyard, MA.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton celebrated the President's birthday at the residence of Vernon Jordan.
The President announced his intention to appoint Carol A. Cartwright as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
The White House announced that the President appointed Deputy Assistant Attorney General Beth Nolan as Assistant to the President and Counsel to the President beginning in September.
August 20
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Nantucket, MA, where in the evening they attended an American Ireland Fund dinner.
Later, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Martha's Vineyard, MA.
The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on August 6 and continuing through August 9.
  