
    Today, small business owners in Iowa released an open letter to President Obama regarding his recent comments denigrating the value of their hard work.
Yes, we did build it, Mr. President.
And, no, Mr. President, the private sector is not doing fine.
We are a group of small business owners and operators. We have our fingers on the pulse of the economy. You can tell us that our hard work is not actually responsible for our success. And you can tell us that the economy is booming, even when it is in the midst of a bust.
You may be the President of the United States, but you still do not have the power to redefine words merely because you occupy the Oval Office. And the fact of the matter is that, contrary to what you have stated, government did not build our businesses. We built them.
And contrary to what you have stated, the private sector is not doing fine. Rather, it is suffering because of the very government that you are leading.
Over the past three years, you've piled on regulations and red tape that drain away our time, our energy, and our capital, making it harder for us to grow, to invest, and to hire.
You've saddled the country with obligations that will take generations to repay, but which directly impact the business climate at this moment.
You've imposed a federal health-care scheme on all of us that is crippling in its effects and its costs. You say you've done this to help people. But you're actually hurting people, increasing unemployment, driving up the cost of health insurance, and burdening our medical care system with layers of new bureaucracy.
All this explains why we are working to elect Mitt Romney president in November.
Mitt Romney gets it. He knows what an ill-conceived regulation can do to a business, large or small. He understands that the private sector is not "doing fine," and he knows how to turn it around.
Mitt Romney has spent his career in business and public service. He knows that the people who meet the payroll and who put their sweat into their equity are the ones who need to be encouraged if the economy is to get into gear.
It's time for you to go, Mr. President. And we intend to help Mitt Romney show you the door.
Garry Struyk, Co-owner, Struyk Turf Maintenance, Inc.
David Overholtzer, Owner, Overholtzer Accounting  
Tom Giese, Owner, Giese Companies
Charlie Giese, Owner, Giese Companies
Matt Giese, Owner, Giese Companies
Lenore Nesler, Owner, Naughty Dog Café 
Shawn Graham, Owner, Clean Cut Property Services Inc.    
Dan Moulton, Founder, Moulton & Associates
Mark Barr, Owner, Imprint WS
Trudy Caviness, Co-owner, The Photoshop and Colormaster
Keith Caviness, Co-owner, The Photoshop and Colormaster
Ed Leach, Owner, Leach Camper Sales
Jim and Linda Meyer, Co-owners, Meyer Landing
Andy Raymond, Owner, A. Raymond Plumbing Inc.
Dave Cushman, General Manager, Park Farm Winery
Frank Fazio, Co-owner and President, Bel-Aire Rental Inc.
  