
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
H.J. Res. 373 - Disapproving the Extension of MFN to China(House)(Solomon (R) New York and 6 others)
H.R. 4590 - United States China Act of 1994 (House)(Pelosi (D) California and 102 others)
H.R. 4891 - United States China Policy Act of 1994 (Hamilton (D) IN and 13 others)(House)
(SENT 8/8/94)
The Administration strongly opposes H.J. Res. 373, which would deny China most-favored-nation (MFN) trade status, and H.R. 4590, which would deny China MFN trade status for many of its products. These actions would isolate China, set back achievement of U.S. interests, and undermine U.S. goals, including those in the human rights area.
The Administration, however, supports House passage of H.R. 4891, which provides a positive approach to the U.S. relationship with China. H.R. 4891 supports the Administration's objectives in the human rights area; which include the release of political prisoners, access to Chinese prisoners by international humanitarian organizations, and a dialogue between the Chinese Government and the Dalai Lama on reconciliation. It also recognizes the important steps China has taken to date and encourages the approach the President has adopted to pursue vigorously human rights objectives.
China is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, a nuclear power, and an influential member of the international community. China's cooperation is essential to dealing with the global challenges of non-proliferation, the North Korean nuclear issue, the environment, refugees, and narcotics trafficking.
Linking MFN and human rights was the right policy last year and it achieved some tangible results. However, the President believes that we have reached the end of the usefulness of that policy. The President decided that renewing China's MFN status offered the best opportunity to place our relationship in a broader and more productive framework. This decision forms the basis for long term sustainable progress in human rights and promotes other important U.S. interests.
The Administration still has very serious concerns about human rights abuses in China and will continue to actively engage the Chinese on human rights through diplomatic, multilateral, and nongovernmental contacts. These contacts, combined with aggressive efforts to promote human rights, are more likely to encourage constructive change in China.
In renewing MFN, the President decided to ban imports of Chinese munitions and to continue U.S. sanctions imposed after the Tiananmen Square events. In addition, the Administration is implementing new initiatives to strengthen the human rights focus. These include expanded broadcasts to China, efforts to establish voluntary principles for U.S. businesses in China, and support for private groups in China.
The Administration believes that current sanctions are appropriate. Imposition of broader sanctions as proposed in H.R. 4590 would undermine U.S. goals in China and would undoubtedly result in retaliatory sanctions from the Chinese. Such a de facto trade war would result in a tremendous loss of American exports and jobs and would clearly not be in the United States' interest.
The President's decision to recommend MFN status for another year, will allow the Administration to build on the human rights progress already achieved and advance other vital U.S. interests with China.
  