
    Richardson committed to right and tradition of Iowa and New Hampshire as first in the country caucuses and primary
SANTA FE, NM -- Governor Bill Richardson today became the first Democratic Presidential candidate to officially sign the Four State Pledge Letter that promises he will not campaign in any state which schedules a Presidential election primary or caucus before February 5, 2008. The pledge was authored by Democratic officials in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, and South Carolina and is designed to support the Democratic National Committee's sanctioned primary and caucus schedule, thereby avoiding chaos in the nominating process.
"This process is completely out of control and only an agreement by the candidates can restore sanity," Governor Richardson said. "I hope no candidate tries to manipulate this situation for his or her own purposes. The DNC rules were established for a purpose – to allow retail campaigning in a few early states and choose those states based on geographic and demographic diversity. Each candidate for President should do whatever possible to preserve the established rules. Anarchy in the nominating process does nothing to further the cause of changing America."
Four State Pledge Letter 2008
Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, South Carolina
August 31, 2007
WHEREAS, over a year ago, the Democratic National Committee established a 2008 nominating calendar;
WHEREAS, this calendar honors the racial, ethnic, economic and geographic diversity of our party and our country;
WHEREAS, the DNC also honored the traditional role of retail politics early in the nominating process, to ensure that money alone will not determine our presidential nominee;
WHEREAS, it is the desire of Presidential campaigns, the DNC, the states and the American people to bring finality, predictability and common sense to the nominating calendar.
THEREFORE, I Bill Richardson, Democratic Candidate for President, pledge I shall not campaign or participate in any state which schedules a presidential election primary or caucus before Feb. 5, 2008, except for the states of Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire and South Carolina, as "campaigning" is defined by the rules and regulations of the DNC. It does not include activities specifically related to raising campaign resources such as fundraising events or the hiring of fundraising staff.










Democratic Candidate for President








___8/31/07_______


DATE








  