
    Today President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate a seventeenth wave of judicial nominees as follows:
Allison Jones Rushing of North Carolina, to serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. A native North Carolinian, Allison Rushing is a partner with Williams and Connolly LLP. There, her practice focuses on appellate matters, constitutional issues, and regulatory challenges. Ms. Rushing is widely viewed as one of the best young appellate lawyers in the country: Legal 500 has praised Ms. Rushing for her "excellent writing advocacy skills," The National Law Journal has recognized her stellar oral advocacy in the Federal courts of appeals, and Super Lawyers has recognized her as one of its "Rising Stars." Ms. Rushing has argued before Federal courts of appeals and state appellate courts, in addition to briefing cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Rushing clerked for then-Judge Neil Gorsuch on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, then-Chief Judge David Sentelle on the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, and Justice Clarence Thomas on the Supreme Court of the United States. Ms. Rushing earned her B.A., summa cum laude, from Wake Forest University, where she was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and her J.D., magna cum laude, from Duke University School of Law, where she served as executive editor of the Duke Law Journal.
Bridget Shelton Bade of Arizona, to serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Bridget Bade serves as a United States Magistrate Judge for the District of Arizona. Prior to her appointment to the bench in 2012, she served for six years as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Arizona, handling both civil and appellate matters. Prior to joining the U.S. Attorney's Office, Judge Bade spent a year as special counsel in the Phoenix office of Steptoe & Johnson, LLP. Before joining Steptoe, she was a shareholder at Beshears Wallwork Bellamy, where her practice focused on complex civil litigation, including the representation of parties in environmental, intellectual property, commercial, and class action litigation. Before entering private practice, Judge Bade served for four years in the Attorney General's Honors Program as a trial attorney in the Environmental Torts Section within the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Bade served as a law clerk to Judge Edith H. Jones of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Judge Bade earned her B.A., summa cum laude, from Arizona State University, where she was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa, and her J.D., cum laude, from Arizona State University's Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law, where she served as an articles editor of the Arizona State Law Journal.
J.P. Boulee of Georgia, to serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. J.P. Boulee serves as Judge on the DeKalb County Georgia Superior Court, where he founded the DeKalb County Veterans Treatment Court and is a member of the State Bar of Georgia's Judicial Procedure and Administration/Uniform Rules Committee. Prior to his appointment to the bench in 2015, he was a partner in the Atlanta, Georgia, office of Jones Day, where he was a member of the Corporate Criminal Investigations and Business and Tort Litigation practice groups. Judge Boulee has also served as Captain in the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General's Corps, where he tried dozens of cases as both a prosecutor and public defender. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Boulee served as a law clerk to Judge Orinda D. Evans of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. Judge Boulee earned his B.A., magna cum laude, from Washington and Lee University, and his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Georgia School of Law.
James D. Cain, Jr., of Louisiana, to serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana. James Cain is a founding member and partner of the Lake Charles-based firm Loftin, Cain & LeBlanc, LLC, where his practice focuses on civil litigation in state and Federal courts. He has earned the Martindale–Hubbell Peer Review Ratings highest attorney rating as "AV Preeminent" for his legal ability and high ethical standards. Before starting his own firm, Mr. Cain practiced for twelve years at Lundy & Davis, LLC. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Cain clerked for Judge Henry Yelverton of the Louisiana Third Circuit Court of Appeal. Prior to entering law school, Mr. Cain served for three years as a congressional aide to former 7th District Representative, Jimmy Hayes. Mr. Cain earned his B.A. from McNeese State University and his J.D., cum laude, from Southern University Law Center in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
Travis A. Greaves of the District of Columbia, to serve as a Judge on the United States Tax Court. Travis Greaves serves as Deputy Assistant Attorney General for Appellate and Review in the U.S. Department of Justice's Tax Division. In this role, he oversees all civil tax appellate litigation, including appeals from the U.S. Tax Court. Before assuming his current role at the Department of Justice, Mr. Greaves was a partner at Greaves & Wu, LLP, in Washington, DC, where his practice focused on civil and criminal tax controversy matters. Earlier in his career, Mr. Greaves served as an adjunct professor at Georgetown University Law Center and as an attorney advisor at the U.S. Tax Court. Mr. Greaves received his B.A. from the University of Tennessee, his J.D., cum laude, from South Texas College of Law, and an L.L.M. in Taxation, with distinction, from Georgetown University Law Center.
Lisa M. Schenck of Virginia, to serve as a Judge on the Court of Military Commissions Review. Lisa Schenck serves as the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Director of the National Security & U.S. Foreign Relations Law L.L.M. Program, Director of the National Security & Cybersecurity Law L.L.M. Program, and professorial lecturer in law at the George Washington University School of Law. She joined the law school in 2009 after serving in the Army for more than 25 years, initially as a Signal Corps Officer and then as a judge, lawyer, and educator in the Judge Advocate General's Corps. In 2002, Dean Schenck was appointed as a military judge on the U.S. Army Court of Criminal Appeals. In 2003, she received the Judge Advocates Association Outstanding Career Armed Services Attorney Award. In 2005, Dean Schenck was the first woman appointed as a Senior Judge on that court, where she served until she retired. She concurrently served as an Associate Judge on the U.S. Court of Military Commission Review after her appointment by the Secretary of Defense in 2007. Dean Schenck retired in 2008 as a U.S. Army Colonel and became the senior adviser to the Defense Task Force on Sexual Assault in the Military Services. Dean Schenck has authored numerous scholarly articles on law and the armed services and has co-authored the leading military justice casebook, Modern Military Justice: Cases and Materials with Judge Greg Maggs. Dean Schenck earned her B.A., cum laude, from Providence College, her M.P.A. from Farleigh Dickinson University, and her J.D., cum laude, from Notre Dame Law School. Later, she earned an L.L.M. from both the Judge Advocate General's Legal Center & School and from Yale Law School. She also earned a J.S.D. from Yale Law School. She recently received an honorary Doctor of Laws from Providence College.
  