
    Last week's jobs report and other recent economic indicators have shined a light on the incredible gains American workers are experiencing under the Trump Economy.
THE NEW YORK TIMES: Workers Hardest Hit by Recession Are Joining in Recovery
"The least educated American workers, who took the hardest hit in the Great Recession, were also among the slowest to harvest the gains of the recovery. Now they are a striking symbol of a strong economy. The unemployment rate for those without a high school diploma fell to 5.1 percent in July, the Labor Department reported Friday, the lowest since the government began collecting data on such workers in 1992."
FOX BUSINESS: Millions Drop Off Food Stamps
"More than 2.8 million have stopped participating in the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) – commonly known as food stamps – since Trump's first full month in office, the data showed. Food stamp enrollment in May 2018 was 39,329,356 versus 42,134,301 in February 2017."
WASHINGTON EXAMINER: Hispanic Unemployment Again Hits New Record Low in July
"Unemployment for Hispanic workers again plumbed a new record low in July, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Friday. The unemployment rate for Hispanic or Latino workers fell to 4.5 percent in the month, lower than the previous record of 4.6 percent that was set just the month before."
MILITARY TIMES: Unemployment for Post-9/11 Vets Hits Record Low
"The latest federal employment figures, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, show veterans who have served in the military since 9/11 had an unemployment rate of 3 percent in July — the lowest it's ever been, according to the government statistics dating back to 2006."
Commentators and editorial boards are touting last week's jobs report as further evidence that President Trump's economic policies are delivering for American workers.
CHICAGO TRIBUNE EDITORIAL BOARD: This Is What a Booming Economy Feels Like
"Best of all, people are finding work. The unemployment rate is 3.9 percent. It's at a record low for Hispanics and near a record for African-Americans. Jobs mean everything to the nation's sense of well-being. Opportunity offers fulfillment; paychecks create prosperity. Do you feel better about your prospects? You should. The economy is booming."
GREGORY DACO IN THE HILL: Employment Data Hasn't Been This Good Since the Days of the iPod
"[T]he economy has continued to add 200,000 jobs on a monthly basis over the past year, and these jobs number continue to reduce the amount of slack in the labor market. The unemployment rate fell 0.1 percentage points to 3.9 percent in July, while the underemployment rate (the U-6 rate), which accounts for discouraged workers and part-timers wanting full-time position, reached a 17-year low of 7.5 percent."
RICHARD MANNING ON FOX NEWS: Trump Keeps His Promises – Our Current Low Unemployment Rate Proves It
"Now the July employment numbers, released Friday, confirm that those who have been left behind over the past two decades are beginning to find their places in their search for the American Dream. America is getting back to work. July 2018 marked the second-lowest number of unemployed Americans since before 9/11 in May of 2001, dropping to 6.28 million – 284,000 fewer that in the previous month."
LOUIS WOODHILL IN REALCLEARMARKETS: The Jobs Report is a Validation of Trump's Economic Policies
"The economy truly is better now than it was under Obama, and Friday's 'Employment Situation' report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) provided solid evidence for this. July's 'headline' (U-3) unemployment was 3.87%. Except for this May, this was the lowest for any month since the 1960s."
  