
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 29
John A. Armstrong, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Thomas B. Day, term expired.
Letitia Chambers, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2000, vice Roy M. Huhndorf, resigned.
M.R.C. Greenwood, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Perry L. Adkisson, term expired.
Stanley Vincent Jaskolski,
of Ohio, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice James Johnson Duderstadt, term expired.
Vera C. Rubin,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Bernard F. Burke, term expired.
Anthony R. Sarmiento, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring September 22, 1998, vice Benita C. Somerfield, term expired.
Bob H. Suzuki, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Jaime Oaxaca, term expired.
Submitted August 1
Arthur I. Blaustein, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2002, vice Jon N. Moline, term expired.
Ida L. Castro, of New York, to be Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labor, vice Karen Beth Nussbaum, resigned.
Donna Holt Cunninghame, of Maryland, to be Chief Financial Officer, Corporation for National and Community Service (new position).
Regina Markey Keeney, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 1995, vice Andrew Camp Barrett, resigned.
Kevin L. Thurm, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Walter D. Broadnax, resigned.
Brig. Gen. Robert Bernard Flowers,
USA, to be a member and President of the Mississippi River Commission.
Rose Ochi, of California, to be Director, Community Relations Service, for a term of 4 years, vice Grace Flores-Hughes, term expired.
Withdrawn August 1
Joaquin F. Otero, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Martin John Manley, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on February 20, 1996.
Submitted August 2
Madeleine Korbel Albright,
of the District of Columbia, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 51st Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Edward William Gnehm, Jr., of Georgia, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 51st Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Karl Frederick Inderfurth,
of North Carolina, to be an Alternative Representative of the United States of America to the 51st Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Victor Marrero, of New York, to be an Alternative Representative of the United States of America to the 51st Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Susan G. Esserman, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce, vice Ginger Ehn Lew.
Mary K. Gaillard, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Marye A. Fox, term expired.
Eamon M. Kelly, of Louisiana, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Howard E. Simmons, term expired.
Niranjan S. Shah, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 1998, vice John H. Miller, term expired.
Richard A. Tapia, of Texas, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Phillip A. Griffiths, term expired.
Ernestine P. Watlington, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 1999 (reappointment).
Robert W. Pratt, of Iowa, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, vice Harold D. Vietor, retired.
  