
    "The Obama campaign has engaged in not only an outright falsehood, beyond that, their campaign has deceived the public over what they knew about it. When you start running ads accusing your opponent of killing people, then you have lost credibility, and I think that's where the Obama campaign finds itself. I don't think a world champion limbo dancer could get any lower than the Obama campaign right now. In the process, President Obama has squandered what has always been one of his key attributes, that he was a different kind of politician who would take us to a different place." —Eric Fehrnstrom, Romney Campaign Senior Adviser
2008 Campaign: "I Walk The Walk"
In The Last Campaign, Barack Obama Called Upon His Opponents To Own Up To Third-Party Groups. OBAMA: "[Y]ou can't say yesterday, you don't believe in 'em, and today, you're having three-quarters of a million dollars being spent for you. You can't just talk the talk." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks In Oskaloosa, IA, 12/22/07)
Sen. Obama: "I Don't Just Talk The Talk; I Walk The Walk." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks In Oskaloosa, IA, 12/22/07)
Sen. Obama: "If Robert Gibbs Started Running A 527 And I Called Robert Gibbs And Said, 'Stop Running Ads On My Behalf,' Are You Suggesting I Would Have No Influence Over Robert Gibbs?" "Obama continued with incredulity: 'The fact is this is somebody who worked for John Edwards, for the last who knows how many years, who's a good friend and colleague of Edwards, who's now running a 527 that is running ads on behalf of John Edwards. [Laugh] You're telling me he has no influence over him? That's not true. If Robert Gibbs started running a 527 and I called Robert Gibbs and said, 'Stop running ads on my behalf,' are you suggesting I would have no influence over Robert Gibbs?'" (Ben Smith and Lisa Lerer, "Obama Questions Edwards' Toughness," Politico, 12/23/07)
2012 Campaign: "Don't Have A Comment On That"
White House Reaction To The Widely-Condemned Ad From President Obama's Super PAC: "I Don't Have A Comment On That." FOX NEWS' ED HENRY: "The President himself has said many times, in 2008, talked about changing to the tone of politics and said that this kind of negativity didn't add to the debate. Do you really think at that podium that it's fair to suggest that a candidate's actions led to someone's death?" CARNEY: "Ed, I appreciate the efforts to get me to play political pundit, but that's not my job. I do not have any role in third party groups that produce these ads. I don't have a comment on that." (White House Press Briefing, 8/10/12)
ABC's Jonathan Karl: Priorities USA's Ad Is "The Single Most Outrageous Ad Of The Campaign..." KARL: "But the single most outrageous ad of the campaign comes from a Super PAC supporting the president and run by his former spokesman." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 8/9/12)
  