
    "President Obama hasn't found time for his Jobs Council in 200 days — but that hasn't stopped him from trying to save his own job. He's spent the last six months attending campaign fundraisers and pushing more liberal policies that will impede job creation. Meanwhile, we learned yesterday that the unemployment rate has climbed again to a five-month high. Mitt Romney's plan for a stronger middle class will get our economy moving in the right direction." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
It's Been 200 Days Since President Obama Found Time To Meet With His Jobs Council:
President Obama Last Met With His Jobs Council On January 17, 2012 — 200 Days Ago. (President Barack Obama,  Remarks To The Council On Jobs And Competitiveness , Washington, DC, 1/17/12)
FLASHBACK: President Obama, 200 Days Ago: "This Has Not Been A Show Council. This Has Been A Work Council." OBAMA: "One of the things that's been striking about this Jobs Council is how focused and how hard-working everybody has been around this table.  This has not been a show council.  This has been a work council.  And because of the extraordinary commitments that each and every one of you have made, we have generated I think as good a set of proposals as we have seen coming out of the private sector to help to guide and steer our economic agenda and our approach to jobs and growth over the next couple of years." (President Barack Obama, Remarks To The Council On Jobs And Competitiveness , Washington, DC, 1/17/12)
What Has President Obama Found Time For In The Last 200 Days? 121 Fundraisers And 12 Rounds Of Golf:
President Obama Has Played 12 Rounds Of Golf Since His Last Jobs Council Meeting. (PolitiFact.com, 7/19/12; Mark Knoller, Twitter Feed, 8/4/12)

President Obama Is "Meticulous, Studied And Determined To Improve His Game Through Practice, Practice And More Practice." "Mr. Obama's golf game is characterized by long, slow rounds, with a lot of time hunting for balls in the woods. The president, say people who have golfed with him, is meticulous, studied and determined to improve his game through practice, practice and more practice." (Helene Cooper, "Obama Vs. Boehner: Tee-Off Time," The New York Times, 6/17/11)

President Obama Has Attended 121 Campaign Fundraisers Since His Last Jobs Council Meeting. (National Journal's "Daybook," 7/26/12)
Meanwhile, Middle-Class Americans Are Still Experiencing "The Worst Economic Recovery" The Country Has Ever Seen:
CBS News: "This Is The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had." CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("CBS Evening News," 7/17/12)
"The Slowest Growth In A Year Adds To Worries That The Economy Could Be Stalling Three Years After The Recession Ended." ("Economic Growth Slowed To 1.5 Percent Rate In 2nd Quarter, Slowest In A Year," The Associated Press, 7/27/12)
"Economic Growth Pulled Back Further During The Second Quarter Of The Year As Consumer Spending Slowed..." "U.S. economic growth pulled back further during the second quarter of the year as consumer spending slowed--a reading that suggests domestic fiscal worries may becoming a more significant drag." (Eric Morath and Sarah Portlock, "U.S. Growth Slows In 2nd Quarter," The Wall Street Journal, 7/27/12)
"The Unemployment Rate Has Been Stuck Above 8 Percent For More Than Three Years, The Longest Run Since The Great Depression." (Lucia Mutikani, "Jobs Increase In July, But Jobless Rate Rises To 8.3 Percent," Reuters, 8/3/12)
"The Number Of U.S. Workers Filing Applications For Jobless Benefits Rose Last Week..." "The number of U.S. workers filing applications for jobless benefits rose last week, continuing an uneven pattern that suggests job creation was likely modest in July. Initial jobless claims, an indication of layoffs, increased by 8,000 to a seasonally adjusted 365,000 in the week ended July 28, the Labor Department said Thursday. Economists surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires had forecast 370,000 new applications for jobless benefits last week. Claims for the July 21 week were revised up to 357,000 from an initially reported 353,000." (Eric Morath and Sarah Portlock, "Jobless Claims Increase," The Wall Street Journal, 8/2/12)
"Orders Placed With U.S. Factories Unexpectedly Declined In June..." "Orders placed with U.S. factories unexpectedly declined in June, reflecting less demand for business equipment and the biggest decrease in bookings for non- durable goods in more than three years. The 0.5 percent drop in bookings followed a revised 0.5 percent increase in the prior month, the Commerce Department said today in Washington. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 0.5 percent gain. June orders for durable goods climbed 1.3 percent, revised from the 1.6 percent surge reported last week. Demand for non-durable items, reported today for the first time, slumped 2 percent, the biggest drop since March 2009." (Lorraine Woellert, "Orders To U.S. Factories Unexpectedly Declined 0.5% In June," Bloomberg, 8/2/12)
  