
    What I learned in my 20's traveling the globe as an Air Force pilot, our current president has yet to acknowledge in his 50's — that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth.
As Americans, we believe freedom is a gift from God, and government's prime function is to defend it. We don't see the role of government as a nanny state, and we recognize there is no government money that wasn't once earned through the sweat and toil of private citizens.
That's why we object to an Administration that sees its role as spending our children's inheritance on failed economic theories that have given us record debt and left far too many unemployed, threatening not only our economy, but our security. Our reliance on foreign creditors and sources of energy not only compromises our national sovereignty, but jeopardizes our national future.
America's place in the world is in peril, not only because of disastrous economic policies, but from the incoherent muddle known as our foreign policy. Our president has thumbed his nose at traditional allies such as Israel and Great Britain.
We will not sit back and accept our current misery...because a great country requires a better direction...because a renewed nation requires a new president. That's why, with faith in God, the support of my family, and an unwavering belief in the goodness of America, I am a candidate for President of the United States.
And I will work every day to make Washington, D.C. as inconsequential in your lives as I can.
As governor of Texas I have led based on a few guiding principles. One, don't spend all the money. Two, keep taxes low and under control. Three, keep regulations fair and predictable. And four, reform the legal system so frivolous lawsuits don't paralyze employers that are trying to create jobs.
Over ten years, we have followed this recipe of fiscal restraint to produce the strongest economy in the nation. While millions of jobs have been lost over the last decade nationwide, hundreds of thousands of jobs have been added in Texas. Texas is home to one in 12 Americans, and yet since June of 2009, we have created more than four in ten American jobs.
The change we seek will never emanate out of Washington...it must come from the windswept prairies of Middle America...the farms and factories across this great land...the hearts and minds of God-fearing Americans who will not accept a future that is less than our past...who will not be consigned a fate of less freedom in exchange for more government.
It is up to us...to this present generation of Americans...to take a stand for freedom...to send a signal to Washington that we are taking the country back from the grips of central planners who would control our healthcare, spend our treasure and micro-manage our businesses.
My mission as your president will be to get America working again!
With God's help, and your courage, we will take our country back. I hope you will take a moment to join the team and consider a donation to the campaign.
Thank you, and God bless America.
Rick Perry
  