
    Pool Reports by George Condon, National Journal



Sent:
Reports:




 August 17, 2020 10:06

 In-town pool report 1 
Pool is gathered on South Lawn awaiting departure. 


 August 17, 2020 10:29

 In town pool report 2 
In response to questions the president said he is trying to work into today's schedule a stop in Iowa to see storm damage. He also said his brother's funeral is likely to be on Friday, possibly with a "small service's in the white house. Also talked about post office, Belarus, and mail in ballots. 


 August 17, 2020 11:17

 In town pool report #3 
The president emerged from the White House at 10:16 and took just under eight minutes of questions. He started talking about signing a disaster declaration for Iowa. Here are the highlights:
"We'll be making a pretty big journey today stopping at a couple of wonderful states...I just approved an emergency declaration for Iowa who had an incredible wind storm like probably they've never seen before. Really did a lot of damage..."
Today's trip:
"We are heading now to a combination of different places. We may do a surprise visit...a surprise visit to Iowa. If we can get it in we will do that."
Have you pressured the FDA to approve the oleander treatment for Covid? "I haven't. It is something that people are talking about very strongly. We'll look at it. We're looking at a lot of things... We are very close to a vaccine..."
Is an Iowa stop planned for today?
"It is possible we are trying to work it into the schedule. ...I'll be going very soon and possibly today."
Are you following Belarus?
"That's a terrible situation, Belarus. We'll be following it very closely."
Have you heard about Iran paying bounties in Afghanistan?
"No I haven't heard about that."
Inaudible question on Brazilian students
"We are looking at it..."
What is your goal for week?
"...We are going to be working very hard. It doesn't have to be covered but it probably will be... Pretty comprehensive. We're going to be working very hard. We have to..."
When will there be a funeral for your brother?
"Probably on Friday. We're looking at Friday. We may do just a small service right here at the White House for my brother. We're looking at doing that. That would be I think a great honor to him. I think he would be greatly honored. He loved our country. He loved our country so much. He was so proud of what we were doing and what we are doing for our country. So I think it would be appropriate. So we'll have probably on Friday afternoon a small service in honor of my brother Robert."
Stimulus talks
"I think that Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer should get back into Washington and they should approve stimulus for the people...
"We'll take care of the Post Office. We want to make sure that the Post Office runs properly and it hasn't run properly for many years, probably 50 years. It was run very badly. So we want to make sure the Post Office is run properly and doesn't lose billions of dollars. Somebody said it lost $78 billion over a relatively short period of time... You can't have that... (added that Democrats are pushing for aid to poorly run statesJ "that's unfair to the rest of the country."
Are you worried that Post Office cutbacks affect deliveries of prescriptions?
"The Post Office is running very well. Now look, if you look at the Post Office, for years that's all people complained about. We are going to run it well and we're going to not lose so much money. One of the things the Post Office loses so much money on is delivering packages for Amazon and these others. Every time they deliver a package they probably lose $3 or $4. That's not good. They have to raise those prices. Not for the people to pay but for Amazon and those companies to pay."
Marine One lifted off at 10:29. 




Pool Reports below by Catherine Lucey, The Wall Street Journal



Sent:
Reports:




 August 17, 2020 10:44

 Out of Town Pool Report #1 - JBA Departure 
Good morning from Andrews Air Force Base. Marine One touched down at 10:39 AM.
President Trump exited, wearing a navy suit and a red tie. He gave reporters a thumbs up and boarded Air Force One without stopping to talk.
He was accompanied by Mark Meadows, Hope Hicks, Stephen Miller and Kayleigh McEnany.
The president is making stops in Mankato, Minnesota and Oshkosh, Wisconsin today, where he will deliver campaign speeches.
We are on the small AF1 today so will not have signal once we board. We will be wheels up for Minneapolis, Minnesota shortly. 


 August 17, 2020 12:05

 Out of Town Pool Report #2 - Minnesota arrival and Meadows Gaggles 
Air Force One was wheels down in Minneapolis at 12:02 CDT.
During the flight, the president's chief of staff Mark Meadows came back twice and spoke on the record on the following topics:
On possible trip to Iowa today: "He wanted to go to Iowa today. Logistically, we could not make it work at the last minute."
Stimulus negotiations: Said he had not spoken to "Pelosi and Schumer in over a week."
He said Mnuchin made the last contact and Pelosi responded. Meadows said he had had "a number of conversations" with moderate Democrats and said they had been helpful.
"We are making progress at least in a conceptual way. But there has been no real discussions between the four negotiators"
USPS
"I know the post office really well. It's not an issue of money. They've got over 10 billion cash on hand, they've got another line of credit."
"The postmaster general has said he is willing to pay overtime."
"A lot of the headlines are not indicative of what's actually taking place at the Post office."
"The boxes that have been pulled down, the processing machinery that was all under Megan Brennan, it had nothing to do with this postmaster General."
On DeJoy testifying to Congress: "I don't know that they've noticed the hearing at this point."
He said 10 billion was the current offer.
On short term funding for the Post office:
"It's not only unrealistic, it's unnecessary."
"This is not a funding issue as much as it is a long term reform issue."
"This is not the first time we've seen delays in our postal system."
More Stimulus:
On House potentially voting Saturday, he said if Pelosi would agree to a deal with "direct stimulus to the American people at a high number, for the post office, we would sign that."
Said state and local funding remains the biggest sticking point. Said of Dems' $915 billion request "you can't justify that kind of number" and said the White House is offering $150 billion.
Said they are "willing to have a discussion on state and local" and said Post office funding is "not really a stumbling block." Said the president is "willing to provide money for the Post office as long as it is included in some other skinny measure if we cannot agree to a larger deal."
He later said on Stimulus that while they could support a deal that provided funding to "those that are hurting" and help to the post office, he had a "low expectation that will happen." He predicted a "partisan bill."
"We're not expecting a follow up call from Speaker Pelosi unless her members encourage her to actually come back to the negotiating table."
"The president has been fully engaged on the negotiations"
On GOP Convention:
"I think that you're going to expect a difference in the visions for America."
Tik Tok:
"As it relates to Tik Tok, we're hopeful that some of the US companies that have expressed interest will be able to address the national security concerns."
"Some of the damage in terms of data going to China has certainly been done. "
On a report of Iran bounties for Us Troops: said he wouldn't comment on Intel, but said it was "not a surprise."
A senior administration official also said it was possible they could see additional countries signing on to the UAE deal, but did not see it as likely. 


 August 17, 2020 12:12

 Out of Town Pool Report #3 - Minneapolis Airport 
President Trump exited Air Force One at 12:11 PM CDT.
A few hundred people were gathered behind railings on the tarmac, wearing MAGA hats and holding Trump signs. Many were not wearing masks. They cheered as he came down the steps and began to chant "four more years."
A podium was set up for the president to make remarks with AF1 behind him.
This should be taken live, but will send some quotes from his speech. 


 August 17, 2020 13:44

 Out of Town Pool Report #4 - Minneapolis Airport Event 
The president took the podium to "God Bless the USA" and focused his remarks on public safety
Some quotes below. Please check against playback:
Trump said he had traveled to Minneapolis to meet with small business owners "who were victims of the violence and destruction on the streets of Minneapolis." A small group of people stood to the side.
"All they wanted was to live the American Dream."
"Their dreams were burned to the ground."
He criticized Democrats and Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey declaring: "We will bring back law and order to your community."
"As President, my goal is to restore safety to our streets and to help these innocent Americans rebuild their lives and rebuild their lives very quickly."
"The Democrats are promising to elevate their left wing war on cops and to bring it up to the White House in the form of a sleepy Joe Biden, I don't think that's going to work."
Criticized Democrats, including MichelleObama for taping their Convention speeches.
"What is this they're taping their speeches? …
"You want to go to a snooze. When you hear a speech is taped it's like there's nothing very exciting about it right?"
"Why don't they tell me that I'll tape my speech?"
On Kamala Harris: "she finished so badly, she started so strong...she went down likeA rock in water." Said she was "strong anti-fracking."
"They're gonna love her in Texas they're gonna love her in Ohio and Pennsylvania."
More on Joe Biden: "he's in his basement he just doesn't come out, they don't ask them questions."
Some of the guests took the podium, including a man who said his sports bar was damaged during the protests in the Twin Cities. Another man said his St Paul pharmacy was burned down.
Kayleigh McEnany also appeared, declaring the president is "taking action" and is a "law and order president."
Trump thanked "Bikers for Trump" members. "You guys are fantastic." And "Boaters for Trump."
"Where there is a lake or river or an ocean you have thousands of them every weekend."
Said there would be no discussion of these "innocent victims" at DNC.
Stressed that Nov 3 would be an "election like no other."
Exited after about 25 minutes to the YMCA and boarded AF1. Pool is following. We should be wheels up for Mankato soon. 


 August 17, 2020 13:46

 Out of Town Pool Report #5 - Mankato 
Air Force One landed in Mankato at 1:26 PM CDT under bright sunny skies. President Trump exited "God Bless the USA" at 1:45 PM CDT.
An enclosed hangar has been set up for the president's event. A giant American flag is hung between cranes nearby and farm equipment and trucks parked to the sides of the stage with signs that say "Jobs, Jobs, Jobs." People are gathered behind red white and blue draped railings.
The crowd cheered the president, who will deliver remarks on jobs and the economy. The event should be taken live, but will send some quotes. 


 August 17, 2020 14:54

 Out of Town Pool Report #6 - Mankato event 
President Trump addressed an enthusiastic crowd in Mankato. Some quotes, check against tape:
"Joe Biden is the puppet of left wing extremists trying to erase our borders eliminate our beliefs indoctrinate our children vilify our heroes take away our energy..."
He promised to "save our cities and our suburbs from the future of crime and chaos corruption and economic collapse that puppet Joe Biden would unleash in America."
"If Biden and Harris get into power, they'vePledged to raise your taxes by $4 trillion."
He acknowledged local candidates as well as Mike Lindell, of My Pillow.
On China, he said "I don't speak to them after the plague came in."
"I put tariffs on foreign steel and the iron range came roaring back to life You know that, right, right."
"And what we're doing together is nothing short of an economic miracle and now we're doing it again....We built the greatest economy in the history of the world and now I have to do it again."
He described it as "God testing me."
On absentee ballots: "you send it back in and it's a process, you have to work for it a little bit."
"On Air Force one you have televisions on the ceilings, on the closets on the floors...I say too much Trump."
Says Democrats with Stimulus are only interested in "getting a trillion dollars for....badly run blue states, very badly run by governors and mayors, like, New York, Illinois, California."
"Now Biden wants to lock all Americans in their basements for months on end, which would inflict permanent irreversible harm on our nation's children, families health and economy."
"We're at a very very close point to the vaccine and to therapeutics."
"We will defeat the China virus."
" We want to strengthen the post office, make make it good"
On Biden: "for 47 years he did nothing now he's telling everybody He is going to make it wonderful."
Says he sealed border amid pandemic, but " Joe Biden, on the other hand has pledged to allow virtually unlimited immigration during a global pandemic spreading the virus, overwhelming our healthcare system and displacing millions of American jobs seekers."
"Nobody treated Joe Biden worse than Kamala Harris."
Of Minnesota Congresswoman Ilhan Omar: " She's a horrible woman who hates our country."
" In joe biden's America the protections of American citizenship will be stripped away, and your community will be left at the mercy of the mob."
Of Pelosi: " Does she love our country?"
He wrapped at 2:48 PM CDT after speaking for more than an hour.
Heading to AF1 now. Next stop Oshkosh Wi. Again POTUS concluded to YMCA. 


 August 17, 2020 16:07

 Out of town pool report #7 - OshKosh 
Air Force One landed in Oshkosh, Wisconsin at 3:54 PM CDT.
The president is about to speak at another airport hanger event. People are crowded into the hanger, cheering and waving signs. They are close and not all are wearing masks.
The event should be carried live. Will send some quotes.
Also flagging this tweet from Judd Deere:
https://twitter.com/juddpdeere45/status/1295411099723014145?s=21


 August 17, 2020 17:14

 Out of town pool report #8 - Oshkosh event 
President Trump took the podium in Oshkosh to "Bless the USA" at 4:12 PM CDT.
"We're gonna fight for the survival of our nation and civilization itself. We are really gonna fight."
Said "Crooked Hillary was on the edge."
"She became crazy later when she lost."
He acknowledged former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker in the crowd.
"We are never going to forget you, you didn't forget me in the last election."
Taped speeches:
Who wants to listen to Michelle Obama do a taped speech? No you've got to get her up there."
He also said he would do a speech "live from the White House."
"You want to be ruled by the radical left mob or do you want to stand tall …?"
"Do you want to fund and defame and dismantle the police? I don't think so."
"Joe Biden has no enthusiasm and you can't win without enthusiasm."
"My beautiful, beautiful Avenue in New York has been looted and pillaged." Blamed the mayor.
"No one will be safe in a Biden run America."
"Biden and Harris are pro-crime and anti-cop."
Said that he would win re-election and then go for "another four years."
Crowd: "Four more years!'
POTUS: "And then after that we'll go for another four years. You know what, they spied on my campaign so we should get a redo."
"You can call it whatever you want. I use the word treason."
"If we didn't win, that stock market is going to go down like a rock through water."
Said that if Democrats win, the US will become a "large scale Venezuela."
Claimed Iran wanted Biden to win.
"Watch how good the third quarter is"
"America spent nearly four years cleaning up the mess we inherited from Joe Biden's 47 years worth of disaster."
"There are many things we want to do. We want to finish it up.
"Do those beautiful absentee ballots or just make sure your votes get counted."
"The only way we're going to lose this election is if this election is rigged."
Trump concluded at 5:10 after speaking for about an hour. YMCA played him out again.
Pool is gathered to side of hanger. We should be leaving soon. 


 August 17, 2020 19:08

 Out of Town Pool Report #9 - Arrival, brief Trump comments 
Air Force One landed at Andrews Air Force base at 8 PM.
President Trump came back during the flight off the record. He said the following could be used on the record:
He said he would issuing a pardon tomorrow of someone "very, very important" but it would not be Michael Flynn or Edward Snowden.
On former Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Republican who is speaking at the Democratic Convention tonight.
"He was a loser as a Republican and he'll be a loser as a Democrat. Major loser as a Republican. I guess you can quote me on that. John was a loser as a Republican. Never even came close. And as a Democrat he'll be an even greater loser."
"People don't like him, people don't trust him, his healthcare in Ohio was a disaster. He hasn't done too well with Trump. He's been easy pickings." 


 August 17, 2020 19:13

 Out of Town Pool report #10 - POTUS leaves JBA 
President Trump exited Air Force One at 8:11 PM. He waved and quickly entered the motorcade. At 8:12 PM they were rolling.
Thanks to co-pooler Geoff Earle. Handing off to in-town pool. 




Pool Reports below by Daniel Flatley, Bloomberg News



Sent:
Reports:




 August 17, 2020 19:12

 In Town Print Pool #1 
Motorcade moving en route to JBA. 


 August 17, 2020 19:12

 In Town Print Pool #2 
AF1 landed at JBA at 8:00pm, taxied to motorcade. POTUS disembarked AF1 at 8:10pm and got into his limousine. Did not appear to make comments. Motorcade rolling at 8:12pm. 


 August 17, 2020 19:44

 In Town Press Pool #3 
Presidential motorcade has returned to WH. 


 August 17, 2020 19:55

 In Town Print Pool #4 
Lid called. 



  