
    SENATOR EDWARD M. KENNEDY. Well, it's a pleasure to welcome Jimmy Carter to Boston, Massachusetts, as the President of the United States and also as the nominee of the Democratic Party.
During the early days of last summer, Mr. Carter was behind Mr. Reagan in the polls, but there is no authority like myself in the country that can say with greater authority than I can, in the crucial times when the time comes to vote, that Mr. Carter is successful. And I am confident that he'll be successful in November, and I'm determined that he'll be reelected as the President of the United States.
Mr. President, the early Founding Fathers of this country said that Massachusetts should lead the way, and over the period of the last five Presidential elections, this State has voted for the Democratic nominee. And I think all of those who have gathered out here to greet you in Boston are ready and willing to put their shoulder to the wheel and make sure that you're reelected as the next President of the United States.
Welcome to Boston and welcome to Massachusetts.
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say to Senator Kennedy that I'm grateful to be on the platform with him twice in less than a week. Both times he's been very generous, and the expression of support that he's given me is very gratifying to one who's met him, who's had a chance to debate the issues, who's seen much more compatibility between us on important issues to the American people than any differences that have separated us, and I'm very deeply grateful for the words that he just said.
To Senator Paul Tsongas, to the Governor of your great State, to the members of the congressional delegation, I want to express my thanks to all of you who've come out to be with me today. This campaign in the fall will be one of extremely sharp differences between myself and the Republican nominee, between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party, and will affect the future lives of all Americans.
I have confidence that we will win together. And one of the major factors that gives me that confidence is the assurance that Senator Kennedy and all those Americans who supported him during the primary and caucus season will be on my side, helping me to lead the Democratic Party to a great victory.
Senator, thank you again. Tell the members of the AFT, Teachers Federation, that I'll be following you out there tomorrow. And I know you'll prepare the way for me, and I'll try to follow you up well. Thank you again. God bless you. It's good to have you as a friend and an ally.
  