
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Dan W. Mozena, of Iowa, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Angola. Mr. Mozena, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, most recently served as Country Director of the Office of Southern African Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Lusaka, Zambia. Earlier in his career, he served as the Political and Economic Counselor in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Mr. Mozena received his bachelor's degree from Iowa State University and his master's degree from the University of Wisconsin at Madison.
The President intends to nominate Louis J. Nigro, Jr., of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chad. Dr. Nigro, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Acting Director of the Office of Central African Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this he served as Diplomat in Residence at the University of Houston. Earlier in his career, he served as a Faculty Advisor at the United States Army War College. Dr. Nigro received his bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia and his master's degree and PhD from Vanderbilt University.
The President intends to nominate Paul E. Simons, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile. Mr. Simons, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Energy, Sanctions, and Commodities in the Bureau of Economic, Energy and Business Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Tel Aviv, Israel. Mr. Simons received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his master's degree from New York University.
  