
    Even Democrats praised the Trump Administration's response.
Joe Biden and his supporters like to claim that Biden left President Trump some sort of "playbook" to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. That's a total fantasy unsupported by the facts.
FACT: The Obama-Biden Administration left the Strategic National Stockpile in dangerously short supply of N-95 respirator masks after deploying nearly all of them to combat the 2009 swine flu pandemic.
There's no evidence that any effort was made to replenish the stockpile despite experts calling on the Obama-Biden Administration to do so. This is a serious failure that Biden has still refused to explain or accept responsibility for.
FACT: The Obama-Biden Administration stopped all swine flu testing in the middle of the 2009 pandemic.
Under Vice President Biden, the CDC was overruled and public health officials who insisted testing was still necessary were ignored. As CBS reported at the time: "Some public health officials privately disagreed with the decision to stop testing and counting, telling CBS News that continued tracking of this new and possibly changing virus was important[.]"
FACT: The Obama-Biden Administration completely botched the development and deployment of a swine flu vaccine, making several mistakes that delayed production and caused supply shortages.
The Biden "playbook" was nothing short of a regulatory mess that, as Dr. Birx described, President Trump had to completely overhaul to combat the global coronavirus pandemic. Indeed, as Biden's former chief of staff admitted in 2019, the Obama-Biden Administration did "every possible thing wrong" during the 2009 swine flu. "It is purely a fortuity," he admitted, "that this isn't one of the great mass casualty events in American history." Biden hasn't answered for any of this, nor has the media asked him about it.
The coronavirus timeline simply doesn't support Biden's fairy tales about how he was sounding the alarm before anyone else. And the record certainly doesn't support his claim that he left a winning "playbook," either.
  