
    To the Congress of the United States:
Our country depends on a strong, efficient and flexible financial system to promote sound economic growth, including the provision of adequate funds for housing. Such a system is one which allows financial institutions to adapt to the changing needs of borrowers and lenders, large and small, and is free to make full use of technological innovations.
Events during the last decade, however, have revealed significant defects in the operations of our financial institutions. On two recent occasions when the Federal Reserve System moved to restrain the economy, it was found that the inadequacies of our financial structures created unnecessarily severe burdens for the business community and the consuming public. The consumer-saver was denied a fair market return on his savings, while the consumer and small businessman, as borrowers, often could not obtain adequate funds to meet their requirements.
The inflexibility of our financial system can be directly attributed to the methods used by the Government to direct credit flows--methods designed to meet the depressed economic conditions of the 1930's but poorly suited to cope with the expansionary conditions of the past decade. In recent years, government regulations have limited the efficiency and flexibility of our financial system. Ironically, those regulations that were designed in part to keep a steady flow of funds moving into housing loans actually served to diminish that flow, severely penalizing both the borrower, who could not find funds, and the saver who received an unfairly low return on his savings.
As the Government tries to play its proper role in building a better financial system, we must proceed with one basic assumption: the public interest is generally better served by the free play of competitive forces than by the imposition of rigid and unnecessary regulation.
By law, thrift institutions--a category primarily composed of savings and loan associations but also including mutual savings banks--were created to provide funds for housing by maintaining large holdings of residential mortgages. However, earnings on holdings of previously acquired mortgages do not respond to changes in market interest rates. When market rates rise, the ability of thrift institutions to attract funds is limited and their ability to lend additional mortgage money is diminished.
Attempts to alleviate this problem by restrictive laws and regulations have achieved very little at great cost. The main technique has been to impose ceilings on the interest rates that financial institutions could pay savers for funds. The result, however, has often been a reduction in the flow of deposits to financial institutions. In many cases, in fact, deposits have been withdrawn so that they could be invested in higher yielding securities. Thus interest ceilings that were intended as a protective shield for the housing market turned out instead to be an additional burden.
Interest rate ceilings proved harmful to Americans both as savers and as borrowers in the late 1960's. Because the interest rate ceilings for deposits were often below market interest rates, small savers, who depended on banks and other saving institutions, were denied a fair rate of return on their money. On the borrowing side, smaller increases in savings deposits resulted in a sharp drop in loan funds available to consumers and small business firms.
Since financial institutions were prohibited from paying better interest rates, they were forced to compete for customers in other ways. Much of the public had to settle for so-called "free services" or even offers of consumer goods when in fact they may have preferred to receive higher interest on their deposits. In addition, such competition often led to increases in operating costs which prevented lending rates from declining when credit conditions later eased.
Finally, because of reduced inflows of savings, thrift institutions cut back on their mortgage lending or borrowed from Federal Home Loan Banks which had to pay market rates for their funds. Although the Federal Government stepped in and picked up some of the slack, mortgage flows were still disrupted.
Recognizing the need for action on all these problems, I appointed a Presidential Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation during my second year as President to study this entire matter and to make recommendations for reforming our financial institutions. The Commission's report identified quite precisely the causes of rigidity and instability in our financial institutions. Its recommendations were of major assistance in our further deliberations concerning the best ways to correct the weaknesses in our financial system.
The time to correct those weaknesses has come. Our current efforts to fight inflation and preserve the value of the dollar at home and abroad require strong financial markets. Without strong markets, the American public will be forced once again to bear excessive burdens.
If we do not act promptly, there is every reason to believe that those burdens will be even greater in the 1970's than they were in the 1960's. Educated by the last two credit crunches and by constant advertisements about interest rates, even the small saver will shift his funds to places offering higher yields. As market rates rise above passbook ceilings and the saver shifts his funds to obtain the higher interest rates, the result may be that little loan money is available from financial institutions.
In keeping with that analysis, I will propose to the Congress legislation designed to strengthen and revitalize our financial institutions. These proposals may be divided into seven major areas:
(1) Interest ceilings on time and savings deposits should be removed over a 5 1/2 year period.
(2) Expanded deposit services for consumers by federally chartered thrift institutions and banks should be allowed.
(3) Investment and lending alternatives for federally chartered thrift institutions and banks should be expanded.
(4) Federal charters for stock savings and loan institutions and mutual savings banks should be permitted.
(5) Credit unions should be provided with greater access to funds.
(6) FHA and VA interest ceilings should be removed.
(7) The tax structure of banks and thrift institutions should be modified.
These recommendations would achieve the basic reforms our financial system requires. They represent the best suggestions from many different sources--from the Presidential Commission and from business, Government, consumer and academic communities.
The first five of these recommendations are designed to provide increased competition among banks and thrift institutions. Such competition would help to eliminate the inequities now imposed upon the small saver and borrower. My recommendations, and the increased competition that would follow, should reduce the cost of the entire package of financial services for the consumer. Furthermore, the saver would be assured a fair return on his money. In addition, thrift institutions would be strengthened, so they would no longer need the Government support required in the past.
Recommendations 6 and 7, along with the other recommendations, are designed to promote adequate funds for consumer needs, including housing finance. It is clear that interest ceilings on FHA and VA mortgage loans have failed to keep costs down, as evidenced in part by the widespread use of discount "points." At the same time, these ceilings have restricted the flow of private funds into mortgage markets. I will urge that individual states follow our lead and remove similar barriers to housing finance wherever such barriers exist.
The final recommendation would substantially broaden the base of housing finance. Although the final details have yet to be worked out, active consideration is being given to the creation of an income tax credit tied to investments in housing mortgages. Such a credit would be available to all lenders and could vary in direct proportion to the percentage of invested funds held in the form of such mortgages.
These recommendations are not the only steps being taken to strengthen the housing finance market. In my State of the Union Message on Community Development of March 8, 1973, I pledged that this Administration would undertake a comprehensive evaluation of our housing policies and programs and would recommend new policies to eliminate waste and better serve the needy. An interagency task force, under the leadership of Secretary Lynn, is now completing that task, and my recommendations will be presented to the Congress in the near future.
My recommendations on restructuring financial institutions represent a coordinated approach to this challenge, and I urge that they be considered as a package. For example, removing interest ceilings will not make a positive contribution unless banks and thrift institutions can expand their deposit and lending services. Flexibility and efficiency will be enhanced by placing competing institutions on a roughly equal footing with regard to three essential considerations: deposit powers, lending powers, and tax burdens. Finally, the tax recommendation and the removal of FHA and VA interest ceilings will help ensure more adequate funds for housing. The need for reform of our financial institutions is pressing. I urge the Congress to give these proposals its prompt and favorable consideration.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
August 3, 1973.
  