
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Michael J. Astrue of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Social Security Advisory Board for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 30, 2022.
Jason J. Fichtner of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a six year term beginning October 1, 2018.
Austin M. Smith of South Carolina, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the Rank of Ambassador, and an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as an Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, Department of State.
Mr. Smith serves as Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy in the United States Mission to the United Nations in New York, where he previously worked as the Deputy Director of the Washington Office. Mr. Smith was Deputy Chief of Staff for the Governor of South Carolina from 2014 to 2017. He served as Counsel to the Director of the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control from 2012 to 2014 and as Deputy Director and Counsel to the Director of the South Carolina Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation from 2011 to 2012. Mr. Smith was an attorney at Ellis, Lawhorne & Sims, P.A., in Columbia, South Carolina, from 2009 to 2011. He earned his B.A. in 2004 and a J.D. in 2009 from the University of South Carolina.
---
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to be Commissioners on the part of the United States to the International Joint Commission for United States and Canada:

Jane L. Corwin of New York, and upon confirmation to be designated chair.
Robert C. Sisson of Michigan.
Lance V. Yohe of North Dakota.

---
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to designate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
James Byrne of Virginia, to be the Acting Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
  