
    Biden promised the radical left he would decimate American energy. 
One year ago this week, Joe Biden stood on a debate stage and told the country there would be no place for fossil fuels in a Biden Administration. When pushed, he doubled down, saying there is "no middle ground" in his anti-energy agenda. Today, with Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez leading his policy committee, Biden's far-left energy positions are more radical than ever.
If Biden gets his way and eliminates American-made oil, coal and natural gas, it will cost Americans millions of good-paying union jobs and increase costs on the average family by $35,000. Biden's climate agenda is nothing more than a pledge to sacrifice jobs, spend trillions of dollars, and force hard-working Americans to pay the bill:

Biden's promise to eliminate fossil fuels will decimate our economy and obliterate jobs in states like Texas, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, and Ohio.
Biden said he would "love to make sure we can't use any oil or gas, period," despite over 10.3 million American jobs being supported by these industries.
Biden's proposal to eliminate oil, coal, and gas from the U.S. power grid would cost at least $2 trillion in four years – and that's just the beginning. Even this astronomical price tag is drastically less than what Biden's radical plan would actually cost.
Joe Biden promised to "proudly" kill the Keystone XL Pipeline project if he's elected, shutting down tens of thousands of American jobs and spitting in the face of union workers who for years have supported the pipeline and the jobs that come with it.
Biden remains silent while left-wing Green New Deal activists shut down the Dakota Access Pipeline.
Biden supporters are campaigning against the Atlantic Coast pipeline, killing thousands of union jobs and taking away workers' paychecks.

Joe Biden has embraced the radical left's anti-affordable energy agenda. President Trump spent the last four years putting America first and strengthening America's energy dominance – and he'll continue to do what's best for the country and American energy workers.
  