
    
  "A Bold Decision" ... "Reagan-Like Quality" ... "A Campaign Of Substance"

Time: "The 2012 Presidential Campaign Just Became A Debate About That Most Substantive Of All Issues." "To anyone who ever complained that politics wasn't substantive, buckle up: the 2012 Presidential campaign just became a debate about that most substantive of all issues, the federal budget." (Time, 8/11/12)
The Wall Street Journal's Paul Gigot: "He Is Earnest, He's Serious, He's A Real Policy Wonk." (Fox News, 8/11/12)


 Gigot: "Going To Make This A Fundamental Choice About The Direction Of America." GIGOT: "Right now, with this choice, Romney is committed, alright. He is basically saying, by picking Ryan, I'm not going to make this a safe election. I am going to make this a fundamental choice about the direction of America. And we are going to debate the future of Medicare and entitlements. We are going to debate the future of tax reform. Those are the issues now front and center." (Fox News, 8/11/12)


National Review's Jonah Goldberg: "I Am Delighted By The News ... A Bold Decision." "I am a huge, huge, Paul Ryan fan. So I am delighted by the news he will be Romney's running mate. ... It shows that for all of the talk of Romney's timidity and cautiousness he can make a bold decision when he needs to." (National Review, 8/11/12)
The Washington Post's Charles Krauthammer: "Ryan Has That Reagan-Like Quality." KRAUTHAMMER: "The best analogy is, I think, the late 1970s when Reagan became the candidate ... I think Ryan has that Reagan-like quality." (Fox News' "Fox and Friends," 8/11/12)
Weekly Standard's William Kristol: "This Is A Strong Pick, It's A Bold Pick, It's A Gutsy Pick." KRISTOL: "This is a strong pick, it's a bold pick, it's a gutsy pick. It doesn't run away from the controversial house budget. It's really picking the intellectual leader of the Republican Party." (Fox News' "Bulls & Bears," 8/11/12)
CNN's Jim Acosta: "The Campaign Equivalent Of A Call To Arms." "The battleship was a tip-off in more ways than one. Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan descended from the USS Wisconsin in Norfolk, Virginia Saturday with the campaign equivalent of a call to arms." (CNN, 8/11/12)
The New York Times' Ross Douthat: "This Will Make The Race More Exciting And More Serious, And I'm Looking Forward To Watching It Play Out." (The New York Times, 8/11/12)
Fox News' Liz Peek: "The Selection Of Mr. Ryan Sends A Very Different Message — That Romney Is Focused On Solving The Nation's Financial Crisis." (Fox News, 8/11/12)
Philadelphia Inquirer's Kevis Ferris: "A Welcome Move, One That Shows This Will Be A Campaign Of Substance - At Least On The GOP Side." "This weekend, Romney made it official. It was a welcome move, one that shows this will be a campaign of substance - at least on the GOP side." (Philadelphia Inquirer, 8/11/12)
National Review's John Fund: "If Republicans Were Looking For A Superior Candidate, They've Found It in Ryan." "Five, if Republicans were looking for a superior candidate, they've found it in Ryan. His maiden speech as the GOP vice-presidential candidate was perfectly pitched..." (National Review, 8/11/12)
  