
    "Reaganesque Themes" ... "Enduring Sense Of Optimism" ... "Chance To Recapture The American Dream"
McClatchy News: "Appealed To The Nation's Enduring Sense Of Optimism." "Mitt Romney presented the first crucial chapter Thursday of his bid to become the country's 45th president, accepting the Republican nomination and urging the nation to look closely at his résumé, his vision and his remedies for the ailing economy. ... He appealed to the nation's enduring sense of optimism." (McClatchy News Service, 8/31/12)
The New York Times: "A Direct Appeal To Americans Who Were Captivated By President Obama's Hopeful Promises Of Change..." "Mitt Romney accepted the Republican presidential nomination on Thursday by making a direct appeal to Americans who were captivated by President Obama's hopeful promises of change, pledging that he could deliver what the president did not and move the country from its worst economic downturn since the Great Depression." (The New York Times, 8/31/12)
The Washington Post: "Romney Spoke Emotionally About His Mormon Faith And Church Community, About His Romance With Ann And Raising Five Boys..." "In accepting the Republican nomination, Romney spoke emotionally about his Mormon faith and church community, about his romance with Ann and raising five boys, about his mother's feminist streak and his father's entrepreneurial spirit." (The Washington Post, 8/30/12)
CNN: "Romney Offers Reaganesque Themes In Defining Speech" (CNN, 8/31/12)
NPR: "Spoke To Those Disillusioned With President Obama ... Genuinely Moving Interludes." " "It spoke to those disillusioned with President Obama, and criticized his record on the economy and lack of business experience, while stressing his own. And it had its genuinely moving interludes..." (NPR, 8/30/12)
Fox News' Martha MacCallum: "That Is What We Saw Out There Tonight: A Man Who Is Compassionate And Capable." (Fox News, 8/30/12)
The Washington Post's Jennifer Rubin: "An Optimistic Picture For The Future ... The Chance To Recapture The American Dream." "Romney painted an optimistic picture for the future, describing the election as the chance to recapture the American dream. 'Now is the moment when we can stand up and say, 'I'm an American. I make my destiny. And we deserve better! My children deserve better! My family deserves better. My country deserves better!'' That drew an ovation." (The Washington Post, 8/30/12)
BuzzFeed's Ben Smith: "The Thing About Romney: He Does Deliver. This Is The Speech He Needed To Give." (Twitter.com, 8/30/12)
National Journal's Tim Alberta: "A Full-Spectrum Speech..." "This now a full-spectrum speech, and Romney hitting Obama at every possible turn. Very, very aggressive." (Twitter.com, 8/30/12)
Roll Call's David Drucker: "Mitt Romney Nailed Acceptance Speech." "Mitt Romney nailed acceptance speech. Right amount of red meat fervor. Great swing-state tone. His best moment when it was needed." (Twitter.com, 8/30/12)
Fox News' Bill Hemmer: "This Is Why They Came To Tampa..." "These delegates loved it. Loved every minute of it. This is why they came to Tampa..." (Fox News, 8/31/12)
The New York Times' Ross Douthat: "A Highly Effective Reintroduction To Romney The Man..." "It was a highly effective reintroduction to Romney the man, w/absolutely nothing in it to make Americans nervous about voting for him." (Twitter.com, 8/30/12)
National Review's Robert Costa: "This Is One Of His Better Speeches. ... Romney Showed Heart." COSTA: "Look, Mitt Romney had to introduce himself to the country tonight. This is one of his better speeches. Why? Romney showed heart." (CNBC, 8/30/12)
  