
    Pool Reports by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




August 9, 2022 10:14

Pool report #1/South Lawn
A crowd has gathered on the South Lawn for the signing of the CHIPS bill.
Light jazz played. Most recently Sunnyside of the Street, which is apt as the press and VIPs risk sunburn.
President Biden was introduced at 10:11am, with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo.
Open press. 


August 9, 2022 10:39

Pool report #2/attendees for CHIPs Bill signing
Josh Aviv, speaking before the president, said it: "It is probably 120 degrees on stage" and probably 95 in the audience on the South Lawn, most of them without shade.
Biden began speaking at 10:37am.
In attendance for the President's remarks and bill signing of H.R. 4346, the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022:
On stage for the signing:
Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget Ambassador Katherine Tai Speaker Pelosi (CA-12) Leader Chuck Schumer (NY) Senator Maria Cantwell (WA) Senator Rob Portman (OH) Senator Todd Young (IN) Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Representative Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01) Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Representative John Katko (NY-24) Representative Ro Khanna (CA-17) Representative Frank Pallone (NJ-06) Representative Haley Stevens (MI-11) Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the NEC Alondra Nelson, Deputy Assistant to the President and Acting Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)
In audience
The Second Gentleman Bill Nelson, NASA Administrator Kathleen Hicks, Deputy Secretary of Defense Dave Turk, Deputy Secretary of Energy Don Graves, Deputy Secretary of Commerce Senator Ben Cardin (MD) Senator Chris Coons (DE) Senator Ben Ray Lujan (NM) Senator Chris Van Hollen (MD) Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI) Representative Joyce Beatty (OH-03) Representative Don Beyer (VA-08) Representative Brendan Boyle (PA-02) Representative Shontel Brown (OH-11) Representative GK Butterfield (NC-01) Representative Andre Carson (IN-07) Representative Kathy Castor (FL-14) Representative Sheila Cherfilus McCormick (FL-20) Representative David Cicilline (RI-01) Representative Lou Correa (CA-46) Representative Sharice Davids (KS-03) Representative Suzan DelBene (WA-01) Representative Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) Representative George William "Bill" Foster (IL-11) Representative John Garamendi (CA-03) Representative Sylvia Garcia (TX-29) Representative Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05) Representative Al Green (TX-09) Representative Jahana Hayes (CT-05) Representative Robin Kelly (IL-02) Representative Dan Kildee (MI-05) Representative Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Representative Barbara Lee (CA-13) Representative Susie Lee (NV-03) Representative Mike Levin (CA-49) Representative Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Representative Tom Malinowski (NJ-07) Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Representative Gerald McNerney (CA-09) Representative Raul Ruiz (CA-36) Representative Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11) Representative Darren Soto (FL-09) Representative Jackie Speier (CA-14) Representative Greg Stanton (AZ-09) Representative Thomas Suozzi (NY-03) Representative Paul Tonko (NY-20) Representative Lauren Underwood (IL-14) Representative Susan Wild (PA-07) Representative John Yarmuth (KY-03) Governor JB Pritzker, IL Governor Tom Wolf, PA Mayor Justin Bibb, Cleveland, OH Mayor Michael Duggan, Detroit, MI Mayor Lauren McLean, Boise, ID Mayor Erin Mendenhall, Salt Lake City, UT Mayor Ginger Nelson, Amarillo, TX Mr. Christopher James, National Congress of American Indians TX Senate Minority Leader Carol Alvarado TX House minority Leader Chris Turner AZ Senate Minority Leader Rebecca Rios MN House Speaker Melissa Hortman MI House Minority Leader Donna Lasinski MI Representative Amara Manoogian OH House Minority Leader Catherine Russo
Private Sector:
Jim Taiclet, CEO, Lockheed Martin Sanjay Mehrotra, CEO, Micron Pat Gelsinger, CEO, Intel Enrique Lores, CEO, HP Josh Aviv, CEO, SparkCharge Dr. Lisa Su, Chair and CEO, AMD Hassane El-Khoury, President, and CEO, Onsemi Dr. Sy Choi, President and General Manager, Foundry Business, Samsung AB Ghosh, CEO, Hemlock Tom Caulfield, President and CEO, GlobalFoundries
Labor and Academic:
Ray Curry, President, United Autoworkers (UAW) Chris Shelton, President, Communication Workers of America (CWA) Lonnie Stephenson, International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) Farnam Jahanian, Carnegie Mellon University Rafael Reif, President, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Dr. Gilda A. Barabino, President and Professor of Biomedical and Chemical Engineering, Olin College of Engineering (t)
Run of Show
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer Speaker Nancy Pelosi Secretary Gina Raimondo Josh Aviv, Founder & CEO, SparkCharge The President 


August 9, 2022 10:59

Pool report #3/CHIPS Act signed
President Biden ended his remarks after 20 minutes and signed the CHIPS Act at the small desk to the side.
Biden began to cough more and more as he spoke. First into his left fist, then his right. Then alternating and pausing for sips of water. His voice was strong but the chesty post-Covid cough hit every few moments for a while. By the time he'd finished speaking he has been standing in the sun for 40 minutes, wearing suit the whole time
The others who had spoken (Schumer, Pelosi, Raimondo and Aviv) each sat after speaking.
Crowd filing off South Lawn. 


August 9, 2022 11:37

pool report #4/Biden negative and lunch lid
The press office reports: The President tested negative for COVID yesterday and this morning.
And we have a lunch lid until 1:30pm. 


August 9, 2022 14:19

Pool report #5/NATO event 2 minute warning
Pool is in the East Room where the "President will deliver remarks and sign the Instruments of Ratification for the Accession Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty for the Republic of Finland and Kingdom of Sweden."
It's being livestreamed so pooling will be kept to a minimum. 


August 9, 2022 14:35

Pool report #6/NATO event over
The president handed the pen to Sweden's ambassador after signing the first document, and a second pen to Finland's ambassador after signing the second document. They and Vice President Harris flanked him as he sat at the desk.
Biden ignored questions about the FBI raid of ex-President Donald Trump's home at Mar a Lago, shouted from stage right as he posed for post-signing photos.
Pool departing the East Room now.
In attendance for the President's remarks and signing of the Instruments of Ratification for the Accession Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty for the Republic of Finland and Kingdom of Sweden:
On stage for the signing:
The Vice President Ambassador Mikko Hautala of the Republic of Finland Ambassador Karin Olofsdotter of the Kingdom of Sweden
In the Audience: The Second Gentleman Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) Senator Chris Coons (DE) Representative John Garamendi (CA-03) Representative Don Beyer (VA-08) Representative Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01) Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs 


August 9, 2022 14:53

pool report #7/ briefing moved to 3:05
The briefing with Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is now scheduled to begin at 3:05. 


August 9, 2022 16:24

pool report #8/lid
A lid was declared at 4:22 pm. 



  