
    Today, I am pleased to announce that the United States is committing up to $4.3 billion through 2019 to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, subject to Congressional appropriations. We are committing to match one dollar for every two dollars in pledges made by other donors through September 30th, 2017. We are calling on all partners to contribute generously in order to leverage our matching pledge to reach the Global Fund's replenishment goal of $13 billion for the three year period from 2017 to 2019, averting 300 million new infections and saving an additional 8 million lives ?from HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis by 2020.
In 2013, the United States hosted the Global Fund's Fourth Replenishment Conference and matched one dollar for every two dollars that other donors contributed to the Global Fund, ultimately pledging $4.1 billion to fund AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria grants. Working with partners--including the Global Fund, governments, civil society and communities--and building on the work of previous administrations, we have already made significant progress. Together, we have saved an estimated 6 million lives from malaria and 43 million lives from tuberculosis since 2000. Globally, 17 million people are receiving lifesaving HIV/AIDS treatment, and the United States remains committed to supporting nearly 13 million people with lifesaving treatment by the end of next year through PEPFAR.
While we are turning the tide against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, too many around the world—especially in areas of conflict—still fall victim to these diseases. Now is the time for the world to accelerate its efforts by making smart investments and evidence-based interventions in the most at-risk places. The United States is proud to do its part. That is what this announcement is all about—making long-term commitments to keep up the fight, because every country has a role to play to help wipe out these diseases once and for all.
A generation free from the scourge of these horrific diseases is in sight. It is our duty to fight for that future. The United States remains confident—buoyed by the progress we have made and building on the partnerships we have developed—that the world will rise to the challenge. Together, we can and will continue working to rid the world of these debilitating illnesses and save the lives of millions.
  