
    Kamala Harris embraced it. Joe Biden is an empty vessel for it.
It's Bernie Sanders's party – Joe Biden is just the empty vessel for it. As the Fidel Castro-loving, Soviet Union-honeymooning, dictator-defending communist comrade kicks off the Democrat convention, it's a fitting reminder of just how far left the party has moved since the days of Barack Obama. On nearly every issue, Biden has bowed down to the left-wing radicals running the Democrat Party.
Sanders may not be on the ballot in November, but it's clear his agenda is.

Sanders was the chief architect of Biden's "Unity Plan" — a dangerous communist manifestothat copied directly from Sanders's platform.It calls for open borders, ending all deportations, deadly sanctuary cities, taxpayer-funded health care and welfare for illegal aliens, incentivizing illegal alien child smuggling, and much more.
Sanders wants to raise taxes on the middle class, and so does Biden. Biden will raise taxes by more than $4 trillion. Taken together, Biden's proposals would cost at least $10 trillion — a hint of just how much Biden will need to take from taxpayers to enact his extreme agenda.
Sanders bragged about forcing Biden to move "a whole lot" to the left on health care. Biden's plan is the first step toward a socialist single-payer system, which would kill private health insurance plans and close rural hospitals across the country. It would also give taxpayer-funded health care to illegal aliens.
Biden embraced the socialist Green New Deal, a job-killing war on energy written by Sanders and fellow socialist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. They're calling for a "fundamental transition" away from a free economy a radical plan to eliminate fossil fuels, ban fracking, and take a wrecking ball to the paychecks of hardworking Americans.

Phony Kamala Harris — Joe Biden's political living will — was rated the most liberal member of the U.S. Senate, even further left than Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren.

Sanders said he believes terrorists and rapists should have the right to vote while they are in prison, and Harris said she was open to the idea.
Harris said she wants to ban the private health insurance plans of 180 million Americans. Harris helped Sanders introduce his socialist takeover of health care, so-called "Medicare for All." She is still a cosponsor of the bill today.
Harris and Sanders support AOC's socialist Green New Deal. They all support banning all fracking, a move that would decimate millions of energy jobs across the United States.

There is nothing moderate about Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, and Sanders's speech tonight proves it.
  