
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(SENT 8/11/92)(Senate)(Brown (D) California)
H.R. 4364, as ordered reported by the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, authorizes a total of $14,671.7 million for NASA programs for FY 1993. This is a reduction of $321.3 million from the President's Budget request.
The Administration is pleased that this bill strongly supports important NASA programs in space science, space transportation, aeronautics, and space technology. However, the Administration opposes several provisions in this legislation. Accordingly, the Administration opposes passage of H.R. 4364 unless the Senate amends it to:

—   Authorize the full request of $2,250 million for Space Station Freedom. The reduction of $200 million in H.R. 4364 for the Station would delay the launch and assembly of its first elements by four to six months.
—   Authorize increased funding for the National Aero-Space Plane. The authorization of $10 million (of the $80 million requested) would not allow completion of the technology demonstration phase (Phase II) for this important program.
—   Provide increased funding for the New Launch System's development of the Space Transportation Main Engine. H.R. 4364 would sharply reduce funds for this Presidential initiative.
—   Authorize the request of $31.8 million for Space Exploration. This funding is necessary to make modest progress toward acquiring the knowledge, experience, technology and cost estimate base necessary to determine how best to return to the moon and venture to Mars. The Committee's markup would effectively terminate space exploration program activities for FY 1993. Additionally, $27 million should be restored to the Civil Space Technology Initiative. These research efforts are critical to ensure that the capabilities to accomplish future space missions will be available when needed.
—   Make funding for the Advanced Solid Rocket Motor program contingent on NASA receiving a sufficient allocation from the appropriations committees. 
In addition, the Administration urges the Senate to amend H.R. 4364 to:

—   Restore $163.5 million for Space Science and Applications programs proposed by the Administration. H.R. 4364 would reduce funding for several major science programs that were recently restructured or are being restructured now. These programs include the Earth Observing System, Cassini, and the Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility. The bill would delete FY 1993 funding for the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence project.
—   Delete funding for the Shuttle Test of Relativity Experiment and Magellan mapping operations, which was not requested by the Administration. 
  