
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the campaign's media team. This group of experienced media professionals includes Scott Howell and Company, Chris Mottola and Associates, BrabenderCox and Crossroads Media.
Heath Thompson of Scott Howell and Company will serve as the campaign's Lead Creative Consultant. A tested political veteran of President George W. Bush's 2000 and 2004 campaigns and numerous statewide campaigns, Thompson brings a blend of unrivaled political and media experience to Team Rudy.
"This team brings together diverse talents and years of invaluable media expertise to the campaign's overall communications effort. I look forward to working with Heath and this team. All of these individuals are at the top of the field," said Brent Seaborn, Giuliani's Director of Strategy.
Scott Howell and Company, one of the most successful Republican media firms in the nation, has a 15 year record of success with clients that include President George W. Bush, the Republican National Committee, National Republican Senatorial Committee, Republican Governor's Association and Senators John Thune, Norm Coleman, Jim DeMint, Saxby Chambliss, and Kay Bailey Hutchison.
The BrabenderCox team has helped elect Republican Senators, Governors, and Congressmen all over the nation. Chris Mottola and Associates is a nationally recognized media firm that played a key role in President Bush's elections, while Crossroads Media is a premier Republican media services firm specializing in advertising strategy and placement for political candidates.
Giuliani's Senior Advisor Chris Henick added, "This group will be instrumental in communicating Mayor Giuliani's strong leadership, proven record as an experienced executive and optimistic vision to Americans. We are fortunate to have such campaign-tested individuals and look forward to growing our already strong media team."
About the Giuliani Media Team:
Heath Thompson
Thompson is a Partner with Scott Howell and Company. He previously served as regional political director for President George W. Bush's successful 2004 re-election campaign, directing political operations in 10 states including the targeted states of Florida and Missouri.
Thompson directed Bush's historic win in the South Carolina Republican Primary in 2000. He worked on local political races in South Carolina during the 1990s. He served as a consultant to both U.S. Senator Jim DeMint's successful 2004 campaign in South Carolina and U.S. Senator Norm Coleman's victory in Minnesota in 2002.
Scott Howell
Howell is the President of Scott Howell and Company, one of the premier strategic media firms in the country. His experience includes working as a specialist for targeted legislative campaigns under Lee Atwater at the Republican National Committee.
Howell was a member of the successful Bush/Cheney media team in 2004. He has been media strategist to a number of successful campaigns including U.S. Senator John Thune, U.S. Senator Norm Coleman, U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, U.S. Senator Richard Shelby, U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, U.S. Senator Jim DeMint and former U.S. Senator Jim Talent.
Chris Mottola
Chris Mottola of Chris Mottola and Associates is a nationally recognized media consultant who has produced and directed nationally award-winning commercials. He has a key role in President Bush's successful elections and his past clients have included Pennsylvania's Republican U.S. Senator Arlen Specter and Republican New York Governor George Pataki.
In addition to his political work, Mottola handles advertising for a number of corporate and public interest concerns. He has lectured at Oxford University (Nuffield College), the World Affairs Council, and is a political contributor to NPR.
John A. Brabender
Brabender is the founder and Chief Creative Officer of BrabenderCox, a national Republican media firm. He has earned the reputation as one of the most creative media consultants in the country and has been honored with a remarkable 56 Pollie Awards for creative excellence. His unique creative executions combined with his success record led Atlantic magazine to say: "Brabender's results are a persuasive argument for quality and creativity."
Patti Heck
Heck is the President of Crossroads Media, a premier Republican media services firm specializing in advertising strategy and placement for political candidates. She has worked with all levels of elective government including Governor, U.S. Congress and U.S. Senate. Heck has also worked for the Republican National Committee, the National Republican Senatorial Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee. Over the last seventeen years, Heck has placed media in every state in the country.
Heck previously spent 11 years with a prominent republican media firm as Vice President of Media Placement. She graduated from Brigham Young University with a Bachelors Degree in English.
  