
    President George W. Bush today announced that he has nominated four individuals and intends to designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President has nominated Michael W. Hager, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management and intends to designate Acting, for a four-year term. Mr. Hager currently serves as Assistant Secretary (Human Resources and Management) at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prior to this, he served as Associate Administrator in the Office of Capital Access at the Small Business Administration. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Capital Officer for Bank One Corporation for fifteen years. Mr. Hager received his bachelor's degree from Bluefield State College.
The President has nominated Deborah Hersman, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a five-year term beginning 01/01/09. Ms. Hersman currently serves as a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board. Prior to this, she served as Senior Professional Staff on the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation. Earlier in her career, she served as Staff Director and Senior Legislative Aide to Congressman Bob Wise. Ms. Hersman received her bachelor's degree from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University and her master's degree from George Mason University.
The President has nominated Gregori Lebedev, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform with the Rank of Ambassador and Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform. Mr. Lebedev currently serves as Senior Advisor at Adelphi Capital, LLC. Prior to this, Mr. Lebedev served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the American Chemistry Council. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President for International Policy and National Security at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Lebedev received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of South Dakota.
The President has nominated Sung Y. Kim, of Virginia, to be accorded the Rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Envoy for the Six Party Talks.
  