
    Following the passage of the historic bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, African American leaders from across the country are speaking out in support of the legislation which takes critical steps to advance equity and racial justice throughout our economy.
This infrastructure deal, alongside the President's Build Back Better agenda, will deliver results for the Black community by creating jobs, cutting taxes, and lowering costs for working families.
Read more about how President Biden's Build Back Better agenda helps Black communities HERE.
See below for what our nation's leaders are saying about the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act:
Congressional Black Caucus:
Rep. Joyce Beatty: "I am glad the Senate, under the leadership of @POTUS, has passed a bipartisan bill that would make serious investments in our infrastructure. This compromise has the potential to rebuild the middle class with honest, good-paying jobs and reignite American competitiveness. My colleagues and I remain committed to working with the President as we build back better in #OH03 and nationwide."
Rep. James Clyburn: "Senate passage of the bipartisan infrastructure bill is an important step forward as we work to build back better. We must enact infrastructure and reconciliation packages that make the investments needed for a strong, sustainable and inclusive post-pandemic economy."
Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee: "Infrastructure is coming to America! The United States Senate has just passed the largest ever investment in building our communities! I look forward to getting this bill through the house and on to President Biden's desk!!"
Rep. Barbara Lee: "It's past time we invest in our nation's crumbling infrastructure. The Senate took the first step. Now let's make bold investments in working families and addressing the climate crisis."
Rep. Emanuel Cleaver: "I applaud the Senate's passage of both the bipartisan infrastructure deal and the historic budget resolution. Both are needed to create millions of good-paying jobs, rebuild our national infrastructure, and help communities #BuildBackBetter."
Rep. Andre Carson: "Now that the Senate has passed their bipartisan infrastructure package, we're closer to making long-overdue infrastructure investments in our country. However, their bill falls short of our House-passed bill."
Rep. Hakeem Jeffries: "The bipartisan Biden infrastructure bill will create millions of good-paying jobs. That's a big freaking deal."
Rep. Marc Veasey: "Proud to join @SecretaryPete at the @DFWAirport to discuss how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Plan will make critically needed improvements to infrastructure in Texas. This once-in-a-generation investment will transform our nation's infrastructure, create jobs, & grow our economy."
Senator Cory Booker: "This landmark infrastructure package will allow New Jersey and our country to modernize our rail and transit systems, fix our crumbling bridges, tunnels and roads, combat climate change, and so much more. Grateful it passed the Senate today."
Rep. Anthony Brown: "Our infrastructure has been neglected for decades. Roads, bridges, transit and waterways serve all of us. It's time we invest in our country's transportation future and reconnect our communities. More work is ahead to deliver the 21st-century infrastructure Americans deserve."
Rep. Val Demings:  "I'm glad that Democrats and Republicans were able to come together to address our pressing infrastructure needs. This investment means thousands of good jobs and real progress to improve the lives of Floridians. When we work together, our communities win. I support this bill."
Rep. Steven Horsford: "The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will create good union jobs, modernize our infrastructure, and protect our state from the increasing threat of climate change. I'm glad to see the Senate pass this bill with broad support, and I look forward to advocating for the needs of Nevada's Fourth District as it moves to the House for consideration."
Rep. Colin Allred: "As our region grows, investments in our infrastructure will be critical. I am excited to host in North Texas tomorrow and discuss how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will help create jobs, reduce congestion and better connect our region."
Rep. Antonio Delgado: "The bipartisan Senate infrastructure bill will finally address the immediate physical infrastructure needs of upstate NY and our country. It will create jobs by investing in roads, bridges, and high-speed Internet, grow our economy, and improve our communities."
Rep. Joe Neguse: "GREAT NEWS! Several proposals we've been advocating for to upgrade our power grid, restore our forests and support our mountain communities were included in the bipartisan infrastructure legislation that passed the Senate today!"
Senator Reverend Raphael Warnock: "By bridging political divides, the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment & Jobs Act will deliver for Georgians all across our state."
Rep. Troy Carter: I'm proud the Senate found common ground with us & sent a bill that helps #LA02 by:
decreasing flood riskincreasing broadband building new roadsrepairing bridges investing in our rail networks & ports.
Mayors
Mayor Eric Johnson - Dallas, TX: "The bipartisan infrastructure bill will help Dallas and our country to build for the future. We must invest in our communities now."
Mayor Levar Stoney - Richmond, VA: "This is what happens when we work together. One step closer to progress and change for those that live in our communities. #BuildBackBetter"
Mayor Michael B. Hancock - Denver, CO: "This means more good-paying jobs, improved infrastructure, clean water and access to high-speed internet for all Americans and better, more equitable outcomes for working families and communities of color."
Mayor Randall Woodfin - Birmingham, AL: "The bipartisan infrastructure bill contains much-needed support for cities, including Birmingham, to invest in our roads and bridges, public transit, clean drinking water, broadband internet and clean energy infrastructure."; "Thank you to @POTUS, @VP and all those who worked to get this historic deal passed in the Senate. Looking forward to utilizing this federal support to keep making #ProgressTogether in Birmingham."
Mayor Melvin Carter - St. Paul, MN: "Communities across America have been waiting 5 years for #InfrastructureWeek; while this trillion dollar federal package won't solve every problem, it is a much needed step forward."
Community Leaders
African American Mayors Association: "By passing a major infrastructure bill today, the Senate took a huge step forward towards fortifying our nation's crumbling infrastructure, boosting our economy, and strengthening American cities. As Black mayors, we know firsthand how monumental this infusion of funding will be for the success of our communities, large and small, and are deeply appreciative that the Senate understands the urgency of infrastructure investment. Investments in broadband internet, water infrastructure, and public transit are critical to keeping Americans safe, connected, and fully able to participate in the internet economy. We are thrilled that lawmakers from both sides of the aisle came together to create a deal that is truly responsive to the infrastructure needs of the American people. This is leadership, plain and simple. Now, we're calling on the House to pass this bill quickly, and get it to President Biden's desk."
Executive Leadership Council: "We want to thank President Biden, Vice President Harris and the members of the United States Senate for advancing this bipartisan Infrastructure bill which stands to create millions of jobs, providing unparalleled opportunities for American workers. The monumental investment will help to close the wealth gaps for Black American workers by creating sustainable and long-term economic opportunity for all Americans."
National Black Caucus of State Legislators: "Just when the political divisions seem to be at an all-time high in this country, President Biden, working in a bi-partisan way with Congress has found a way to bring America together through focusing on our, common needs. A failing bridge in a "blue state" is just as dangerous as a flood prone highway in a "red state. Children in rural red America who can't access the internet for homework suffer just as much children in urban blue America with spotty internet access. The Members of NBCSL look forward to working with our federal partners to help get America reconnected."
National Organization of Black Elected Legislative Women: "As many of you are aware, the bipartisan infrastructure deal passed in the Senate. This effort will rebuild roads and bridges and modernize America's airports, rail, and public transit systems. It will also deliver clean drinking water and high-speed internet to every household in the country. It will help us tackle the climate crisis by electrifying school buses, building electric vehicle chargers across the country. And it will upgrade our power infrastructure to be resilient against natural disasters! We are celebrating this news and are committed to making sure our communities benefit from this effort."
National Black Justice Coalition: "Having reliable, accessible transit and internet, clean air and drinking water, and living wage jobs is a game-changer for Black LGBTQ+/SGL people living in poverty. We celebrate the passage today, and urge Senators to move quickly to also approve the budget, which includes major federal investments in child care, immigration, family leave, and climate change."
National Urban League: "Today, we applaud the Senate's passage of the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which passed the Senate by a vote of 69-30. This historic $1.2 trillion federal investment will create new jobs, connect millions of American children, families, and communities to affordable and reliable high-speed internet, and provide much-needed support to minority-owned businesses. It represents the biggest federal investment in infrastructure this country has seen in a generation."
U.S. Black Chambers, Inc.: "The Senate's passage of the legislation is a critical step towards securing a long-awaited investment in our nation's infrastructure system. USBC has been advocating for this action since 2010. In addition, USBC priorities for contracting opportunities and broadband investment are included in the bill that will -- at long last -- codify the Minority Business Development Agency, representing a bipartisan commitment to investing in the growth of Black businesses across the country. This investment will especially help those in our community who have historically lacked access to broadband, expanding to Black-owned businesses everywhere an increased opportunity to grow, scale, and adapt."
Coalition of Black Trade Unionists: "CBTU supports the trillion-dollar federal infrastructure bill that will uplift millions of working families through good union jobs. The legislation now moves for House consideration as early as next month. We urge the U.S. House of Representatives to avoid delays, pass the Senate bill and send it to President Biden's desk."
  