
    Pool Reports by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




August 25, 202212:42

In-town pool report #1 -- briefing delayed until 1 pm
Hi there -- today's press briefing has been delayed until 1 pm, per the White House



August 25, 202213:07

In-town pool report #2 -- two minutes to press briefing
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



August 25, 202213:09

In-town pool report #3 -- briefing begins
The briefing began at 1:09 pm
You can watch it live in the usual places



August 25, 202214:11

In-town pool report #4 -- briefing ends
The briefing ended at 2:10 pm



August 25, 202215:23

In-town travel pool report #5 — pool gathering
Hi — the pool is gathering for the presidents trip to Maryland. More soon



August 25, 202215:55

In-town pool report #6 — motorcade moving
The motorcade was rolling at 3:53 pm
We didn’t see POTUS



August 25, 202216:27

In-town pool report #7 — arrival at DNC reception
At 4:22, the motorcade came to a stop in Bethesda, Maryland at a private residence for a DNC reception that the president is attending.
We’re in a leafy neighborhood full of large homes. Pool is out of sight of the president and we can’t see the house where the reception is taking place. The pool is holding in vans for now.
The motorcade ride was uneventful. We zoomed past dozens of cars pulled over on the side of the GW parkway.
And from the WH:
Traveling with the President in the motorcade en route Montgomery County, Maryland:Jen O’Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentVinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingKimi Gahan, Special Assistant to the President & Principal Dep. NSC Legal Advisor & Assoc. CounselMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningChris Meagher, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Press SecretaryCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic PlanningStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



August 25, 202216:48

In town pool report #8 — pool brought into DNC reception
The reception is taking place at a large brick home with red, white and blue bunting draped on the outside. Pool (minus photo/video) was brought through the back yard past a large outdoor pool to an outdoor tent where the reception is happening. It’s drizzling. Under the tent, a stage is set up with four Americans flags.
There are people here sitting in rows of chairs in front of the stage and mingling. The Goo Goo Dolls are playing through the speakers.
Redfin estimates the house is worth just over $3.1 million.
We’re awaiting Biden.
Background from DNC Official: On Thursday, President Biden will hold a fundraising event in Bethesda, Maryland, which will have approximately 100 attendees, and raise $1 million for the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Grassroots Victory Fund.
Thanks in a large part to engagement from President Biden, the DNC has raised a midterm record $255 million this cycle and over $92 million so far this year – the most at this point in any year. Year to date, this is also the best midterm year for grassroots fundraising at the DNC ever. This overwhelming show of support reflects the broad level of excitement and support for President Biden's agenda.



August 25, 202217:43

In town pool report #9 — Biden remarks, criticizes Trump
The reception program kicked off at 4:58.
Biden entered the tent and began talking following a brief introduction at 5 pm. The crowd gave him a standing ovation. POTUS entered the tent wearing a black mask but removed it before he began speaking.
He approached a little girl in the crowd and joked that the girl would be bored. He took out his RayBan sunglasses and showed them to the girl.
He ended his remarks at 5:32. As the pool was being pulled out, he said he would take questions from the crowd. Somebody asked what he would do next after the IRA, but we couldn't hear his answer.
Notes on his remarks, which were not carried live or recorded. See his criticism of Trump/semi-facism comment below:
"To state the obvious, there's a lot going on," Biden said.
When he took office, he said unemployment was high, the deficit was piling up and there weren't enough vaccines.
He said people used to wonder if global warming was happening. "Nobody seems to doubt it right now." He pointed to recent natural disasters.
He said his administration had made progress on key issues.
"Things are beginning to change a little bit."
"We've reached an inflection point in world history…so much is in flux, so much is changing."
He mentioned a past meeting with Putin and said permafrost is "literally burning"
He mentioned his frequent interactions with China's Xi. "The Chinese are very, very uncertain about their future. The Chinese people are very, very uncertain about their future."
He said he ran for president to restore the middle class and unite the country.
He raised concerns about US democracy and criticized what he called extreme Republicans.
"What we're seeing now, is either the beginning or the death knell of an extreme MAGA philosophy. It's not just Trump, it's the entire philosophy that underpins the - I'm going to say something, it's like semi-fascism."
He pointed to his accomplishments and said, "we're heading in the right direction."
He touted the IRA and his Supreme Court confirmation win.
"We rallied the world to stand up against Putin's aggression." (The crowd applauded)
"I underestimated how much damage the previous four years had done in terms of America's reputation in the world."
"I believe there's not a damn thing America can't do if we set our mind to it."
He touted the insulin and prescription drug provisions in the IRA.
"The first year, I had to spend an awful lot of time abroad…"
Talked about NATO, Quad, ASEAN
"Today there are 15 percent fewer democracies than there were ten years ago…How do we sustain peace and stability if that's the case?
"This is not your father's Republican party. This is a different deal."
"It's not just about Roe and choice, it's about gay marriage…"
"Mark my words, you're going to see a nationwide effort…[to wipe out choice for women] across the board"
"Our team has to show up and quite frankly vote, just simply vote."
"Rick Scott, who heads up the ultra MAGA agenda for Republicans…he thinks everyone in America should pay taxes."
He said Scott wants congress to affirmatively vote every five years to maintain social security's Medicare, Medicaid
"What that means is every five years it's on the chopping block."
He said Republicans will try to repeal Obamacare if they take control
"This is a real battle."
"What we've demonstrated is we can take on the gun lobby, we can take on these other organizations and educate the American people on what's at stake. And I think we can win."
"We've got to win."



August 25, 202217:46

In town pool report #10 — speakers at reception
From the White House:
The President is participating in a reception for the Democratic National Committee.
Speaking Program:Risa BenderThe President



August 25, 202217:50

In town pool report #11 — motorcade rolling
The motorcade was rolling at 5:48 pm. We did not see potus enter the beast.



August 25, 202218:13

In town travel pool report #12 — arrival at rally venue
Motorcade came to a stop at 6:07 at Richard Montgomery High School in Rockville, Md. we didn't see POTUS.
Pool is set up at tables in the back of the high school gym, where the rally is taking place.
There are hundreds of people here sitting in bleachers and standing on the gym floor. Behind the stage are two large American flags and a sign that says "Building a Better America"



August 25, 202218:43

In town pool report #13 — pool moved
The pool was just brought into an overflow room near the gym. The overflow room — an auditorium — is packed with hundred of people.
Pool is seated in a middle row and we’re holding here for now. We’ve been told we’ll move back to the gym for the speech.
TBD on whether Biden will make an appearance in the overflow room to address the crowd here



August 25, 202219:01

In town pool report #14 — Biden appears in overflow room
At 6:55 pm, POTUS walked onto the stage of an auditorium here that is serving as the overflow room for the crowd. The surprised crowd of several hundred stood up and cheered.
"The good news of being in an overflow room is you can leave when I start to speak," he told the crowd.
"I just want to say thank you — thank you, thank you, thank you."
"There's an awful lot at stake."
He praised the Maryland congressional delegation
"How do they let you wear a Penn State jersey?" He asked somebody in the crowd.
"I will not be offended if you leave. I'm going to go up and speak in a minute."
He repeated his previous remarks on world being at an inflection point.
"I believe with every fiber in my being…there's not a damn thing in the world rhe United States is unable to do if we set our mind to it."
"Go spread the faith."
He stopped speaking and walked off the stage at 6:59 pm. The crowd cheered.
Pool going back to the gym
A note: because it's a political event, the White House is not live streaming Biden's upcoming rally. But you can watch it on C-SPAN:
https://www.c-span.org/video/?522491-1/president-biden-remarks-democrati...



August 25, 202219:15

In town pool report #15 — Biden appears in another overflow room
Pool was rushed into another overflow room — this time, it's a cafeteria.
Several hundred people were gathered around barricades. After POTUS' first visit to the overflow room, the crowd seemed to have anticipated that POTUS would make an appearance.
At 7:07 pm, POTUS walked into the cafeteria. One man yelled, "Mr. President, we love you."
"My name is Joe Biden"
"I want to tell you how much I appreciate you all."
"I just came down to say thank you. You're very smart being in an overflow crowd because by the time I start to speak, you can leave."
"Everyone is entitled to be treated with dignity and that's what our party is about"
A man interrupted and said what appeared to be, "please, immigration!"
Biden responded: "there are more Latinos in my administration than any other administration in American history. My administration looks like America."
"So anyway folks, I'm gonna get the hell out of here," Biden joked.
Among those in crowd: members of a high schools band, in uniform. He held up a metal scepter-like cane from one of the band mates and held it up, to much applause.
He then posed for a group photo with the crowd, bending down so everybody could fit in the frame. He took three photos with different parts of the crowd behind him.
"Keep the faith," he said and left the room at 7:13 pm.



August 25, 202219:34

In town pool report #16 -- roughly two-minute warning to rally
WH just called a "roughly" two minute warning
Also:
Participating in a photo line with the President:
U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (MD)Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-05)Rep. Jaime Raskin (MD-08)



August 25, 202219:41

In town pool report #17 -- Biden speech begins
POTUS appeared on the stage in the gym here at 7:38 pm, and began speaking
at 7:39 pm.
"We love you, Joe!" a woman yelled
The gym is packed with people. Some in the crowd are holding signs that say "USA" and "A Better America." Most people in the crowd are not wearing masks. It's quite warm in the gym.
The speech is being carried live, so I'll leave it up to you all to watch it. I'll send any other relevant color. The pool is set up behind a large stand where the photogs/videographers are gathered, so we don't have a clear view of the stage.



August 25, 202219:46

In town pool report #18 -- crowd size
I just spoke to the fire marshall for the city of Rockville, where the rally is taking place.
He said there are more than 3,667 in all three rooms -- the gym where the rally is taking place, plus the two overflow rooms (cafeteria and auditorium).
He said there are about 2,400 people in the gym alone.



August 25, 202219:49

In town pool report #19 -- heckler
A heckler interrupted POTUS' speech, yelling, "You stole the election!" The crowd booed him.
The heckler was quickly escorted out. He was wearing a suit and as he was being removed he held up two fingers on each hand in a "V," Nixon-style, and took a brief bow.



August 25, 202220:10

In town pool report #20 -- Biden speech wraps
Biden wrapped up his speech at 8:08 pm
A couple notes: –Crowd erupted in applause and cheers when Biden mentioned an assault weapons ban
–There were a couple chants of "four more years."
–When Biden said Republicans were going after social security, a woman yelled, "Leave my social security alone."



August 25, 202220:11

In town pool report #21 -- rally program
And belatedly, here's the rally program, per the White House:
The President is delivering remarks at a rally for the Democratic National Committee.
Singing the National Anthem:Lily Grace Harrison
Speaking Program: Yvette Lewis, Chair of the Maryland Democratic PartyJaime Harrison, Chair of the Democratic National CommitteeBrooke Lierman, Candidate for the Comptroller of MarylandAruna Miller, Candidate for Lieutenant Governor of MarylandRep. David Trone (MD-06) (via video)Sen. Chris Van Hollen (MD) (via video)Rep. Jaime Raskin (MD-08)Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-05)Sen. Ben Cardin (MD)Andrea Shelder, field organizer for the Maryland Democratic PartyWes Moore, Democratic nominee for the Governor of MarylandThe President



August 25, 202220:48

In town pool report #22 — motorcade rolling
After leaving the stage, Biden mingled with the crowd for nearly 30 minutes, snapping photos and shaking hands. He was not wearing a mask.
Pool was too far away to hear what he was saying.
By 8:35 pm, when Biden stopped mingling and left the gym, most of the crowd had already filtered out.
Pool moved to the vans a few minutes after Biden left the gym.
The motorcade began rolling at 8:46 pm. Pool did not see POTUS come out of the high school.



August 25, 202221:23

In town pool report #23 — lid
The motorcade came to a stop at the White House at 9:19 pm. Ride was uneventful. Pool didn’t see POTUS enter the White House.
White House called a lid at 9:21 pm.
Good night, all.




  