
    Memorandum for the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Transportation, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1302 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 ("the Act"), 49 U.S.C. App. 1532, and 3 U.S.C. 301, I hereby:
(1) determine that continuation of commercial air services to and from Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Yemen, Oman, United Arab Emirates, Israel, Bahrain, Qatar, and Cyprus, and to and from Iraq and Kuwait to the extent permitted by Executive Orders Nos. 12724 and 12725, is necessary to carry out the foreign policy of the United States. Such commercial air services facilitate, in particular, actions in support of the United States and international response to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and the evacuation of American citizens from areas affected by the invasion. These services facilitate, in addition, the maintenance of normal political and commercial exchange with the countries of the region;
(2) approve provision by the Secretary of Transportation of insurance against loss or damage arising out of any risk from the operation of an aircraft in the manner and to the extent provided in Title XIII of the Act, 49 U.S.C. App. 1531, et seq., whenever he determines that such insurance cannot be obtained on reasonable terms and conditions from any company authorized to conduct an insurance business in a State of the United States;
(3) delegate to the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the authority vested in me by section 1302(a) of the Act, for purposes of responding to the current crisis in the Middle East; and
(4) delegate to the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the authority vested in me by section 1302(c) of the Act, for purposes of responding to the current crisis in the Middle East.
The Secretary of Transportation is directed to bring this determination immediately to the attention of all air carriers within the meaning of section 101(3) of the Act, 49 U.S.C. App. 1301(3), and to arrange for its publication in the Federal Register.
George BushThe White House,August 17, 1990.
  