
    Today, the Kamala Harris campaign in Iowa is launching its high school volunteer leader program to bring new and future caucusgoers into the campaign. Beginning as many Iowa high schools start their year, the Harris campaign is working directly with more than 60 schools across Iowa from Des Moines to Cedar Rapids, Sioux City and Davenport to invite high school students to participate in this campaign.
As volunteers, high schoolers and their parents will set their own hours, but they can report directly to an organizer and gain as much experience as they are looking for. Students can also earn volunteer service hours for any groups that deem political campaign volunteer hours eligible. Students will learn the ins and outs of organizing to expose them to the potential of a career working in politics or community organizing. For many high school students, this caucus organizing experience will be their first, but will prepare them for a future involved in Iowa Democratic politics.
Over the past several weeks, the Harris campaign has announced several organizing programs, most recently on college campuses. These programs will allow volunteers and organizers to utilize their own networks on behalf of Kamala Harris. These programs also ensure that young Iowans, who have overwhelmingly voiced interest in joining Harris' Iowa campaign, have a seat at the table and will have their voices heard.
High school student volunteer leaders will have the opportunity to:

Serve as campaign liaisons at their own high schools
Build networks of their friends and family to get involved in the campaign
Coordinate community events and service projects
Conduct local phone banks and host canvasses

Several high school volunteer leaders have already started helping out on the campaign.
"Kamala offers the perfect contrast to a President whose America is based off of divisions of race, gender, political affiliation, sexual orientation, or whatever it may be. Kamala Harris is tough. She knows how and when to throw down, and yet she is graceful and kind. Kamala is smart, witty, personable, and has a clear vision for our country," said Barrett Edwards, a senior at Grinnell Community Senior High School. "While she is a strong progressive Democrat, she speaks about important 'kitchen table issues' that matter to every American regardless of their political affiliation."
"I'm supporting Senator Kamala Harris in the upcoming caucus and election because she has a plan for America. She has those 3 AM thoughts like so many Americans do. I know I do," said Grace Wilson, a senior at Urbandale High School. "I'm excited about her ideas for a pay increase for teachers because I want to become an educator when I grow up. I cannot wait to support Kamala and hopefully she becomes the Democratic candidate who will defeat Donald Trump!"
"I like Kamala because she is fierce. She is a strong woman who is fighting for what she wants," added Isabelle Paulsen, a junior at West High School in Iowa City. "I think it is important for young women and girls like myself to see that they can fight for what they want and Kamala is the perfect role model for them."
"I'm supporting Kamala Harris because she gives me hope for the future," said Coralee Bodeker, a senior at Vinton-Shellsburg High School. "She gives me hope that one day: every person will be treated equally and given equal opportunities, we will stop global warming before it's too late, I'll be able to go to the doctor without worrying about how to pay for it, kids will be safe when they go to school, and everyone will know that they have an ally, not a bully, in the White House.
  