
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate twelve individuals, appoint one individual, and designate four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate A. Paul Anderson, of Florida, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 06/30/12, and to designate him Chairman. Mr. Anderson currently serves as a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission. Prior to this, he served as Vice President of Public Affairs and Government Relations at J.M. Family Enterprises. Earlier in his career, he served as Director for Public Affairs, Assistant to the President and Marketing Manager of Hvide Marine, Inc. Mr. Anderson received his bachelor's degree from the University of Florida.
The President intends to appoint Brock D. Bierman, of Rhode Island, to be the Small State and Rural Advocate at the Federal Emergency Management Agency at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Bierman currently serves as Chief of Staff of the Bureau for Europe and Eurasia at the United States Agency for International Development. Prior to this, he served as a Member of the Rhode Island House of Representatives. Earlier in his career, he served as a small business owner in Rhode Island. Mr. Bierman received his bachelor's degree from Bowling Green State University.
The President intends to nominate Dennis W. Carlton, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers. Dr. Carlton currently serves as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Antitrust Division at the Department of Justice. He is currently on a leave of absence from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business where he serves as a Professor of Economics. Prior to this, Dr. Carlton served as an economic consultant at Lexecon. Earlier in his career, he served as a faculty member at the University of Chicago Law School and the University of Chicago Department of Economics. Dr. Carlton received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University. He received his master's degree and PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate Cynthia Dyer, of Texas, to be Director of the Office of Violence Against Women at the Department of Justice. Ms. Dyer currently serves as Chief Felony Prosecutor of the Family Violence Division at the Dallas County District Attorney's Office. Prior to this, she served as Assistant District Attorney at the Dallas County District Attorney's Office. Earlier in her career, she served as a Misdemeanor and Felony Prosecutor at the Dallas County District Attorney's Office. Ms. Dyer received her bachelor's degree from Texas A&M University and her JD from Baylor Law School.
The President intends to nominate Carl B. Kress, of California, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 06/30/11. Mr. Kress currently serves as Regional Director for the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia at the United States Trade and Development Agency. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff of the United States Trade and Development Agency. Earlier in his career, he served as Counsel to the Commissioner at the United States International Trade Commission. Mr. Kress received his bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkley and received his JD from the University of California at Los Angeles. He received his LLM from the University of Hamburg.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey William Runge, of North Carolina, to be Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and Chief Medical Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. Dr. Runge currently serves as Chief Medical Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant Chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine and Director of the Carolinas Center for Injury Prevention and Control at Carolinas Medical Center. Dr. Runge received his bachelor's degree from the University of the South and his MD from the Medical University of South Carolina.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service:
Julie Fisher Cummings, of Michigan, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 09/14/11;
Mark D. Gearan, of New York, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 12/01/10;
Tom Osborne, of Nebraska, for a five-year term expiring 10/06/12;
Alan D. Solomont, of Massachusetts, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 10/06/09;
Donna N. Williams, of Texas, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 10/06/09.
The President intends to nominate Margaret Spellings, of Texas, to be a Representative of the United States to the 34th General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, for the duration of the conference.
The President intends to designate John A. Gastright, of South Carolina, to be United States Coordinator for Afghanistan and nominate him for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure as United States Coordinator for Afghanistan at the Department of State.
The President intends to designate James H. Herring, of Mississippi, to be Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
The President intends to designate Raymond Simon, of Arkansas, to be Acting Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services at the Department of Education.
  