
    If these 17 Democrats are "rising," that's a very bad sign.
Despite refusing to accept the results of her election, Stacey Abrams was chosen to lead a band of 17 "rising stars" in delivering the keynote address of the Democrat National Convention.
If this band of 17 radicals is the future of the Democrat Party, Americans should be very worried. They all hold far-left positions that are well outside the mainstream. 
In addition to having no respect for the will of the voters, Stacey Abrams apparently has no respect for the law. She owed the IRS $54,000 in back taxes, but still wants to raise taxes on everyone else.
Abrams also founded a socialist student group in college and called for a total boycott of white-owned businesses. Is that what Democrats want for America?
These are the far-left fanatics calling the shots for Joe Biden. Meet the rest of the radical 17:

Rep. Colin Allred supports legislation to redirect funding away from police departments toward social justice programs — just like Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
Rep. Brendan Boyle supports Bernie Sanders's socialist Medicare For All scheme, which would outlaw private health insurance plans. He also supports the job-killing socialist Green New Deal.
Rep. Conor Lamb embraced "defund the police" activists. He'd make our communities less safe, just like Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
South Carolina State Sen. Marlon Kimpson supports forcing taxpayers to pay for abortion of babies, even in the final month of pregnancy -- just like Joe Biden.
Nevada State Sen. Yvanna Cancela wants to block local law enforcement from working with federal immigration authorities to enforce our laws. Along with Joe Biden, they'd turn America into one giant sanctuary city for illegal aliens.
Pennsylvania State Rep. Malcolm Kenyatta supports the socialist Green New Deal and opposes fracking. He'd love to work with Joe Biden and Kamala Harris to destroy millions of American jobs.
Former Ohio State Rep. Kathleen Clyde supports unlimited, unrestricted abortion at any time, for any reason—and she wants you to pay for it with your tax dollars, just like Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
Florida Agriculture Secretary Nikki Fried opposes Second Amendment rights. It's no wonder she supports Joe Biden, who says he will come for Americans' guns.
Navajo Nation President Jonathan Nez tried to help block construction of the Dakota Access pipeline, an important energy infrastructure project that supports blue-collar jobs. He's an anti-affordable energy extremist — just like Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
California Mayor Robert Garcia made Long Beach a sanctuary city for illegal immigrants and even created a special taxpayer fund to support them. Garcia personifies the "America Last" mentality Joe Biden has been adhering to for nearly half a century. 
Alabama Mayor Randall Woodfin supports sanctuary cities, just like Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
Texas State Rep. Victoria Neave supports sanctuary cities, just like Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. 
New Hampshire State Rep. Denny Ruprecht opposes giving parents the power to choose where their child goes to school, denying students the opportunity to receive a quality education.
Tennessee State Sen. Raumesh Akbari supports allowing babies to be aborted because of their gender or the color of their skin.
Michigan State Rep. Mari Manoogian supports unlimited, unrestricted abortion at any time, for any reason -- and she wants you to pay for it with your tax dollars, just like Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
Georgia State Rep. Sam Park supports illegal immigration and opposes including a citizenship question on the census. He and other Democrats are totally opposed to putting Americans first!

  