
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Edward R. McPherson to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Agriculture. He has been President and Chief Executive Officer of InterSolve Group in Dallas, Texas, since 1989. From 1973 to 1988, McPherson served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of First Republic Bank Corporation, and from 1971 to 1973, he served as a Management Consultant with Booz, Allen and Hamilton. He received an undergraduate degree from Williams College and a Masters degree in Management from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Sandra L. Pack to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Financial Management. She is presently the Treasurer of the Bush-Cheney Compliance Committee and served as Director of the Treasury for Bush-Cheney 2000. Pack was Deputy Director of the Treasury for Bob Dole for President in 1996, and joined Phil Gramm for President as Director of the Treasury in 1995. From 1994 to 1995, she was Director of Planning and Operations of the MicroProse Division of Spectrum Holobyte, Inc. Mrs. Pack served with Ernst and Young from 1982 to 1994, first as Director of Microcomputer Consulting and Accounting Services in Atlanta, and then as the Director of Small Business consulting and Accounting Services in Baltimore, Maryland. She is a graduate of Notre Dame College of Maryland.
The President intends to nominate John Thomas Korsmo to be a member of the Federl Housing Finance Board for a term expiring February 27, 2002. He has served as President of Korsmo Consulting Services since 1998 and was Vice President of Physician Relations and Network Development for Dakota Heartland Health System from 1997 to 1998. From 1977 to 1996, Korsmo was with Cass County Abstract Company, a real estate title abstracting firm and was also founder of Red River Title Services, The Title Company of Fargo, and Korsmo and Wheeler, a Real Estate law firm in which he is still active. He served as a member of the Small Business Administrations Advisory Council from 1981 to 1989. He is a graduate of the University of Minnesota and Georgetown University Law School.
The President intends to nominate W. Michael Cox to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Disabled Employment Policy. Cox is currently a Procurement Specialist with the Westinghouse Savannah River Company. After losing his vision in 1991, he became a field representative for Leader Dogs for the Blind, travelling to numerous states and Canada representing the program and conducting seminars on guide dogs. He is a past member of the Georgia State Rehabilitation Council and the Georgia State Committee for the Employment of Persons with Disabilities. He has completed presentations on removing attitudinal barriers toward persons with disabilities for various organizations including the Veterans Administration, the U.S. Department of Energy, the Georgia Department of Labor, and the United States Forestry Service. He is a graduate of Augusta State University and Woodrow Wilson College of Law in Atlanta, Georgia.
The President intends to nominate William J. Hybl to be United States Representative to the General Assembly of the United Nations. He is currently the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the El Pomar Foundation, the largest foundation in the Rocky Mountain Region where he has served since 1973. Additionally, he is the President Emeritus of the United States Olympic Committee and served as President of the U.S. Olympic Committee from 1996 to 2000. His public service includes one year as Special Counsel to the President in 1981 and one term as a Member of the Colorado House of Representatives in 1972 and 1973. Hybl served as Vice Chairman of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy from 1990 to 1997 and as Rocky Mountain Panel Chair for the White House Fellowship Program from 1986 to 1990. He is a graduate of Colorado College and the University of Colorado Law School.
The President intends to nominate Roger P. Winter to be Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development for the Bureau of Humanitarian Response. He is presently the Director of the U.S. Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance at U.S. AID. He became Director of the U.S. Committee for Refugees in 1981 and Director of Immigration and Refugees of America in 1994. Prior to joining the U.S. Committee for Refugees, his positions included Director of the U.S. Office of Refugee Resettlement, Assistant Secretary for Budget and Assistant Secretary for Human Resources for the State of Maryland. Winter is a graduate of Wheaton College.
  