
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals and his intention to appoint four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Antonio Candia Amador to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of California. From 1997 to 2002, Amador was a Member of the California Public Employment Relations Board, and from 1990 to 1997, he was a Member and Vice Chairman of the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board. His law enforcement experience includes service with the Youth and Adult Correctional Agency in Sacramento, California and with the Los Angeles Police Department from 1966 to 1979. Amador holds a law degree from the University of the Pacific.
The President intends to nominate Joseph R. Guccione to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of New York. Guccione has served as Deputy U.S. Marshal in the Southern District of New York since 1992. In 1991 and 1992, he served as a Special Assistant to State Senator Serphin Matese. He is a graduate of Archbishop Molloy High School in Briarwood, New York.
The President intends to nominate Thomas Dyson Hurlburt to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Florida. Hurlburt has been the Director of Public Safety for Orange County, Florida, since 1999. From 1973 to 1995, he served with the Orlando Police Department and was promoted through the ranks to Chief of Police. He is a graduate of Rollins College.
The President intends to nominate Carol Chien-Hua Lam to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of California. Lam has served as a Superior Court Judge in San Diego County since 2000. From 1986 to 2000, she was an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of California. Lam is a graduate of Yale University and Stanford University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Christina Pharo to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Florida. Pharo has served with the United States Marshal Service since 1989, and she has been promoted through the ranks to Supervisory Deputy U.S. Marshal. Pharo is a graduate of St. Thomas University.
The President intends to nominate Dennis Arthur Williamson to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Florida. Williamson has served with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement since 1977, and has been promoted through the ranks to Deputy Executive Director. From 1973 to 1977, he was Deputy Sheriff with the Sarasota County Sheriff's Office. Williamson is a graduate of Florida State University.
The President intends to appoint Gordon Wadsworth Fassett to be a Federal Commissioner and Chairman of the Red River Compact Commission. He is currently the President of Fassett Consulting, an engineering consulting firm specializing in water rights, water resources engineering and water policy matters. He served as Wyoming State Engineer from 1987 to 2000, and Deputy Engineer from 1984 to 1987. Fassett is a graduate of the University of Wyoming.
The President intends to appoint Charles W. Grim to be Interim Director of the Indian Health Service of the Public Health Service. Grim has served as the Area Director of the Oklahoma City Area Indian Health Service since 1999. He was previously the Director of the Office of Health Programs for the Phoenix Area Indian Health Service. From 1992 to 1998, he served in several capacities with Albuquerque Area Indian Health Services. Grim earned an undergraduate degree and dental degree from the University of Oklahoma, and he earned a Master's degree in Health Service Administration from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Governors of the United Service Organizations, Incorporated, for three-year terms.
Erneido Andres Oliva of Maryland
John Phillip Reberger of Idaho
  