
    On Wednesday, August 30th and Thursday, August 31st, First Lady Jill Biden will travel to Indiana, Illinois, and Wisconsin.
**All times are local.**
Indianapolis, Indiana
On Wednesday, August 30th, the First Lady will arrive at Indianapolis International Airport in Indianapolis, IN. This arrival will be open press.
In the morning, as part of a series of back-to-school events across the country, the First Lady and Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy will visit a local high school in central Indiana to highlight the importance of mental health resources for schools. Portions of this visit will be open press.
For media interested in the Indiana visit, please RSVP HERE by Monday 8/28 at 5:00 PM ET.
Chicago, Illinois
In the afternoon of Wednesday, August 30th, the First Lady will arrive at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, IL. This arrival will be open press.
In the afternoon, the First Lady will deliver remarks at a Labor Day reception with the Chicago Federation of Labor in Chicago, IL. Portions of this event will be open to pre-credentialed media. For interested media, please RSVP to Jake Lewis at [email redacted by the APP.] by Monday 8/28 at 5:00 PM ET.
Madison, Wisconsin
On Thursday, August 31st, the First Lady will arrive at Dane County Regional Airport in Madison, WI. This arrival will be open press.
In the afternoon, as part of the Biden Cancer Moonshot, the First Lady will participate in a tour and listening session in Madison, WI with Senator Tammy Baldwin to highlight the importance of early detection and improving access to cancer screenings. This visit will be open press.
In the afternoon, as part of a series of back-to-school events, the First Lady will deliver remarks at an educator appreciation event with the National Education Association and American Federation of Teachers in Madison, WI. This event will be open press.
In the evening, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at a political finance event with Senator Tammy Baldwin in Madison, WI. This event will be covered by an editorial pool only.
For media interested in the Wisconsin visit, please RSVP HERE by Tuesday 8/29 at 5:00 PM ET.
  