
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
Jury 26
The White House announced that the President has received letters from Chairmen Peter W. Rodino, Jr., of the House Judiciary Committee and Clement J. Zablocki of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, requesting comments and information on a resolution of inquiry that was introduced in the House of Representatives on July 22 and contains nine areas of inquiry relating to Billy Carter. With the exception of the last two inquiries, which have been directed by the committee chairmen to the Department of Justice for response, the President intends not only to comment fully but also to provide detailed responses that will supply substantially all of the information requested, subject to appropriate safeguards to protect the security of any classified information.
July 27
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
July 28
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—the Cabinet;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—representatives of farm organizations and Members of Congress, to discuss farm policy.
The President announced that he will nominate Charles F. Meissner for the rank of Ambassador. Meissner is United States Special Negotiator for Economic Matters.
July 29
The President met at the White House with:
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Dr. Eugene Fanta, of Kinnelon, N.J., the 1980 Family Doctor of the Year;
—Paul Oei and Gretchen Alspach, winners of the first National Student Exposition on Energy Resources, and representatives of the National Energy Foundation;
—the Democratic members of the 95th Congressional Caucus, to discuss foreign and domestic policy.
July 30
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Shawn Weatherly, Miss Universe, and Jineane Ford, Miss U.S.A.;
—a group of his advisers for a budget review session. The President transmitted to the Congress the fourth report on Title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (Mobile Home Standards).
The White House announced that Florida Governor Bob Graham will deliver the nominating speech for the President at the 1980 Democratic National Convention and that Coretta Scott King and Sol Chick Chaikin will deliver the seconding speeches.
July 31
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, R. Robert Russell, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the President;
—Mr. Moore.
The President announced that he will withdraw the nomination of David Bronhelm to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation. Bronheim is resigning his position as Associate Director of the U.S. International Development Cooperation Agency. He had been nominated to the Inter-American Foundation Board as a Government member; his nomination is now being withdrawn since he will no longer be in Government service.
In the evening, the President attended a reception at the Washington bureau of the Los Angeles Times. August 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Democratic Members of the House of Representatives;
—Representatives Charles B. Rangel of New York, Mickey Leland of Texas, William H. Gray III of Pennsylvania, and Bennett M. Stewart of Illinois, members of the Congressional Black Caucus.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David.
  