
    The President. Thank you all. Thank you all for coming. And thanks for having me. I am thrilled to be back here in the Mountain State. You may have noticed I'm spending some quality time here. You know why? Because we're going to carry West Virginia again.
I'm here to thank you for your help. I'm here to ask for your vote. I'm here to encourage you to go the extra mile to get people to show up at the polls. Most of all, I want to thank you for coming out on a Sunday afternoon. I appreciate you all coming out and taking time away—or bringing your families here. It means a lot to me. I really appreciate it.
You know, I was in your neighborhood a while ago. I was at the new Cabela's. The place has hired over a couple thousand jobs, creating a couple thousand jobs there. I'm there because I'm a hunter and I like to fish. I understand a lot of people in these parts like to fish. A couple of you like to hunt. I just don't get to do enough of it. I'm hunting for votes.
There's a lot of differences in this campaign. You know, one of the most notable differences came up the other day when my opponent said, "Well, you can find the heart and soul of America in Hollywood."
Audience members. Boo-o-o!
The President. Yes. I think you find the heart and soul of America right here in Wheeling, West Virginia.
I gave Laura a kiss goodbye today and said, "I'm heading to Wheeling." She said, "Well, I'm working on my speech." [Laughter] I said, "Well, make it a good one, will you?" [Laughter] I didn't need to say that. Of course it's going to be a good one. Laura is a great First Lady, a wonderful mom, and a great wife. I'm really proud of her—I'm really proud of her. Today I'm going to give you some reasons why I think you ought to put me back into office. Perhaps the most important one of all is for Laura to be the First Lady for 4 more years.
Rick mentioned my runningmate. I'm real proud of Dick Cheney. He's a great, solid man. I admit he's not the prettiest face in the race. [Laughter] I picked him because of his judgment, his experience, and his ability to get the job done.
I thank Rick, Rick Casini, for being here. I'm proud of his leadership. As he told you, he's a union shop steward, he's a leader of men and women. He's—he represents the hard-working people of the steel industry here in this part of the country. It means a lot to me that he stands up and endorses my candidacy. See, I believe our message is good for Republicans. I believe our message is good for Democrats, and I believe our message is good for independents.
I appreciate the steelworkers who are standing behind me, standing with me. When I make up my mind on issues, I don't say, "Well, you know, oh, so-and-so might benefit, but they didn't vote for me." That's not how I do things. I make up my mind based upon what I think is right.
And I appreciate—I want to thank my friend Congresswoman Shelley Moore Capito for joining us today, a fine Member of the United States Congress. I want to thank the Wheeling Park High School Marching Band for being here today. I'll try to keep my speech short, so you can get back home and do your homework for tomorrow. [Laughter] No? Okay.
I want to thank all the grassroots activists who are here. Kathy Fortunato is with us today. And I want to thank all of—here's what a grassroots activist does: You put up signs; you make the phone calls; you register people to vote. See, we have a duty in our country to register people to vote and to vote. And therefore, I'm asking you, as a supporter, to go out amongst your friends and neighbors and remind your friends and neighbors to register. Tell them that in America our system functions because people participate. You might remind them of this amazing statistic, that in Afghanistan, after 3 short years of their liberation, over 10 million people have registered to vote. They're getting a whiff of liberty in Afghanistan, that sweet smell of freedom. And here in America, we must remind people to participate. See, that liberty functions because people show up. And when you get them registered, don't ignore Democrats. You heard Rick—[laughter]—don't worry about—don't overlook discerning independents. And then, when you get them registered and you get them headed to the poll, remind them, if they want a safer country, a stronger country, a better country, put us back into office.
We have been through a lot together in the last few years, and we have accomplished a lot. We have done a lot. But there's only one reason to look back at the record, and that is to determine who best to lead us forward. I'm traveling your important State to let you know that even though we have done a lot, there's more work to do, that I've got more to accomplish with your help, that I want to make sure our schools realize their full potential so every child—every child—has a chance to realize the great promise of America.
We're working with our local folks to make sure that excellence is in every classroom. See, I believe in local control of schools. We're spending more money at the Federal level to help you out here. But we're changing things, because now we're beginning to ask the question, can a child read and write and add and subtract, see. That's what we're beginning to ask, because we believe every child can learn to read, and we expect every child to read. And when we find the schools that are teaching, we'll praise their teachers. But this administration will challenge the status quo. We will make sure that schools that do not teach and will not change get the message that every child should learn to read in America.
There's more work to be done. I believe in intervention programs to make sure children have the skills necessary to learn. I know we've got to raise the standards in our high schools by working on math and science curricula. We want more Internet in our classrooms. We want a high school diploma to mean something. What I'm telling you is, after 4 more years, a rising generation will have the skills and confidence necessary to realize the American Dream.
We've got more work to do on health care. We're making good progress on health care. We've created community health centers all around the country, so low-income people can get primary care. It seems like a legitimate function of your Government is to help people with their health care needs, if they can't afford it. You might remember the old Medicare debate. That's a program, of course, that our seniors count on. Many seniors will tell you the program needed to be modernized and strengthened. See, you couldn't get prescription drugs through Medicare, not until old George W. came along.
We worked with Republicans and Democrats to say, "Let's keep our commitment to our seniors." Beginning in the year 2006, seniors are going to have choices in Medicare. Seniors will be able to design a program that meets their needs. Plus, Medicare will include prescription drugs.
We created health savings accounts for American families, so you can save tax-free for your own health care needs. I fully recognize most people get their health care through their businesses. Most small—most new jobs are created by small businesses. A lot of small businesses are having trouble affording health care these days. One way to address that problem is to allow small employers to join together to pool risk, so they can buy insurance at the same discount big businesses get to do.
We will continue to spend dollars on research, so we can help find cures for terrible diseases. We'll work to modernize the health care industry. But I'll tell you one thing we need to do to make sure you've got health care that's available and affordable: We need to stop these junk lawsuits that are threatening our docs. This is an issue in this campaign. You see, I don't think you can be pro-plaintiff-attorney and pro-doctor and patient at the same time. See, I don't think you can be pro-small-business and pro-plaintiff-attorney at the same time. I think you have to make a choice. My opponent made his choice, and he put him on the ticket. I made my choice. I am for medical liability reform— now.
In all we do to improve health care, we will make sure the health care decisions are made by doctors and patients, not by bureaucrats in Washington, DC.
I'm running again because I want to continue the economic growth we're seeing now. We've been through a lot in this economy. We've been through a recession. We've been through corporate scandals, and we've been through those—a terror attack. And yet we've overcome these obstacles. We've overcome them because we've got great workers in America. We've overcome them because we've got great farmers in America. We've overcome them because the small-business sector is alive and well in America. We've overcome these obstacles because of two well-timed tax cuts.
We didn't try to pick winners or losers when it came to tax relief. We did it the fair way. We said, "If you're paying taxes, you ought to get relief." We increased the child credit. We reduced the effects of the marriage penalty. I believe the Tax Code ought to encourage marriage, not penalize marriage. We helped our small businesses, and the plan is working. Our economy has been growing at rates as fast as any in nearly 20 years. Over the last 12 months, we've added about 1.5 million new jobs. The unemployment rate, the national unemployment rate is down to 5.5 percent, which is well below the national average of the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. The unemployment rate in West Virginia is 5.2 percent.
The economic plan we put in place to overcome the obstacles this country faced is working, and there's more to do. That's why I've come here to Wheeling, West Virginia, to let you know there is more work to be done to make sure this economy continues to grow, to make sure anybody who's looking for work is able to find a job. To keep jobs here in America, we must have reasonable and fair regulations. You see, you ask your small-business owner here what it's like to fill out paperwork, and a lot of them will tell you it's too much. My problem is I can't guarantee you whether anybody in Washington has ever read the paperwork you fill out. We need tort reform in America to keep jobs here in America.
Listen, to keep these folks working, to keep people working around the country, we need a sound energy policy in America. I submitted a plan to the Congress, and a vital part of that plan is a strategy based upon clean coal technology. As a matter of fact, my budgets for clean technology have increased 160 percent since I came to office. The budget next year for clean coal technology is $447 million. The reason why I'm telling you this is, an integral part of making sure we're less dependent on foreign sources of energy is coal.
And I remember campaigning in this State in 2000 and telling you that was my position then. And I'm running against a fellow who is kind of shifting. [Laughter] A while ago, he said coal is a dirty source of energy. Then he decided he wanted to come to your State and knock on your door. And then he said, "Now, well, I am for legislation that is supporting clean coal technology." In other words, he shifted. He's out there mining for votes. [Laughter] All I'm asking you to do is tell your friends and neighbors, be careful of somebody whose position shifts in the wind.
Trade policy is important to make sure that jobs stay here. See, our markets are open for other folks. It's good for you that they're open. When you have more choices, you're liable to get a better product at a better price. That's how the economy works. So what I'm telling other countries is, "We're treating you this way. You treat us the same way."
And we'll enforce law in this administration. We think an industry is being treated unfairly, we'll enforce the law, and that's exactly what I did when it came to the U.S. steel industry. See, I thought there was a—I thought I needed to stand up for steel, and I did stand up for steel. I put in place safeguards to restore fairness to the market to help our steel folks adjust, and it worked. The plan worked. These folks back here are working in good jobs, good, high-paying jobs. See, if the rules are fair, if the playing field is level, our workers, our small-business owners, our farmers, can compete with anybody, anyplace, anytime, anywhere.
We need to provide our workers with a lifetime of learning to keep jobs here in America. The economy is changing. New high-paying jobs are being created. But sometimes, there's a skills gap. Sometimes somebody needs a little help going back to the community college to be able to gain the skills necessary to fill the jobs of the 21st century. I'm committed to making sure our workers have got an opportunity to go back to get an associate degree, so they have the skills necessary to fill the jobs of the 21st century.
And finally, in order to keep jobs here in America, we've got to be wise about how we spend your money, and we've got to keep your taxes low. It's an issue in this campaign. I'm running against a fellow who has already put out there about $2 trillion worth of new spending promises. That's $2 trillion. That's a lot—with a T. [Laughter] And we've got 60 days left. No telling what's going to happen coming down the stretch. [Laughter] So they said, "Well, how are you going to pay for it?" He said, "Well," he said, "we're just going to tax the rich." You've heard that before, haven't you?
Audience members. Yes!
The President. Yes. Oh, you're just going to tax the rich. You know how it works: The rich dodge, and you pay. But we're not going to let him. We're going to beat him in November of 2004.
Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
The President. I am running again because I know we have more to do to wage and win the war against terror. America's future depends on our willingness to lead in the world. If America shows uncertainty and weakness in this decade, the world will drift toward tragedy. This isn't going to happen on my watch.
The world changed on a terrible September morning, and since that day, we have changed the world. Before September the 11th, Afghanistan served as the home base of Al Qaida, which trained and deployed thousands of killers to set up cells around the world, including our own country. Because we acted, today, Afghanistan is a rising democracy. They're going to have Presidential elections in October of this year. Because we acted, many young girls go to school for the first time in Afghanistan. Because we acted, Afghanistan is an ally in the war on terror. Because we acted, America and the world are safer.
Before September the 11th, Libya was spending millions to acquire weapons of mass destruction. Today, because America and our allies have sent a strong and easy-to-understand message, the leader of Libya has abandoned his pursuit of weapons of mass destruction, and America and the world are safer.
Before September the 11th, the ruler of Iraq was a sworn enemy of America. He was defying the world. You might remember, he was firing weapons at American pilots who were enforcing the world's sanctions. He had used weapons of mass destruction. He harbored terrorists. He invaded his neighbors. He subsidized the families of suicide bombers. He and his henchmen murdered tens of thousands of his own people. He was a great source of instability in the world's most volatile region. He was a threat.
After September the 11th, this country must remember the new lessons. And a new lesson is, is that we must take threats seriously before they fully materialize. That is the new reality of the world in which we live. And it's really important we never forget that reality. So I saw a threat, and I went to the United States Congress. They looked at the intelligence I looked at. They remembered the history of Saddam Hussein, and they said he was a threat and authorized the use of force—they being Republicans; they being Democrats; they being my opponent and his runningmate.
Because the use of force should be the last option of the Commander in Chief, the very last option, I went to the United Nations in the hopes that diplomacy would solve the threat. You might remember, the debate went on, and after consideration, the U.N. Security Council voted 15 to nothing to say to Saddam Hussein, "Disclose, disarm, or face serious consequences." So the world spoke.
As he had for over a decade, he defied the demands of the free world. This wasn't the only U.N. resolution he ignored. We then sent inspectors in—or the world sent inspectors in, and he systematically deceived the inspectors. And so I had a choice to make: Whether or not to trust the word of a madman and forget the lessons of September the 11th, or take action to defend our country. Given that choice, I will defend our country.
You know, we did not find the stockpiles that we thought would be there. I want to remind you that Saddam Hussein had the capability of making weapons of mass destruction, and he could have passed that capability on to others. And after September the 11th, that is not a risk this country could afford to take. Knowing what I know today, I would have made the same decision. America and the world are safer because Saddam Hussein sits in a prison cell.
Now, almost 2 years after he voted for the war in Iraq and 7 months after switching positions to declare himself the antiwar candidate, my opponent has found a new nuance. He now agrees it was the right decision to go into Iraq. After months of questioning my motives and even my credibility, he now agrees with me that even though we haven't found the weapons we thought would be there, knowing everything we know today, he would have voted to go into Iraq and remove Saddam Hussein from power. I appreciate him for clearing that up. [Laughter] However, there's still a little over 60 days for him to change his mind again. [Laughter]
I'm running for 4 more years because I know we have more to do. We will continue to work with our friends and allies around the world to aggressively pursue the terrorists in Afghanistan and Iraq and elsewhere. See, you cannot talk sense to these people. You cannot negotiate with them. In the post-9/11 era we live in, you just simply cannot hope for the best. We must aggressively pursue them around the world so we do not have to face them here at home.
We will continue to lead the world with confidence and moral clarity. We put together a strong coalition. We're working with some great allies. There's over 40 nations involved in—nearly 40 nations involved in Afghanistan and some 30 in Iraq. Over the next 4 years, I will continue to work with friends to help secure our country, their country, and spread the peace. But I will never turn over America's national security decisions to leaders of other countries.
We're going to keep our commitments to the people of Afghanistan and Iraq. It's in our interest we keep our commitment. It's in our interest they become peaceful and democratic societies. The two nations are now governed by strong leaders who believe in the hopes and aspirations of their people. These nations are now headed for elections. Our strategy is clear, and our goal is clear. The goal is to have peaceful, democratic countries in the heart of the Middle East who are allies in the war on terror. That's our goal. It's in our interest we achieve that goal.
We are meeting that goal by providing security so that the political process develops. We will meet that goal by training Afghan and Iraqi forces so they can defend their country against these terrorists, so they get to take—do the necessary hard work for democracy to survive. Our military will complete this mission as quickly as possible, so our troops do not stay a day longer than necessary.
In these crucial times, the men and women of our military keep our commitments. We've got a great military. The people who wear our uniform—I've seen their great decency and unselfish courage. The cause of freedom is in really good hands. And I want to thank the veterans who are here today for setting such a great example to the modern military.
I made a commitment to our troops, and I made a commitment to their families as well that this Government will support them in their missions. That's why, last September, I went to the Congress and said, "We need supplemental funding— support the people over there in Afghanistan and Iraq." This funding was for body armor, vital equipment, fuel, ammunition, spare parts, hazard pay, health benefits. This is important legislation. And I was really pleased that we got great bipartisan support. As a matter of fact, the support was so strong that only 12 Members of the United States Senate voted against it, 2 of whom are my runningmate and his— my opponent and his runningmate. See, they voted against it.
Audience members. Boo-o-o!
The President. So they asked him, they said, "Why did you vote against the funding?" He said, "Well, I actually did vote for the $87 billion, before I voted against it." That was his explanation. I don't think a lot of people in Wheeling talk like that. [Laughter] So they pressed him even further. He said, well, he was proud of his vote. And then they said, "Well, you know, what else?" And he finally said, "Well, it's just a complicated matter." [Laughter] His words. There is nothing complicated about supporting our troops in combat.
In the long run, our security is not going to be guaranteed by force alone. We must work to change the conditions that give rise to terror, poverty and hopelessness and resentment. A free and peaceful Iraq and a free and peaceful Afghanistan will be powerful examples in a part of the world that is desperate for freedom. Free societies do not export terror. Free societies do not stifle the dreams of their citizens.
We've done this kind of work before. One of my closest collaborators in peace is the Prime Minister of Japan. It wasn't all that long ago in the march of history that my dad and your dads were fighting the Japanese. And yet here we are, because we insisted upon the transforming qualities of liberty, we insisted that Japan be given a chance to self-govern and be a democratic nation. We believe that even an enemy could accept liberty as a way of life. Fortunately, my predecessor, Harry Truman, stuck with that point of view. Fortunately, America stuck with that point of view, and now Japan is an ally and a friend.
We believe in liberty in America. We believe that liberty can transform nations from tyranny to hope. We have seen it in our past. We not only believe that liberty will bring peace; we know that liberty answers to the deepest needs of the American soul. See, freedom is not America's gift to the world; freedom is the Almighty God's gift to each man and woman in this world.
We have more to do to protect this country. I'm running because I understand that we've got to work hard to protect America. See, there's an enemy out there that still hates us. It's the reality of the world in which we live, and we'll deal with that. It's very important that we view these people as who they are. There's a difference of opinion in this race. I want to address a subject that I'm sure you're going to be asked about. See, my opponent said that going to war with the terrorists is actually improving their recruiting efforts. I think the logic is upside-down. You see, during the nineties—remind somebody who asks you that, that during the nineties the terrorists were recruiting and training and plotting for war with us, long before we went to war with them. I think it's wrong to provide excuses for their hatred. You don't create terrorists by fighting back. You defeat the terrorists by fighting back.
A lot of good folks working hard to protect the homeland, good folks at the Federal level, State level, and right here in Wheeling, West Virginia. You've got a great—a lot of really great first-responders who are responding. There's more to do. We've got a lot to do. We're beginning to implement some of the intelligence reforms that are necessary to make sure we've got the best intelligence. I've got to have the best intelligence to make decisions; our planners and everybody involved with the Government needs to have the best intelligence. That's why we're implementing a lot of the 9/11 Commission reforms. We want to make sure there's still good, close cooperation between the different agencies in Washington. We're working on doing that. We need to renew the PATRIOT Act, so our law enforcement have the tools necessary to protect you against terrorist attack. We'll continue to work to make sure the Homeland Security Department does its job.
I'll push for reforms. I've got to warn you, it's hard to get reform in Washington. See, there's a lot of entrenched interest there, a lot of people willing to defend the status quo. When you're out there campaigning, remind them it's not enough to advocate reform. You need somebody in Washington who can get the job done.
When it comes to reforming our schools, to raise standards, and close the achievement gap, we're getting the job done. When it comes to improving health care for our seniors and giving Americans more opportunities and more choices in health care, we're getting the job done. When it comes to a strong and vibrant steel industry, we're getting the job done. When it comes to improving our overall economy, we're getting the job done. When it comes to finding the terrorists, securing the homeland, and spreading freedom and peace, we're getting the job done. When it comes—and tell your friends and neighbors, when it comes time to choose a President, put somebody back in there who can get the job done.
We live in a time of change, and change can be very unsettling. It's really a different time, when you think about it. Not all that long ago, moms stayed at home. Now, moms are working. Not all that long ago, a person would work for one company and retire with that company, and that company provided the health care and retirement. That's changing. These are changing times, and I fully understand that. And they can be unsettling times. And therefore, Government has a role not to dictate to people but to help people, to stand side by side with people.
And one way to do that is to promote an ownership society in America. One way to help people through times of change is to encourage ownership. That's why I support health care policies that people can call their own, manage their own, so they can take them from job to job. That's why I believe it's very important in the Social Security system to say to boomers like me, nothing's going to change. We're in good shape. But if you're a younger worker, you better listen very carefully to the Presidential debates on Social Security. The fiscal solvency of Social Security is in doubt for the young workers coming up. Therefore, I think young workers ought to be able to own a personal retirement account, a personal savings account, in order for Social Security to work.
In times of change, it's really helpful for people to own their own home. There's nothing better than people opening that door up and say, "Welcome to my home. Welcome to my piece of property." Today, the homeownership rate in America is at an alltime high. We want more people owning their own home. We want more people owning their own business. If you own something, you have a vital stake in the future of the United States of America.
Changing times—there are some things that won't change: the values we try to live by, courage, compassion, reverence, and integrity; our beliefs in liberty and opportunity and the nonnegotiable demands of human dignity. During changing times, we will support the institutions that give us direction and purpose, our families, our schools, our religious congregations.
We believe—and we stand for institutions like marriage and family, which are the foundations of society. We stand for a culture of life in which every person matters and every person counts. We stand for judges who faithfully interpret the law instead of legislating from the bench.
We stand for a culture of responsibility in America. See, the culture is changing from one that has said, "If it feels good, do it," and "If you've got a problem, blame somebody else," to a culture in which each of us understands we're responsible for the decisions we make in life. If you're a mother or a father, if you're fortunate enough to be a mother or a father, you are responsible for loving your child with all your heart and all your soul. That's your responsibility. If you're worried about the quality of the education in the community in which you live, you are responsible for doing something about it. If you're a CEO in corporate America, you're responsible for telling the truth to your shareholders and your employees. And in a responsibility society, each of us is responsible for loving our neighbor just like we'd like to be loved ourself.
Today when I landed, I met Nancy Weeks. Nancy works with the 4-H National Youth Development Program. She takes time out of her life to teach values to kids. I'm sure there's Scout leaders here, Boy Scout and Girl Scout leaders here. I know there's Little League scouts here—I mean, Little League coaches here. I know there's people working with kids. I know there's people here feeding the hungry, providing shelter for the homeless, loving those whose souls need love. See, the strength of this country is the hearts and souls of the American citizens. That's our strength. I'm running again to rally the armies of compassion, which are changing this country one heart and one soul at a time.
For all Americans, these years in our history will stand apart. There are quiet times in the life of a nation when little is expected of its leaders. This is not one of those times. This is a time that requires firm resolve, clear vision, and an unshakeable belief in the values that makes us a great nation.
You know—and you'll never forget, either, the week when one era ended and another began. I stood in the ruins of those Twin Towers on September the 14, 2001. It's a day that I will never forget. There were workers in hardhats yelling at me, "Whatever it takes." I was coming down through there and shaking hands, a fellow looked me right in the eye, and he said, "You don't let me down." See, he took the day personally. Everybody there—you took it personally. I took it personally. I have a duty that goes on. I wake up every day trying to figure out how best to defend this country. I will never relent in defending America, whatever it takes.
We've come through a lot together. We've done a lot of hard work. But there's more work to be done. That's why I've come to Wheeling, West Virginia. During the next 4 years, we'll spread ownership and opportunity to every corner of this country. During the next 4 years, we will pass the enduring values of this Nation on to another generation. During the next 4 years, we'll continue to spread freedom and peace, and we will prevail. You know, with your support and your prayers, I will be a leader that America can count on during a time of change.
Four years ago, I came to your State a lot. I'll do so again now. I said if you gave me a chance, if you voted for me and if I was fortunate enough to hold this office, I would uphold the honor and the dignity of the office to which I had been elected. With your help and your hard work, I will do so for the next 4 years.
God bless. Thank you for coming. Thank you all.
  