
    To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Public Law 91-269, I wish to inform the Congress today of current plans for the six-month International Exposition on the Environment to be held in Spokane, Washington in 1974.
This exposition will be a particularly welcomed event in America. The Spokane exposition and the 1976 Winter Olympics are now the only internationally recognized events scheduled for this country during our Bicentennial Era. In addition to stimulating trade and cultural exchanges, the exposition through its theme--"How Man Can Live, Work and Play in Harmony with His Environment"--will also focus fresh attention on one of the most pressing concerns of our time.
In November 1970, Expo '74, the nonprofit corporation which is sponsoring the exposition and is responsible for its planning and operation, applied for Federal recognition of the exposition under the provisions of Public Law 91-269. After reviewing the plans of the sponsor, the Secretary of Commerce submitted to me the detailed report required under Section 2(a)(1) of Public Law 91-269 and recommended Federal recognition. A copy of the Secretary's report is transmitted herewith. In this report the Secretary indicated that the sponsor had fulfilled all of the requirements of that law and the regulations issued thereunder (15 CFR ยง 667).
The Secretary concluded that the environmental theme of the exposition was relevant to current national concerns and was appropriate to the exposition site. He also determined that the sponsors had obtained from the State of Washington, the local governments involved, business and civic leaders of the region and others the financial and other support necessary to assure the successful development of the exposition.
The Secretary of State also reported under Section 2(a)(2) of Public Law 91-269 that the event qualified for registration by the Bureau of International Expositions as a Special Category event.
Based on these favorable reports, I advised the Secretaries of State and Commerce on October 15, 1971, that the exposition warranted Federal recognition as provided by statute. I also indicated that it was my intention to extend this Administration's fullest possible support to foster a successful event.
On November 24, 1971, upon request of the United States, the Bureau of International Expositions in Paris officially recognized the event as a Special Category exposition and approved its General Rules and Regulations by unanimous vote. At its meeting on May 16, 1972 the Bureau also established procedures for sanctioning the special rules and regulations for the exposition.
On January 31, 1972, I issued a proclamation [4103] directing the Secretary of State to invite such foreign countries as he may consider appropriate to participate in this event. The Secretary issued those invitations through diplomatic channels on February 15, 1972. Thus far, Canada, the USSR, and Iran have accepted-and many other countries are now expected to accept. In that proclamation, I also indicated that I planned to appoint a United States Commissioner General to exercise the responsibility of the United States Government for fulfillment of the Convention Relating to International Expositions of November 22, 1928, as modified. Pending this appointment, I am designating the Secretary of Commerce to serve in that capacity on an acting basis. In addition, the Secretary is currently preparing a plan for Federal participation under Section 3 of Public Law 91-269, which I will transmit to the Congress at some later date.
RICHARD NIXON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 15, 1972.
  