
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 5
In the morning, the President met with families who have benefited from the Family and Medical Leave Act at the Children's Inn at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, MD.
August 7
In the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg.
In the afternoon, the President had telephone conversations with Prime Minister John Major of the United Kingdom, President Jacques Chirac of France, and Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany to discuss the situation in Bosnia.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kumiki Gibson to the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States.
August 8
The White House announced that the President has invited President Ion Iliescu of Romania to Washington for a working visit on September 26.
August 9
In the morning, the President met with foreign policy advisers to discuss the situation in Bosnia. He then traveled to Charlotte, NC.
In the afternoon, the President participated in a roundtable discussion on teen health issues at the Teen Health Connection. Later in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin G. Chavers to serve as President of the Government National Mortgage Association at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gail Clements McDonald to be the Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation at the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Phillip A. Singerman to be the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development at the Commerce Department's Economic Development Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Isaac C. Hunt, Jr., and Norman S. Johnson to be members of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gov. Ned R. McWherter to the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gov. Mel Carnahan to serve as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ernest Lofton, Jr., as a member of the Community Adjustment and Investment Program Advisory Committee for the North American Development Bank.
The President announced his intention to appoint Patricia M. Duff to the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard J. Boxer to the National Cancer Advisory Board.
August 10
The President announced his intention to nominate David C. Williams to be Inspector General of the Social Security Administration.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Erin on August 2-3.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Japan on November 16-21 to participate in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation leaders meeting and for a state visit.
  