
    Joe Biden is pushing for drastic new gun control, but regularly botches basic facts about the guns he wants to restrict
Key Takeaways:

One year ago today, Biden said "bingo!" when asked if "a Biden administration means they're going to come for my guns"
However, Biden doesn't even know how guns work, constantly misusing firearm terminology when asserting the need for gun control

Biden has taken credit for banning "the number of clips in a gun" and "eliminating magazines with multiple rounds," asked why anyone needs "100 clips… in a weapon," and said we should not sell "magazines with 100 clips"


Biden has repeatedly given bizarre, unsafe, and potentially illegal advice on how to use a firearm to protect your home

In February 2013, Biden said he told his wife to fire a double barrel shotgun out of the window to ward of intruders
Biden told Field & Stream Magazine that Americans could fire a shotgun through the door to keep possible intruders away from their homes
In Biden's home state it is illegal to use deadly force if there is no imminent fear of losing your life, and shooting a gun in the air could result in felony charges


Earlier this year, Biden has said law enforcement should try to shoot knife-wielding criminals "in the leg," a move that was criticized by police as impractical and out of touch

The National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) criticized Biden's statement, saying his comments were "indecipherable" and "misleading to the point of being deceitful"
Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association President Larry Cosme said Biden was "not living in the real world"



BIDEN SAID "BINGO" WHEN ASKED IF A BIDEN ADMINISTRATION WOULD "COME FOR" YOUR GUNS
In August 2019, When Biden Was Asked If "A Biden Administration Means They're Going To Come For My Guns," Biden Responded "Bingo." CNN'S ANDERSON COOPER: "To gun owners out there who say well a Biden administration means they're going to come for my guns." JOE BIDEN: "Bingo. You're right if you have an assault weapon, the fact of the matter is that they should be illegal. Period." (CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360," 8/5/19)

Click To Watch
BIDEN HAS NO IDEA HOW GUNS WORK, CONSTANTLY CONFUSING GUN TERMINOLOGY
In June 2019, Biden Took Credit For Banning "The Number Of Clips In A Gun." JOE BIDEN: "Okay. I'm the only person that has beaten the NRA nationally. I'm the guy that got the Brady Bill passed, the background checks, number one. Number two, we increased that background check when — during the Obama-Biden administration. I'm also the only guy that got assault weapons banned, banned, and the number of clips in a gun banned." (Joe Biden, Remarks At A Democratic Presidential Primary Debate, Miami, Fl, 6/27/19)

Click To Watch
In August 2019, Biden Asked How Anyone Needed "100 Clips … In A Weapon." JOE BIDEN: "I said how many deer do you know that have Kevlar vests, raise your hands. You really need one? And hell, if you need 100 clips, 30 clips in a weapon than you shouldn't be hunting, you're dangerous." (Joe Biden, Remarks At A Campaign Event, Prole, IA, 8/20/19)

Click To Watch
In October 2019, Biden Took Credit For Limiting "Magazine Clips." JOE BIDEN: "And by the way, the majority of the members of the NRA agree with us now on the things we're calling for. We made the Brady Bill the law, we banned assault weapons, we limited magazine clips. We can do it all over again." (Joe Biden, Speech, Reno, NV, 10/2/19)

Click To Watch
In October 2019, Biden Took Credit For "Eliminating Magazines With Multiple Rounds." JOE BIDEN: "And the reason it got done, was because of a woman I asked to be on the Judiciary Committee, Dianne Feinstein. She is the reason we finally got the assault weapons ban. Eliminating magazines with multiple rounds." (Joe Biden, Remarks At The DNC's Women's Leadership Forum, Washington DC, 10/17/19)

Click To Watch
In November 2019, Biden Said You Can't Have A "Magazine With A Hundred Clips In It." JOE BIDEN: "Nobody says you can't have rounds – a magazine with a hundred clips in it, a hundred bullets in it." (Joe Biden, Remarks At A Campaign Event, Concord, NH, 11/8/19)

Click To Watch
In December 2019, Biden Said That We Should Not Be Selling "Magazines With 100 Clips." JOE BIDEN: "I don't want to, I don't want to get rid of the NRA because by the way, 56 percent of the NRA members according [unintelligible] agree with me. They agree with me. They agree we shouldn't be selling these magazines with 100 clips, they agree that we shouldn't be selling assault weapons, 56 percent." (Joe Biden, Remarks At A Campaign Town Hall, Derry, NH, 12/30/19)

Click To Watch
BIDEN HAS REPEATEDLY GIVEN UNSAFE AND POTENTIALLY ILLEGAL ADVICE ON HOW TO USE GUNS FOR SELF DEFENSE
In February 2013, Biden Said He Advised His Wife To Fire A Double Barrel Shotgun Out The Window Of Their Home To Ward Of Potential Intruders. VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: "If you want to protect yourself, get a double barrel shotgun, have the shells, a 12 gauge shotgun … and I promise you, as I told my wife – we live in an area that is wooded and somewhat secluded – I said Jill, if there's ever a problem just walk out on the balcony here, walk out, put that double barrel shotgun and fire two blasts outside the house. I promise you, whoever's coming in is not – you don't need an AR-15. It's harder to aim, it's harder to use, and in fact you don't need 30 rounds to protect yourself. Buy a shotgun, Buy a shotgun." (Joe Biden, Remarks On Facebook Live, Parents Magazine, 2/19/13)

Click To Watch
In An Interview With Field & Stream Magazine, Biden Advised The Public To Fire A Shotgun Through The Door To Keep Intruders Away From Your House. "Vice President Joe Biden told Field & Stream magazine in an interview published Monday, '[if] you want to keep someone away from your house, just fire the shotgun through the door.'" (Steven Nelson, "Biden Adbises Shooting Shotgun Through Door," U.S. News, 2/28/13)

Biden: "You Want To Keep Someone Away From Your House, Just Fire The Shotgun Through The Door." (Anthony Licata, "The F&S Gun Rights Interviews: Joe Biden, Vice President Of The United States," Field & Stream Magazine, 2/25/13)

The Use Of Deadly Force Is Illegal In Biden's Home State Unless There Is Reason To Fear Imminent Loss Of Life, And Shooting A Gun In The Air Could Result In Felony Reckless Endangering And Aggravated Menacing Charges. "According to Delaware attorneys contacted by U.S. News, in Biden's home state it is only legal to use deadly force if there is reason to fear imminent loss of life. Shooting a gun in the air could result in felony reckless endangering and aggravated menacing charges, in addition to misdemeanor charges, the lawyers said." (Steven Nelson, "Biden Adbises Shooting Shotgun Through Door," U.S. News, 2/28/13)
JOE BIDEN TOLD POLICE OFFICERS TO SHOOT KNIFE WIEDLING CRIMINALS "IN THE LEG"
In June, Biden Said Police Should Shoot Perpetrators In The Leg, Leading To Widespread Criticism From Police Groups Who Said He Did Not Know What He Was Talking About
In June 2020, Biden Said That When A Police Officer Is Being Approached By Someone With A Knife, They Should "Shoot Them In The Leg Instead Of The Heart." JOE BIDEN: "Instead of standing there and teaching a cop when there's an unarmed person coming at them with a knife or something, shoot them in the leg instead of in the heart. There's a lot of different things that can change' in police training." (Joe Biden, "Remarks At Event With Religious Leaders," Wilmington, DE, 6/1/20)

Click To Watch
National Association Of Police Organizations (NAPO) Director Bill Johnson Criticized Biden, Calling His Comment "Misleading" And "Deceitful." "'Former VP Biden's remark is not just indecipherable ('an unarmed person coming at 'em with a knife'?!), it's also misleading to the point of being deceitful,' Bill Johnson, the executive director of the National Association of Police Organizations, told Fox News in an email." (Adam Shaw, "Police Groups Criticize Biden Suggestion That Cops Be Trained To Shoot Knife-Wielding Attackers 'In The Leg'," Fox News, 6/2/20)

Johnson Said Officers Are Not Trained To "Shoot Somebody In The Heart" As Biden Claimed. "'Officers are not trained to 'shoot somebody in the heart' as Biden says, but rather to aim for the biggest part of the body, so as to be most likely to hit the person presenting the threat and not hit anybody else,' he said. 'This always includes the condition that the officer or somebody else is in peril of death or great bodily harm, and certainly someone charging at you with a knife satisfies that requirement.'" (Adam Shaw, "Police Groups Criticize Biden Suggestion That Cops Be Trained To Shoot Knife-Wielding Attackers 'In The Leg'," Fox News, 6/2/20)

Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association President Larry Cosme Criticized Biden's Remarks And Said Biden Was "Not Living In The Real World Because People With Knives" Are Deadly Threats. "'He's not living in the real world because people with knives, those are deadly threats,' Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association National President Larry Cosme, told Fox News in an interview. 'With all due respect to Mr. Biden, he's mixing the two, 'unarmed person with a knife' – I've never heard of an unarmed person with a knife,' he said." (Adam Shaw, "Police Groups Criticize Biden Suggestion That Cops Be Trained To Shoot Knife-Wielding Attackers 'In The Leg'," Fox News, 6/2/20)
  