
    Sanders stood in solidarity with UE workers who led the first major manufacturing strike of the Trump presidency
PITTSBURGH – Sen. Bernie Sanders today received the endorsement of the UE union following a formal resolution vote at the 76th UE National Convention. Sanders addressed UE members at the national convention this morning in Pittsburgh.
"I am humbled to receive the endorsement of my union brothers and sisters from UE. We are running a true working class campaign, which speaks directly to workers and confronts the massive inequality we see in our society today," said Sen. Sanders. "UE's successful strike in Erie has sent a message to corporate CEOs across the country that it is absolutely unacceptable for profitable corporations to provide obscene compensation packages to executives, while ripping off workers and their families. Our fight is about the need for an economy that works for all Americans and not just the one percent, and we are going to win that fight together."
"Bernie understands the need for workers to have a democratic, independent union movement that is unafraid to challenge Corporate America's stranglehold on our economy," said UE General President Peter Knowlton. "From four decades of actively supporting UE members and other workers in Vermont, to his vocal support for our 1,700 members in Erie, Pennsylvania who went on a nine-day strike this past winter, Bernie Sanders has always made it clear which side he is on."
UE, the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America, represent about 35,000 workers in a wide variety of manufacturing, public sector and private service-sector jobs. Earlier this year, Sanders stood in solidarity with UE workers as UE Locals 506 and 618 led an historic and successful strike against Wabtec in Erie, Pennsylvania -- the first major manufacturing strike of the Trump presidency.
The resolution adopted at the UE convention states, "Bernie has consistently come to UE strike lines and workplace actions. He has assisted locals in contract fights … Bernie was an outspoken supporter of UE Locals 506 and 618 in their first contract struggle with their new employer, Wabtec in early 2019. Bernie reached out to UE to offer whatever assistance that members needed and he could provide … His support for UE members during the nine-day strike gave us needed national recognition, and was instrumental in achieving a just settlement."
The UE endorsement is the first national union endorsement of the Bernie 2020 campaign. Earlier this week, Sanders released his comprehensive Workplace Democracy Plan to at least double union membership in his first term as president and his groundbreaking Green New Deal policy to avert the climate crisis and create 20 million jobs in the process.
  