
    Mr. Prime Minister, and all of our distinguished guests from Japan:
In the word of welcome which is so famous not only here in Hawaii, but throughout the world, I say Aloha.
And, Mr. Prime Minister, I am very honored to welcome you not only in your official capacity for the first time, as Prime Minister, but also to welcome you again as a personal friend. This is as it should be, because the alliance between our two countries is one not only of necessity, but it is one that is strengthened also by the bonds of friendship. And the fact that the relationships between Presidents of the United States and Prime Ministers of Japan over the years have been not only official but personal has meant that that alliance has been thereby strengthened.
It is particularly appropriate that your first official visit, as Prime Minister, to the United States should be in this State of Hawaii, because here 30 percent of the population of this State is proud of its Japanese background. And we are reminded, as we meet in Hawaii, of how much Americans who have Japanese background have contributed to the strength, the diversity of our country.
As we see what has happened in Hawaii, and as we see what has happened in other parts of our country where people of Japanese background and the other diverse backgrounds of America have worked together, we realize how much the Japanese people of your country and the American people can do together in the cause of building a structure of peace in the world.
I know that this meeting that we will have will contribute to the desire of both of our peoples to strengthen the structure of peace so that we can continue on the road to progress which we fortunately both are moving on together today.
Mr. Prime Minister, I can say only that I extend this welcome not only personally, but from all the American people to you and to the people of Japan. May we always meet as we meet today, working for the great goals of peace in the Pacific and peace in the world.
  