
    Pool Reports by Jeff Mordock, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 9, 2023 11:41 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #1 — Rolling
Greetings from a hot and sunny Albuquerque where is it's a hot and humid 89 degrees.
The Motorcade is departing the RON at 11:40.
We are headed toward the Arcosa Wind Towers where POTUS will deliver remarks talking about clean energy and climate change.
Fun fact: The Arcosa plant used to manufacture Red Solo Cups, a staple of nearly every college party.
POTUS remarks are scheduled at 1:00 MST and you can follow along at whitehouse.gov/live.
Your pooler has not laid eyes on POTUS this morning.
Per WH, here is who is traveling with POTUS to Arcosa plant
Traveling with the President en route to Arcosa Wind Towers, Albuquerque, New Mexico:
Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy and Outreach Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Ryan Montoya, Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation Caitlin Durkovich, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor for Resilience and Response Ali Nouri, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications Yvanna Cancela, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor for the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
I'm told POTUS schedule has not changed. Here's a refresher
MDT
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing Closed Press
10:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on how Bidenomics and his Investing in America agenda are unleashing a clean energy and manufacturing boom just one year after the Inflation Reduction Act and CHIPS Act were signed into law  Arcosa Wind Towers, Albuquerque, New Mexico Open Press
2:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Albuquerque, New Mexico en route to Salt Lake City, Utah Kirtland Air Force Base, Albuquerque, New Mexico Out-of-Town Pool
4:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Salt Lake City, Utah  Roland R. Wright International Guard Base, Salt Lake City, Utah  Open Press 


August 9, 2023 12:31 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #2
The motorcade arrived at the Arcosa Wind Towers at 12:31.
It was a roughly hour drive from the RON largely along Highway 25 from Albuquerque.
A crowd of Trump supporters heckled the motorcade as it drove through Belen as they waived their Trump signs and "F—-ck Joe Biden" flags. Another woman, not with the Trump supporters, held a sign that said "Biden is evil."
Another woman proudly showed her "Teachers for Biden" sign.
Another group hung a sheet that says "Belen for Biden" as they waived enthusiastically at the motorcade.
But mostly the bystanders just waived or took pictures with their phone as the motorcade drove by.
The motorcade crossed a bridge over the Rio Grande River, which was interesting. 


August 9, 2023 12:54 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #3 — Greeters
Participating in a photoline with the President at Arcosa Wind Towers:
Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM) Senator Martin Heinrich (NM) Senator Ben Ray Lujan (NM) Rep. Teresa Leger Fernandez (NM-03) Rep. Melanie Stansbury (NM-01) Mayor Tim Keller, Albuquerque, NM Mayor Robert Noblin, Belen, NM Speaker of the House Javier Martinez (District 11) Bernalillo County Chair, Barbara Baca Governor Wilfred Herrera, Pueblo of Laguna Chairman Mark Mitchell, All Pueblo Council of Governors 


August 9, 2023
[APP Note: Report #4 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


August 9, 2023 13:12 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #5 -- POTUS Remarks begin/attendees/speaking program
POTUS remarks began at 1:12
In attendance for the President's remarks on how Bidenomics and his Investing in America agenda are unleashing a clean energy and manufacturing boom just one year after the Inflation Reduction Act and CHIPS Act were signed into law:
Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM) Senator Martin Heinrich (NM) Senator Ben Ray Lujan (NM) Rep. Teresa Leger Fernandez (NM-03) Rep. Melanie Stansbury (NM-01) Mayor Tim Keller, Albuquerque, NM Mayor Robert Noblin, Belen, NM Mayor Alan Webber, Santa Fe, NM Mayor Joshua Ramsell, City of Rio Communities, NM State Senator Linda Lopez (District 11)  State Senator Gregory Baca (District 29)  State Senator Siah Hemphill (District 28) Speaker of the House Javier Martinez (District 11) State Rep. Raymundo Lara (District 34) State Rep. Yanira Gurrola (District 16) State Rep. Doreen Gallegos (District 52) State Rep. Anthony Allison (District 4) State Rep. Dayan Hochman-Vigil (District 15)  State Rep. Susan Herrera (District 41) State Rep. Pamelya Herndon (District 28) State Treasurer Laura Montoya Bernalillo County Chair Barbara Baca Governor Wilfred Herrera, Pueblo of Laguna Chairman Mark Mitchell, All Pueblo Council of Governors Local elected officials, community leaders, union members, and Arcosa employees
Pre-program David Lozano Castillo, Apprentice, Plasterers and Cement Masons Local 254 Roger Martella, Chief Sustainability Officer, GE Vernova  Senator Martin Heinrich (NM)  Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM)  Senator Ben Ray Lujan (NM)
Speaking Program Antonio Carrillo, CEO, Arcosa The President 


August 9, 2023 15:40 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #6 -Remarks conclude
POTUS remarks concluded at 1:40. 


August 9, 2023 16:59 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #7 — Devon Archer comments
At the end of the event, POTUS took a question from Fox News' Peter Doocy.
He was asked about the testimony from Hunter Biden business associate Devon Archer who told Congress that then VP Biden sat in on his son's business calls
"I knew you'd have a lousy question," POTUS responded.
When asked why it was a lousy question, POTUS responded, "Because it's not true." 


August 9, 2023 17:11 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 8 -Airport arrival
Motorcade arrived at airport at 3:10. 


August 9, 2023 17:15 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #9 -Travelers
POTUS boarded AF1 at 3:12. He did not take questions.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Roland R. Wright Air National Guard Base, Salt Lake City, Utah
Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations?Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Ali Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy and Outreach?Ben LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications Ryan Montoya, Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation Caitlin Durkovich, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor for Resilience and Response Ali Nouri, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations John McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications Yvanna Cancela, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor for the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs 


August 9, 2023 15:24 MDT

Out of town Pool Report #10 — Wheels Up
AF1 wheels up at 3:23.


August 9, 2023 16:24 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #11 — Wheels down
AF1 Wheels down at 4:23. 


August 9, 2023
[APP Note: Report #12 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


August 9, 2023 17:02 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #13 - Arrival at RON
Motorcade arrived at RON at 4:59.
Your pooler did not lay eyes on POTUS.
Per WH:
The President asked Governor Spencer Cox and First Lady Abby Cox to accompany him in the motorcade. 


August 9, 2023 17:45 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 14 — Lid
We have a lid at 5:43.
Enjoy your evening everyone! 



  