
    "Formidable National Nominee" ... "Serious Person With Serious Ideas" ... "A Bold Decision"
The Washington Post's George F. Will: "Romney's Selection Of A Running Mate Was, In Method And Outcome, Presidential." (George F. Will, "Romney's Presidential Pick," The Washington Post, 8/12/12)
Democratic Wisconsin State Sen. Tim Cullen: "I Think This Is A Terrific Choice By Governor Romney ... I Know Him To Be A Serious Person With Serious Ideas." "'I think this is a terrific choice by Governor Romney and terrific news for Janesville,' Cullen said. 'I may not agree with him on taxes, or Social Security, but I know him to be a serious person with serious ideas. I think he will do the city and the state proud.'" (Mary Spicuzza, "Janesville Braces For Spotlight After Ryan Gets VP Nod From Romney," Wisconsin State Journal, 8/12/12)
The Washington Examiner's Michael Barone: "Not Just A Plausible But A Formidable National Nominee..." "But more than anyone else, more even (as impolite as it is to say) than the putative presidential nominee, Ryan has set the course for the Republican party for the past three years both on policy and in politics. From his post as Chairman of the House Budget Committee, he has made himself not just a plausible but a formidable national nominee by advancing and arguing for major changes in entitlement policy." (Michael Barone, "Romney-Ryan Ticket Puts Entitlement Crisis At Center Of Campaign," The Washington Examiner, 8/12/12)
National Journal's Ron Brownstein: "I Think People Are Going To Like Paul Ryan. I Think The American People Will Like Paul Ryan." (CNN's "State Of The Union," 8/12/12)
Former U.S. Secretary Of Education Bill Bennett: "It's A Strong Decision. It's A Responsible Decision. It's A Bold Decision." (CNN, 8/11/12)
The Washington Examiner's Mark Tapscott: "Likely The Most Dramatic Choice He Could Have Made." "Say what you will about Paul Ryan, his selection by Mitt Romney as his vice-presidential running mate is likely the most dramatic choice he could have made." (Mark Tapscott, "Finally, America Gets A Serious Campaign Debate On Entitlements," The Washington Examiner, 8/11/12)
Wisconsin State Journal: "We Like Ryan. We Like His Courageous Approach To Difficult Issues, His Intellect, And His Steadfastness..." "We like Ryan. We like his courageous approach to difficult issues, his intellect, and his steadfastness in addressing the deficit spending that has plagued Congress for years." (Editorial, "Ryan An Intelligent Pick," Wisconsin State Journal, 8/12/12)
Jackson Citizen Patriot: "The Choice Of Ryan Should Give Any Voter Who Gives A Darn Some Real Food For Thought." "More important, the choice of Ryan should give any voter who gives a darn some real food for thought." (Editorial, "Voters Get A Real Presidential Election Choice As Mitt Romney Adds Paul Ryan To Ticket," Jackson Citizen Patriot, 8/12/12)
National Review's Kathryn Jean Lopez: "A Serious, Forward-Looking Ticket For An Intensely Serious Moment." (Twitter.com, 8/11/12)
National Review's Rich Lowry: "I Think It's A Pick That Really Speaks Well For Mitt Romney, Shows He Has A Good Eye For Talent." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 8/12/12)
  