
    President Bush to Nominate One and Appoint Twelve Individuals
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual and his intention to appoint 12 individuals.
The President intends to nominate Maura Ann Harty to be Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Harty has been Executive Secretary of the Department of State since May 2001. From 1999 to 2001, she was the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs, and from 1997 to 1999, she was Chief of Mission in Asuncion, Paraguay. Her past overseas assignments include service in Mexico City; Bogota, Colombia; and Madrid, Spain. Harty's past assignments in Washington include service as Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs, Director of the Citizens Emergency Center and Managing Director of the Office of Overseas Citizens Services. Harty is a graduate of Georgetown University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Members of the Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health:
Michael Gibson of Ohio
Leon Owens of Kentucky
The President intends to appoint the following individuals as Members of the Brown V. Board of Education 50th Anniversary Commission, for the Life of the Commission:
Recommended by the United States House of Representatives-
Charles Henry Toliver, IV of Delaware (Delaware Representative)
Daniel Dale Holt of Kansas (Kansas Representative)
Joseph Armstrong DeLaine, Jr. of North Carolina (South Carolina Representative)
Lacy Bennett Ward, Jr. of Virginia (Virginia Representative)
Recommended by the District of Columbia Delegate to the United States House of Representatives-
Haywood Patrick Swygert of the District of Columbia (District of Columbia Representative)
Recommended by the United States Senate-
Littleton Purnell Mitchell of Delaware (Delaware Representative)
Jesse Milan, Sr. of Kansas (Kansas Representative)
Josephine Angela Robertson of Massachusetts (Massachusetts Representative)
Carolyn Nichelle Sawyer of South Carolina (South Carolina Representative)
Benjamin William Robertson of Virginia (Virginia Representative)
  