
    NATIONAL & NEW HAMPSHIRE GOP LEADER TOM RATH THINKS JOHN KASICH SHOULD BE THE NEXT PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATESFormer National Adviser to Presidential Campaigns of President George W. Bush, Mitt Romney, Bob Dole and others endorses Kasich and joins the team
Today Former New Hampshire Attorney General Tom Rath endorsed Ohio Governor John Kasich for President. Rath will serve as a senior national adviser and as co-Chair of the New Hampshire campaign. Rath served as a national adviser to the presidential campaigns of President George W. Bush, Mitt Romney, Bob Dole, Lamar Alexander and Howard Baker.
"Our country needs Governor Kasich," said Rath. "He has a proven track record of balancing the federal budget, reforming our military and turning around one of our nation's largest states. Beyond his accomplishments, Governor Kasich governs in a way that includes everyone. He is sending our country the message that everyone deserves a chance, everyone deserves a voice, and he will help give it to them. That's a powerful message in New Hampshire and the right one for our nation."
In addition to serving as New Hampshire Attorney General and in the leadership of countless presidential campaigns, Rath served as New Hampshire's RNC Committeeman from 1996-2000 and 2002-2007. He has been a delegate at the last eight Republican National Conventions. Rath was also a presidential appointee of President George H.W. Bush and worked on the successful confirmation of a U.S. Supreme Court Justice. He also chaired the campaigns of New Hampshire U.S. Senators Warren Rudman and Judd Gregg.
"We're thrilled to have Tom join our team," said Senator John Sununu, Kasich's New Hampshire campaign chair. "His expertise nationally and in New Hampshire will help our campaign build on the momentum we've established in New Hampshire and after the first debate. It's an honor to be working with Tom on behalf of Governor Kasich. He and other outstanding leaders will help guide us in the months ahead in New Hampshire and nationally."
  