
    Prepare Now for Tropical Storm Conditions.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s National Weather Service National Hurricane Center forecasts Tropical Storm Henri will approach the northeast coast on Sunday. The risk of storm surge, wind and rain impacts in portions of southern New England and eastern Long island are increasing, and hurricane and storm surge watches are in effect for portions of Long Island, New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and southeastern Massachusetts.
Storm surge could be up to 4 feet in areas, along with heavy rainfall which may result in flash, urban and small stream flooding.
Main Points

Now is the time to prepare for severe weather. Ready.gov or listo.gov to learn how you can keep yourself, your family and your pets safe.
Anyone in the forecast path of the storm should monitor their local news for updates and directions provided by their local officials and heed local evacuation orders.
FEMA Incident Management Assistance Teams and state liaison officers are on standby for deployment if necessary.
Download the free FEMA app (available in English and Spanish) to receive emergency alerts and real-time safety notifications, emergency preparedness tips and disaster resources. The app is available for Apple and Android devices.

Prepare for flooding and be prepared to evacuate if ordered to do so

Flood Insurance: Your National Flood Insurance Program policy will cover and reimburse certain actions you take to minimize damage to your home and belongings before a flood.
Gather Supplies: Have enough supplies for your household. Include medication, disinfectant supplies, face masks and pet supplies. After a hurricane, you may not have access to these supplies for days or weeks.
Don’t drive through flood waters: Almost half of all flash flood deaths happen in vehicles. When in your car, look out for flooding in low lying areas at bridges and at highway dips. As little as 6 inches of water may cause you to lose control of your vehicle.
Personal Safety: Evacuate if told to do so. If you go to a community or group shelter, remember to follow the latest recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for protecting yourself and family from COVID-19.
Evacuating: If you are in potentially affected areas, you should be familiar with evacuation routes, have a family emergency communications plan, keep a battery-powered radio handy and have plans for your family members and pets. If you are a person with disabilities, you may need to take additional steps to plan for both your needs and your service animal. Visit Ready.gov/flooding to learn how to stay safe before, during and after a flood.

Contact Us If you have any questions, please contact FEMA Office of External Affairs:

Congressional Affairs at (202) 646-4500 or at FEMA-Congressional-Affairs@fema.dhs.gov
Intergovernmental Affairs at (202) 646-3444 or at FEMA-IGA@fema.dhs.gov
Tribal Affairs at (202) 646-3444 or at FEMA-Tribal@fema.dhs.gov
Private Sector Engagement at (202) 646-3444 or at nbeoc@max.gov

Follow UsFollow FEMA on social media at: FEMA Blog on fema.gov, @FEMA or @FEMAEspanol on Twitter, FEMA or FEMA Espanol on Facebook, @FEMA on Instagram, and via FEMA YouTube channel.Also, follow Administrator Deanne Criswell on Twitter @FEMA_Deanne.
FEMA Mission Helping people before, during, and after disasters.
  