
    Pool Reports by Aurelia End, Agence France-Presse 



Sent:
Reports:




August 13, 2021 10:00

Travel Pool Report #1 - Change of schedule
Good morning from Wilmington.
Gather time for the travel pool has been pushed to noon.
As a reminder here is the guidance the WH provided yesterday.
DAILY GUIDANCE AND PRESS SCHEDULE FOR FRIDAY, AUGUST 13, 2021  In the morning, the President will receive the President's Daily Brief. This meeting will be closed press.
In the evening, the President will travel to Camp David from Wilmington, Delaware, where he will remain over the weekend. The departure from Delaware Air National Guard will be covered by the travel pool.
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT TV Corr & Crew: CBS Print: AFP
EDT
10:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily Brief Closed Press
10:00 AM Out-of-Town Travel Pool Call Time
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Wilmington, Delaware en route Camp David Delaware Air National Guard Out-of-Town Travel PoolCoverage 


August 13, 202113:21

Travel Pool Report #2 - Rolling
?Pool bus joined motorcade at 1.19 pm
Now en route to DANG. 


August 13, 202113:37

Travel Pool Report #3 - Departure
Motorcade arrived at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 1:29 pm
POTUS and FLOTUS boarded Marine One at 1:31 pm.
FLOTUS was using a crutch and had what appeared to be a boot on the left foot.
The President did not stop to talk to reporters.
Marine One lifted off at 1:36 pm for Camp David where the President is expected to remain for the weekend.
This was my first time on pool duty.
Many thanks to co pooler Zolan Kanno-Youngs from NYT for his help.


August 13, 202113:54

Travel Report #4 - More color about departure 
POTUS was wearing a cap, a light blue button down shirt and was carrying a piece of luggage.
FLOTUS was wearing a white dress, a sneaker on her right foot and a medical boot on her left.
WH also sending along this:
Traveling with the President to and the First Lady to Camp David:
Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary for the National Security Council
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President and Advisor to the First Lady 


August 13, 202114:08

Travel pool report #5 - POTUS briefed on Afghanistan
Per the WH just now
Earlier today, the President was briefed by members of his national security team on the ongoing efforts to safely drawdown the civilian footprint in Afghanistan. He will get further briefings later today. Additionally, the President received an update from the COVID-19 team on today's increase in vaccinations, and the roll out of third-shot boosters for the immunocompromised. Finally, he consulted with his legislative affairs team on next steps on his economic agenda in the House of Representatives.


August 13, 202114:35

Travel pool report #5 - Arrival Camp David/Lid
WH shares that Marine One was wheels down at 2:27 PM at Camp David and calls a travel/photo lid. 



  