
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The character of the United States has been shaped, in large part, by the accomplishments of older Americans. From the days of Benjamin Franklin, who was 81 years old when he helped to frame our Constitution, to the present time, America's senior citizens have enriched us through their wisdom and their example. These individuals have labored and sacrificed to build better lives for themselves and for their families and, in so doing, have helped to keep our country free, strong, and prosperous. Now in their advanced years, they continue to share with us a wealth of talent and experience.
Today millions of older Americans are remaining in the work force well past the traditional "retirement age." Many are pursuing second careers, and many are engaged in voluntary service to their communities. Most important, perhaps, older Americans provide their families with an abundance of love, affection, and guidance -- as well as a living link to the past.
As parents and grandparents, and as beloved neighbors and friends, our Nation's senior citizens enrich our lives beyond measure, and each of them merits our appreciation and support. Because the true strength and character of any society may be measured by how it treats its senior members, we must always strive to ensure that older Americans are accorded not only the services they need, but also the opportunities and esteem they so richly deserve. We should make certain that our communities are places where senior citizens feel safe and welcome, and we should set an example for our children by treating our older relatives and neighbors with respect and consideration.
As we observe National Senior Citizens Day, we do well to express our admiration and gratitude for the older members of our communities. These distinguished Americans should know that their many gifts to us are recognized and cherished, not only on this occasion, but throughout the year.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 591, has designated the third Sunday of August 1990 as "National Senior Citizens Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Sunday, August 19, 1990, as National Senior Citizens Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities in honor of our Nation's senior citizens.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  