
    Our vision is one of peace, security, and prosperity—in this region, and in the world. Our goal is a coalition of nations who share the aim of stamping out extremism and providing our children a hopeful future that does honor to God. --President Donald J. Trump
SECURING A HISTORIC AGREEMENT: President Donald J. Trump has secured the first agreement to normalize relations between Israel and a major Arab country in decades.

President Donald J. Trump has brokered an agreement to normalize relations between the United Arab Emirates and Israel – the first such agreement between Israel and a major Arab country since 1994.


The countries have committed to the exchange of embassies and ambassadors, and to begin cooperation in a broad range of fields including education, healthcare, trade, and security.
This historic breakthrough is the most significant step toward peace in the Middle East in over 25 years.

The United Arab Emirates is the first major Arab state to recognize Israel since the Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty was signed on October 26, 1994.



SHAPING PEACE THROUGH BOLD LEADERSHIP: President Trump recognized it was time for a new approach to achieve peace, security, and opportunity for the people of the Middle East.

This historic breakthrough was made possible by President Trump's leadership and expertise as a dealmaker.
The President built trust with our regional allies and reoriented their strategic calculus by identifying shared interests and common opportunities, moving them away from perpetuating old conflicts.
This deal provides a foundation for further advances toward regional peace in the future.

The United States believes that more Arab and Muslim countries will follow the United Arab Emirates' lead and normalize relations with Israel.



BUILDING A MORE PEACEFUL AND PROSPEROUS REGION: This agreement will help put the region on a truly transformative path: one with stability, security, and opportunity.

This agreement is a major breakthrough for Muslims throughout the world who wish to come in peace to pray at the Al Aqsa Mosque, as they will now be able to fly to Tel Aviv through Abu Dhabi to do so and will be welcomed.

By encouraging more visits, it will help counter the extremists who use the false narrative that the Al Aqsa Mosque is under attack and that Muslims cannot pray at this holy site.


Expanded business and financial ties between these two thriving economies will also accelerate growth and economic opportunity across the Middle East.
This agreement will allow further advancement of the President's vision for finding a comprehensive, fair, realistic, and lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians and in the region.

  