
    
  As the differences between candidates become clear, only one has a proven record of success in job creation and the comprehensive knowledge of the world to ensure America can remain competitive abroad.

Each day more and more Granite Staters are joining us to support Jon Huntsman for President. As the differences between candidates become clear, only one has a proven record of success in job creation and the comprehensive knowledge of the world to ensure America can remain competitive abroad.
Jeff P. - a college professor from Concord - understands this, and has been working tirelessly to make sure our message gets across. When asked why he supports Jon Huntsman, Jeff commented on the Governor's history as a conservative problem solver, acknowledging his "proven track record" and the "business experience he would bring with him to the Office of the President."
"His fiscally conservative approach is what our country needs during this difficult economic time," said Jeff.
Helping the campaign from the very beginning, Jeff has been a dedicated supporter- volunteering at events and reaching out to fellow Granite Staters, encouraging them to become more involved. A "go-to" and dependable guy, we've been lucky to have him help us on the campaign.
Our efforts on the ground are crucially important to our success in the Granite State. Each new volunteer helps put us on a path towards electing a President who can set this country back on the path to prosperity.
"At the end of the day, what matters is that we can elect a president who will effectively lead our country, manage the economy, and give us the tools to succeed without restricting our liberties," said Jeff.
When asked what the greatest reward has been since volunteering with the campaign, Jeff said, "knowing I am making a positive difference in electing the next President."
It is only through the support of New Hampshire residents like Jeff that we can return America back into the envy of the rest of the world. Join us in the fight for practical solutions and a better tomorrow. Click here to join Jeff and become more involved with our campaign today.
  