
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Nina M. Archabal- Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
•      Barbara Bluhm-Kaul - Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
•      Regina Blye - Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board
•      Cindy Campbell - Member, American Battle Monuments Commission
President Obama said, "Our nation will be greatly served by the talent and expertise these individuals bring to their new roles. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in this Administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dr. Nina M. Archabal, Appointee for Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
Dr. Nina M. Archabal is the Director Emerita of the Minnesota Historical Society, having recently retired after 23 years of service as its Director and State Historic Preservation Officer. She has served as Chair of the boards of the American Association of Museums and of the United States Committee of the International Council of Museums, and is on the board of the International Committee for Museums and Collections of Archaeology and History. Dr. Archabal received the President's Award from the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the National Humanities Medal. She has been an overseer of Harvard College, a member of the National Council on the Humanities, and received the Harvard Medal for Extraordinary Service to the Harvard Community and the Outstanding Alumni Achievement Award from the University of Minnesota. Dr. Archabal received an A.B. and M.A.T. from Harvard University and a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota.
Barbara Bluhm-Kaul, Appointee for Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
Barbara Bluhm-Kaul is a trustee of The Art Institute in Chicago and the Aspen Art Museum. She is a benefactor of the Bluhm Family Terrace at the Modern Wing of The Art Institute as well as of the Bluhm Seminar Room. Ms. Bluhm-Kaul has sponsored art exhibitions at The Art Institute, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, and the Aspen Art Museum. She has loaned works from her collection to many major museums throughout the world including the National Gallery of Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Whitney Museum, the Kunstmuseum in Basel, and the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris. Ms. Bluhm-Kaul received her Bachelor of Arts from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
Regina Blye, Appointee for Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board
Regina Blye is the Executive Director of the Texas State Independent Living Council (SILC). She is the current Chair of SILC Congress, a national group dedicated to improving the effectiveness of SILCs, the Vice-Chair of the Texas Disability Policy Consortium, a collection of organizations working together to advance the rights of Texans with disabilities, and is also a board member of the Coalition of Texans with Disabilities, a grassroots advocacy organization. Ms. Blye graduated from West Texas A&M University and has a degree in Mass Communications with a focus on Broadcasting and Public Relations.
Cindy Campbell, Appointee for Member, American Battle Monuments Commission
Cindy Campbell is the Vice President for Community Relations and Media Affairs at the Fisher House Foundation, a non-profit that provides temporary housing for military dependents while their family member is treated in military hospitals. In 2009, Ms. Campbell retired from the Navy after serving 30 years. She retired as a Lieutenant Commander, qualified as a surface warfare officer. Her last assignment before retirement was in the East Wing of the White House as the White House Military Office Director of Administration from March 2007 to July 2009. She has volunteered extensively with the Department of Defense Bone Marrow Donor Program, registering over 150,000 donors onto the national registry, a Department of Defense record. Ms. Campbell received a B.S. from Chaminade University and a M.S. in education from Old Dominion University.
  