
    Today, after receiving the endorsement of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, an international union with 1.4 million members in the U.S. and Canada, Hillary Clinton issued the following statement. Since announcing her campaign, Clinton has received the endorsement of 40 national unions, the AFL-CIO, and the North American Building Trades Unions, collectively representing 18.8 million members:
"I am honored to have earned the endorsement of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
"Unions like the International Brotherhood of Teamsters built the American middle class, and they make our economy run today. Teamsters keep our planes in the air, they put food on our shelves, and they get packages to our doors. In fighting for better wages and safer conditions on the job, the Teamsters are fighting for all America's workers.
"I have always been proud to stand with organized labor to create good jobs with good benefits and wages that make it possible to build a middle-class life. As President, I will stand with organized labor and I will always fight for workers' rights to retire with dignity and security, and to receive the benefits they have earned after years of hard work.
"The stakes in this election couldn't be higher. The Republican candidate for President is a man who has said wages are 'too high' in this country. Donald Trump personally signed a contract to hire a union-busting firm to try to stop his workers from organizing in his Las Vegas hotel. His running mate is a man who consistently supported efforts to undermine Social Security and who repealed Indiana's 80-year-old prevailing wage law. Workers deserve better. And both of them support so-called 'right to work' laws that make it harder for workers to organize. I am proud to stand with organized labor against these laws, because 'right to work' is wrong for workers and wrong for America.
"If elected, American workers will always have a seat at the table and a champion in the White House--because when unions are strong, America is strong."
  