
    Pool Reports by Catherine Lucey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




August 4, 2023 08:56

Out of Town Pool Report #1- Rehoboth Departure
Good morning from Rehoboth Beach where it is overcast and cool.
President Biden's motorcade arrived at Gordon's Pond at 8:46 AM. He exited his vehicle wearing a navy blazer and tan pants and boarded Marine One with the First Lady.
Pool was positioned very far away with a stretch of greenery partially blocking our view and could not shout questions.
M1 was wheels up at 8:54 AM. Handing off to the Wilmington Pool.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary 




Pool Reports below by Annie Linskey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




August 4, 2023 09:44

Out of town pool report #2 - dang arrival
Hello from misty Wilmington.
Marine 1 landed at DANG at 9:30 am
POTUS walked off M1 at 9:36 am. He assisted Flotus who walked down the steps after him.
POTUS got into the Beast at 9:37 am. We were too far away to yell questions.
Potus motorcade started rolling at 9:39 am.
We are headed to his Wilmington house. 


August 4, 2023 09:57

Out of town pool report #3 - potus dropped off
After an uneventful ride from DANG, the motorcade dropped POTUS at his home in Wilmington.
POTUS dropped off at 9:52 am. Pool did not see POTUS and is holding nearby. 


August 4, 2023 10:20

Out of town pool report #4 - LID CALLED
The WH called a lid at 10:16 am
[The lid is for the full day, we've been told.] 


August 4, 202319:53

Out of town pool report #5 - week ahead
The WH sends this week ahead note.
(Coming to you from the stands at the Wilmington Blue Rocks game.)
 Week Ahead 8/4 - 8/13
This weekend, the President and the First Lady will remain in Wilmington, Delaware.
On Monday morning, the President and the First Lady will depart Wilmington, Delaware en route to the White House.
In the afternoon, the President will welcome the Houston Astros to the White House to celebrate their 2022 World Series victory. The Second Gentleman will attend.
In the evening, the President will depart the White House en route to Arizona.
On Tuesday, the President will discuss his Administration's historic investments in conservation and climate resilience.
After, the President will depart Arizona en route to Albuquerque, New Mexico
 Later, the President will participate in a campaign reception.
On Wednesday, the President will discuss the Inflation Reduction Act's historic action to combat the climate crisis and unleash a clean energy and manufacturing boom.
Following, the President will depart Albuquerque, New Mexico en route to Salt Lake City, Utah.
On Thursday, the President will hold an event in Salt Lake City, Utah.
In the afternoon, the President will participate in a campaign reception.
Later, the President will depart Salt Lake City, Utah en route to the White House.
On Friday evening, the President will depart the White House en route to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. 



  