
    Biden Administration will facilitate air shipment of 4.3 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents of Danone's Aptamil Gold Plus Stage 1infant formula on August 8 and 11
Today, President Biden is announcing that his Administration is sourcing two flights, facilitated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), for Operation Fly Formula to transport Danone's Aptamil Gold Plus Stage 1 infant formula from New Zealand to Chicago, Illinois on August 8 and 11. These deliveries will include approximately 332,000 pounds of Aptamil Gold Plus Stage 1, the equivalent of 4.3 million 8-ounce bottles. These products will be distributed through top retailers nationwide.
In May, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced that the agency is exercising enforcement discretion so that Danone can import additional infant formula, including Neocate Infant DHA/ARA, Aptamil First Infant Milk Stage 1, and Aptamil Gold Plus Stage 1. Danone is in the process of importing approximately 38 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents into the U.S. market, which also includes their Aptamil baby formula from Ireland and New Zealand.
President Biden launched Operation Fly Formula to speed up the import of infant formula and start getting more formula to stores as soon as possible. Under Operation Fly Formula, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the General Services Administration (GSA), and the Department of Defense (DOD) are partnering to pick up overseas infant formula that meets U.S. health and safety standards, so it can get to store shelves, hospitals and home health care providers faster. To date, Operation Fly Formula has transported nearly 64 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents to the U.S.
In addition, the Biden Administration has taken a number of other important actions to ensure there is enough safe infant formula for families, including invoking the Defense Production Act, entering into a consent agreement between the FDA and Abbott Nutrition to reopen the company's Sturgis facility, and issuing FDA guidance so that major formula manufacturers can safely import formula that is not currently being produced for the U.S. market. Details of our actions can be found at whitehouse.gov/formula.
  