
    Originally Posted on NewsMax.com
By Hiram Reisner In this NewsMax.com article Newt criticizes President Obama's policies, saying that they will keep unemployment high for as long as they are in place.

  Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Wednesday new Congressional Budget Office numbers that project unemployment will remain high until at least 2014 show that President Barack Obama's policies of class warfare and "bureaucratic socialism" will continue to destroy the job market past the 2012 elections.
  "You know, the fact is, class warfare kills jobs, bureaucratic socialism kills jobs — he believes deeply in both," Gingrich told Fox News' Sean Hannity. "One of the reasons he can't just come out and give us a jobs' speech tomorrow morning is they are trying to be clever. And the reason they're trying to be clever is, nothing that will really work fits their ideology — so, I think we are in for a very serious period. "The Congressional Budget Office just came out and said, we should expect very high unemployment for years and years to come — now, that suggests to me, that we ought to have a very dramatic change in direction — and I've been trying to convince congressional Republicans that they ought to take the lead," Gingrich said. "Don't you know, you have a president who you know doesn't understand free enterprise, he doesn't understand job creation." Gingrich praised legislation introduced by Virginia's two Democratic senators, Mark Warner and Jim Webb, which he said is the type of step Congress needs to take to get Americans back to work. The senators have introduced a bill "that says that Virginia ought to be allowed to develop natural gas and oil offshore — they would then split the revenue with the federal government." "I think the House Republicans ought to pass that bill the first couple days after they come back — send it to the Senate," Gingrich said. "What is Harry Reid going to do with a pro-jobs, pro-American energy, pro-royalties bill, introduced by two of his Democrats?" The prsidential hopeful noted the Democratic-dominated Congressional Black Caucus has also been hitting Obama on America's high unemployment rate. "Sean, when you listen to [the] black caucus . . . when you think about 43 percent black-teenage unemployment under this president — that's a level of personal pain — family pain," Gingrich said. "Virtually every African-American church in this country has members who are now unemployed. "And so, I think a Republican Party that says: We are not going to wait around for year and a half of name-calling, let's find positive ways to create jobs now, let's find ways to unleash small business now, let's find ways to reach out and help America now," he said. "I think that puts the president in a much deeper box than just getting involved in ideological fight with him.' Gingrich then criticized formation of the congressional supercommittee, charged with devising spending cuts to reduce the nation's debt.

  