
    "After nearly four years of President Obama's failed economic policies, Americans are ready for a change. The Obama economy has left millions of Americans out of work, poverty at levels unseen in decades, and incomes in decline. It's unacceptable and just another reason middle-class Americans need to change presidents. Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan will deliver a new direction that jumpstarts our economy and helps the middle-class families who have been left behind under President Obama." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
After Nearly Four Years, Millions Of Americans Are Struggling For Work And Facing Declining Incomes In The Obama Economy:
Under President Obama, More Than 23 Million Americans Are Struggling For Work And Unemployment Has Remained Above 8% For 42 Straight Months. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, Accessed 8/25/12)
Sentier Research: "Almost Every Group Is Worse Off Than It Was Three Years Ago, And Some Groups Had Very Large Declines In Income." "'Almost every group is worse off than it was three years ago, and some groups had very large declines in income,' Green, who previously directed work on the Census Bureau's income and poverty statistics program, said in a phone interview today. 'We're in an unprecedented period of economic stagnation.'" (Jeff Kearn, "U.S. Incomes Fell More In Recovery, Sentier Says," Bloomberg, 8/23/12)
"By Just About Any Measure," President Obama Has Presided Over A Feeble Economic Recovery. "The recession that ended three years ago this summer has been followed by the feeblest economic recovery since the Great Depression. Since World War II, 10 U.S. recessions have been followed by a recovery that lasted at least three years. An Associated Press analysis shows that by just about any measure, the one that began in June 2009 is the weakest. The ugliness goes well beyond unemployment, which at 8.3 percent is the highest this long after a recession ended." (Paul Wiseman, "Economic Recovery Is Weakest Since World War II," The Associated Press, 8/15/12)
"The Ranks Of America's Poor Are On Track To Climb To Levels Unseen In Nearly Half A Century..." "The ranks of America's poor are on track to climb to levels unseen in nearly half a century, erasing gains from the war on poverty in the 1960s amid a weak economy and fraying government safety net." (Hope Yen, "US Poverty On Track To Rise To Highest Since 1960s," The Associated Press, 7/22/12)
CBS News: "This Is The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had." PELLEY: "This is worst economic recovery America has ever had. We've been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes. Ben Bernanke said any improvement in unemployment will 'likely be frustratingly slow.' Well, yes, to say the least." (CBS's "Evening News," 7/17/12)
What Type Of Change Has President Obama Delivered For Families? Skyrocketing Costs On Everything From Energy To College Tuition:
Since President Obama Took Office, The Average Price Per Gallon Of Gas Has More Than Doubled From $1.85 To $3.78. (U.S. Energy And Information Administration, Accessed 8/28/12)


    The Price Of Gas Is On Track To Reach Its "Highest-Ever Price For Labor Day." "With oil approaching $100 a barrel and the U.S. refinery market recovering from a spate of outages this year, gasoline is on track to reach its highest-ever price for Labor Day — and consumers may have to wait longer than usual to see those prices retreat." (Myra P. Saefong, "Drivers May Have To Wait For Break At Gas Pump," MarketWatch, 8/24/12)
  

Since President Obama Took Office, The Average Cost Of In-State Tuition At A Four-Year College Has Increased From $6,585 To $8,244 – A 25 Percent Increase. ("Trends In College Pricing 2009," College Board, 2008; "Trends In College Pricing 2011," College Board, 2011)


    The Cost Of College Is Currently At "An All Time High." "Nationally, the cost of a full credit load has passed $8,000, an all-time high. Throw in room and board, and the average list price for a state school now runs more than $17,000 a year, according to the twin annual reports on college costs and student aid published Wednesday by the College Board." (Justin Poe, "College Prices Up Again As States Slash Budgets," The Associated Press, 10/26/11)
  

Under President Obama, Family Health Care Premiums Have Increased $2,393 During President Obama's First Three Years In Office. (Kaiser Family Foundation, 2011)
And It's Not Just This Generation That Needs A Change In Leadership – The Next Generation Will Pay The Price For President Obama's Reckless Spending:
Under President Obama, The National Debt Has Surpassed $15.9 Trillion – An Increase Of Over $5.3 Trillion. (U.S. Department Of The Treasury, Accessed 8/25/12)


    "It's The Most Rapid Increase In The Debt Under Any U.S. President." "The latest posting by the Treasury Department shows the national debt has now increased $4 trillion on President Obama's watch. The debt was $10.626 trillion on the day Mr. Obama took office. The latest calculation from Treasury shows the debt has now hit $14.639 trillion. It's the most rapid increase in the debt under any U.S. president." (Mark Knoller, "National Debt Has Increased $4 Trillion Under Obama," CBS News, 8/22/11)
  

"The Federal Budget Deficit For Fiscal Year 2012 ... Will Total $1.1 Trillion ... Marking The Fourth Year In A Row With A Deficit Of More Than $1 Trillion." "The federal budget deficit for fiscal year 2012 (which ends on September 30) will total $1.1 trillion, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates, marking the fourth year in a row with a deficit of more than $1 trillion." ("An Update To The Budget And Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2012 To 2022," Congressional Budget Office, 8/22/12)
  