
    Joe Biden and the Democrats are only offering more empty promises, failed policies, and victimhood.
While Democrats accused Joe Biden's culturally incompetent campaign of suppressing Hispanic voters in Florida and sidelining Hispanic voices at the Democrat convention, there was "ample Hispanic participation" at the Republican National Convention last night. Americans across the country heard from a diverse group of fellow citizens that included Hispanic, Black, and first-generation Americans who are proud to support President Donald Trump.

Cuban immigrant Máximo Álvarez delivered a powerful speech warning against the dangers of socialism and honoring America's greatness. "If I gave away everything I have today, it would not equal 1% of what I was given when I came to this great country: The gift of freedom," he said.
Former football star Herschel Walker offered a firsthand account of how President Trump treats people kindly no matter their status in life:"I watched him treat the janitors, security guards, and waiters the same way he would treat a VIP. He made them feel special because he knew they were."
Guatemalan-American sisters Catalina and Madeline Lauf remarked about their inspiring success: "In America there's no ceiling of opportunity. You define your own destiny through personal responsibility, through hard work, through having a moral value system."
Former UN Ambassador Nikki Haley pushed back against the left's smearing of America. "In much of the Democratic Party, it's now fashionable to say that America is racist. That is a lie. America is not a racist country. This is personal for me. I am the proud daughter of Indian immigrants."
Senator Tim Scott praised President Trump's efforts to improve our criminal justice system. "President Trump's criminal justice reform law fixed many of the disparities Biden created and made our system more fair and just for all Americans."

While embracing the radical left's agenda, Joe Biden has also adopted their condescending message to Hispanics and other minority communities. Simply stated, Biden and the Democrat Party want Hispanics to feel like victims in order to control us. The worst part is that they cynically do this while promoting failed policies that impoverish families, deprive children of better schools, increase crime in our neighborhoods, and make us more dependent on the government.
Biden's tactics are tired, sleezy, and uninspiring. As last night's speakers consistently noted, America is the greatest country in the world and Hispanics are fed up with Joe Biden and the radical left's lies about our country and our communities. We are hard-working, decent, and patriotic. While Joe Biden alienates Hispanics and African Americans, our Latinos for Trump coalition continues to grow.
The choice is clear for all Americans come November 3: President Trump has worked to uplift Hispanics by delivering record-low unemployment and poverty levels for our communities before the virus from China, and now he's doing it again. Joe Biden is a Trojan horse for the radical left that only offers empty promises, failed, old, liberal ideas, and division. ¡No gracias, Joe!
  