
    Pool Reports by Priscella Vega, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 27, 202215:45 PDT

VP travel pool reporter #1
Good afternoon from Newport Coast where it's sunny with a cool breeze. I'll be your print pooler for VP Harris' visit to an estate for a DNC finance event where she will give remarks.
Pool has been COVID tested and is awaiting VP's arrival.



August 27, 202218:07 PDT

VP travel pool #2 - VP's arrival + remarks
Vice President Kamala Harris arrived at the Newport Coast estate at about 2:06 pm.
About 15 attendees lined up at the home's backyard to wait their turn for a photo op with the VP.
At about 2:33 pm, VP Harris joined attendees in the living room after the first speaker introduced her. The VP was greeted with applause and asked if anyone else wanted to sit down — majority of folks were a standing against the walls — because she'd be talking for a bit. Her quip prompted laughter.
Throughout her speech, Harris emphasized the importance of November's election and supporting the DNC's work.
"We're at a moment in our world and county of so much of what we took for granted is now unsettled," she said. "So many things we thought were long settled — territorial interfering and sovereignty. Here at home, women's body rights and voting rights. So much at stake."
The VP concluded her remarks at 2:51 pm. Pool was escorted out before the Q&A began with attendees.
More quotes and details of VP's speech, including an audio recording/transcript and additional color, to follow.



August 27, 202219:00 PDT

VP travel pool #3 — VP's remarks w audio + color
VP Harris highlighted the work she and Biden have achieved since 2020 and through the pandemic: signing the Inflation Reduction Act, "recovered all jobs lost, totaling to about 10 million," reopening schools, and growing the economy to "historic unemployment rates 3.5%."
"This is the kind of work that happens," she said. "Because the elections matter and the work that happened in 2020."
She also talked about speaking up on anti-Asian hate crimes to help the AAPI community "not feel alone and isolated and in fear."
She emphasized the importance of keeping and electing more Democrats to Congress and the Senate to stay in power.
"We have to win in November," she said. "With all of this at stake and so much more and we have to do it in a way that's about empowering people and letting them know their voices were heard."
Other color: U.S. Rep. Judy Chu attended the event. Chu represents the west San Gabriel Valley and San Gabriel foothills and is seeking re-election in November.
Iron Catering Crew, a Costa Mesa-based catering company, serviced the event.
Link to audio recording of VP's remarks: https://otter.ai/u/RzS-D-Ak63TZUHb0X-kHJlmWz24




  