
    As Joe Biden hides from the American people and the radical left continues their mission to rig our nation's voting system, President Trump is safeguarding our right to a free and fair election. The Trump 2020 campaign's lawsuit combating Nevada Democrats' election rigging scheme - which openly allows paid political operatives to harvest ballots and cast them after Election Day - is further proof that President Trump is fighting to ensure every eligible American voter's ballot counts in November - and counts exactly once.
Grammy Award Winning Recording Artist and Trump 2020 Advisory Board Member Kaya Jones discussed this and more on 'The Right View' hosted by Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Lara Trump, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee Kimberly Guilfoyle, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications Mercedes Schlapp, and Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Katrina Pierson.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"The Democrat Party knows their candidate doesn't stand a chance in a free and fair election, and that is why they are fighting so hard to fundamentally change our voting system and keep Biden in his basement as long as possible," said Lara Trump, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "While the radical left attempts to pull the wool over everyone's eyes and push Joe Biden to the finish line, the silent majority will ensure their voices are heard at the polls this November."
"As he ceaselessly panders to extreme socialist groups across the country, it is blatantly obvious that Joe Biden is an empty vessel of the radical left," said Kimberly Guilfoyle, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee. "Meanwhile, the Trump Campaign is ahead of the curve, dominating battleground states, and ensuring we do everything possible to get President Trump re-elected this November."
"Joe Biden has proudly attached himself to the radical left in a pathetic attempt to appease his socialist base," said Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications. "For the sake of our great country, it is vital that we stop the Democrats' fraudulent schemes to rig the election through universal mail-in voting and ensure President Trump is re-elected by such a large margin that Democrats cannot steal this election, no matter how hard they try."
"Joe Biden's handlers can try to hide his nearly fifty years of failure but the American people will not forget his record of decimating the middle class and shipping our jobs overseas," said Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "It does not matter which self-proclaimed socialist Biden chooses as his vice president, President Trump's America-First agenda will reign victorious in November."
"The mainstream media perpetuates this dangerous, divisive narrative and silences any voice that dares to support President Trump," said Kaya Jones, Grammy Award Winning Recording Artist and Trump 2020 Advisory Board Member. "This anarchist tribalism attacks everything that makes America great, and President Trump is the only leader that will defeat this indoctrination and fight for the American people."
  