
    Santorum "has something to teach the party, the conservative punditocracy and his competitors about how a conservative can make progress and not simply mouth talk-show rhetoric"
Verona, PA - Today, Jennifer Rubin of The Washington Post profiled former Senator Rick Santorum and his campaign to become the next President of the United States. Calling Senator Santorum the "most egregiously ignored" contender and a "fearless" candidate, Rubin details his strong record of advancing conservative principles and being "ahead of the curve on both entitlement reform and Iran sanctions."
"Path to the nomination: Rick Santorum"
By: Jennifer Rubin
"The figure most egregiously ignored, I would suggest, is former senator Rick Santorum...
... His strong finish (in the Ames Straw Poll) has had an impact on his candidacy, he told me. "The highest response is from the four states I've spent the most time in - Iowa, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and New Hampshire." In those states he's encouraged by a noticeable uptick in calls to his campaign, fundraising and volunteers...
... Santorum is nothing if not fearless. "My boots aren't shaking," he said in reference to those ahead of him in the race. He very passionately took on Perry for his comments on Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke. "I am not in agreement with Ben Bernanke," he began. "But having a presidential candidate calling [a policy disagreement] treason is shockingly maladroit. Maybe he can get away with that in Austin, but we're not in Austin anymore...
... He also argued, "I will match my record in the U.S. Senate with anybody." He embraces his reputation as a staunch conservative, and in in contrast to Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.) he contended that he was "doing big stuff."...
... Perhaps the Republican Party has changed so much in the last few years and the style of unbridled opposition has become so entrenched that Santorum, a man painted as a rigid conservative, comes across as downright reasonable and pragmatic in his pursuit of conservative goals. He may cause his competitors fits in the upcoming debates by attacking their positions and style from the right... He actually has something to teach the party, the conservative punditocracy and his competitors about how a conservative can make progress and not simply mouth talk-show rhetoric. It's not every candidate who has something to say that is worth listening to."
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/post/path-to-the-nomination-rick-santorum/2011/03/29/gIQAacu5JJ_blog.html
  