
    Earlier today, Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. officially launched the 'Sportsmen for Trump' coalition with an event at the Lehigh Valley Sporting Clays in Coplay, PA with Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle. While Joe Biden wants to strip all Americans of their right to keep and bear arms, President Trump will always protect the Second Amendment and the sportsmen lifestyle.
"From his steadfast support of the Second Amendment to his recent signing of the Great American Outdoors Act, it is clear President Trump stands proudly with sportsmen across the nation," said Donald Trump Jr. "While President Trump ensures that Americans can enjoy the God-given land our nation is blessed with, Joe Biden, an out-of-touch Washington elitist, wants to take away our guns and curtail our way of life."
"President Trump's unprecedented support of our Federal parks enjoyed by America's families is just one of the many reasons sportsmen across the nation will rally around him this November," said Kimberly Guilfoyle, National Chair for Trump Victory Finance Committee. "Unlike Joe Biden's nearly fifty years of empty words, President Trump has delivered on his promise to protect and preserve America's beautiful lands like our Everglades and Great Lakes."

The 'Sportsmen for Trump' coalition will equip conservationists to protect and defend our hunting heritage. President Trump has increased access for outdoor recreational activities on our public lands and will continue to expand opportunities for future generations to come. Re-electing this President ensures that the Department of the Interior will continue to work with Sportsmen across our country to preserve our way of life.
Dan Adams (SC), Bill Bachenberg (PA), Dan Genter (CA), Peter L. Horn II (NY), Mike Ingram (AZ), and Bubba Saulsbury (TX) will lead the 'Sportsmen for Trump' coalition as co-chairs.
Other key members of 'Sportsmen for Trump' include:
Frank Addington Jr. (TX)Laurie Aronson (LA)Gentry Beach (TX)Rock Bordelon (LA)Tibaut Bowman (TX)Mike Budzik (OH)Richard Childress (NC)Bob Foulkrod (PA)Mark Geist (CO)Thomas Gleason (TX)Matt Gomez (TX)Rob Keck (SC)Keegan McCarthy (AK)Chuck Paddock (IN)Don Peay (UT)Kirstie Pike (MN)Clayton Reaser (TX)Dan Reaser (OH)Kevin Small (CA)David Spady (MT)Kristy Titus (OR)Gary Turner (SC)Jason Vincent (GA)Michael Waddell (GA)Jana Waller (MT)
For more information, please visit sportsmen.donaldjtrump.com
  