
    Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
Subject: Facilitating Access to Federal Property for the Siting of Mobile Services Antennas
Recent advancements in mobile telecommunications technology present an opportunity for the rapid construction of the Nation's wireless communications infrastructure. As a matter of policy, the Federal Government shall encourage the efficient and timely implementation of such new technologies and the concomitant infrastructure buildout as a means of stimulating economic growth and creating new jobs. The recent auctioning and impending licensing of radio frequencies for mobile personal communications services presents the Federal Government with the opportunity to foster new technologies and to encourage the development of communications infrastructure by making Federal property available for the siting of mobile services antennas.
Therefore, to the extent permitted by law, I hereby direct the Administrator of General Services, within 90 days, in consultation with the Secretaries of Agriculture, Interior, Defense, and the heads of such other agencies as the Administrator may determine, to develop procedures necessary to facilitate appropriate access to Federal property for the siting of mobile services antennas.
The procedures should be developed in accordance with the following:
1. (a) Upon request, and to the extent permitted by law and where practicable, executive departments and agencies shall make available Federal Government buildings and lands for the siting of mobile service antennas. This should be done in accordance with Federal, State, and local laws and regulations, and consistent with national security concerns (including minimizing mutual electromagnetic interactions), public health and safety concerns, environmental and aesthetic concerns, preservation of historic buildings and monuments, protection of natural and cultural resources, protection of national park and wilderness values, protection of National Wildlife Refuge systems, and subject to any Federal requirements promulgated by the agency managing the facility and the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, and other relevant departments and agencies.
(b) Antennas on Federal buildings or land may not contain any advertising.
(c) Federal property does not include lands held by the United States in trust for individual or Native American tribal governments.
(d) Agencies shall retain discretion to reject inappropriate siting requests, and assure adequate protection of public property and timely removal of equipment and structures at the end of service.
2. All procedures and mechanisms adopted regarding access to Federal property shall be clear and simple so as to facilitate the efficient and rapid buildout of the national wireless communications infrastructure.
3. Unless otherwise prohibited by or inconsistent with Federal law, agencies shall charge fees based on market value for siting antennas on Federal property, and may use competitive procedures if not all applicants can be accommodated.
This memorandum does not give the siting of mobile services antennas priority over other authorized uses of Federal buildings or land.
All independent regulatory commissions and agencies are requested to comply with the provisions of this memorandum.
This memorandum is not intended to create any right, benefit or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers, or any other person.
This memorandum shall be published in the Federal Register.
William J. Clinton
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:15 p.m., August 10, 1995]
  