
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 11 [vi]1
The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Colvin Rhodes as Deputy Commissioner of the Social Security Administration.
The President announced his intention to appoint Beth Dozoretz to serve as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gregory Lashutka and reappoint Paul Burke to the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
August 14
The White House announced that the President named Donald A. Baer as Assistant to the President and Director of Communications.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia J. Beneke to serve as Assistant Secretary for Water and Science at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy E. McFadden as General Counsel of the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Phillip J. Shepherd as Federal Representative to the Ohio River Valley Sanitation Commission.
August 15
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Jackson Hole, WY, for their vacation.
The President announced the renomination of Chester A. Crocker, Theodore M. Hesburgh, and Max M. Kampelman in addition to the nomination of Seymour Martin Lipset to the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lowell Junkins as a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia to serve as a member of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation.
August 16
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles A. Hunnicutt to be Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs at the Department of Transportation.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by excessive rain and flooding on August 4-6.
August 17
The President announced the renomination of David A. Brock and Joseph F. Baca to the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute.
August 18
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, straight line winds, and tornadoes on July 9-14.
  