
    This week, members of President Biden's Cabinet traveled across the country to advocate for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal making its way through Congress, President Biden's Build Back Better Agenda, and how the administration's economic agenda is delivering for America's working families.
Cabinet members crisscrossed the country to underscore the need for the historic investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal to fix roads and bridges in disrepair, improve transit nationwide, ensure our families and children have clean drinking water, connect all Americans to affordable and reliable high-speed internet, and more.
Americans nationwide are being peppered with headlines from local news sources highlighting the Biden-Harris Administration's accomplishments and work to build back better, chronicling the visits by Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm in Michigan, Labor Secretary Marty Walsh in New York, HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen in Georgia, and Secretary Gina Raimondo in New Jersey.
See below for a small sampling of the local coverage Americans across the country are reading this week:
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm in Michigan 
CBS Detroit: US Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm Visits SE Michigan For Historic EV Announcement[By April Morton, 8/5/21]
Granholm's Michigan visit Thursday comes on the day President Biden met with the big 3 and the UAW to make this historic announcement. Granholm along with US Representative Elissa Slotkin toured the Magna Electronics facility in Holly.
"All of the stuff that the vehicles have inside of them like the stuff that the supplier Magna produces we want that to be made in America," Granholm said.
Granholm says facilities like these are here in Michigan, creating more jobs.
"This particular facility used to have 250 people working at it when I was Governor, it now has 500 people in this facility working at it and it's only going to grow," said Granholm.
The Detroit News: Granholm back in Michigan, gets a glimpse of 'guilt-free' Hummer EV[By Kalea Hall, 8/5/21]
Granholm toured Metro Detroit on the day President Joe Biden, joined by leaders of the Detroit Three automakers, presented a plan to gradually raise mileage and emissions standards over the next five years and set a goal of making half of all new vehicles sold in 2030 emissions-free.
Granholm added that the committed aspiration from the Detroit Three automakers means "we're going to be building the supply chains here in Michigan, we're going to be building the vehicles here in Michigan, Michigan is the point of the spear with respect to the future of the electric vehicle."
Top surrogates for the president are traveling throughout the country as part of a "massive push" to tout his $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package, which includes electric vehicle infrastructure investment.
Fox 2 Detroit: US Energy Secretary former Governor Granholm touts infrastructure package[By Roop Raj and David Komer, 8/5/21]
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm is a big part of a massive push behind the $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package.
"For Michigan, it's going to mean over $7 billion in investment in highways here," she said. "Talk about fixing the damn roads - this is going to be significant. It's $536 million dollars for bridges."
The Oakland Press: Granholm emphasizes domestic supply chain and clean energy goals during visit to Oakland County[By Mark Cavitt, 8/5/21]
Granholm told The Oakland Press that her visit to Michigan, on this day, is "very intentional."
She said that her main message as she traveled across the county was to "underscore what it looks like" when suppliers and the automakers are creating "good jobs" as a result of the announcements today and due to the continued increase in demand for electionics and electrification of vehicles.
"(The announcement from The Big Three) is amazing," said Granholm to reporters in Holly. "What that means for us is that all of the stuff that the vehicles have inside of them, like what Magna produces, we want to be made in America. We want supply chains to be made in America. I'm really proud to be here with Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin. She has been the champion for supply chain in this country."
MLive: Former Gov. Granholm tours Michigan plants as Biden sets goal to make 50% of new cars electric[By Taylor DesOrmeau, 8/5/21]
The timing of her visit was intentional – Biden announced Thursday his new target of getting 50% of all new vehicles to be electric by 2030, and the Big Three automakers pledged their support.
Granholm wants the supplies to be made in Michigan.
"The United States need not rely on other countries – potentially adversaries – for the supplies to make the electric vehicle," Granholm said. "We want to make the batteries here. We want to make the chips here. We want to make the vehicles here. We want to make the whole thing, soup to nuts.
Labor Secretary Marty Walsh in New York 
NY1 News: We don't want to stay in the dark: construction worker (ny1noticias.com)[By Jonathan Inoa, 8/5/21]
Queens immigrant workers shared an afternoon with Labor Secretary Marty Walsh, who heard about their experiences in the world of work.
"Productive, interesting and constructive, let's hope that our requests, our demands will be heard," said Inés Arévalo, a construction worker.
[...]
Walsh, who has only been in office for about 4 months, told those present that in his previous positions, as mayor of the city of Boston and legislator for Massachusetts, he has always been an ally and advocate for immigrant communities.
"There are a lot of good employers out there who don't put their workers at risk and there are a lot of others out there who take advantage of their workers and I'm not going to allow them in my time as department secretary to take advantage of the workers," Walsh said.
At the same time, he said they are in the process of employing more inspectors from the Health and Safety Administration, OSHA, to ensure workers face hazards in their workplaces.
"The most important, relevant thing was to insist that the deaths of Latino workers and migrants continue to happen that are not isolated cases, it is a systematic problem," added Nilbia Coyote of NICE." The most important, relevant thing was to insist that the deaths of Latino workers and migrants continue to happen that are not isolated cases, it is a systematic problem," added Nilbia Coyote of NICE.
[...]
Telemundo NY: Labor Department Secretary Marty Walsh Meets Immigrant Workers in Queens[8/5/21]
"We don't want to continue in the dark: construction worker in meeting with Labor Secretary Marty Walsh." Queens immigrant workers shared an afternoon with Labor Secretary Marty Walsh, who heard about their experiences in the world of work."
HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra in Georgia 
Gwinnett Daily Post: U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra visits Gwinnett as concerns linger about COVID vaccinations, rising case numbers[By Curt Yeomans, 8/3/21]
U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra pointed to the latest rise in COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations Monday and said it is evidence of the need for people to get vaccinated against the disease if they haven't done so already.
Becerra participated in a 30-minute roundtable discussion that U.S. Rep. Carolyn Bourdeaux, D-Ga., hosted at the Norcross Cultural Arts Center Monday. The meeting gave Becerra a chance to speak, in person, with local health officials and groups that have been trying to work on outreach to get people vaccinated against COVID-19.
"In so many ways, this has become the pandemic of the unvaccinated," Becerra told the Daily Post after the roundtable. "Those who can, by chance, still get infected who have been fully vaccinated usually not only survive, not only don't go to the hospital, but continue forward."
[...]
Becerra said people who have gotten vaccinated, or are planning to get vaccinated, should get involved in getting the word out about the need for people to get vaccinated against COVID-19. The vaccines are available to anyone who is 12 or older and health departments and health providers can vaccinate people.
"What we need to do is get all of our loved ones and our neighbors to get vaccinated because we shouldn't have to wear masks if we're all vaccinated, we shouldn't have to worry about social distancing if we all do what we know is the safest thing for us," the HHS secretary said.
"And, hopefully we won't lose any more lives because people aren't vaccinated. It's just the right thing to do. It's time."
[...]
Georgia Public Broadcasting: HHS Secretary Becerra Visit Spotlights State's Health Care Woes [By Riley Bunch, 8/3/21]
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra visited Georgia on Monday amid a battle between state officials and federal Democrats over expanding Medicaid.
Becerra was joined by high-profile Democratic politicians including Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms and U.S. Reps. Carolyn Bourdeaux, Lucy McBath and Nikema Williams.
During his trip, Becerra hosted roundtables with community leaders to hear firsthand the health care issues plaguing Georgians. From Atlanta to Norcross, advocates described racial disparities in medical services, told stories of poor maternal health and voiced support of expanding Medicaid to cover more people.
[...]
In Norcross, Becerra met with health care leaders from the community concerned about racial disparities in services — especially while COVID-19 has devastated communities of color.
Nathaniel Smith, with the Partnership for Southern Equity, said that while the conversation focused on health care inequity, federal leaders, too, must recognize structural racism built into the system.
"We have to embrace the fact that structural racism is a social determinant," he said. "And that social determinant affects various communities of color which are in position, unfortunately, to be affected by COVID-19 in a disproportional fashion."
Becerra, on a mission to promote Biden's health care agenda, urged that the federal agency would take steps to lessen the coverage gap in Georgia.
"We are looking forward to working with the people of Georgia," he said. "Because we know there is a lot of real enthusiasm to continue to build toward better health care, that's more affordable, for more of your folks."
WRDW: Masks are important, Cabinet secretary says during Georgia visit[8/2/21]
ATLANTA - A top federal health official says he understands frustration with new mask requirements, but the country can overcome them if people accept responsibility for fighting the coronavirus.
U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra was in Georgia on Monday as COVID-19 infections and hospitalizations in the state continued to rise amid a low vaccination rate.
Becerra says he doesn't blame Americans for questioning the mask requirement.
But he says everyone shares a responsibility to both get vaccinated and wear masks to help stave off the ongoing surge of the delta variant.
At least 23 school districts in Georgia, including the Richmond County School System, have said they will require everyone to wear a mask.
Becerra isn't the only administration official visiting the Peach State this week.
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen is set to travel to Atlanta on Wednesday to promote President Joe Biden's economic agenda and rally support for the $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package.
Yellen plans to join Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms at an event to tout the transportation measure and will meet with local business executives to discuss their ideas for bolstering the economy. She'll also visit the Latin American Association Atlanta Outreach Center to talk about the expanded child tax credit.
It will be Yellen's first official domestic trip since she joined the Cabinet.
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen in Georgia 
WABE (NPR Atlanta): In Atlanta, U.S. Treasury Secretary Touts Spending To 'Repair Broken Foundations Of Our Economy'[By Emil Moffat, 8/4/21]
Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms welcomed U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen to Atlanta Wednesday, noting that she's the third cabinet secretary to visit the area in the last week.
"I don't remember that happening—not recently anyway, so we are grateful for the support," said Bottoms.
The U.S. Senate continues consideration of a $1 trillion infrastructure bill that could mean a large investment of federal dollars in Metro Atlanta. Yellen was in town to tout the spending as a way to "repair the broken foundations of our economy."
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution: Backers highlight benefits for Georgia in Senate infrastructure deal[By Tia Mitchell and David Wickert, 8/4/21]
As members of the U.S. Senate worked to finalize a $1.2 trillion infrastructure deal, Georgia's Raphael Warnock reached across the aisle to Texas' Ted Cruz. The result was passage of an amendment that added I-14, a proposed highway that would connect military bases in Augusta and Columbus, to a list of "high-priority corridors."
This amendment created an added benefit for Georgia in a bill that Warnock says is already full of spending that would improve transit, roads, bridges and ports across the state.
But this infrastructure package negotiated by a bipartisan group of 22 senators is a work in progress with an uncertain future. A final vote is still not scheduled in the Senate, despite the fact members had expected to start a monthlong summer recess this weekend.
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution: Treasury Secretary Yellen to visit Atlanta to tout infrastructure plan[By Greg Bluestein, 8/2/21]
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen is set to travel to Atlanta on Wednesday to promote President Joe Biden's economic agenda and rally support for the $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package.
Yellen plans to join Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms at an event to tout the transportation measure and will meet with local business executives to discuss their ideas for bolstering the economy. She'll also visit the Latin American Association Atlanta Outreach Center to talk about the expanded child tax credit.
It's Yellen's first official domestic trip since she joined the Cabinet, and it's the latest in a sweep of visits by Biden administration officials to Georgia.
Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo in New Jersey 
News 12: US Rep. Frank Pallone, US Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo tour Rutgers tech labs[8/6/21]
A pair of special guests paid a visit to Rutgers University this week.
U.S. Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo took a tour of the technology labs on campus that highlighted the need for federal investment in innovation and development, specifically in robotics.
"Robots and other similar technology are created to seamlessly work alongside humans...we need not fear being replaced by them," says Rutgers student Faith Johnson. "Robots have the potential to free humans from the more mundane tasks of life so that we can have more time to do what we do best— come up with creative solutions to the world's most pressing problems."
Rutgers labs are researching robotics, clean energy and sustainable manufacturing.
New Jersey Globe: Raimondo Becomes Second Cabinet Official To Visit Pallone's District[By Joey Fox, 8/5/21]
U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo toured a series of clean energy labs at Rutgers University today with Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-Long Branch), making her the second federal Cabinet official to recently visit Pallone's district after Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm did so in mid-July.
As chair of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, Pallone has significant power over some of President Joe Biden's legislative agenda.
"Thanks to President Biden's leadership and the work Congressional Democrats have done, we have a plan to confront the challenges of the future and ensure our economy provides a robust prosperity for everyone," Pallone said in a statement on Raimondo's visit.
Raimondo said that Biden's Build Back America plan would help states like New Jersey "compete on the global stage."
"From offshore wind to robotics and sustainable manufacturing, the kind of research happening at Rutgers is critical to maintaining America's competitive edge," Raimondo said.  "To win the 21st century, we need to double down on American innovation."
Raimondo is the fifth Biden Cabinet member to make a stop in New Jersey this summer, with Secretary of Education Pete Buttigieg, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge, and Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona all visiting the state since June.
Patch: U.S. Commerce Secretary Tours Rutgers' Science, Engineering Labs [By Carly Baldwin, 8/5/21]
NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ — On Thursday, U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo toured science and engineering labs at Rutgers University.
According to Rutgers, these labs test cutting-edge robotics, sustainable manufacturing and "clean" or renewable energy.
New Jersey has been at the forefront in President Biden's green energy push, as Gov. Murphy is moving full-steam ahead building what will become the nation's largest off-shore wind farm ever, to be located directly off the Jersey Coast. Hundreds of wind turbines will be built off the Jersey Shore, likely visible from beaches, providing a total of 2,658 megawatts of wind to New Jersey.
[...]
Sec. Raimondo said her tour highlighted the need to spur economic growth in the United States through federal investment in innovation, American manufacturing, and research and development.
Following the tour, Middlesex County Congressman Frank Pallone (D-NJ6) hosted Secretary Raimondo for a roundtable discussion with offshore wind officials and stakeholders.
"From offshore wind to robotics and sustainable manufacturing, the kind of research happening at Rutgers is critical to maintaining America's competitive edge," Raimondo said.
President Biden's American Jobs Plan would create a new office within the Department of Commerce dedicated to monitoring domestic industrial capacity and funding investments to support production of critical goods.
"Today's visit shines a spotlight on the importance of federal investments in innovation, research and manufacturing, which are all essential to long-term American competitiveness," said Rutgers President Jonathan Holloway.
TAPinto New Brunswick: With Billions of Grant Dollars Available, Rutgers Shows Off For U.S. Secretary of Commerce Raimondo[By Chuck O'Donnell, 8/5/21]
NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ - An ocean-faring robot that collects data about rising sea levels.
A 3-D printer that punches out metallic machine parts with pinpoint precision.
A dual-axis drone designed to change direction without changing its body orientation.
U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo and Rep. Frank Pallone Jr. saw these modern mechanical marvels and others as they were escorted by Rutgers President Jonathan Holloway around Weeks Hall of Engineering on Thursday.
Raimondo, who visited these rather spartan labs on Livingston Campus to tout her office's local economic effort called the Investing in America's Communities initiative, was apparently impressed.
"You ought to apply from what I saw today," she gushed, turning toward Holloway. "You ought to apply. A billion of the three billion is for what we're calling a Build Back Better Regional Challenge and it's exactly to invest in what we saw today. The goal is getting the research out of the labs and into industry."
So, if there was a big takeaway from Thursday's event, it's that there are billions of dollars of grant money on the table to fund things such as doctoral candidate Faith Johnson's SOCRATES (Socially Cognizant Robotics for a Technology Enhanced Society) project or Associate Professor Jie Gong's robot dog that can be used in the research of mapping and modeling of large infrastructure systems such as train yards.
[...]
"A lot of times people I think don't understand that research can directly lead to manufacturing and jobs and better quality jobs," he said. "And that's one of the reasons I came here today, because so much of what Rutgers does in general and particularly what you've showed us today at the School of Engineering and Ocean Program as well, points to how if a university gets money for research that may seem like basic research, it still has a practical application that leads to improvements in American manufacturing and jobs in this globally competitive marketplace."
[...]
  