
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President West Virginia Statewide Steering Committee. The committee includes fifteen West Virginia Republican leaders from communities across the state. Chaired by State Delegate Bob Ashley, these West Virginians will help Governor Romney organize grassroots efforts and will communicate the Governor's message of conservative change in Washington.
Announcing his endorsement of Governor Romney, the Honorable Bob Ashley said, "I am proud to support Governor Romney's candidacy for President of the United States. We need to elect someone with conservative credentials who can take Washington apart and put it back together so that it works better for hardworking American families. Governor Romney does not run from problems, he faces them head on. He is a proven problem-solver and principled leader. I am pleased to chair his steering committee in West Virginia."
Governor Romney said, "With the help of the West Virginia Steering Committee, we will be able to take our message of a strong military, strong families and a strong economy to the voters throughout the Mountain state. As West Virginians know all too well, a strong economy is based on a sound national energy policy. Energy issues are important nationally but I know they're particularly important in West Virginia."
"I am honored to have the support of these West Virginia leaders. I look forward to working with them as the campaign moves forward," Governor Romney concluded.
Last week, the Romney for President Campaign announced its intent to participate in the West Virginia State Republican Convention on February 5, 2008.
John H. McCutcheon, II and Bill Phillips, Jr. are serving as Senior Advisers for Governor Romney's West Virginia statewide campaign.
Background On The Romney For President West Virginia Statewide Steering Committee:
The Honorable Bob Ashley (Spencer) – Delegate Ashley serves in the West Virginia House of Delegates, and is the former Minority Leader of the House. He is also a member of the West Virginia Republican State Committee. Mr. Ashley will serve as Chairman of the Steering Committee.
Patricia Adams (Buckhannon) – Adams is a member of the West Virginia Republican State Executive Committee. She also serves as Chair of the Upshur County Republican Executive Committee.
Mark Blankenship (Charleston) – Blankenship was a member of the senior staff for former Governor Cecil Underwood's Administration. He has also served as an adviser to various political campaigns.
Mark W. Browning (Charleston) – Browning is a member of the Kanawha County Republican Executive Committee. He is an attorney in Charleston and is the former President of the Kanawha County Bar Association.
John Golden (South Charleston) – Golden was the Communications Director for the Bush for President Campaign West Virginia in 2000. He also served on the campaign staff for Underwood for Governor in 1996.
Jeffrey N. Loudin (Elkins) – Loudin was the Director of Administration for the West Virginia Bush for President Committee in 2000. He also served on the campaign staff of Moore for Governor in 2004.
Jerry Mays (Martinsburg) – Mays served as Chairman of the Berkeley County Republican Executive Committee. He also has a prominent presence in Eastern West Virginia Republican activities.
James M. McCutcheon (Parkersburg) – McCutcheon is a former member of the West Virginia House of Delegates. He also served on the West Virginia committee for the George W. Bush campaign in 2000 and 2004.
Thomas J. O'Neill (Morgantown) – O'Neill is the Vice Chairman for the First Congressional District of the West Virginia Republican State Executive Committee.
Rick Rice (Buckhannon) – Rice served as a County Commissioner for Upshur County. He was also President and Chairman of the Association of County Officials.
Robert Ryan (Charleston) – Ryan is an attorney in Charleston. He also worked on the Victory Fund with the Republican National Committee.
Patrick Westerfeld (Elkins) – Westerfeld has served as adviser to various political campaigns.
Deborah Wolfe (Huntington) – Wolfe is a former Mrs. America. She also managed several local and regional Republican campaigns.
Kim Wolfe (Huntington) – Wolfe is the Sheriff of Cabell County. He also ran for Congress in 2006 in West Virginia's 3rd Congressional District.
Duane Zobrist II (Lewisburg) – Zobrist is a Greenbrier County businessman and civic leader.
Background on Governor Romney's Senior Advisers For West Virginia:
John H. McCutcheon, II (White Sulphur Springs) – McCutcheon served as the Executive Director for the Bush for President Campaign in West Virginia in 2000. He is also a former Vice Chairman of the West Virginia State Party. He served as the White House Liaison to the U.S. Department of Energy in the Bush Administration.
Bill Phillips, Jr. (Elkins) – Phillips served as Chairman of the Bush for President Campaign in West Virginia in 2000. He was the Co-Chairman of the Bush for President Campaign in 2004. He also served as Chief of Staff for Former Governor Cecil H. Underwood.
  