
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Charles J. Vörösmarty – Member, Arctic Research Commission
•      Warren M. Zapol – Member, Arctic Research Commission
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these impressive individuals have chosen to dedicate their talents to serving the American people at this important time for our country. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dr. Charles J. Vörösmarty, Appointee for Member, Arctic Research Commission
Dr. Charles J. Vörösmarty is a Professor of Civil Engineering at the City College of New York, a position he has held since 2008. He is also a Member of the Arctic Research Commission, having been appointed in 2006 and reappointed in 2008. Before joining the City College of New York, Dr. Vörösmarty worked at the University of New Hampshire for over thirty years, including serving as a Research Full Professor from 2001 to 2008. He earned a B.S. from Cornell University in Biological Sciences, and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Engineering from the University of New Hampshire.
Dr. Warren M. Zapol, Appointee for Member, Arctic Research Commission
Dr. Warren M. Zapol is Director of the Anesthesia Center for Critical Care Research at Massachusetts General Hospital. From 1994 to 2008, he served as the Anesthetist-in-Chief. He is also the Reginald Jenney Professor of Anesthesia at Harvard Medical School in Boston. Previously, he served at the National Institutes of Health as a Staff Associate for the National Heart and Lung Institute from 1967 to 1970. Dr. Zapol is a Member of the Arctic Research Commission, having been appointed in 2008. He also served on the Polar Research Board of the National Academy of Sciences from 2003 to 2006. In 2006, the United States Board on Geographic Names named a glacier after Dr. Zapol. He has also been part of nine expeditions to Antarctica since 1974 to study the diving physiology of the Weddell Seal. He earned a B.S. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.D. from the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry.
  