
    Ad Begins Airing Thursday in Iowa As Harris Arrives For Five-Day "3AM Agenda" Bus Tour

In the first TV ad of her presidential campaign, Senator Kamala Harris emphasizes her "3AM Agenda" to take bold action and deliver tangible benefits that improve Americans' daily lives. On issues from affording health care, to making ends meet each month, to guaranteeing women are paid equally, Harris' "3AM Agenda" addresses the problems that keep Americans up at night.
Harris' passion to fight for real relief for working families comes from her own upbringing. In the ad, titled "Me, Maya, and Mom," Harris talks about how she and her sister were raised by a mother who would "work all day then pour her whole heart into Maya and me when she got home. And then, after we were fed and in bed, our mother would sit up trying to figure out how to make it all work."
"That's what my '3AM Agenda' is all about—a real plan to help you solve those worries," she adds. "The biggest middle-class tax cut in a generation; another $500 in your pocket every month, paid for by repealing Donald Trump's tax breaks for the top one percent and the richest corporations in America; health care for all with Medicare for All; and for companies that don't pay women the same as men, new fines on their profits until they do."
"Instead of ideological or theoretical debates, Senator Harris is focused on an action plan to directly improve the lives of American families," said spokesman Ian Sams. "Right now, millions of Americans worry about making ends meet each month, getting the health care they need, affording their rent, or whether their child will be a victim of a school shooting the next day, and her agenda directly addresses the issues that keep people up at night."
Harris embarks Thursday on a five-day bus tour across Iowa where she will travel from the Missouri River to the Mississippi River, sharing her plans for direct relief for working and middle class families and listening to Iowans at retail stops and the state fair.
The ad is part of a significant six-figure TV and digital buy in Iowa this week.
Tra nscript of 'Me, Maya, and Mom:'
Kamala Harris voiceover:
She'd work all day then pour her whole heart into Maya and me when she got home. And then, after we were fed and in bed, our mother would sit up trying to figure out how to make it all work.
That's something most Americans know all too well.
And that's what my "3AM Agenda" is all about—a real plan to help you solve those worries: the biggest middle-class tax cut in a generation; another $500 in your pocket every month, paid for by repealing Donald Trump's tax breaks for the top one percent and the richest corporations in America; health care for all with Medicare for All; and for companies that don't pay women the same as men, new fines on their profits until they do.
That's what I'm fighting for—real relief for families like yours. Not in 20 years. Not in 30. Starting my first day as President. Because you've waited long enough to get a good night's sleep.
I'm Kamala Harris, and I approve this message.
  