
    Hillary Clinton today received the endorsement of two outstanding elected leaders from Northern Nevada communities - Elko City Councilman John Patrick Rice and Pershing County Commissioner Roger Mancebo.
"I am pleased to endorse Senator Hillary Clinton in her bid for the Democrat nomination for President of the United States," said Rice. "Her work with farmers in upstate New York, creating new markets for their products, is an indicator of her commitment to the interests of the ranching and agricultural communities of rural Nevada. Hillary Clinton has lent a thoughtful ear to the discussion of mining issues. She supports revising the 1872 Mining Law, and she understands the importance of access to the vast mineral resources throughout the region. Her commitment to strengthening access to broadband communication systems throughout the rural United States will be vital to economic diversification and to increasing access to higher education for all."
"As Senator Clinton has so astutely observed, many Americans - especially those living in rural communities - are invisible to the Bush Administration," said Mancebo. "I am confident that as president, Hillary Clinton will be a leading voice for rural America, promoting economic opportunities, expanding health care coverage and strengthening our school systems. In an outstanding field of candidates, Hillary Clinton alone has the experience and vision to bring about real change in our nation."
John Patrick Rice has been a member of the Elko community since 1996. A lifelong Democrat, he was elected to the Elko City Council in June, 2007. He was a member of the Great Basin College faculty for eight years, teaching theatre arts, before joining the college administration. He currently serves as Director of Institutional Advancement. His work creating partnerships between the private sector and local, state and federal agencies has enabled Great Basin College to move forward in its service to rural Nevada. In addition, Rice was awarded his PhD in Education from Capella University in August of this year.
A longtime community and Democratic activist, Roger Mancebo is currently serving his fourth term as chairman of the Pershing County Board of Commissioners. Mancebo also currently serves as chairman of the Nevada State Lands Commission, the Pershing County Hospital Board, and the Pershing County Regional Street Commission. A member of the Lovelock Fire Department for 42 years, Mancebo has also served on the Nevada Rural Housing Authority since 1988.
"We are fortunate to have the support of these outstanding community leaders," said Clinton Nevada Chair Rory Reid. "John and Roger are devoted representatives of Northern Nevada communities, and their leadership, work ethic and drive will be tremendous assets to the campaign."
  