
    Dr. Ollendorff, ladies and gentlemen:
First, I express my pleasure at your being able to come to the White House this morning. I want to welcome you here. I am very sorry we cannot do it with better weather.
I wish that every person who is afflicted by doubt or worry or pessimism about the future of this world in which we live could come in contact with you, meet you, and learn something about your hopes, and your dreams, and particularly your work.
For 10 years now, Dr. Ollendorff and the Council for International Programs have brought more than 500 young leaders, teachers, and social workers to our country.
This is much more than just an effort of good will. We believe that it is very definitely a program of good works. We believe this idea is bearing fruit in our country.
We ourselves are just getting underway this fall with another experiment. It is one called Volunteers to America. It is an experiment which some people like to call the Exchange Peace Corps.
I first asked for it about 2 years ago. Last week 64 carefully selected young people from 12 countries completed their training and headed for assignments in American cities.
So for the next year those people will be serving in American schools as leaders, as teachers, and as social workers.
One young leader from Finland put it this way: "You have built a bridge across the ocean. That is something that no engineer has ever been able to do."
So I want to see the traffic getting heavier on that bridge. I should like very much to see it coming from both directions.
We in the United States are a big power and a powerful nation. We trace our growth directly to the work of many peoples from many lands.
I remember Mrs. Johnson--when in our younger days in the Congress--was addressing letters to the voters in our district. She was amazed that there in a little central Texas district we should have people from some 15 different ancestries from all parts of the world--and that they had come there and resided in central Texas.
So we know really what great results cooperation between diverse people can bring. We know we are going to have to live with them. We know we are going to be living together.
So we had better get with it and get to understand each other--trying to ease the tensions and moderate the differences--and try to understand and be better understood.
I was reminded again only last week when I talked to Ambassador Foster, who is trying to negotiate a nonproliferation agreement-and it will probably be tabled very shortly in Geneva--of just how the world is growing smaller and really how much more dangerous is the age in which we are living than those that preceded us.
Many years ago Roger Williams had this to say:
"There goes many a ship to sea--with many hundred souls in one ship, whose weal and woe is common. And this is a true picture of a commonwealth, a human combination or society.
So more and more today, we on this planet are like that crowded ship which journeyed out to sea. We all very much and urgently need navigators. We need a steady star to steer by.
So I am particularly pleased that young leaders like you and the idea of international cooperation which you serve seem to me to be giving us both the navigators and the steady star to steer by.
We thank you for your interest and for your dedication. We are glad you are here. We hope that you profit from your experience. We know we will profit from having known you.
Thank you very much.
  