
    At roundtables and town halls in Hanover, Keene, and Nashua, Granite Staters discuss the consequences of our broken politics
MANCHESTER, NH -- At a roundtable at Jesse's Restaurant in Hanover this morning, Senator Barack Obama kicked off a day of discussion with New Hampshire voters about the need for real change in Washington. Obama sat down for breakfast with a small group to discuss the way that broken culture in Washington affects the lives of everyday Americans. Later in the day Obama was to meet with voters at a roundtable at Lindy's diner in Keene.
"We've got a politics in Washington that isn't working for the people anymore, and we're going to have to build a movement to overcome the status quo," Senator Obama said.
In Manchester earlier this summer, Obama unveiled what would be the most sweeping ethics reform package in history and pledged to sign it on his first day as President.
"Americans of every background and belief are hungry for a new kind of politics--a people's politics that reconnects them with their government; one that offers not just a vote at the ballot box, but a voice in Washington and an assurance that the leaders we send there will hear it," Senator Obama said in that speech. "The people I've met across this country don't just want reform for reform's sake, they want reform that will help pay their doctor's bills, or ensure that their tax dollars are spent wisely, or put us on the path to energy independence. They want real reform and they're tired of the lobbyists standing in the way."
Obama has championed ethics reform for his entire career, passing the first major ethics reform bill in decades as a member of the Illinois Senate and serving as the Democrats' point person on ethics in the U.S. Senate. This month the Senate passed an ethics package based largely on legislation introduced by Obama and Senator Russ Feingold requiring disclosure of "bundling" activity, restrictions on the use of corporate jets, and a ban on gifts from lobbyists.
In addition to the Hanover and Keene roundtables, Obama was to hold a rally in Keene and town hall on changing Washington in Nashua.
  