
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate James M. Andrew, of Georgia, to be Administrator, Rural Utilities Service at the Department of Agriculture. Mr. Andrew currently serves as a consultant for BAS, Inc., in Waynesboro, Georgia. From 1978 until 1999, he owned and operated the company, which designs and services agricultural irrigation systems. Earlier in his career, he was a Regional Marketing Manager for the Federal Pacific Electric Co. Mr. Andrew received his bachelor's degree from the University of Alabama.
The President intends to nominate David B. Dunn, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Togolese Republic. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Dunn currently serves as the U.S. Consul General in Johannesburg, South Africa. Prior to that assignment, he served as Ambassador to the Republic of Zambia. Earlier in his career, Mr. Dunn was Director of the Office of East African Affairs at the Department of State. He received his bachelor's degree from Occidental College, his first master's degree from American University, and his second master's degree from the National War College.
The President intends to nominate Dale W. Meyerrose, of Indiana, to be Chief Information Officer at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Major General Meyerrose is Director of Command Control Systems and Chief Information Officer for Headquarters North American Aerospace Defense Command. He also assumes the positions of Director of Architectures and Integration as well as Chief Information Officer for Headquarters United States Northern Command. General Meyerrose first entered the United States Air Force in 1975 after receiving his bachelor's degree from the United States Air Force Academy. He has served in a number of information related positions at Air Force Bases across the United States and overseas, including Director of Communications for Operation Southern Watch in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. General Meyerrose graduated from the National War College and received his master's degree from the University of Utah.
  