
    This morning, NPR's Morning Edition highlighted how President Biden's Inflation Reduction Act is driving investments and opportunities to communities across the country, and creating good-paying jobs with good benefits that Americans can raise a family on.
The piece features West Virginia-based solar energy company Solar Holler, with crew lead Aaron Milner explaining, "Since I've come onto this company—with the pay rate and everything, and the opportunities—I have health care for the first time in like six years. I really plan to make a career of being in this industry." Founder and CEO Dan Conant also told NPR, "For the first time in my lifetime, the federal government is really promoting American manufacturing."
This comes as Republican Members of Congress are actively try to repeal the clean energy provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act – even when that would hurt their own constituents and the economic development happening right now in their communities.
President Biden and Vice President Harris will continue to protect these critical provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act and ensure that economic opportunity is reaching all communities—red, blue, and everywhere in between.
Read full transcript below or listen here:
[H.J. Mai, 8/18/23]
LEILA FADEL: When Congress passed President Biden's signature climate bill, no Republicans voted for the inflation reduction act. Now, a year later, the bill has spurred billions of dollars in investments across the country and that investment has primarily gone to red and purple states, turning them into leaders in the manufacturing of green technologies. NPR's H.J. Mai reports.
H.J. MAI: The small West Virginia town of Kearneysville is about a 90 minute drive west of Washington, DC. Workers are taking advantage of the cooler temperatures on this summer morning to install rooftop solar on a home. One of them is Aaron Milner. He works as a crew lead for West Virginia-based Solar Holler. Milner joined the company nearly a year ago, shortly after President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act into law in August 2022.
AARON MILNER: Since I've come out of this company I've like, with the pay rate and everything, and the opportunities, I like -- I have health care for the first time in like six years. I really plan to make a career of being in this industry
MAI: And Milner is not alone. The IRA, which includes nearly $370 billion in climate provisions is set to provide new economic opportunities in many parts of the country including West Virginia. Dan Conant is the founder and CEO of Solar Holler, and he says this type of legislation is critical for America's future.
DANE CONANT: For the first time in my lifetime, the federal government is really promoting American manufacturing.
MAI: West Virginia's economic fortune has been tied to the rise and fall of coal. But the state is slowly attracting new industries. A new battery production facility broke ground there in May. It will employ at least 750 people once fully operational. And West Virginia is just one red state that is seeing new investments and jobs because of Biden's climate bill. Jack Conness of policy firm Energy Innovation, says the data shows as much. Companies have announced investments across the country of almost $280 billion over the past year.
CONNESS: 9 of the 10 top states to be the biggest beneficiary of jobs in their states are either red or purple states.
MAI: Another example is Kentucky, where Toyota and others will invest billions in electric vehicles. But congressional Republicans, such as Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, unanimously opposed the bill,
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL: The only thing their inflation reduction plan will reduce is American jobs
MAI: Despite the investments across many red states, some Republicans—such as Alabama Congressman Gary Palmer—are still trying to roll back parts of the law, which they say hurt American families by raising energy costs.
REP. GARY PALMER: The misnamed Inflation Reduction Act contributed to these problems by establishing the so-called Greenhouse Reduction Fund, which is nothing more than a $27 billion slush fund for green advocacy groups.
MAI: However, other Republicans have come around, and are now taking credit for the investments flowing into some of their districts. Many Republican states are actually leading producers of renewable energy, assisted by a geography of open land and a lot of sunshine or wind. While other GOP strongholds have a manufacturing tradition, with an existing infrastructure and a skilled labor force, making retooling a production facility much more feasible, says Conness
CONNESS: Places like Michigan and Ohio, there is that already prebuilt infrastructure. But even the southeast areas of Georgia, South Carolina, and Tennessee, etcetera, there's strategic locations there.
MAI: For people like Milner, investment in green technologies could help ensure the future of communities, which in the past depended largely on fossil fuel jobs.
MILLNER: It's so frustrating to hear these people, you know, poo poo like solar and renewable energies and, I just don't see the logic of it, because it's just one more feather in our hat to produce and make America more viable for companies come to, and just for Americans to thrive.
MAI: This week, the President and Vice President hailed such efforts as a success during events celebrating the one-year anniversary of the Act. That administrative push, coupled with efforts in states like West Virginia, could mean that investments in clean energy jobs and innovation will continue.
  