
    I am very pleased today to sign H.R. 2178, the "Hazardous Materials Transportation Authorization Act of 1994." This accomplishes two important objectives of my Administration— reducing outmoded and unnecessary Government regulation and enhancing public safety on our Nation's roads.
This is the second piece of important legislation that I have approved this summer to reduce unnecessary government regulation of the trucking industry, thereby helping to keep our economy strong and competitive. Title VI of the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-305) removed the heavy burden of inconsistent State regulation of the trucking industry, which costs consumers up to $8 billion a year in added freight transportation costs for virtually everything we buy. Title II of the Act that I am signing today provides additional regulatory reforms at the Federal level.
Title II will greatly reduce the massive Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) paperwork burdens faced by the trucking industry, while preserving existing Federal safety regulations. The Act also continues the process of streamlining the ICC's programs, and requires a study of how to do even more to reduce further the scope of regulatory requirements that have outlived their usefulness. I expect the Secretary of Transportation and the Chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission to be both deliberate and thorough in identifying the remaining reforms that are necessary.
In addition to streamlining regulatory requirements, this Act authorizes a strong Federal program to regulate hazardous materials transportation. It authorizes additional appropriations for the training of emergency response personnel; makes Indian tribes eligible for emergency response planning grants; and ensures that the National Intelligent Vehicle Highway System Program addresses the use of its technologies to promote hazardous materials safety. These measures will promote the continued safe transportation of hazardous materials and aid in our efforts to increase the safe operation of all commercial motor vehicles.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, August 26, 1994.
  