
    "Our nation's veterans deserve better than what they've received in the Obama economy. The President's policies have left over 20% of young returning veterans unemployed, a backlog of disability claims, and looming defense cuts that could drive even more people to the unemployment lines. Veterans deserve a change. As president, Mitt Romney will restore our military's strength and ensure veterans are never left behind." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Young Returning Veterans Are In Need Of Change – They're Facing Stagnant Unemployment At Home When They Return From Serving Abroad:
In July, Gulf War Era II Veterans Had An Unemployment Rate Of 8.9%. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 8/28/12)


    Over 20% Of Young Gulf War Era II Veterans Were Unemployed In July. ("The Employment Situation Of Veterans," Syracuse University, 8/28/12)
  

The United States Has 752,000 Unemployed Veterans. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 8/28/12)
Under President Obama's Watch, Backlogged Disability Claims Older Than Four Months Have "More Than Quadrupled":
Veterans' Disability Claims That Have Been Pending For More Than 125 Days Have "More Than Quadrupled" Under President Obama's Watch. "Veterans can be eligible for help with conditions caused or aggravated by their military service. The government, however, has long struggled to keep up with the claims, and the backlog has grown worse during the president's term in office as soldiers return from Iraq and Afghanistan. In May 2009, about 135,000 claims for disability benefits had been pending for more than 125 days, representing about one-third of all pending claims. Today, that number has more than quadrupled, to 558,000 claims - about two-thirds of all those pending." (Kevin Freking, "Fact Check: Disability Claims Still Growing At VA," The Associated Press, 7/24/12)


    The Number Of Backlogged Disability Claims Is Currently 558,000 – Approximately Two-Thirds Of All Pending Claims. "In May 2009, about 135,000 claims for disability benefits had been pending for more than 125 days, representing about one-third of all pending claims. Today, that number has more than quadrupled, to 558,000 claims - about two-thirds of all those pending." (Kevin Freking, "Fact Check: Disability Claims Still Growing At VA," The Associated Press, 7/24/12)
  

"The Department's Independent Inspector General Has Said The VA Made The Problem Worse By Not Assigning Enough Staff To Process Appeals And Not Following Its Own Guidelines In Processing Older Claims." (Kevin Freking, "Fact Check: Disability Claims Still Growing At VA," The Associated Press, 7/24/12)
President Obama's Latest Budget Proposed "Substantial Increases In Health Care Premiums" For Military Retirees:
President Obama's FY2013 Budget Cuts Military Health Care Funding By $12.9 Billion Over The Next Five Years. "In the next fiscal year, the military has outlined a $1.8 billion cut as part of a projected $48.7 billion health care budget covering 9.6 million people. The cuts would total $12.9 billion over five years. To offset the loss, retirees would pay higher enrollment fees based on how much they earn through their military pensions. Retirees and active-duty family members would pay more for pharmacy copayments, too." (Barrie Barber, "Military Retirees Could See Increase In Health Insurance Costs," Dayton Daily News, 3/30/12)
"The Pentagon Is Proposing Substantial Increases In Health Care Premiums For Working-Age Military Retirees." "Benefits for military retirees are also targeted. The Pentagon is proposing substantial increases in health care premiums for working-age military retirees. For some retirees, the premiums for TRICARE, the military health-care program, would nearly quadruple from $520 per year to $2,480 in 2017." (Tom Vanden Brook, "Pentagon Budget Calls For Cuts To Jets, Benefits," USA Today, 2/13/12)
And The Number Of Unemployed Veterans Will Only Increase If President Obama Fails To Stop His "Devastating" Defense Cuts:
President Obama's Latest Budget Proposed Nearly Half A Trillion Dollars In Defense Cuts Over The Next Ten Years. "An array of military programs, from fighter jets to retiree benefits, would be nicked to squeeze savings in the Pentagon's $525 billion budget for 2013, according to officials and documents released Monday. The proposed 2013 budget represents the Pentagon's first installment in a plan to reduce its projected spending by $487 billion over 10 years. Congress must approve the changes." (Tom Vanden Brook, "Pentagon Budget Calls For Cuts To Jets, Benefits," USA Today, 2/13/12)


    President Obama Signed Legislation That Could Lead To More Than $500 Billion In Defense Cuts In 2013. "Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has become the loudest and most effective opponent of the cuts. And congressional Republicans fiercely protective of the Pentagon have aggressively drawn attention to the need to stave off the more than $500 billion in cuts that begin next year." (Seung Min Kim, "Domestic Programs Gird For Sequester," Politico, 7/18/12)
  

Defense Secretary Leon Panetta Says Defense Cuts Will Result In The "Smallest Ground Force Since 1940, The Smallest Number Of Ships Since 1915 And The Smallest Air Force In Its History." "Defense Secretary Leon Panetta spelled out a doomsday scenario Monday that he said could occur if Congress fails to take action to avoid a $1 trillion cut in defense spending over the next decade. Panetta, responding to a letter from Republican Senators John McCain and Lindsay Graham, said cuts of nearly $100 billion a year would leave the United States with its smallest ground force since 1940, the smallest number of ships since 1915 and the smallest air force in its history." (David Alexander, "Panetta Spells Out Budget Cut Doomsday Fears," Reuters, 11/14/11)


    "'The Impacts Of These Cuts Would Be Devastating For The Department,' Panetta Wrote Monday In His Letter, Which Was Released By The Senators." (David Alexander, "Panetta Spells Out Budget Cut Doomsday Fears," Reuters, 11/14/11)
  

  