
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 25
The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, high winds, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on June 28 and continuing through July 27.
August 26
The President named Audrey Tayse Haynes as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office for Women's Initiatives and Outreach.
August 27
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles N. Jeffress as Assistant Secretary for Occupational Safety and Health at the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Scott E. Thomas as a Commissioner on the Federal Election Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Deputy Secretary of Defense John J. Hamre as a member of the Steering Committee of the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection.
August 28
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas J. Dodd to be Ambassador to Costa Rica.
August 29
The President announced his intention to nominate Eva M. Plaza to be Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin G. Chavers to be Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gail W. Laster to be General Counsel for the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Michael Walker to be the Under Secretary of the Army.
The President announced his intention to nominate R. Roger Majak to serve as Assistant Secretary for Export Administration at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia W. Lattimore to serve as Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management at the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Al Borrego to serve as Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training at the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Katherine Milner Anderson to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The President announced his intention to nominate Victor Marrero to be U.S. Representative to the Organization of American States at the State Department, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to nominate William Clyburn, Jr., to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate R. Nicholas Burns to be Ambassador to Greece.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas S. Foley to be Ambassador to Japan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph A. Presel to be Ambassador to Uzbekistan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Robert Parris to be Ambassador to Turkey.
The President announced his intention to nominate Brenda Brown Schoonover to be Ambassador to Togo.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lange Schermerhorn to be Ambassador to Djibouti.
The President announced his intention to nominate Johnny Young to be Ambassador to Bahrain.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alexander R. Vershbow to be U.S. Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
The President announced his intention to nominate Duncan T. Moore to be the Associate Director for Technology in the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
  