
    On the first night of the Democratic National Convention, Joe Biden and his radical base continued their crusade of fear-mongering the American people in an attempt to steal the election. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, backed by self-proclaimed socialists and out-of-touch career politicians, comprise the most radical ticket in American history. While they attempt to sow chaos and confusion into the election through universal mail-in voting, President Trump is out front, interacting with the American people and ensuring our right to a free and fair election.
Trump 2020 Deputy Campaign Manager Justin Clark discussed all this and more on tonight's 'The Right View,' hosted by Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Lara Trump, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee Kimberly Guilfoyle, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications Mercedes Schlapp, and Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Katrina Pierson.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"While the Democrats launch baseless accusations against President Trump, they are simultaneously undermining our election integrity through their embrace of universal vote-by-mail," said Justin Clark, Trump 2020 Deputy Campaign Manager. "Don't believe the Democrats' lies: while they seek to unravel measures intended to protect voters, President Trump is standing up for the free and fair elections that are integral to American democracy."
"The Democratic National Convention has exposed what the Left truly thinks of America: that we are an irredeemably awful country that must be handed over to the socialist mob to be saved," said Lara Trump, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "In contrast, President Trump recognizes that America is the greatest country in the world, and knows that we need to maintain our constitutional ideals if we are going to continue to excel."
"The future of our great nation rests in the outcome of this election, and we need to come out in full force on Election Day to deliver four more years to President Donald J. Trump," said Kimberly Guilfoyle, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee. "Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, two of the most spineless, career politicians ever, are campaigning on the most radical platform in American history and it is critical threat to our country."
"Joe Biden and the Democrat Party's lackluster attempt to fool voters with a never ending, over-produced infomercial is a waste of time and effort. The American people see right through Joe Biden and Kamala Harris' promise to radically transform our country into a socialist nation," said Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications.  "President Trump stands for American strength and security, and will always fight for the liberties and freedoms granted to us through our Constitution."
"The first night of the Democratic Convention was an exact depiction of what Joe Biden's campaign has been like since the very beginning: an out-of-touch, Hollywood-produced, far-left snoozefest," said Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "While Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are working to advance their radical socialist agenda, President Trump will continue championing policies that unleash opportunity for all Americans."
  