
    The DeSantis Family Takes Iowa, Visiting Iowans in 14 Counties in Three Days
IOWA — With his family in tow, Ron DeSantis made his way through Iowa this weekend as he continued his 'Full Grassley' tour - one county at a time – playing catch, serving ice cream, stopping by county fairs and visiting cafes. Covering 14 Iowa counties over three days, Ron DeSantis, Casey DeSantis and their three children, Madison, Mason, and Mamie DeSantis, blitzed the Hawkeye State. They met with Iowans in Winneshiek, Allamakee, Clayton, Chickasaw, Bremer, Fayette, Black Hawk, Benton, Tama, Poweshiek, Dallas, Polk, Iowa, and Linn counties.
Here are some key stats on DeSantis' hustle in the Hawkeye State and a detailed timeline of his weekend can be found below.
Total number of visits since announcing his candidacy: 5Total visits to Iowa within the last month alone: 3Total counties visited to date: 30Total number of endorsements from state legislators: 40
On Friday, the DeSantis family participated in Never Back Down's bus tour and visited Winneshiek, Allamakee, Clayton, Chickasaw, and Bremer counties. Ron and Casey DeSantis ended the day in Arlington, Iowa at the Northeast Iowa Prime Fundraiser.
On Saturday, the DeSantis family continued on the bus tour, visiting Black Hawk, Benton, Tama, and Poweshiek counties. In Benton County, they stopped by a supporter's house to say hello.
In Black Hawk County, Governor DeSantis said: "[As President I will] make sure that we're standing up for our farmers, particularly our family farmers, which is really the lifeblood of communities like Iowa. We're going to get this government off their back."
Governor DeSantis and 5-year-old Mason stopped at a field in Clayton County to play catch before attending Iowa Attorney General Brenna Bird's Big Barn Bash in Adel, Iowa. Watch a clip here.
Ron and Casey DeSantis ended the night by making a surprise appearance at Iowa State Representative Taylor Collins' and Savannah Collins' wedding in Des Moines. Read more from the New York Times on the backstory surrounding DeSantis' decision to attend the wedding and how it exemplifies the work is putting in to win the state.
Today, Governor and First Lady DeSantis attended a church service at Soteria Des Moines with Bob and Darla Vander Plaats.
The DeSantis family concluded the bus tour by visiting Iowa County and ended the day at Congresswoman Ashley Hinson's BBQ Bash at the Hawkeye Downs Speedway in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
  