
    Memorandum for the Commissioner of the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico
Subject: Designation of Officers of the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico to Act as the Commissioner of the United States Section
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered that:
Section 1. Order of Succession. Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this memorandum, the following officials of the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of the Commissioner of the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico (Commissioner), during any period in which the Commissioner has died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Commissioner, until such time as the Commissioner is able to perform the functions and duties of that office:
(a) United States Section Principal Engineer—Operations Department; and
(b) United States Section Principal Engineer—Engineering Department.
Sec. 2. Exceptions.
(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Commissioner pursuant to this memorandum.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this memorandum in designating an acting Commissioner.
Sec. 3. This memorandum is intended to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 4. You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
BARACK OBAMA
  