
    Bouley praises Booker's experience and leadership, highlights his success as mayor of New Jersey's largest city
Manchester, NH — The mayor of New Hampshire's capital city, and New Hampshire's longest-serving current mayor, has endorsed Cory Booker for President following his winning debate performance last night. In announcing his support, Concord Mayor Jim Bouley cited Booker's track record as a proven fighter who has tackled the biggest challenges as mayor of Newark and his vision of unifying Americans as our next President. Bouley joins a group of more than 50 elected leaders and activists in New Hampshire who are backing Booker, a number far greater than any other 2020 candidate.
"As mayor of New Hampshire's capital city, I'm proud to endorse Cory Booker for president. Cory stands out in the field for his executive experience managing his state's largest city, and the results — a city that's growing for the first time in 60 years — speak volumes about his success tackling the biggest challenges," said Concord Mayor Jim Bouley.
"I have met with Cory, spoken with him about his vision for the country and I wholeheartedly agree that we need to unite Americans so we can build a more fair and just nation for everyone. I am proud to stand with my fellow mayor in this race."
"We are thrilled to have Mayor Bouley join our rapidly-growing team in New Hampshire. Cory's early commitment to our state — where he has built one of the strongest teams on the ground — is helping us spread Cory's message and earn support across the Granite State," said Erin Turmelle, Cory for New Hampshire state director. "It's clearer than ever that Cory's message of uniting our country in order to build a more fair and just nation for everyone is resonating in New Hampshire."
Bouley walked Main Street in Concord and visited small businesses downtown with Booker in February during his first trip to New Hampshire as a candidate. Bouley joins the following New Hampshire leaders in endorsing Booker for president:

Sen. Jon Morgan (Brentwood)
Sen. David Watters (Dover)
Rep. Anita Burroughs (Bartlett)
Rep. Peter Leishman (Peterborough)
Rep. Linn Opderbecke (Dover)
Rep. Lee Walker Oxenham (Plainfield)
Rep. Katherine Rogers (Concord)
Rep. Jeffrey Salloway (Lee)
Rep. Bruce Tatro (Swanzey)
Former Rep. John Knowles
Nashua activist JoAnne St. John
Manchester activist Pat Kalik
40 additional New Hampshire activists and community leaders

  