
    Pool Reports by Tarini Parti, The Wall Street Journal 
Note: The pool reports for the Vice President's trip to Singapore and Vietnam are all consecutively numbered by this reporter from 1 through 46 spanning the period of August 20 through August 27.



Sent:
Reports:




August 23, 2021 13:26 SGT

VP Travel Pool #7 Embargoed summary/factsheet on deliverables 
Hi -- We had an embargoed background briefing ahead of the VP's first day of events in Singapore Monday. The info in this EMBARGOED summary and factsheet the VP's office sent after includes what was discussed in the briefing.
See below for the embargoed summary. A more detailed factsheet is attached -- in case it doesn't go through for you in the pool report, reach out to the VP's office for it. The embargo summary and factsheet lifts after the VP's bilat -- I will send a pool report tomorrow once it wraps. 
Here's the summary:
The following information AND the attached fact sheet are embargoed until the conclusion of the Vice President's meetings with Prime Minister Lee on Monday:
During the Vice President's meeting tomorrow with Singaporean officials, we anticipate the following topics of conversation and deliverables. See the embargoed fact sheet attached for additional information.

On the economy, the Vice President will make clear that we want to deepen our economic partnership with Singapore. The leaders will review a number of areas of cooperation including, digital economy, infrastructure, clean energy, and supply chain resiliency. We expect the following deliverables:

The Vice President and Prime Minister Lee will launch the U.S.-Singapore Dialogue on Supply Chains, a high level dialogue on enhancing cooperative efforts to promote greater supply chain resilience. 
She will also launch the U.S.-Singapore Partnership for Growth and Innovation, a partnership between the U.S. Department of Commerce and Singapore's Ministry of Trade and Industry. This will serve as a framework for how our two countries will work together to promote growth and innovation.


They'll also discuss taking action to address climate change, which is related to our economic partnership. We anticipate several deliverables:

The Vice President will announce the launch of the U.S.-Singapore Climate Partnership, which will focus on increasing the regional ambition on sustainable financing mechanisms, improving sustainability of ports and shipping, and mobilizing private capital and R&D efforts for climate mitigation and adaptation.
She will also announce an expansion in our collaboration on Smart Cities and a new climate element to the U.S.-Singapore Third Country Training Program.


Our close security partnership will be a topic in the Vice President's meeting with the Prime Minister, and they will affirm the critical importance of this relationship and the U.S. enduring commitment to a robust presence in the region. This topic will be reinforced when she visits the Changi Naval Base in the afternoon.

We expect to make progress on deliverables about recommencing rotational deployments.


On global health, they will discuss the current state of the COVID-19 pandemic, and how we can work together to save lives now and prevent the next pandemic, including by strengthening global health security.

The U.S. and Singapore will agree to work together to increase preparedness by increasing the capacity of Southeast Asian countries to identify new COVID variants, and provide early warnings.
We will also commit to deepen our research on treatments.


The leaders will also likely discuss cybersecurity.

We will announce that the United States and Singapore finalized three agreements that will expand cybersecurity cooperation with respect to the financial sector, military-to-military engagement, and regional capacity-building.


The leaders will also discuss important regional issues.

The Vice President will make clear that while we welcome stiff competition with Beijing, we do not want that competition to veer into conflict.
They will also discuss Burma and our collective efforts to promote a swift return to democracy.
They will discuss the importance ASEAN and its essential role in the Indo-Pacific's regional architecture. She will commit to deepening our strategic partnership with ASEAN.
Our two countries will agree to expand bilateral cooperation on Space. As the Chair of the National Space Council, the Vice President will raise the importance of creating a safe and transparent environment that facilitates space exploration, science, and commercial activities.






August 23, 202110:52 SGT

VP Travel Pool #8 Istana -- arrival, orchid ceremony 
Motorcade departed the hotel for The Istana, the official residence of the president of Singapore, at 10:17am. We arrived at 10:24 am.
She was greeted by Lee Hsien Loong, Prime Minister of the Republic of Singapore and Major Sean Paul Magness, Singapore Commander of Honor Guard.
Harris did the hand to the chest instead of shaking hands again, as she did at the airport yesterday. It was hard to hear their exchange but the PM told Harris: "Thanks for coming across the world."
VP and PM then moved to dais and for the playing of the U.S. National Anthem followed by the Singapore National Anthem. PM was escorted by PM and the commander of the Honor Guard as they walked and reviewed Singapore troops.
(Will tweet some photos @tparti for those interested)
VP and PM then went inside the Istana at 10:33 am.
VP sat down and signed the PM's guest book in the East Drawing Room where she wrote a note that looked a few sentences long.
They then heading inside another room for the orchid ceremony. VP has a species of an orchid named after her.
She placed the placard with her name into the soil of the potted orchid, which was pinkish purple. "Kind of reminds me of the lotus flower," she said.
Pool shouted what she thought of the flower. She said "oh it's beautiful and I'm honored." She was also presented with a birth certificate for the flower. "Oh there's a birth certificate," she said with a laugh.
"Well I'm pleased to welcome this orchid into the world," she said.
Per VP's office, participants for the ceremony:

Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong
Mr. Kenneth Er (Chief Executive Officer, Singapore National Parks Board)
Ms. Whang Lay Kheng, Curator of the National Orchid Garden
The Honorable Philip Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
His Excellency Dr. Vivian Balakrishnan, Minister for Foreign Affairs

She then moved to the West Drawing Room at 10:38 for a "courtesy call" with Singapore President Halimah Yacob. Before that, she signed her guest book as well.
They took some photos before sitting down to talk. Pool was ushered out around 10:40 am.
Participants below, per VP's office:
US Participants1. Vice President Harris2. Mr. Rafik Mansour, Chargé d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy Singapore3. The Honorable Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President4. The Honorable Philip Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President5. The Honorable Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council6. Mr. Kin Moy, Senior Bureau Official for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Department of State7. Ms. Nancy Leou, Special Advisor to the Vice President for East Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific8. The Honorable Mike Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President9. Mr. Daniel Bischof, Acting Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy Singapore
Singapore Delegation:1. Her Excellency Halimah Yacob, President of the Republic of Singapore2. His Excellency Dr. Vivian Balakrishnan, Minister for Foreign Affairs3. His Excellency Ashok Kumar Mirpuri, Ambassador of the Republic of Singapore to the United States4. Mr. Chee Wee Kiong, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs5. Mr. Benny Lee, Principal Private Secretary to the President6. Ms. Bey Mui Leng, Press Secretary to the President7. Ms. Jolene Tan, Director-General of the Americas, Ministry of Foreign Affairs8. Mr. Chia Wei Wen, Acting Chief of Protocol9. Ms. Mridhula Dharshini Pillay, Assistant Director, Ministry of Foreign Affairs


August 23, 202112:37

VP Travel Pool #9 Bilats ongoing/nat sec briefing update 
An expanded bilat meeting started at 12:10 pm. VP and PM posed for a photo op outside the room before going in. They were standing a few feet apart and at one point they fist pumped and laughed.
Pool was there for the photo op inside and outside the room. We weren't there for any remarks. VP did not respond to shouted questions about Afghanistan. We were escorted out at 12:12 pm.
Before the expanded bilat, Harris had a restricted bilat with the PM that started at 11:13 am and her courtesy call with the President lasted from 10:40 to 11:00 am. Pool was holding during both those meetings.
Once the expanded bilat is over, the embargo on the info on deliverables I sent out in a pool note yesterday will be lifted. I'll send a pool note when bilats end and embargo lifts. 
Also, WH just passed this along on background from a WH official: This morning, the Vice President was briefed by her national security team. She was briefed on Afghanistan among other issues.
Participants for the restricted bilat, per VP's office:
US Delegation:

Vice President Harris
The Honorable Philip Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President

 Singapore Delegation:

His Excellency Lee Hsien Loong, Prime Minister of the Republic of Singapore
His Excellency Dr. Vivian Balakrishnan, Minister for Foreign Affairs

 Here the participants for the expanded bilat, per VP's office:
US Participants1. Vice President Harris2. Mr. Rafik Mansour, Chargé d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy Singapore3. The Honorable Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President4. The Honorable Philip Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President5. The Honorable Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council6. Mr. Kin Moy, Senior Bureau Official for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Department of State7. Ms. Nancy Leou, Special Advisor to the Vice President for East Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific8. The Honorable Mike Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President9. The Honorable Symone Sanders, Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor & Chief Spokesperson to the Vice President10. Mr. Daniel Bischof, Acting Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy Singapore
Singapore Delegation:1. His Excellency Lee Hsien Loong, Prime Minister of the Republic of Singapore2. His Excellency Teo Chee Hean, Senior Minister and Coordinating Minister for National Security3. His Excellency Dr. Ng Eng Hen, Minister of Defense4. His Excellency Dr. Vivian Balakrishnan, Minister for Foreign Affairs5. His Excellency Lawrence Wong, Minister for Finance6. His Excellency Ashok Kumar Mirpuri, Ambassador of the Republic of Singapore to the United States7. Mr. Chee Wee Kiong, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs8. Mr. Jeffrey Siow, Principal Private Secretary to the Prime Minister9. Ms. Chang Li Lin, Press Secretary to the Prime Minister


August 23, 202113:22 SGT

VP Travel Pool #10 Bilats have ended 
The expanded bilat ended at 12:55 pm. We were informed at 1:17 pm.
Embargo is now lifted on the deliverables. (In case you missed my pool note yesterday, re-sending the summary below)
We are now holding for the joint presser, which will be livestreamed, so I won't be sending a readout from it.
Summary of deliverables, per VP's office:
During the Vice President's meeting tomorrow with Singaporean officials, we anticipate the following topics of conversation and deliverables. See the embargoed fact sheet attached for additional information.

On the economy, the Vice President will make clear that we want to deepen our economic partnership with Singapore. The leaders will review a number of areas of cooperation including, digital economy, infrastructure, clean energy, and supply chain resiliency. We expect the following deliverables:

The Vice President and Prime Minister Lee will launch the U.S.-Singapore Dialogue on Supply Chains, a high level dialogue on enhancing cooperative efforts to promote greater supply chain resilience. 
She will also launch the U.S.-Singapore Partnership for Growth and Innovation, a partnership between the U.S. Department of Commerce and Singapore's Ministry of Trade and Industry. This will serve as a framework for how our two countries will work together to promote growth and innovation.


They'll also discuss taking action to address climate change, which is related to our economic partnership. We anticipate several deliverables:

The Vice President will announce the launch of the U.S.-Singapore Climate Partnership, which will focus on increasing the regional ambition on sustainable financing mechanisms, improving sustainability of ports and shipping, and mobilizing private capital and R&D efforts for climate mitigation and adaptation.
She will also announce an expansion in our collaboration on Smart Cities and a new climate element to the U.S.-Singapore Third Country Training Program.


Our close security partnership will be a topic in the Vice President's meeting with the Prime Minister, and they will affirm the critical importance of this relationship and the U.S. enduring commitment to a robust presence in the region. This topic will be reinforced when she visits the Changi Naval Base in the afternoon.

We expect to make progress on deliverables about recommencing rotational deployments.


On global health, they will discuss the current state of the COVID-19 pandemic, and how we can work together to save lives now and prevent the next pandemic, including by strengthening global health security.

The U.S. and Singapore will agree to work together to increase preparedness by increasing the capacity of Southeast Asian countries to identify new COVID variants, and provide early warnings.
We will also commit to deepen our research on treatments.


The leaders will also likely discuss cybersecurity.

We will announce that the United States and Singapore finalized three agreements that will expand cybersecurity cooperation with respect to the financial sector, military-to-military engagement, and regional capacity-building.


The leaders will also discuss important regional issues.

The Vice President will make clear that while we welcome stiff competition with Beijing, we do not want that competition to veer into conflict.
They will also discuss Burma and our collective efforts to promote a swift return to democracy.
They will discuss the importance ASEAN and its essential role in the Indo-Pacific's regional architecture. She will commit to deepening our strategic partnership with ASEAN.
Our two countries will agree to expand bilateral cooperation on Space. As the Chair of the National Space Council, the Vice President will raise the importance of creating a safe and transparent environment that facilitates space exploration, science, and commercial activities.






August 23, 202114:55 SGT

VP Travel Pool #11 Presser/back to hotel 
The VP's joint press conference with PM Lee started at 1:37 pm in the State Room of the Istana.
Only cameras, a producer and TV audio were the only press allowed into the room because of covid restrictions. Pool participated via zoom from a room next to where the presser was held.
Harris was asked about Afghanistan a few different ways. PM Lee got asked about whether US is still a trustworthy partner and about lifting travel restrictions.
The presser wrapped at 2:13 pm. We had to run to catch the motorcade after.
Motorcade now rolling at 2:18 pm to the hotel, where we will hold/eat lunch in our rooms before heading to the Changi Naval Base.


August 23, 202118:37 SGT

VP Travel Pool #12a naval base 
We left the hotel at 4:21 pm and arrived at Changi naval base at 4:56 pm.
VP Harris walked into the lobby area at 4:58 pm.
Per VP's office, she was greeted by:

Mr. Zaqy Mohamad (Senior Minister of State for Defence)
Rear Admiral Aaron Beng (Chief of Navy, Republic of Singapore Navy)
Mr. Teo Eng Dih (Deputy Secretary for Policy, Singapore)

Harris received a briefing at the base right after. Pool held for a few minutes before being escorted in. She was briefed in a hallway area that had floor to ceiling glass windows with the view of the base and ships. The briefers had a screen showing photos and info as they presented.
Harris listened while looking out to the base and the screen. She was shown an autonomous ship and she asked a couple of questions about it, including one about piracy and terrorism and another about fuel requirements. She also asked about the timeline of their naval operations.
Once the briefing ended, VP did photos with the briefers. Pool again shouted Afghanistan questions. She didn't answer and pool was escorted back to the press van.
Briefing participants:
Participants:- VPOTUS- Mr. Zaqy Mohamad (Senior Minister of State for Defence)- Rear Admiral Aaron Beng (Chief of Navy, Republic of Singapore Navy)- Mr. Teo Eng Dih (Deputy Secretary for Policy, Singapore)- Rear Admiral Saw Shi Tat (Fleet Commander, Republic of Singapore Navy)- Ms. Jolene Tan Teng Teng (Director General Americas Directorate)- Mr. Ashok Kumar Mirpuri (Singapore Ambassador to the US)- Colonel Sebastian Chai (Ministry of Defence Policy Director)- Chargé d'Affaires Rafik Mansour (U.S. Embassy Singapore)- Captain Ray Owens (Defense Attaché, US Embassy Singapore)
At 5:34 pm, motorcade made the 5-minute drive to USS Tulsa, a littoral combat ship currently visiting Singapore. Pool then climbed quite a few steps to get on the ship and then a limited pool climbed some more steps to the bridge of the ship, which for those who don't know is the navigation center of the ship.
Harris entered the bridge at 5:51 pm and received a tour. She asked some questions about the navigation and at one point looked far out of the front of the ship as the briefer, LT Katie Canant, pointed at something (pool couldn't hear).
"This is impressive," she said. 


August 23, 202119:07 SGT

VP Travel Pool #12b Naval base remarks 
At 6:22 pm, Harris began delivering remarks in front of U.S. sailors aboard the ship. Harris spoke with the backdrop of the American flag on the hangar bay of the ship. Her remarks covered Afghanistan and the U.S. objective in the Indo-Pacific. As you will see, she stressed "free and open" several times."
Quotes below (with Afghanistan in bold):
"It's good to see you guys," Harris said, opening remarks by talking about how proud she was to talk about the sailors aboard USS Tulsa with the PM earlier today.
"It's about what you all do here, what you do every day, the sacrifices that you have made, that your family makes for you to serve that allow us then me as your vice president the president, we as a country to engage in these relationships for the benefit not only the United States but frankly the world, so I'm here first of all, to say thank you."
"It's great to be with you in person. So I can again say thank you for your service and for your courage, and for your commitment and for representing the best ideals of our great country.
Afghanistan:
"I know too that like all of us you're thinking right now, as we all have been every day, recently, in particular, about the men and women who have served in Afghanistan, including some who are here today, and I've read about your service, and those who are serving there right now. I just want to say that we are all grateful to those men and women in uniform, and the embassy staff on the ground for bringing safety to Americans and to the Afghans who work side by side with us, and to other Afghans at risk. And they're doing this mission in an incredibly challenging and dangerous environment. And the president and I are thankful for their service. And as I know you all know, we send them our thoughts and our prayers and from afar, and close up, we thank you every day for the work that you do."
She then pivoted back to Indo-Pacific:
"At the same time. At the same time, other missions continue all around the world. So you all are here in Singapore, and Southeast Asia, and the Indo Pacific, with the mission of your own, a mission that is vital to the American people."
"And the reason we are here is important. The Indo Pacific is critical to the security and the prosperity of the United States. I do believe a big part of the history of the 21st century will be written about this very region where you now serve. And we want to be the ones who are helping to shape and dictate that history. You in your service are going to be the ones who helped shape that history."
"Our presence in the Indo Pacific has a long, long history, including them, of helping to guarantee peace and security, freedom of trade and commerce, freedom of navigation and to say that again, freedom of navigation and open waterways, and the rules based international order that has brought so much, safety and prosperity to so many."
"American workers, let's think about the folks at home, people we know members of our family. American working families and people rely on the waters that you all fail to provide for their families, American businesses rely on the ports that you dock in to get their markets to get their goods to market to buy the things they need."
"President Biden and I know that our country has deep and enduring strategic interests here in this region, which is why our security presence matters. And it is why our partnerships here matter. And it is why your mission matters."
It is in our vital interest to stand united with our allies and our partners in Southeast Asia, in defense of a free and open Indo Pacific--free and open.
"Free and open. This is the work you are doing... want you to know that each and every one of you. No matter your rank or title is advancing American interests, and protecting the American people. Our nation is stronger. And it is safer because of you. Because of your sacrifice. And because of your service."
Her remarks ended at 6:31 pm. The sailors aboard applauded. Motorcade now rolling at 6:39 back to RON. Will tweet some pics from the ship (@tparti).
Below is some info from the VP's office:
On background from a WH Official:
The Vice President is at the Changi Naval Base. This visit will demonstrate our close security partnership and our appreciation for Singaporean support of U.S. force posture in the region.

The U.S.-Singapore partnership is the bedrock of America's military presence in Southeast Asia and an anchor for security in the broader Indo-Pacific region. 
At its core, we have a shared commitment to upholding the rules-based order, and we will continue to work together on the front.
On site, she will engage with Singaporean defense officials and U.S. sailors, and will discuss the importance of our presence in the region. She will underscore how our presence in the Indo-Pacific has long guaranteed peace and security, and important principles like freedom of trade and commerce and freedom of navigation.
The ship she is touring and speaking on, the USS Tulsa, is a littoral combat ship, which is a fast, maneuverable ship that operates in coastal waters, and covers a range of missions in Southeast Asia. 

 Additional Background

Singapore is one of the United States' strongest defense partners in the region. This bilateral defense partnership is built on the 1990 memorandum of understanding, which allows U.S. military access to Singapore bases, airfields, and ports.
The U.S. and Singapore armed forces conduct bilateral exercises, and Singapore favors U.S. defense platforms, particularly for its air force. I'd also note that Singapore's decision to procure the F-35B is great news for the Singapore Armed Forces and will help advance more complex bilateral training.
Singapore hosts nearly 1,000 U.S. military, civilians, and dependents, and in non-pandemic times there are more than 200 U.S. port visits and 1,000 U.S. aircraft sorites annually.
Singapore has the second largest military presence in the United States of any foreign partner, with approximately 1,000 Singapore military personnel and dependents stationed across four permanent detachments in the continental United States (Luke AFB, Arizona (F-16); Marana, Arizona (Apache); Mountain Home, Idaho (F-15SG); and Ft. Sill, Oklahoma (HIMARS).
We are working to expand Singapore's presence with the establishment of an enduring Singapore fighter training presence in Guam.





  