
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and appoint five individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Hugh Douglas Barclay, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of El Salvador. Mr. Barclay currently serves as a Partner for the law firm of Hiscock & Barclay. Prior to this position he served as General Counsel and Secretary of KeyCorp. From 1965 to 1984, Mr. Barclay served in various positions for the New York State Senate, including Chairman of the Codes Committee, Chairman of the Select Task Force on Court Reorganization, and Chairman of the Senate Republican (Majority) Conference. In 1990, he was appointed as a Director of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Mr. Barclay earned his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his J.D. from Syracuse University.
The President intends to nominate Michael David Gallagher, of Washington, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information. Currently, Mr. Gallagher serves as Deputy Chief of Staff for the U.S. Department of Commerce. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for the National Telecommunications and Information Administration. Earlier in his career Mr. Gallagher served as Managing Director of Government Relations for AirTouch Communications, Inc. Prior to this position he served as Staff Vice President of State Public Policy for Verizon Wireless. Mr. Gallagher earned his bachelor's degree from the University of California, Berkeley and his J.D. from the University of California, Los Angeles.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust:
The President intends to appoint Lydia Irene Beebe, of California, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring May 4, 2007.
The President intends to appoint William Wilson, III, of California (Military Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring May 4, 2007.
The President intends to appoint Joseph Thomas Yew, Jr., of California (San Francisco Bay Area Representative), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring May 4, 2007.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Board of Advisors on Tribal Colleges and Universities:
The President intends to appoint Carl Michael Morgan, Jr., of Alaska.
The President intends to appoint Deborah Doris Wetsit, of Montana.
  