
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Scott C. Blader, of Wisconsin, to be United States Attorney forthe Western District of Wisconsin for the term of four years, vice JohnWilliam Vaudreuil, resigned.
Michael B. Brennan, of Wisconsin, to be United States Circuit Judgefor the Seventh Circuit, vice Terence T. Evans, deceased.
Richard Duke Buchan III, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Spain, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Andorra.
Donald C. Coggins, Jr., of South Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Joseph F. Anderson, Jr., retired.
Elizabeth Ann Copeland, of Texas, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years, vice James S. Halpern, retired.
Terry A. Doughty, of Louisiana, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, vice Robert G. James, retired.
Robert M. Duncan, Jr., of Kentucky, to be United States Attorneyfor the Eastern District of Kentucky for the term of four years, viceKerry B. Harvey, resigned.
Leonard Steven Grasz, of Nebraska, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, vice William J. Riley, retired.
Thomas J. Hushek, of Wisconsin, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Sudan.
Michael Joseph Juneau, of Louisiana, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, vice Richard Haik, Sr., retired.
John R. Lausch, of Illinois, to be United States Attorney forthe Northern District of Illinois for the term of four years, viceZachary Thomas Fardon, resigned.
J. Douglas Overbey, of Tennessee, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee for the term of four years, vice William C. Killian, resigned.
Charles E. Peeler, of Georgia, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice Michael J. Moore, resigned.
William J. Powell, of West Virginia, to be United States Attorneyfor the Northern District of West Virginia for the term of four years,vice William J. Ihlenfeld, II, resigned.
A. Marvin Quattlebaum, Jr., of South Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Cameron M. Currie, retired.
Holly Lou Teeter, of Kansas, to be United States District Judge for the District of Kansas, vice Kathryn H. Vratil, retired.
Patrick J. Urda, of Indiana, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years, vice Diane L. Kroupa, retired.
Robert Earl Wier, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judgefor the Eastern District of Kentucky, vice Amul R. Thapar, elevated.
  