
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Review of the Economic Analysis and Policy Machinery in the Federal Government
I have directed my Reorganization Project staff at the Office of Management and Budget to begin a review of the economic policy and analysis machinery of the Federal Government, to look for ways to improve the way economic policy decisions are made and carried out.
This review will focus primarily on the economic policymaking system outside the Executive Office of the President. It will involve 33 agencies employing approximately 5,000 economists.
The review will examine and develop recommendations about the best ways to:

Eliminate overlapping functions among economic agencies;
 Repair weaknesses or gaps in the Federal Government's capacity to conduct economic analyses of particular industries or regions;
 Link foreign policy with economic decisions; and
 Ensure that economic decisions are carried out.

This effort will require the active participation of Federal departments and agencies. You may be asked to contribute time, resources, and staff assistance. I know that I can count on your support.
In order to inform all affected parties that this review is underway, I have directed that this memorandum be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER

Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Comprehensive Review of Federal Food and Nutrition Policy
I have directed my Reorganization Project staff at the Office of Management and Budget to begin a thorough review of the organization and structure of Federal food and nutrition programs.
The Federal Government is unable to respond as effectively as it should to the important changes taking place in the production, processing, marketing, and consumption of food. As a result, our capability to develop and implement a coherent food and nutrition policy is severely hampered.
This review will focus on seven major areas:

 Production and marketing of food;
 Regulatory activities affecting food which now involve 14 agencies and over 2000 regulations;
 Food research and education which is now conducted by 12 different organizations;
 International activities which involve 12 different organizations;
 Commodity procurement and distribution including the Federal feeding programs;
 Aquaculture activities which are dispersed among three major departments, and
 Conservation activities which affect the availability of good soil and water to grow crops.

The objective of this review is to improve the Government's capability to address the Nation's needs for adequate supplies of reasonably priced, safe, and nutritious foods.
As part of this overall project I have directed OMB's new Regulatory Policy and Reports Management staff to begin a specific review of Federal food inspection, labeling and grading as well as other related food regulatory practices. The comprehensive food and nutrition policy review and the food regulatory policy review will be closely coordinated within the Reorganization Project.
This important effort will need the active participation of the Congress, Federal Departments and Agencies, State and local officials, and the public.
You may be asked to contribute time, resources, and staff assistance to this effort. If so, I hope you will make your best effort to do so.
In order to inform all affected parties that this review is underway, I have directed that this memorandum be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER

Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Reorganization Study of Federal Preparedness and Response to Disasters
I have directed my Reorganization Project staff at the Office of Management and Budget to carry out a comprehensive study of the Federal Government's role in preparing for and responding to natural, accidental, and wartime civil disasters.
Three different departments have major responsibility for disaster and civil defense preparedness. Many other Federal organizations have some disaster planning, relief, or recovery responsibilities. In national emergencies the resources of the entire Federal Government are on call, but they must be deployed effectively. After local disasters Federal agencies should be effectively coordinated to be able to assist State and local authorities without delay.
A preliminary review indicates that there are opportunities for the Executive Branch to improve its performance in planning for and helping to cope with the effects of major disaster. But this is a shared responsibility. The cooperation of State and local government, Congress, private sector organizations, and individual citizens is essential. Successful completion of this important reorganization study will require their participation as well as the full cooperation of Federal departments and agencies. If you are asked to contribute staff support or other assistance to this effort, I encourage you to do so.
In order to inform all affected parties that the review is underway, I have directed that this memorandum be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER

Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Examination of the Federal Government's Legal Representation System
I have directed my Reorganization Project Staff at the Office of Management and Budget to review the Federal Government's system for providing legal advice and representation to its departments, agencies, and regulatory commissions.
This study is designed to improve the way governmental units use the legal resources at their disposal, which include their own legal offices and the services of the Department of Justice, including United States Attorneys. Better use of these resources should help prevent unnecessary litigation and administrative delay by enabling the Federal Government to do a better job of complying with its own rules and regulations.
A second objective will be to improve the way litigation is conducted in order to ensure better and more uniform application of the law.
This study will rely heavily on the advice and counsel of the Congress, Federal departments, agencies, and regulatory commissions, State and local officials, private organizations and the public.
I consider the effective use of legal resources to be a vital part of my Administration's effort to improve the performance of the Federal government; accordingly, I ask for your cooperation in providing staff assistance and other resources to assure the success of this review.
In order to inform all interested parties that this study is underway, I have directed that this memorandum be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER

Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Study of Federal Justice System Improvement Activities
The weaknesses of our present system of justice are painfully clear to many citizens. Lawyers are often available only to the wealthy or the very poor. There are substantial backlogs in the courts. While many people have proposed plans for resolving disputes outside of the courts, few of these plans are now operating. The Federal Government does not bear full responsibility for correcting these inequities, but it should make its own system a model and encourage State and local governments to improve the quality of their systems of justice.
I have therefore directed my Reorganization Project Staff at the Office of Management and Budget to review all Federal activities designed to improve the system of justice in this country. These include: (1) justice research programs; (2) justice information and statistical services; (3) justice policy and planning offices; (4) financial assistance for State and local systems; and (5) other reform activities such as juvenile justice and delinquency prevention programs.
This review will rely heavily on advice and counsel from Congress, Executive departments and agencies, the Judiciary, State and local officials, and the public.
You may be asked to contribute time, resources, and staff support to this effort. I consider this to be a high priority matter, and I know I can count on your cooperation and assistance.
In order to inform all affected parties that this review is underway, I have directed that this memorandum be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
  