
    National Latino organization makes first endorsement in its history of a Latino presidential candidate
SAN ANTONIO, TX (August 1, 2019) – Latino Victory Fund, a progressive political organization working to grow Latino political power, today endorsed Secretary Julián Castro for President of the United States. Secretary Castro is the only Latino presidential candidate in the 2020 presidential election, and if elected, would become the first Latino president in U.S. history.
This will be the first time in the organization's five-year history to endorse a Latino presidential candidate.
Quote from Secretary Julián Castro:"For five years, Latino Victory Fund has been at the forefront of ensuring Latino voices are at the decision-making tables in Washington and around the country. Latinos are increasingly shaping our nation's future, and the leadership of organizations like LVF is needed now more than ever. I'm proud to have their endorsement and support, and I look forward to working together to put people first and help all families succeed in the years to come."
Quote from Melissa Mark-Viverito, Latino Victory Fund interim president:"Our country needs a dedicated, experienced leader who will restore the dignity of public service to the White House and who has an inclusive vision for all Americans. That leader is Julián Castro. As president, Julián will fight for everyone, regardless of background, because he knows what it's like to be an underdog. He is unafraid and will work tirelessly to improve the lives of hard-working families and every person who calls this great nation home.
"As the former mayor of a major U.S. city and former HUD Secretary, Julián has proven that he does not back down from proposing bold, innovative ideas to address our nation's top issues. He was the first presidential candidate to propose an immigration plan, the first to propose a detailed police reform plan, and the first to propose a major policy platform for the Native American community. His actions make one thing clear: Julián is the resolute leader we need in the Oval Office in January 2021.
"Julián's candidacy is a milestone for Latino representation at a time when the Latino community has been demonized and dehumanized by President Trump. We are beaming with pride to announce our unequivocal support for Secretary Julián Castro for president of the United States. ¡Estamos contigo, Julián!"
  