
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of former American Legion Commanders.
"The American Legion has stood shoulder to shoulder with our veterans in glory and in sorrow," said Mitt Romney. "They have been there for them, no matter what the challenge. I am deeply honored to have the endorsements of so many former Legion Commanders. I will honor their commitment to our veterans, just as those soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines honored our nation with their sacrifice. Together, we will make sure that no veteran ever has to struggle for a job or for medical care. That is the least we owe these true American heroes."
"Our nation owes a special debt to our soldiers, especially those who have been wounded in battle," said Robert Spanogle, former American Legion National Commander. "Unfortunately, our veterans are facing unacceptable delays at the VA , difficulty finding employment, and wait times of up to two months to see a mental health professional. We cannot allow this to continue. Our soldiers shouldn't come home to yet another battle. This is a disgrace to the heroes of this nation, who have shed their blood and treasure in our defense. Veterans are told things will get better; well they are not. That is why I am supporting Mitt Romney, who has the proven business experience, has the heart and understands the severe impact these policies have on the medical care and financial security of our nation's veterans and their families."
"Unemployment among America's post-9/11 veterans is stuck around 11 percent," said Thomas Cadmus, former American Legion National Commander. "That's shocking and appalling. These are the young men and women who deserve to live the American dream, not to suffer in poverty. They have sacrificed for us, and our government has failed to provide them the opportunities they deserve. Mitt Romney understands business and economics. Barack Obama clearly doesn't. It's time for a change."
American Legion Commanders Endorsing Mitt Romney:
Bob Spanogle, Past National Commander, Past National Adjutant
Thomas P. Cadmus, Past National Commander
Dominic D. DiFrancesco, Past National Commander
John Sommer, former Executive Director
Clarence Bacon, Past National Commander
Joseph Frank, Past National Commander
Thomas Bock, Past National Commander
Paul Morin, Past National Commander
Miles Epling, Past National Commander
John "Jake" Comer, Past National Commander
  