
    CLEVELAND, Ohio — Nearly every candidate in the GOP race for President claims to fight for stopping illegal immigration. However, only U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, has a proven record of repeatedly and consistently fighting to do so.
Ted Cruz believes we must secure the border and enforce our immigration laws. As President, Ted Cruz would rescind President Obama's unconstitutional executive amnesty and cut off all federal funds to sanctuary cities that refuse to enforce immigration laws and cooperate in the capture of illegal immigrants who commit violent crimes.

In July 2015, Cruz introduced "Kate's Law," the Establishing Mandatory Minimums for Illegal Reentry Act of 2015, that imposes a mandatory minimum sentence of five years for any illegal reentry offense.
In July of 2015, Cruz cosponsored a strong immigration enforcement bill that withholds federal funds from sanctuary cities, closes enforcement loopholes, strengthens penalties for immigration offenses, and authorizes immigration enforcement by the States.
In the spring and summer of 2013, Cruz offered 4 amendments and sponsored 1 to the Gang of Eight Bill to provide meaningful border security, and prevent a path to citizenship. He ultimately voted against the bill because it failed to ensure the border was secure while providing a path to citizenship. Though the Senate passed the bill, it failed in the House, largely due to Cruz and a handful of other conservative's opposition.

Offered an amendment to prevent citizenship for those here illegally.
Offered an amendment to prevent those who entered the country illegally from having access to federal, state, or local public assistance benefits.
Sponsored an amendment to triple the size of the Border Patrol.


In April 2015, Cruz asked DHS Sec. Johnson how many criminals have been released into the country.
In April 2015, Cruz wrote a letter to HHS Sec. Burwell expressing concern over reports that many unaccompanied minors are not being properly cared for.
In March 2015, Cruz asked USCIS Sec if they are subsidizing illegal immigrants with legal immigrant fees.
In February 2015, Cruz opposed passing clean DHS bill.
In the summer and fall of 2014, Cruz proposed several measures to prevent President Obama from expanding amnesty.

In December 2014, Cruz urged the Senate to pass a short term CR that defunds Obama's amnesty.
In December 2014, Cruz raised a constitutional point of order to defund Obama's amnesty. Sadly, it failed, and he voted against the CR that fully funded Obama's amnesty.
In December 2014, Cruz joined an amicus brief in support of Texas' law suit against Obama's amnesty.
In November 2014, Cruz wrote a letter to Sen. Reid asking him to not enable President Obama's amnesty in the lame duck.
In June 2014, Cruz sponsored legislation to prevent the president from expanding DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) and from issuing work permits to individuals in the country illegally.
In June 2014, Cruz toured a facility for unaccompanied minors in San Antonio and held a press conference.


In November 2014, Cruz published an op-ed in Politico entitled "Obama is not a Monarch," decrying his executive amnesty as it was in defiance of the people.
In August 2014, Cruz held a press conference with house members opposing Obama's amnesty.
In August 2014, Cruz published an op-ed in the Texas Tribune about the humanitarian crisis on the border.

  