
    Pool Reports by S.V. Dáte, HuffPost 



Sent:
Reports:




August 30, 202307:11

WH pool report — supplemental, POTUS call to Steve Scalise
Late last night, the WH press office released the following:
This afternoon, President Biden called House Majority Leader Steve Scalise to express his best wishes for a swift recovery.
(Your yesterday pooler did not see it until just now. Apologies.)




 
Pool Reports below by Daniel Bush, Newsweek 



Sent:
Reports:




August 30, 202309:54

In-town pool report #1 -- breakfast lid
The White House has called a breakfast lid until 12:30 p.m.
The president's schedule for the day:
10:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
10:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed Press
1:45 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on the whole-of-government response and recovery efforts on Maui, Hawaii and the ongoing response from the federal government to Hurricane IdaliaRoosevelt RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 1:35 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
Briefing Schedule
EDT
12:45 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre



August 30, 202311:01

In-town pool report #2 -- briefing note
The press office passes this along:
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency Deanne Criswell will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing today.



August 30, 202312:30

In-town pool report #3 -- background on Hurricane Idalia response
From the White House:
Ahead of Hurricane Idalia making landfall in Florida, President Biden directed the federal government to pre-position personnel and resources to immediately support the response and recovery efforts in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina. This morning, President Biden was updated on the hurricane's path and his senior team continues to brief him regularly.
Under the President's leadership, the federal government has coordinated:

More than 1500 federal personnel on-the-ground;
More than 540 Urban Search and Rescue personnel;
The U.S. Coast Guard has positioned teams and assets to help support Search and Rescue efforts.
Three Disaster Survivor Assistance Teams deployed to Florida;
Pre-staged critical supplies, including more than 1.3 million meals, 1.6 million liters of water, that are available pending requests from the states
The Red Cross has prepositioned resources to support sheltering a minimum of 20,000 survivors
USDA Food & Nutrition Services approved early issuance of September SNAP benefits to all households that receive benefits;
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers pre-positioned teams to support any power restoration needs.

The President will deliver remarks this afternoon and address the ongoing response from the federal government to Hurricane Idalia.



August 30, 202313:06

In-town pool report #4 — two-minute warning for briefing
We have a two-minute warning for the press briefing.



August 30, 202313:09

In-town pool report #5 -- briefing underway
The press briefing started at 1:09 p.m.



August 30, 202314:04

In-town pool report #6 -- background on POTUS calls on with DeSantis, other govs
Per the White House:
Today, President Biden called Governor DeSantis of Florida, Governor Kemp of Georgia, Governor McMaster of South Carolina, and Governor Cooper of North Carolina. He told each of the Governors that they and their states have his administration's full support. Prior to landfall, the President directed the federal government to pre-position personnel and resources to immediately support the response and recovery efforts in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina. The President told the Governors that federal teams will continue to work closely with the first responders and local officials in their states as the storm progresses.



August 30, 202314:24

In-town pool report #7 -- Gathering for POTUS remarks
The pool is gathering now for President Biden's remarks on the federal response to the Maui wildfires and Hurricane Idalia.



August 30, 202315:05

In-town pool report #8 — two-min warming for POTUS remarks
Two-minute warning for POTUS remarks. Pool is in the Roosevelt Room, waiting for Biden to appear.



August 30, 202315:05

In-town pool report #9— Remarks underway
POTUS entered the Roosevelt Room at 2:44 p.m.
The president began his remarks flanked by Defense Sec. Austin, FEMA administrator Criswell and other officials.
The speech is being live-streamed on the White House site.



August 30, 202315:10

In-town pool report #10 -- remarks over
President Biden concluded his remarks and took a few questions. He left the Roosevelt Room at 3:04 p.m., and pool was ushered out right after.
A few highlights:
Biden said "we're doing everything we can" to help with the Maui wildfire recovery.
The recovery effort is "going to be frustrating as the devil for people," Biden said. "It's really tough."
He also cautioned that the recovery might be slow. "I want to be clear with the people of Maui about what to expect. The work we're doing is going to take time."
Biden also touched on the federal response to Hurricane Idalia, and his calls today with the governors of Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina.
Biden said 2024 politics did not come up during his call with Florida Governor Ron DeSantis.



August 30, 202315:18

In-town pool report #11 -- note on Maui meeting attendees
The White House shares the following:
In attendance for the President's meeting with Cabinet and agency officials to further direct the Administration's ongoing efforts on the ground and the work underway to support the people of Maui:
Secretary Lloyd Austin, Department of DefenseSecretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland SecurityJeff Zients, Assistant to the President & Chief of StaffJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffGeneral Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffAdministrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management AgencyLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorTom Perez, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental AffairsCaitlin Durkovich, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor for Resilience and ResponseMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor and Infrastructure Implementation CoordinatorLieutenant General Scott Spellmon, Chief Engineer of the U.S. Army Corps, Department of Defense
Virtual Participants:Secretary Deb Haaland, Department of the InteriorSecretary Thomas Vilsack, Department of AgricultureSecretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human ServicesSecretary Marcia Fudge, Department of Housing and Urban DevelopmentSecretary Jennifer Granholm, Department of EnergySecretary Miguel Cardona, Department of EducationAdministrator Michael Regan, Environmental Protection AgencyAdministrator Isabella Guzman, Small Business AssociationBob Fenton, Chief Federal Response Coordinator for Maui & FEMA Regional Administrator for Region 9



August 30, 202318:02

In-town pool report #12 -- Sen. Sanders to speak
Senator Bernie Sanders is headed to the stakeout location to speak with the press.



August 30, 202318:21

In-town pool report #13 -- Sanders remarks
Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont took a few questions after meeting with President Biden.
"We just had a good meeting with the president," Sanders said.
The Vermont senator touted Biden's record in office, saying the country has "come a long way" since Biden took office in the midst of the pandemic.
Still, "much more needs to be done," Sanders said, before ticking through a list of priorities – addressing climate change and income inequality, lowering the cost of prescription drugs, among others -- and sounding many of the themes from his 2016 and 2020 presidential campaigns.
Sanders also took issue with media coverage of Biden, blaming the press for some public polls that show a majority of Americans disapprove of the president's handling of the economy.
The senator was also asked about Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who appeared to momentarily freeze today during an event in Kentucky, the second such apparent medial episode in recent months.
"I certainly wish him the best" and a "full recovery," Sanders said.



August 30, 202318:21

In-town pool report #14 -- lid
A travel/photo lid was called at 6:14 p.m.
Have a good evening,




  