
    Pool Reports by Chris Bumbaca, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




August 25, 202313:54

VP Supplemental Pool Report #1: WNBA's Aces visit White House
My name is Chris Bumbaca and I'll be the pool reporter for VP Harris' event with the Las Vegas Aces to celebrate their 2022 WNBA championship on Friday, Aug. 25, 2023.
Pool entered East Room at 1:33 p.m. ET in advance of the VP's scheduled 2 p.m. remarks. The WNBA championship trophy was placed on a table with an Aces jersey stage right.
Friends and family of the Aces, along with other invited guests, mingled and waited for the team and VP to enter. At least two attendees wore Aces gear.
More information from a White House official:
Today Vice President Kamala Harris and Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff are welcoming the Las Vegas Aces, the 2022 Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) Champions, to the White House. She will offer congratulatory remarks to the team on their WNBA Championship in the East Room. In attendance will be Las Vegas Aces President Nikki Fargas as well as the Las Vegas Aces Basketball Team. This event upholds a long-standing tradition of celebrating sports league champions, Olympic champions, and others at the White House, a tradition that dates back to President Coolidge. The Las Vegas Aces are the first professional sports team in Nevada history to win a championship and thus be invited to a championship ceremony at the White House.
The Vice President's remarks will be livestreamed at 2:00 PM ET atwww.WhiteHouse.gov/live.



August 25, 202314:27

VP Supplemental Pool Report #2: WNBA's Aces visit White House
Doors to East Room opened at 2:04 pm and Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff entered to applause.
Team entered 2:16 to standing ovation with an orchestral version of Lupe Fiasco's "Superstar" playing. VP and Aces president Nikki Fargas entered together at 2:18 pm and the VP started remarks.
Harris said the president and First Lady prioritize keeping the White House a place for athletes to feel welcomed. She highlighted Nevada politicians in the crowd — Gov. Steve Sisolak, Rep. Steve Horsford and members of the state legislature — and noted that the Aces are the first professional sports team to win a championship.
"You are not only a team," Harris said. "You are a family."
A huge applause erupted when Harris congratulated MVP A'ja Wilson for tying the WNBA record for most points in a single game (53) earlier this week.
Harris also noted team's efforts for equal pay and said the issue is a matter of economic justice and that they pay gap between males and females are wider in sports compared to other industries.



August 25, 202314:44

VP Supplemental Pool Report #3: WNBA's Aces visit White House
VP concluded remarks at 2:31 pm. Other topics from her remarks included commending the Aces and the WNBA at large for their civic engagement and commitment to upholding basic rights in areas such as voting, LGBTQ+ rights. VP also mentioned WNBA's mobilization during Brittney Griner'a wrongful detainment in Russia last year.
Fargas began speaking at 2:32 and thanked White House for making it a special day for the franchise and city of Las Vegas.
Wilson and Chelsea Gray presented Harris with a No. 49 picture and the group posted for a picture. Harris spoke with a few individuals next to the aisle but did not take any questions when she left the East Room at 2:38 pm.




  