
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 6
In the afternoon, the President traveled from Camp David, MD, to Detroit, MI, where he attended the "Michigan Salutes the President" dinner. He returned to Camp David in the evening.
August 8
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned to Washington, DC. Later in the morning, the President met with the Law Enforcement Steering Committee.
The President announced his intention to nominate Vincent Sorrentino to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.
August 9
In the morning, the President met with business leaders to discuss health care reform.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jorge Perez to the National Council on the Arts.
The White House announced that the President has directed that the Deputy Secretary of Defense and the Director of Central Intelligence conduct an immediate inquiry into the National Reconnaissance Office headquarters construction project and that the project be declassified.
August 10
The President announced his intention to nominate Frederick Pang to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management.
The President announced his intention to appoint John C. Phillips as a member of the Korean War Veterans Memorial Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities:
—Lloyd (Vic) Hackley;
—Lucille Ish;
—Robert Albright;
—Oswald P. Bronson;
—Ramona Hoage Edelin;
—Sebetha Jenkins;
—Arthur E. Johnson;
—Adib Akmal Shakir;
—Dolores Spikes;
—Arthur E. Thomas;
—Valora Washington;
—Bernard C. Watson;
—Barbara D. Wills-Duncan.
August 11
In the afternoon, the President met with President Meles Zenawi, head of the transnational government of Ethiopia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce Morrison as Chair of the Federal Housing Finance Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Clifford Hudson as a member and Chair of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia Hill Williams as a member of the Inter-American Foundation Board of Governors.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kristine Norosz as a member of the International Pacific Halibut Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Billie Maxine Glory and A. Michael Neimeyer to the National Advisory Council on Indian Education.
August 12
In the morning, following a breakfast with Cabinet members, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN.
In the evening, the President returned to Andrews Air Force Base where he was joined by Hillary and Chelsea Clinton. They then went to Camp David, MD.
The President named Jodie R. Torkelson as Deputy Assistant to the President for Management and Administration, effective September 1.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dr. Lori Esposito Murray to be Assistant Director for the Multilateral Affairs Bureau, U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
  