
    I AM TODAY signing H.R. 14592, the Department of Defense procurement authorization bill for fiscal year 1975.
As I have pointed out on several occasions, a strong America is essential to maintaining world peace. Our military forces deter potential aggressors and, together with those of our allies, serve to assure the continued security of the free world. Without that strength, our adversaries would have no incentive to negotiate the mutual reduction of arms through which it may be possible to limit the rate of growth of military expenditures in the years ahead.
I am pleased that in this bill the Congress has expressed support for our objectives by authorizing $22.2 billion for military procurement purposes during fiscal year 1975. Funds for research and development and the acquisition of major new weapons systems will help us to maintain our strong military posture, and a military end strength of 2,149,000 will contribute positively to continued force readiness.
There are, however, several unfortunate features in this bill. A number of provisions authorize spending for unneeded equipment and could thus inflate defense spending unnecessarily at a time when we all should recognize the need to avoid waste. I shall monitor this spending closely, and in particular, I intend to review the provision that any newly constructed major combatant ship be equipped with nuclear power unless the President advises 'otherwise. I shall recommend nuclear propulsion for ships only when the added cost of such propulsion is fully justified in the national interests.
Section 709 of this measure authorizes the Congress by concurrent resolution to disapprove a Presidential decision permitting the export of certain goods and technology to specific countries. In my view, this feature provides for an unconstitutional exercise of legislative power. It is regrettable that the Congress has seen fit to add to a bill of such importance to our national security a rider adversely affecting the constitutional separation of powers. However, the compelling subject matter of this bill gives me no practical choice but to sign it, notwithstanding my serious reservations.
  