
    "When we look at the 60th anniversary of the March on Washington, it must be to commemorate an historic day in an historic movement, but it has to also compel us to understand: The movement is not over." - Vice President Kamala Harris
WASHINGTON – Vice President Kamala Harris joined Reverend Al Sharpton to commemorate the 60th Anniversary of the March on Washington and discuss her lifetime commitment to fighting for fundamental freedoms, advancing opportunity, and protecting civil rights. She also gave Rev. Sharpton a tour of her West Wing office and the artwork and icons that have served as inspiration to her career as a fighter for justice and freedom. The Vice President's lengthy national interview was featured during MSNBC's live coverage of the March on Washington anniversary and aired on PoliticsNation with Al Sharpton.
"I was born into a family, a community, and a time where you were required to be very clear and see very clearly what is happening and to know what is at stake, and then not to passively sit by and watch it happen, but participate in ensuring that we are protecting the promise and – more specifically – protecting freedoms, fighting for justice, fighting for equality," said Vice President Harris during her sit-down interview. "I think that when we look at the 60th anniversary of the March on Washington, it must be to commemorate an historic day in an historic movement, but it has to also compel us to understand: The movement is not over – and we must recommit ourselves to what that was about, which, again, was a fight for freedom, for equality, for justice for all people."
The Vice President also spoke about the continued fight for civil rights and outlined the many freedoms that are being attacked by extremists across the country. "When I look at where we are now, Rev., and I think about these powerful forces – these extremist so-called leaders – who are, I believe, intentionally waging a full-on attack against those hard-fought, hard-won freedoms and rights, I feel compelled, as I know we all do, to basically say, 'You know what? Not on our watch,'" said Vice President Harris. "There is a lot of joy in being in this fight for freedom, for the promise of America. It is a fight for something, not against something. It is also a fight – and this needs to be said – that is to try and bring us together, understanding we all have so much more in common than what separates us."
See more of Vice President Harris's conversation with Rev. Sharpton below:

MSNBC: Vice President Kamala Harris warns democracy 'is at stake right now'
MSNBC: 'The hypocrisy is rampant:' Harris slams attacks on voting rights 60 years after March on Washington
MSNBC: 'Those who carry a baton:' Vice President Kamala Harris reflects on the generational impact civil rights figures had

  