
    Following the release of state fact sheets highlighting the nationwide impact of the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Americans across the country are reading about how the bold and transformative investments will deliver for their community to repair roads and bridges, improve transportation options, build a network of EV chargers to accelerate the adoption of EVs and help connect every American to reliable high-speed internet.
Click here to read the fact sheets by state and territory. The fact sheets will be updated after the Senate's passage of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.
See below for a sampling of what Americans are reading from Alabama to Massachusetts:
CBS 42 Birmingham: Over half a million people in Alabama don't have internet access; could the infrastructure bill could change that?[Aubree Bailey, 8/4/21]
BIRMINGHAM, Ala (WIAT) — One thing is for sure if the highly anticipated Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act passes: a minimum of $100 million would be allocated to Alabama to improve broadband coverage and access, according to a new report issued by the White House Wednesday.
At least over half a million Alabamians lack broadband access, according to the report, and for some, internet is a necessity that even at present they can't afford.
The funds would increase the availability of broadband service as well as provide monetary assistance to Alabamians who struggle to pay for internet. 1,518,000 Alabamians, roughly 31% of state residents, would be eligible for the Affordability Connectivity Benefit, which would help low-income families afford internet access.
[...]
Raleigh News & Observer: Billions from infrastructure bill could go to NC, estimates show. Here's a breakdown.[Brian Murphy and Alex Roarty, 8/4/21]
North Carolina could receive at least $8.7 billion in federal funding over the next five years for highways programs, bridge replacement, public transportation, electric vehicles and broadband internet under an infrastructure bill that is being considered by the U.S. Senate.
The White House released state-by-state estimates Wednesday of money available in the bipartisan infrastructure agreement that is being considered by the Senate this week. North Carolina Republican Sens. Richard Burr and Thom Tillis are supporting the bill, which is focused on so-called "hard" infrastructure.
"What we're doing is throwing the American people a lifeline. It's a $550 billion infrastructure-only package that meets the priorities of Republicans who negotiated with Democrats to come up with a bill that is fiscally sound and focuses on what the American people believe infrastructure is," Tillis said in an interview with Fox News last week.
[...]
Arkansas Democrat Gazette: Infrastructure bill aids state, analysis says[Frank Lockwood, 8/5/21]
WASHINGTON -- Passage of the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act would result in a major infusion of federal funding for Arkansas, the White House said Wednesday.
In a written statement, Gov. Asa Hutchinson said the state "will benefit" if the bill passes.
Under the current formula, the state would anticipate receiving nearly $3.6 billion for highway programs and $278 million to fix and replace bridges over a five-year period, according to an administration analysis.
During that period, it would also expect to automatically to receive $252 million for public transportation and another $54 million for electrical vehicle charging infrastructure, the analysis stated. Regarding the latter item, the plan is to create "the first-ever national network" of EV chargers.
A minimum of $100 million would also be routed to Arkansas to help it expand broadband access across the state.
Roughly one in three Arkansans would also qualify for a new Affordable Connectivity Benefit, which would subsidize internet access for low-income households, the analysis stated.
In addition, the state could apply for additional funding. The measure includes, for example, a $12.5 billion Bridge Investment Program and almost $16 billion "for major projects that will deliver substantial economic benefits to communities," the White House said.
[...]
The Oklahoman: From roads to broadband, here's what the federal infrastructure bill would fund for Oklahoma[Chris Casteel, 8/5/21]
Oklahoma would receive more than $5 billion for roads, bridges, electric vehicle charging stations and rural broadband expansion under the infrastructure bill being debated this week in the U.S. Senate, according to the White House.
The money, most of which would go to highway and bridge construction, would be distributed over the next five years. The estimates from the White House did not include other elements of the infrastructure bill, such as money for water and power projects.
"For decades, infrastructure in Oklahoma has suffered from a systemic lack of investment," the White House said Wednesday.
"The historic Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will make life better for millions of Oklahoma residents, create a generation of good-paying union jobs and economic growth, and position the United States to win the 21st century."
[...]
News Channel 6 Wichita Falls, TX: What Texas would get from the federal infrastructure act[8/4/21]
WICHITA FALLS, Texas (KAUZ) - After receiving a C- grade for its infrastructure from the American Society of Civil Engineers, the state of Texas could receive billions of dollars under the federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.
The state would receive $26.9 billion for federal-aid highway apportioned programs and $537 million for bridge replacement and repairs if the act passes.
To improve healthy, sustainable transportation options, Texas would receive about $3.3 billion over five years.
An additional $408 million would be allocated to the state to build a network of electric vehicle chargers to facilitate long-distance travel and provide convenient charging options. The state would also have the option to apply for $2.5 billion in grant funding dedicated to electrical vehicle charging that is within the bill.
For enhanced broadband internet, the state would receive a minimum of $100 million.
On Wednesday, the Senate voted on a series of amendments to the bill that could see some of the numbers change.
The bill would have to pass both chambers of Congress and get President Joe Biden's signature in order to become law.
KPLC News Lake Charles, LA: White House releases fact sheet highlighting impacts of Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act in La.[8/4/21]
Lake Charles, LA (KPLC) - Wednesday, the White House released fact sheets, highlighting the nationwide impact of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act - including impacts in Louisiana.
The fact sheets highlight how the legislation will deliver for states and territories across the country to repair roads and bridges, improve transportation options, build a network of EV chargers to accelerate the adoption of EVs and help connect every American to reliable high-speed internet, the White House said.
The White House said in the coming days and weeks, more state-by-state data will show the impact of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act on drinking water infrastructure, power infrastructure, airports, resiliency and more.
[...]
According to the fact sheet from the White House, the impacts from the Infrastructure and Jobs Act are as follows (note: all values are estimates and may change based on updated factor data each fiscal year):

Based on formula funding alone, Louisiana would expect to receive $4.8 billion for federal-aid highway apportioned programs and $1.013 billion for bridge replacement and repairs under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act over five years
Based on formula funding alone, Louisiana would expect to receive $470 million over five years under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act to improve public transportation options across the state.
Under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Louisiana would expect to receive $73 million over five years to support the expansion of an EV charging network in the state3. Louisiana will also have the opportunity to apply for the $2.5 billion in grant funding dedicated to EV charging in the bill.
Under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Louisiana will receive a minimum allocation of $100 million to help provide broadband coverage across the state, including providing access to the at least 470,000 Louisianans who currently lack it. And, under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, 1,698,000 or 37.2% of people in Louisiana will be eligible for the Affordability Connectivity Benefit, which will help low-income families afford internet access.

[...]
The State: SC would get piece of Congress' $1T infrastructure plan. Here's how much[Emily Bohatch, 8/5/21]
South Carolina could receive billions of dollars to make critical road and bridge repairs as well as expand services, such as public transportation and broadband in the U.S. Senate's $1 trillion infrastructure bill.
In the legislation, the White House said South Carolina could get nearly $10 billion if the bill were to pass as it is currently written.
The largest chunk of that total would go to public transportation — nearly $5 billion over five years to improve transit options across the state, according to a fact sheet provided by the administration.
[...]
MassLive: Massachusetts could receive billions from $1 trillion infrastructure bill[By Michael P. Norton, 8/4/21]
The proposal's final passage is far from assured, but details are emerging about possible impacts in Massachusetts from a $1 trillion infrastructure bill that could get a U.S. Senate vote later this week.
According to a White House summary issued Wednesday afternoon, Massachusetts under the bill could over the next five years expect to receive $4.2 billion for federal-aid highway programs, $1.1 billion for bridge replacement and repairs, $2.5 billion to improve public transportation options, $63 million to expand electric vehicle charging networks, and $100 million to provide broadband coverage, including access to the at least 137,000 people here who lack it.
"For decades, infrastructure in Massachusetts has suffered from a systemic lack of investment," the summary said. "The historic Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will make life better for millions of Massachusetts residents, create a generation of good-paying union jobs and economic growth, and position the United States to win the 21st century."
The proposal, which has drawn bipartisan support among U.S. senators, has yet to emerge for a vote and its fate in the U.S. House is unclear amid reports about continued debate over the proposal's size and funding sources and whether its ultimate fate hinges on a separate $3.5 trillion domestic spending bill.
According to the White House summary, there are 472 bridges and more than 1,194 miles of highway in poor condition in Massachusetts, and commute times here since 2011 have increased by 10.9 percent on average.
The White House also pointed to areas of Massachusetts in need of broadband. "Broadband internet is necessary for Americans to do their jobs, to participate equally in school learning, health care, and to stay connected," the summary said.
"Yet 11 percent of Massachusetts households do not have an internet subscription, and 2 percent of people in Massachusetts live in areas where, under the FCC's benchmark, there is no broadband infrastructure." Additional data on the impact of the bill in Massachusetts is expected to flow from the White House "over the coming days and weeks," the summary said.
NJ.com: N.J. gets $12B from infrastructure bill, White House says. Here's how it would be spent.[By Jonathan Salant, 8/5/21]
New Jersey would receive more than $12 billion for roads, bridges and transit under the five-year, $1 trillion infrastructure bill now being debated in the U.S. Senate, according to the White House.
That's the money the state could expect over the next five years under existing federal formulas for divvying up federal transportation funds.
It includes $6.8 billion for highways, $1.1 billion for bridges and $4.1 billion for transit. The White House said the state had 3,995 miles of highway in poor condition, and Federal Highway Administration data shows 502 of New Jersey's 6,801 bridges rated as deficient.
The state also could expect to receive $104 million over five years to build electric vehicle charging stations and $100 million to expand high-speed internet connections. The White House said the expanded broadband would provide connections to least 115,468 New Jerseyans and another 1.6 million low-income residents would get help to pay for internet access.
The White House released the data as the Senate moved toward wrapping up debate and voting on the bipartisan bill endorsed by President Joe Biden. The support of at least 10 Republicans will be needed for approval, but more than 10 GOP senators have backed the legislation during preliminary votes.
"We are now within inches now of getting this deal out of the Senate and over to the House, where, with the president firmly behind it, I'm confident that we will take it up quickly," Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-5th Dist., said during an event in Paramus to tout the legislation. "We can not allow the normal partisanship and gridlock to kill this bill."
A Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday showed just how popular the legislation was, with Americans backing the bill, 65%-28%. That included 93% of Democrats, 64% of independents and 41% of Republicans.
The White House figures do not include any funding the state could receive under a $12.5 billion program for economically significant bridges or a $16 billion program to fund major projects deemed to provide substantial economic benefits.
State officials are looking at that second program as a source of funding for the Gateway Tunnel under the Hudson River. There's also $30 billion earmarked for Amtrak's Northeast Corridor and $8 billion for capital improvement grants that could be tapped to fund the new train tunnel.
Following debate on this legislation, the Senate will attempt to pass a budget resolution to spend $3.5 trillion on education, child care, fighting climate change and other social programs. The resolution, which also will include steps to address the Republican tax law's $10,000 cap on deducting state and local taxes, is the first step towards allowing congressional Democrats to pass the legislation by majority vote in both houses.
Despite GOP opposition to the larger bill, Americans supported it, 62%-32%, in the Quinnipiac poll.
"Two signature spending bills are embraced by Americans, who envision a robust rebuilding of the country's very backbone, while pulling families up the economic and social ladder," Quinnipiac polling analyst Tim Malloy said.
Ohio Capital Journal: Infrastructure bill could have specific impact in Ohio[By Susan Tebben, 8/5/21]
A new infrastructure bill set to be voted on this week in the U.S. Senate comes as a relief to Howard Krueger and his windshield.
Krueger was driving south on I-75 in Hamilton County, off to help his sister as she recovered from chemotherapy treatments. As he rolled along the lower level of the Western Hills Viaduct, down came a large piece of concrete, creating a spider web of cracks in his car's front windshield.
"It dropped onto my windshield, it stunned me, it scared me," Krueger said on a Wednesday press call.
To the chagrin of other drivers on the road, he got out of his car to search for the piece of bridge material that had hit his car. He searched for a work crew on the upper part of the bridge, thinking it may have been accidental debris from maintenance work. There was no one to be found.
"In simple terms," Krueger said. "I experienced first-hand a safety issues... and I'm sure that's not the only viaduct or bridge (with safety issues)."
With money set to come from the infrastructure bill to be used for bridge repair, Krueger and Ohio Democratic U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown hope priority will be made in the state for aging projects like the viaduct and Cincinnati's Brent Spence Bridge.
"There is great potential here," Brown said. "This is a recipe for jobs."
The infrastructure bill includes $12.5 billion for repair and replacement of bridges nationwide, also supported by Ohio GOP Sen. Rob Portman.
That help for bridge maintenance is necessary according to an American Society of Civil Engineers report in 2020. The report said of the more than 617,000 bridges in the country, 42% of them are at least 50 years old, and 7.5% of them are considered "structurally deficient."
"At the current rate of investment," the report said last year, "it will take until 2071 to make all the repairs that are currently necessary, and the additional deterioration over the next 50 years will become overwhelming."
The White House release state-specific information on the impact of the infrastructure bill, saying Ohio "would expect to receive $9.2 billion for federal-aid highway apportioned programs" along with $483 million over five years for bridge replacement and repairs.
If the infrastructure bill passes, the state could receive $1.2 billion over five years to improve public transportation options as well, according to the White House fact sheet.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: White House: Pennsylvania would receive billions from infrastructure bill[By Daniel Moore, 8/4/21]
WASHINGTON — The bipartisan infrastructure deal advanced by Congress would deliver to Pennsylvania an additional $11.3 billion in federal highway funding, $1.6 billion for bridge replacement, and $2.8 billion for public transit over five years, according to White House estimates released Wednesday.
In addition, Pennsylvania would receive at least $100 million to expand broadband coverage across the state, an amount that would provide access to at least 394,000 Pennsylvanians who currently lack service. The state would also likely receive $171 million to support the expansion of an electric vehicle charging network.
The funding numbers were among state-by-state estimates released by the White House as the U.S. Senate moves to pass the infrastructure bill this week. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act contains nearly $1 trillion in spending over five years, including $550 billion in new spending.
The estimates were based, in part, on funding formulas used by the federal government in allocating dollars to states. The state would have the opportunity to apply for competitive grants.
"The need for action in Pennsylvania is clear, and recently released state-level data demonstrates that the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will deliver for Pennsylvania," the fact sheet states. "For decades, infrastructure in Pennsylvania has suffered from a systemic lack of investment."
The American Society of Civil Engineers recently gave Pennsylvania's infrastructure a C-minus grade on its report card.
WTOV: White House spells out what W.Va., other states would receive in infrastructure bill[By Jeff Miller, 8/4/21]
WASHINGTON, D.C. (WCHS) — West Virginia would expect to receive $3 billion for federal aid highway programs and $506 million for bridge replacement and repairs under the proposed Infrastructure Investment and Job Act over five years, the White House said.
The White House released a state-by-state breakdown as the U.S. Senate mulls the measure.
"For decades, infrastructure in West Virginia has suffered from a systemic lack of investment," the White House said. "In fact, the American Society of Civil Engineers gave West Virginia a D grade on its infrastructure report card."
In addition to the more than $500 million for bridges it would expect to receive, West Virginia would be able to compete for $12.5 billion in the bridge investment program for economically significant bridges and nearly $16 billion for major projects that will deliver substantial economic benefits to communities, the White House said.
Under the bill, the White House said West Virginia also would expect to receive over five years:
* $196 million to improve public transportation options.
* $46 million to support the expansion of EV (plug-in-electrical vehicle) chargers to boost long-distance travel and provide charging options. West Virginia also could apply for $2.5 billion in grant funding for EV charging.
* Minimum of $100 million to help provide broadband coverage across the state including at least 258,000 West Virginians who currently don't have access. The White said 543,000 residents or 31% of the population in the state would be eligible for the Affordability Connectivity Benefit, which would help low-income families afford internet access.
WKOW: Wisconsin expects to get $6.2 billion from infrastructure plan, this is what it goes to[By Sierra Rehm, 8/4/21]
(WKOW) — States are starting to learn just how much the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will deliver.
Wisconsin is slated to receive around $6.2 billion in funds, but where does it go? According to a memo from the White House, the funds are broken down into roads and bridges, sustainable transportation, electric vehicles and broadband.
ROADS:Most of Wisconsin's funds are going to the effort to repair and rebuild roads and bridges. The White House expects Wisconsin will get $5.2 billion for federal-aid highway apportion programs. Another $225 million goes to bridge repairs and replacements over five years.
SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION:Sustainable transportation, also known as public transportation, is estimated to get nearly $600,000 in funding over five years. It would go to improving public transportation options across the state.
ELECTRIC VEHICLES:One focus of the infrastructure plan is building a network of electric vehicles chargers nationwide. The intended purpose would be facilitating long distance travel through convenience in charging options. It also hops to address the climate crisis and support domestic jobs.
Wisconsin should get almost $80 million over five years to expand the state's charging network. There's an opportunity for the state to apply for a $2.5 billion grant dedicated to this issue.
BROADBAND:Broadband access is a documented issue in Wisconsin. Gov. Evers has already dedicated $100 million in grants from federal coronavirus stimulus funding to the issue.
Now, the infrastructure plan expects to add another $1000 million. The funds will go to help provide broadband across the state, including the more than 300,000 without.
Under the act, 22% of Wisconsinites also become eligible for the Affordability Connectivity Benefit, which helps low-income families afford internet access.
Star Tribune: U.S. Senate Deal would Boost Minnesota's Infrastructure[Hunter Woodall, 8/5/21]
Minnesota would see billions of dollars from a massive bipartisan infrastructure package making its way through the U.S. Senate.
With lawmakers continuing to focus on the lengthy infrastructure bill this week, additional details released by the White House on Wednesday showed that Minnesota can look forward to a surge in funding if the plan manages to get through Congress.That would include $820 million over five years for public transportation, $302 million for bridge repairs and replacement, and $4.5 billion for highways, according to the fact sheet released by the White House for Minnesota.
More money also may come if the legislation becomes law, though how much remains unclear.
[...]
KKTV Colorado Springs: Colorado to get more than $4.5B in federal infrastructure deal: 11 News talks 1 on 1 with U.S. transportation secretary [Jon Weiner, 8/4/21]
11 News spoke in-depth Wednesday with U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg about the landmark federal infrastructure bill making its way through Congress and its impact on southern Colorado.
Wednesday, the White House released state-by-state projections for the $550 billion bipartisan legislative package, set for a likely passage out of the Senate and to President Joe Biden's desk this week. To read the full report for Colorado, click here.The highlights, per the White House:
- Based on formula funding alone, Colorado would expect to receive $3.7 billion for federal-aid highway apportioned programs and $225 million for bridge replacement and repairs under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act over five years.- Based on formula funding alone, Colorado would expect to receive $917 million over five years under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act to improve public transportation options across the state.
- Colorado would expect to receive $57 million over five years to support the expansion of an EV charging network in the state3. Colorado will also have the opportunity to apply for the $2.5 billion in grant funding dedicated to EV charging in the bill.
- Under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Colorado will receive a minimum allocation of $100 million to help provide broadband coverage across the state, including providing access to the at least 85,000 Coloradans who currently lack it. And, under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, 1,282,000 or 22% of people in Colorado will be eligible for the Affordability Connectivity Benefit, which will help low-income families afford internet access.
Kansas City Star: Kansas, Missouri would get billions for highways under Senate infrastructure proposal[Jonathan Shorman, Alex Roarty, 8/4/21]
Kansas would receive $3.2 billion and Missouri $7.9 billion to upgrade highways, bridges, broadband coverage and public transit under the massive bipartisan infrastructure deal set for a Senate vote soon, the White House said Wednesday.
The $1 trillion spending package holds the potential to deliver significant funding, especially for highways, as Missouri in particular struggles to maintain its transportation network. Details of the proposed investments come as Kansas and Missouri senators — all Republicans — weigh how they'll vote.
More than 7,500 miles of highways in Missouri and nearly 2,000 miles in Kansas are in poor condition. Under the bill, Missouri would get $6.5 billion and Kansas would get $2.6 billion for highways.
[...]
Grand Junction Daily Sentinel: Colorado's portion of infrastructure money nears $5 billion[Charles Ashby, 8/4/21]
Colorado would see nearly $5 billion from President Joe Biden's infrastructure measure now being debated in the U.S. Senate, the White House said Wednesday.
In the $1 trillion Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act that, for now, has bipartisan support in the Senate, Colorado's portion would be used for highways, bridges, public transportation, electric vehicle charging stations and high-speed broadband, according to a breakdown of the money from White House officials.
[...]
The bulk of the federal infrastructure money in Colorado, $3.7 billion over a five-year period, would go to highways around the state, with another $225 million going to its bridges.
Another $917 million could come to the state, also over five years, for public transportation projects, and $57 million would be used for EV charging stations. The state also would be able to compete for more grant funding for more stations.
Finally, the infrastructure measure would earmark $100 million to help build out its broadband network, particularly to those who don't have it or have substandard service. It also would provide low-income Coloradans access to grant programs to help pay monthly internet access fees.
[...]
KTVI-TV St Louis: The improvements Missouri could see from the infrastructure package[8/4/21]
Congress is inching closer to passing a massive bipartisan infrastructure plan, with Democrats saying they're ready to work through the weekend to get the bill across the finish line but many Republicans still concerned about the nearly $1 trillion price tag.The Biden Administration says the proposed Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act could bring billions of dollars to Missouri for road projects. Here are some of what Missouri can see:
• Repair and rebuild Missouri roads and bridges with a focus on climate change mitigation, resilience, equity, and safety for all users, including cyclists and pedestrians.
In Missouri, there are 2,190 bridges and over 7,576 miles of highway in poor condition. Since 2011, commute times have increased by 5.9% in Missouri, and on average, each driver pays $743 per year in costs due to driving on roads in need of repair. Based on formula funding alone, Missouri would expect to receive $6.5 billion for federal-aid highway apportioned programs and $484 million for bridge replacement and repairs under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act over five years.
Missouri can also compete for the $12.5 billion Bridge Investment Program for economically significant bridges and nearly $16 billion of national funding in the bill dedicated for major projects that will deliver substantial economic benefits to communities.• Improve healthy, sustainable transportation options for millions of Americans.
Missourians who take public transportation spend an extra 79.6% of their time commuting and non-White households are 10 times more likely to commute via public transportation.
32% of transit vehicles in the state are past useful life. Based on formula funding alone, Missouri would expect to receive $677 million over five years under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act to improve public transportation options across the state.• Build a network of EV chargers to facilitate long-distance travel and provide convenient charging options.
The U.S. market share of plug-in electric vehicle (EV) sales is only one-third the size of the Chinese EV market. The President believes that must change.
The bill invests $7.5 billion to build out the first-ever national network of EV chargers in the United States and is a critical element in the Biden-Harris
Administration's plan to accelerate the adoption of EVs to address the climate crisis and support domestic manufacturing jobs. Under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Missouri would expect to receive $99 million over five years to support the expansion of an EV charging network in the state.
Missouri will also have the opportunity to apply for the $2.5 billion in grant funding dedicated to EV charging in the bill.
• Help connect every American to reliable high-speed internet.
Broadband internet is necessary for Americans to do their jobs, to participate equally in school learning, health care, and to stay connected.
Yet 15% of Missouri households do not have an internet subscription, and 5% of Missourians live in areas where, under the FCC's benchmark, there is no broadband infrastructure.
Under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Missouri will receive a minimum allocation of $100 million to help provide broadband coverage across the state, including providing access to at least 330,000 Missourians who currently lack it.
And, under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, 1,602,000 or 26% of people in Missouri will be eligible for the Affordability Connectivity Benefit, which will help low-income families afford internet access.
San Francisco Chronicle: Biden's infrastructure deal could bring billions to California - if it can pass the House[Tal Kopan, 8/4/21]
President Biden's signature infrastructure deal expected to soon pass in the Senate could mean a windfall for California, to the tune of tens of billions of dollars.
But the negotiated bipartisan deal also leaves out some of the priorities the Bay Area's lawmakers had fought for in the House, and it's unclear if they are willing to accept the bill without them.
According to estimates released by the White House, the infrastructure bill would bring $25.3 billion for highways, $4.2 billion for bridges and $9.45 billion for public transportation over five years to California. The state would also be able to apply for more from pools of money for individual projects.
The bill would also support expanding electric vehicle charging networks, with $384 million to the state over five years and the opportunity to apply for more, the White House said. Another $100 million would come to California to boost broadband internet access, plus more than 10.6 million Californians would be eligible to receive discounts on their broadband bill, the White House estimated.
There are also pots of money for high-priority issues in California, including water management and wildfire resiliency.
[...]
  