
    Today, Iowa powerhouses Bob and Sue Dvorsky are endorsing Kamala Harris for President of the United States. On Saturday morning, Bob, a former state senator representing Coralville, and Sue, a former Iowa Democratic Party Chair, former school teacher, and National Education Association (NEA) activist, will join Harris at the Iowa State Fair. Bob and Sue were early endorsers of Barack Obama in 2007 and crucial supporters for Hillary Clinton during her 2016 run. In 2016, Sue served as Hillary's Women's Engagement Director for Iowa and campaigned for Hillary at hundreds of events across the state.
Bob and Sue have been courted by more than a dozen candidates and after attending events, and hearing their approaches, they decided together that Kamala Harris is their clear choice. They said:
"We've listened. We've read. We've attended. We believe with many of our friends and neighbors that we must get this right. And we are supporting Kamala Harris for President of the United States.
They continued, "In her experience, in her beliefs, in her vision, and in her plans, Kamala sets forth her theory of the case, and how she will prosecute that case. She'll fight on behalf of children, and the families who love them and struggle to provide for them. She'll fight side-by-side with the women and men who teach them. She'll stand by and with Americans challenged every day by the health care system they need. She'll never give up on women fighting for their rights to health care choice, and equal treatment in their workplaces. She'll tackle head on the issue of gun violence that threatens our neighbors wherever they live. She'll remind the world that we are a nation strengthened by our immigrants and diversity, and that there's so much more that unites us than divides us. And she will bring together the scientists, policies, and people to address the existential threat of climate change.
"She is smart, compassionate, accomplished and ready. We are committed to do everything we can, every day we can, for as long as we're needed, to elect Kamala Harris the next President of the United States," they concluded.
Harris said, "I am honored to have Bob and Sue on my team. They are a powerhouse duo who have done so much to elect Iowa Democrats for decades. Their guidance will be critical as we continue to build a campaign that takes our 3 AM Agenda across Iowa. They are hard workers and leaders in their community who know what it takes to be successful on caucus night. I'm looking forward to campaigning across Iowa with them in the coming months.
This announcement comes on the third day of Harris' 5-day River-to-River Bus tour where she is discussing her 3 AM Agenda, sharing her plans for direct relief for working and middle class families and listening to Iowans at retail stops and the state fair.
  