
    "As President, I won't sit there like a wallflower. I will fight for working people. I will fight for our families. I will fight for our way of life. I will never back down, and we will finally take back control of our economy from the ruling class."
ICYMI: Governor Ron DeSantis Blitzes New Hampshire
"As President, I won't sit there like a wallflower. I will fight for working people. I will fight for our families. I will fight for our way of life. I will never back down, and we will finally take back control of our economy from the ruling class."
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Governor Ron DeSantis has spent the past three days traveling across New Hampshire to meet voters and unveil his Declaration of Economic Independence.
Watch a video recap here.
He started off the swing on Sunday at MaryAnn's Diner with Senator Regina Birdsell in Derry, NH.
He later attended the No BS BBQ hosted by Ambassador Scott and Gail Brown in Rye, NH, and stopped at Brown's Lobster Pound in Seabrook, NH.
On Monday, Governor DeSantis unveiled his Declaration of Economic Independence at a press conference in Rochester. DeSantis' detailed, 10-point plan will reverse the decline of our nation's struggling economy and fight for the middle class by taking on the elites, DC bureaucrats, and Communist China. Click here to read the full plan.
Watch his remarks at the press conference HERE.
Later in the day, Governor DeSantis joined Fox News' Bret Baier for an exclusive, sit-down interview to discuss his economic policy rollout. During the interview, Governor DeSantis also highlighted his plans to stand up to China, how he kept Florida free during COVID lockdowns, and pushed back against false media narratives about Florida's African American education standards.
Watch the full interview HERE.
On Monday, Governor DeSantis also sat down for an exclusive interview with the Wall Street Journal. Read the article here.
Governor DeSantis wrapped up his New Hampshire swing on Tuesday with a trip to The Windmill Family Restaurant in Concord. His final stop was the WMUR studio, where he participated in WMUR's 'Conversation with the Candidate' with Adam Sexton, which will air on Friday, August 4th at 7:30 PM ET.
  