
    New ad highlights her fight for reproductive rights, Medicare for All, and getting big money out of politics
"Nothing's impossible if we fight for it"
Today, the Gillibrand presidential campaign launched an inspiring new 30-second ad, "Impossible," highlighting Kirsten Gillibrand's focus on defeating President Trump's right-wing agenda, and showcasing her fight to protect women's right to choose, enact Medicare for All, and root big money out of politics.
"Impossible" is the second spot in the campaign's million dollar plus ad buy. The ad campaign first started on August 10, with the launch of her "Imagine" ad, and is currently running in both Iowa and New Hampshire on broadcast and cable TV.
"If you want to get something done, just tell me it's impossible," said Kirsten Gillibrand. "From passing the repeal of Don't Ask Don't Tell, to getting 9/11 first responders the benefits they've earned, I've taken on the impossible and won. As president, I'll do the same when I fight to protect and expand reproductive rights, pass Medicare for All, and root big money out of politics."
Together with Gillibrand's recent trip to Missouri to hold a reproductive rights town hall, the ad buy will bolster her profile as the foremost champion in the presidential field when it comes to fighting for women's reproductive and human rights.
The ad campaign will boost her efforts to qualify for the fall debates. After a standout performance in the second debate in Detroit, Gillibrand had her strongest 24 hours of the campaign in terms of new online donors and contributions, and the campaign is making its final push to 130,000 donors. Following the debate, she earned her first qualifying poll.
The campaign has invested significantly in Iowa and New Hampshire, with 35 and 20 staff respectively.

TRANSCRIPT
Newscasters: "They want to take away healthcare from millions of Americans."
"Their attempt to make abortion illegal"
"...buying our elections..."
Kirsten: We can't just tune it out. We've got to shut it down.
I won't apologize for only nominating judges who support a woman's right to choose.
I don't care if corrupt politicians are scared at my plan to get big money out of politics.
And I'm proud that I supported Medicare for All before it was popular.
Nothing's impossible if we fight for it.
I'm Kirsten Gillibrand, and I approve this message.
  