
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 31
In the morning, the President traveled to Burlington, VT. He returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
August 1
The President announced his intention to nominate Rear Adm. John Carter Albright as a member and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Representative to the Mississippi River Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth K. Julian to serve as Assistant Secretary for the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
August 2
In the evening, the President attended a fundraiser for former Governor of Virginia L. Douglas Wilder at a private residence.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. David Carlin as Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations at the Department of Agriculture.
The White House announced that Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg has accepted the President's invitation for a working visit in Washington, DC, on August 7.
August 3
The President made available $53 million in emergency funds to fishermen in the Northeast, Northwest, and the Gulf of Mexico due to heavy uninsured losses from the collapse of commercial fish stocks and other disasters. He also made available funds to support emergency requirements resulting from the bombing of the Federal building in Oklahoma City, OK; enhanced antiterrorism efforts; and other disaster-related needs.
The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flash flooding on July 8-9.
The White House announced the President has invited President Sali Berisha of Albania for a working visit in Washington, DC, on September 11.
August 4
In the morning, the President met with Members of Congress.
In the afternoon, the President attended a birthday celebration for journalist Helen Thomas of United Press International in the Briefing Room.
  