
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jeffery Martin Baran of Virginia to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a five-year term beginning July 1, 2018. Mr. Baran currently serves as a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, a position he has held since October 2014. Prior to his tenure on the Commission, he served as Staff Director for Energy and Environment for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce. Previously, Mr. Baran served on the Committee staff as senior counsel from 2011 to 2014, and as counsel from 2009 to 2010. He served as counsel on the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Government Reform from 2003 to 2008. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Baran worked as a law clerk for Judge Lesley Wells of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. Mr. Baran received a B.A. and an M.A. from Ohio University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. He lives with his wife and three children in Arlington, Virginia.
Michael T. Evanoff of Arkansas to be an Assistant Secretary of State, Diplomatic Security. Mr. Evanoff is the Vice President for Asset Protection & Security at International Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. in Arkansas, a position he has held since 2014. Previously he served as Chief Security Officer at Coca-Cola in Zug, Switzerland and Athens, Greece and as Global Director of Security at Och-Ziff Capital Management Group in New York. He served as a special agent in the Department of State Bureau of Diplomatic Security from 1985 to 2011, holding senior posts with Overseas Security Advisory Council, NATO Office of Security, Secretary of State Protection Detail, and eight U.S. Missions overseas. He was also diplomatic security liaison officer to the U.S. European Command in Stuttgart, Germany. Mr. Evanoff earned a B.S. at Eastern Kentucky University. He and his wife, Kate Milner Evanoff, have a two-year old son, Luke.
Andrei Iancu of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce. Mr. Iancu is currently the Managing Partner of Irell & Manella LLP, where his practice focuses on intellectual property law. Mr. Iancu has advised plaintiffs and defendants across a wide variety of industries. He has appeared in front of the Patent and Trademark Office, the U.S. International Trade Commission, U.S. district courts, and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. He has published and spoken on intellectual property issues, and taught patent law at UCLA. Mr. Iancu earned his J.D., M.S. in mechanical engineering, and B.S. in aerospace engineering, from UCLA. Prior to law school, Mr. Iancu was an engineer at Hughes Aircraft.
Adam I. Klein of the District of Columbia to be a Member and Chairman of the Privacy & Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Mr. Klein is the Robert M. Gates Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, where his research centers on the intersection of national security policy and law. He previously served as a law clerk to Justice Antonin Scalia of the U.S. Supreme Court and Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. He has also worked on national security policy at the RAND Corporation, at the 9/11 Public Discourse Project (the nonprofit successor to the 9/11 Commission), and as a legislative assistant in the office of Rep. C.W. "Bill" Young. He is a graduate of Columbia Law School and Northwestern University.
-----
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to be Representatives of the United States of America to the Seventy-second Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, with the personal Rank of Ambassador while performing the duties as the Representatives of the United States of America to the Seventy-second Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations:

Congressman Christopher Smith of New Jersey - Speaker of the House Rep.
Congresswoman Barbara Lee of California - Minority Leader of the House Rep.
Lloyd Claycomb of Arizona
Carlos Trujillo of Florida

  