
    Today, a bipartisan group of former Administrators of the Environmental Protection Agency voiced their support for the Inflation Reduction Act, calling it "the most significant piece of climate legislation in United States history." Administrators Browner (D), Reilly (R), and Whitman (R) also applauded how the legislation will save families hundreds of dollars a year and create new, good paying union jobs across the country.
Read about their letter here:
Bloomberg: Former EPA Chiefs Back US Climate Deal Heading for Senate Vote[Jordan Fabian, 8/5/22]
Read the full letter here:
As former Administrators of the Environmental Protection Agency of both Democratic and Republican Administrations, we support the Inflation Reduction Act which represents the most significant piece of climate legislation in United States history. The legislation meets the moment of urgency that the climate crisis demands, and will position the U.S. to meet President Biden's climate goals of reducing emissions 50-52% by 2030, while making unprecedented investments in clean energy solutions that will save families hundreds of dollars a year and create new, good paying union jobs across the country.
This historic legislation is centered on equity and environmental justice, recognizing that climate change disproportionately impacts low-income communities and communities of color, by tackling legacy pollution and by ensuring that clean energy opportunities reach all Americans. And it invests in farmers, ranchers, and foresters, equipping them with tools to adopt practices that recognize the valuable role our lands provide in tackling the climate challenge.
As former EPA administrators, it was our job to protect public health. This legislation delivers on that commitment, by reducing pollution that's endangering our communities and fueling the climate crisis – leading to worsening heat waves, wildfires, droughts, flooding, and extreme weather. The Inflation Reduction Act seizes the opportunities of action, by providing financing and incentives to support upgrades and retrofits for homes and businesses that cut energy waste and boost U.S. energy independence. It invests in American workers and industry by spurring U.S. supply chains across technologies like solar, wind, carbon capture, nuclear, and hydrogen, at a time when countries around the world are racing to lead the clean energy economy.
The Inflation Reduction Act will make our country stronger and its people healthier, regardless of socio economic, geographical, or political background. We encourage Congress to pass this legislation immediately.
Administrators:Carol BrownerWilliam K. ReillyChristine Todd Whitman
  