
    Washington Examiner by Julia Johnson
The super PAC backing former U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley's presidential bid made its first ad buys in key primary and caucus states New Hampshire and Iowa.
Stand for America is shelling out $13 million to debut the new ad in New Hampshire and Iowa for nine weeks beginning on Tuesday.
The 30-second ad will air across broadcast, cable, and digital in the states and highlight Haley's unique foreign policy credentials.
Titled "Stop China," the video recalls Haley's experience in former President Donald Trump's administration, saying she "fought America's enemies at the U.N. and won."
"Nikki Haley: Tough as nails, smart as a whip, unafraid to speak," it continued.
It also features footage from one of Haley's speeches, during which she said, "Communist China won't just lose like the Soviet Union before. Communist China will end up on the ash heap of history."
The line alluded to former President Ronald Reagan's famous speech promising that communism would be left in "the ash heap of history."
Neither the campaign nor Haley's super PAC had purchased any ads for the 2024 primary race until now.
In the second quarter of 2023, Haley's campaign reported raising over $7 million. It also had $9.3 million in cash on hand. SFA pulled in $18.7 million during the same quarter and had $17 million in cash on hand.
This comes as the two top competitors for the Republican presidential nomination face criticism for high burn rates, as Trump pays off extensive legal bills and DeSantis's campaign overextended its resources — leading to a large staffing cut and campaign reset.
GOP strategists have emphasized the importance of resources, particularly cash, in sustaining a campaign for the long run. There remain just over five months until the first Republican caucuses, and Haley appears to be approaching campaign expenditures more cautiously than the leading contenders.
The former South Carolina governor's team emphasized to reporters Haley's ability to endure the campaign season financially, pointing to several prominent high-dollar donors to her.
  