
    
  "Outrageous" ... "Shameful" ... "Extremely Offensive" ... "Almost Beyond Comprehension" ... "Disgusting"

ABC's Jonathan Karl: "The Single Most Outrageous Ad Of The Campaign..." KARL: "But the single most outrageous ad of the campaign comes from a Super PAC supporting the president and run by his former spokesman." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 8/9/12)
Former Clinton Adviser Lanny Davis: "Bill Burton Needs To Go Back To Ethics School. ... The Ad Is Misleading And Disgusting..." "Bill Burton needs to go back to ethics school. ... He knows perfectly well that the ad is misleading and disgusting and he needs to apologize for it." (Steve Portnoy, "'Disgusting' Pro-Obama Ad Criticized By Democrat," ABC News' The Note, 8/9/12)
CNN's Erin Burnett: "Just Plain Wrong." BURNETT: "Blaming Mitt Romney personally for her death is just plain wrong." (CNN's "Out Front," 8/9/12)
Chicago Tribune: "What A Vicious, Shameful Ad. ... A Disgrace." "What a vicious, shameful ad. ... Mr. President, lift the campaign. Call this ad what it is: a disgrace." (Editorial, "Scraping Bottom," Chicago Tribune, 8/9/12)
The Wall Street Journal: "Smear..." "A postmodern postscript: The Obama campaign was at first more than happy to slipstream behind the Priorities USA smear, refusing to disavow the cancer ad and deflecting questions by claiming not to "know the specifics" (Robert Gibbs) or "know the facts" (deputy campaign manager Stephanie Cutter)." (Editorial, "The Postmodern President," The Wall Street Journal, 8/9/12)
The Washington Post's Nia-Malika Henderson And David Nakamura: "Widely Skewered As Over-The-Top And Irresponsible..." "The anti-Romney ad released this week by Priorities USA has been widely skewered as over-the-top and irresponsible, condemned for insinuating that Mitt Romney is to blame for the death of a woman whose husband lost his job and health insurance after Bain Capital bought his steel mill." (Nia-Malika Henderson and David Nakamura, "Obama, Romney campaigns Run Provocative Ads To Draw Attention In Crowded Media Landscape," The Washington Post, 8/9/12)
CBS News' Brian Montopoli: "Nasty ... Unfair ... Not True." "The story is certainly affecting, and it fits into the Obama camp's narrative that Romney doesn't care about working people. There's just one big problem: It's not true. ... And the Obama campaign's refusal to disavow the spot speaks to just how nasty the campaign has already gotten - a full three months before Election Day." (Brian Montopoli, "Due Diligence: An Unfair Attack On Mitt Romney," CBS News, 8/9/12)
The Hill's A.B. Stoddard: "It's Extremely Offensive." STODDARD: "The implication is that Mitt Romney is responsible for her death, and it's extremely offensive." (Fox News' "Special Report," 8/9/12)
Fox News' Trace Gallagher: "All Facts In This Case That Prove Why Many Publications Have Given This Four Pinocchios." (Fox News Channel's America Live, 8/9/12)
The Washington Post's Charles Krauthammer: "Almost Beyond Comprehension." KRAUTHAMMER: "Look, this is plain language. The guy is saying that he doesn't realize what he has done to anyone. He's talking about the woman. To link Romney to her death is almost beyond comprehension." (Fox News' "Special Report," 8/9/12)
  