
    Pool Reports by Shira Stein, The San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




August 1, 2023 12:44

VP travel pool #1: landed in Orlando and headed to event
Hi all, I'm once again subbing in as pooler on this trip to Orlando. AF2 landed at 12:29pm at Orlando International. Local press were present on the ground when we landed. She was greeted on the tarmac by Rep. Darren Soro, Rep. Maxwell Frost and Mayor Buddy Dyer. We're loaded and on route to the African Methodist Episcopal Church Women's Missionary Society Quadrennial Convention as of 12:42pm.
On background from a White House Official:
Upon arrival at Atlantic Aviation Orlando International Airport, the Vice President was greeted by Congressman Darren Soto, Congressman Maxwell Frost, and Mayor Buddy Dyer.


August 1, 2023 13:13

VP travel pool #2: arrived at convention center and holding
The motorcade arrived at the convention center at 1:09pm. Your pooler briefly glimpsed VP exiting her car from a distance.
Pool is holding in the room where she will speak at the convention center. The VP is scheduled to speak at 2:15pm. 


August 1, 2023 14:19

VP travel pool #3: remarks now
The VP is speaking at the convention now. Livestream info is below.
On background from a White House Official
Today, as part of her summer blitz of large-scale events in which she continues to engage with key constituencies across the nation, Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver the keynote address at the African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church's 20thWomen's Missionary Society Quadrennial Convention. The Vice President's remarks will be livestreamed at around 2:15PM ET at www.whitehouse.gov/live.
In her remarks, Vice President Harris will praise the Women's Missionary Society for their work and leadership, and she will highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration is continuing to deliver for people across America. The Vice President will address the continued attacks on fundamental freedoms we are seeing across the nation, including attacks on reproductive freedom, the freedom to vote, and the freedom to life save from gun violence. The Vice President will also declare that fighting to protect the freedom to learn and teach America's full history is the truest form of patriotism.
Her speech will mark the first time that a Vice President has ever delivered remarks at the Women's Missionary Society Quadrennial Conference. More than 3,000 members are expected to be in attendance.


August 1, 2023 14:59

VP travel pool #4: remarks address desantis
VP's remarks directly addressed Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis calling for her to debate him about the state's new education standards. When she first began talking about the issue, she received a standing ovation from the Black women missionaries.
"I'm here in Florida. I will tell you there is no round table, no lecture, no invitation we will accept to debate an undeniable fact. There were no redeeming qualities of slavery."


August 1, 2023 15:08

VP travel pool #5: AF2 departing
Motorcade returned to Orlando International at 2:56pm and AF2 took off at 3:06pm.



  