
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Second Lady Karen Pence visited the Indiana State Fair in Indianapolis to view pieces of art displayed by members of the Indiana World Organization of China Painters, who are competing for the chance to hand paint a design on porcelain china plates for the Vice President's Residence in Washington, DC.
"Hoosier China Painters are gifted artists and I am thrilled that they want to contribute their time and talent to painting china plates for the Vice President's Residence, which will become a part of our country's history," said Karen Pence. "The artists have amazing examples of their work on display at the Indiana State Fair and I can't wait to find out who Hoosiers decide will participate in the project."
The artists submitted examples of their work to the Indiana State Fair where people who attend the fair are able to cast a vote at the Indiana China Painters exhibit in the Indiana Arts Building at the fairgrounds. The voting ends at the conclusion of the Indiana State fair on Sunday, August 20. The winning artists will paint a design on 100 salad and dessert plates for the Vice President's Residence.
"It is our pleasure as Indiana artists to make this contribution to the history of china painting and the history of our nation by sharing our talents in this project, said Ellen Wilson-Pruit, Indiana WOCP President. "We will be painting the 50 state flowers on the reception plates. Each plate will be one of a kind but yet part of a collective work. Our painting is permanent once fired in the kiln. This means that these plates will be a lasting testament to the commitment to and appreciation of the arts by the state of Indiana and our nation."
The World Organization of China Painters estimate that 30-40 artists will participate in the project and they hope to have the project completed in time for the Christmas holiday season.
When Mrs. Pence served as the First Lady of Indiana, the Indiana World Organization of China Painters participated in a project for the First Lady's Charitable Foundation Luncheon in 2014. Eighty artists painted 150 bowls with the Indiana state flower, the Peony, for the event. The Indiana World Organization of China Painters recently offered to do a similar project with china as a gift to the Vice President's Residence.
To stay updated on Mrs. Pence's events, follow her on Twitter at, @SecondLady.
About Indiana World Organization of China Painters
The Indiana World Organization of China Painters is comprised of local guilds that meet monthly with the purpose of sharing, studying and promoting the art of china painting. The first Indiana guild was organized in 1969. Indiana belongs to the World Organization of China Painters, which is an international group of porcelain artists with headquarters and a museum in Oklahoma City, OK. Select pieces are chosen each year at the Indiana convention to represent the state at the world museum for one year. You can learn more about the organization at www.indianawocp.com.
  