
    By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and in consonance with the provisions relating to the Division of Central Administrative Services of the Office for Emergency Management contained in the National War Agency Appropriation Act, 1945, approved June 28, 1944 (Public Law 372—78th Congress), it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Division of Central Administrative Services of the Office for Emergency Management (hereinafter referred to as the Division) shall be terminated, and its functions shall be discontinued or transferred to the constituent agencies of the Office for Emergency Management and other appropriate Federal agencies, as hereinafter provided:
a. The Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall make an administrative determination with respect to the disposition to be made of each function of the Division, and shall order the transfer of each such function (except the functions of acquiring and disposing of property vested in the Division by Executive Order No. 9211 of August 1, 1942) to such Federal agency or agencies as he may designate, or, in appropriate circumstances, shall order the discontinuance of any such function.
b. The Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall make such other administrative determinations as may be required in carrying out the purposes of this order, including determinations with respect to the time, conditions, and manner of the transfer or discontinuance of functions and of the termination of the Division.
c. So much of the personnel, records, property (including contracts and rights), funds, and obligations of the Division as the Director may determine shall be transferred to the respective agencies to which functions are transferred pursuant to this order. Any personnel, records, property (including contracts and rights), funds, and obligations not so transferred shall, subject to the determination of the Civil Service Commission in the case of personnel, and of the Director in the other cases, be otherwise transferred or disposed of in such manner as is provided by law or executive order.
2. All prior executive orders and letters of the President (including letters of February 28, 1941, and July 29, 1943) in conflict with this order are modified to the extent of such conflict.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
THE WHITE HOUSE,August 25, 1944.
  