
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted August 8
Kenneth Spencer Yalowitz, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Belarus.
Sheldon C. Bilchik, of Maryland, to be Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, vice Robert W. Sweet, Jr., resigned.
Luise S. Jordan, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Corporation for National and Community Service (new position).
Andrea N. Brown, of Michigan, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of one year (new position).
Thomas Ehrlich, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 3 years (new position).
Christopher C. Gallagher, Sr., of New Hampshire, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 4 years (new position).
Reatha Clark King, of Minnesota, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 5 years (new position).
Carol W. Kinsley, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 5 years (new position).
Leslie Lenkowsky, of Indiana, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 4 years (new position).
Marlee Matlin, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 2 years (new position).
Arthur J. Naparstek, of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 4 years (new position).
John Rother, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 2 years (new position).
Walter H. Shorenstein, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 3 years (new position).
Submitted August 9
Henry J. Cauthen, of South Carolina, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2000 (reappointment).
Frank Henry Cruz, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2000, vice Lloyd Kaiser, term expired.
Submitted August 10
Thomas R. Carper, of Delaware, to be a member of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 4 years, vice Tommy G. Thompson, term expired.
Robert L. Gallucci, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador at Large.
Eddie J. Jordan, Jr., of Louisiana, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana for the term of 4 years, vice Harry A. Rosenberg, resigned.
Submitted August 12
Robert J. Cindrich, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Gustave Diamond, retired.
David A. Katz, of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice Alvin I. Krenzler, retired.
Sean J. McLaughlin, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Glenn E. Mencer, retired.
Robert Edward Service, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Paraguay.
  