
    Today, Romney for President announced the launch of "Text-to-Donate," giving supporters a new and easy way to donate to the campaign over mobile phones.  
"We recognize that people lead busy lives, but they still want to support Governor Romney with whatever means they have. This technology gives our incredible supporters the ability to make a donation in seconds – not minutes – with a text message," said Zac Moffatt, Digital Director for Romney for President.
Mobile phone users can now donate $10 to the Romney for President campaign by texting the word GIVE to 37377.
Text-to-donate campaigns have become popular over the past few years during relief efforts for natural disaster charities. A recent FEC ruling allows for the political donations via text messaging. Building on their innovative online, offline, and mobile solutions, this program provides advocates of Governor Romney and Vice Presidential Candidate Paul Ryan another way to donate to the campaign.
"Our goal is to breach the wall that has traditionally kept activists and citizens from contributing to the campaign," said Moffatt. "Whether through our website, the Mitt Romney store, our Victory Wallet solution, and now over cell phones, voters can make secure donations to the Romney-Ryan campaign, regardless of where they are."
This exciting program will launch with popular cellular providers such as Verizon, Sprint, T-Mobile, and U.S. Cellular customers starting this week. Other carriers, including AT&T, will be joining text-to-donate shortly.
We're proud to announce this easy-to-use avenue to help elect Governor Romney. It's one more way that we've been able to involve busy Americans this election cycle.
Contributions or gifts to Romney for President, Inc. are not tax deductible. Contribution charged to your cell phone bill. Must be 18 or older. Standard message and data rates may apply. Additional information at http://mi.tt/RGiswa. For help, text HELP.  Text STOP to cancel messages.  Powered by payvia.
  