
    (Little Rock) Calling her the Democrats' best shot at winning Arkansas and the White House in 2008, Governor Mike Beebe today endorsed Hillary Clinton for President.
"As the first lady of Arkansas, I watched Hillary Clinton stand up for working families by helping to organize Arkansas Advocates for Children and families and leading a taskforce to improve education standards across our great state," Beebe said. "As a Senator I have applauded her work to strengthen the Children's Health Insurance program, which increases coverage for our children in low income and working families.
"Senator Clinton has the right vision for Arkansas and the right vision for America," Beebe continued. "And that's why I know she is the Democrat with the best chance of winning this state in November of 2008."
Clinton and Beebe appeared together at a campaign event downtown Little Rock, where they were joined by hundreds of enthusiastic supporters.
Clinton applauded Beebe's first seven months in office, highlighting his success in cutting the state grocery tax in half, creating new economic development projects that have brought new jobs to the state, expanding preschool programs in Arkansas, and fighting for children's health insurance.
"Governor Beebe is one of those leaders who consistently over-delivers," Clinton said. "I'm so proud, so grateful, and so honored for the support and friendship that he and his extraordinary wife, Ginger, have shown me. And I'm looking forward to traveling with them from one end of this state to the other - talking to people about why I'm the candidate with the most experience to bring real change to Washington."
Mike Beebe was elected the 45th governor of Arkansas in 2006, following more than two decades of dedication to Arkansas public service. As a state senator and attorney general, Mike Beebe worked for more than 20 years to represent the people of Arkansas. First elected to the Arkansas Senate in 1982, Beebe has a proven track record of working across party lines and finding common sense solutions for the state's problems.
  