
    Coalition unites school choice advocates for Paul
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The 2012 Ron Paul Presidential Campaign today announced the national "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" coalition to energize voters who value educational choice.
"As a homeschooling father of four, I'm proud to support Congressman Paul for the Presidency. Dr. Paul consistently advocates for the proper role of the federal government in education—that is, no such role — and against both political parties that wish to exercise even greater federal control," said education choice advocate James Mills.
"Dr. Paul is a champion to families who do not choose the public education option, by introducing legislation that would allow these families to keep more of their money to pay for additional costs they incur. He has been a stalwart of freedom, always arguing for the right to opt-out of the government system," said Mr. Mills.
Mr. Mills serves on the "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" national advisory board and is a Ron Paul campaign co-chairman for the 4th congressional district.
"As a proud homeschool dad my only logical choice for President is Ron Paul," said David Fischer, Vice Chairman of the Ron Paul 2012 presidential campaign in Iowa and a "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" national advisory board member.
"Education of our children is the domain of parents, not politicians. Ron Paul understands the threat to freedom when parental control of education is eroded, and replaced with government control," said Mr. Fischer.
"Our family has been heavily supportive of Dr. Paul and I will work as hard as practically possible to relay the foundational principals of constitutionally limited government and traditional family values as a means of restoring America," said education choice advocate David Keagle, father of eight homeschooled children and a "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" national advisory board member.
"As lifetime members of the HSLDA and 11-year veterans of homeschooling, I am happy to endorse statesman Ron Paul whenever the opportunity arises," said Mr. Keagle, referring to the Home School Legal Defense Association.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" coalition should visit www.RonPaul2012.com/Homeschoolers.
  