
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Kerry (D) Massachusetts and 2 others)
The Administration opposes enactment of the substitute for S. 1405, which is expected to be offered by Senator Kerry. The bill would interfere substantially in the administration of the National Weather Service and its efforts to introduce new technology expeditiously. Restrictions contained in S. 1405 increase unnecessarily the costs of modernization.
The efficient and safe transition to new technology can be achieved without redundant and unnecessary assessments. Recent doppler radar field performance data demonstrate that the new radar system is effective and provides a substantial enhancement over existing, obsolete radar. Using appropriated funds to accommodate unnecessary redundancies and micromanagement would deprive other critical programs of adequate resources.
The Administration also objects to other troublesome provisions of S. 1405, which would:

—   Authorize new programs for NOAA. These activities are currently being performed under existing authorities, and the need for such comprehensive and national programs has not been well established. New programs in the bill include the Hurricane Reconnaissance Program, the U.S. Weather Research Program, the National Shellfish Indicator Program, and the National Marine Monitoring Program.
—   Authorize up to $30 million for the acquisition of NOAA aircraft. NOAA is assessing its long term aircraft requirements and no funds should be authorized for aircraft acquisition until this review is complete.
—   Establish a NOAA Foundation. The Foundation would not be clearly governmental or clearly private. As the President noted in a 1990 statement, establishing such entities "undermines the separation of power principles of our Constitution, blurring the distinction between public and private entities in a way that may diminish the political accountability of Government."
—   Establish reprogramming requirements. Any reprogramming requirements should be amended to be consistent with those of section 606 of Public Law 102-140, the 1992 Department of Commerce Appropriations Act.
—   Target funds or mandate activities in specific geographic areas.
—   Restrict subsidies in the construction, repair, or alteration of NOAA vessels. The definition of significant subsidy should be clarified so that it does not harm American shipyards, which receive preferences from State or local governments of the type identified in section 403(b). 
  