
    Columbia, SC — At a press conference today, Senator Lindsey Graham announced the South Carolina National Security Coalition for his presidential campaign.
The coalition is comprised of retired flag officers, former prisoners of war, current and former adjutants general of the South Carolina National Guard, officers who served with Graham during his 33 year military career, and civilians who have devoted their lives to honoring and serving our veterans. The group will assist the campaign by spreading the Senator's strong national security record to voters in South Carolina, communicating directly with veterans and military families, and explaining why Senator Graham is ready to be Commander-in-Chief on day one.
In addition, Senator Graham returned to the state yesterday where he held campaign events and a "No Nukes for Iran" town hall meeting to continue to address the bad deal with Iran and our nation's security.
"We live in dangerous times and Senator Graham is willing to tell the truth about what it's going to take to defend America when few others will." said Bob Livingston, South Carolina Adjutant General. "He's an advocate for our men and women in uniform as well as our veterans."
Please find the list of Lindsey Graham 2016's South Carolina National Security Coalition below:
Colonel Scott Cain, South Carolina Air National Guard (Retired)
Bill Dukes, Founder of Honor Flight South Carolina
Major General Lester D. Eisner, United States Army (Retired)
William H. Funchess, Former 1st Lieutenant in United States Army, Korean War POW
Major General George Goldsmith, United States Army (Retired)
Major General William "Dutch" Holland, United States Air Force (Retired)
Brigadier General H.G. "Butch" Kirven, South Carolina Army National Guard (Retired)
Major General Nelson Lacy, South Carolina State Guard (Retired)
Honorable Robert E. Livingston, Jr., South Carolina Adjutant General
Colonel David B. Lobb, United States Army (Retired)
General T. Michael Moseley, United States Air Force (Retired)
Vice Admiral Charles L. Munns, United States Navy (Retired)
Brigadier General Grady L. Patterson, III, South Carolina Air National Guard (Retired)
Colonel Edwin Rumsey, United States Air Force (Retired)
Rear Admiral Dean Sackett, Jr., United States Navy (Retired)
Colonel Pete Sercer, United States Air Force (Retired)
Rear Admiral David K. Shimp, South Carolina Naval Militia (Retired)
Major General Steve Siegfried, United States Army (Retired)
Major General Stanhope S. Spears, United States Army (Retired), Former South Carolina Adjutant General
Colonel Jack Van Loan, United States Air Force (Retired), Vietnam War POW
Lieutenant Colonel Thomas D. Von Kaenel, United States Army (Retired)
Lieutenant General Claudius E. "Bud" Watts, III, United States Air Force (Retired), Former President of The Citadel
Brigadier General Mitchell Willoughby, South Carolina Army National Guard (Retired)
Brigadier General Mick Zais, United States Army (Retired), Former South Carolina Superintendent of Education
  