
    The White House today announced the appointment of Dennis K. Rhoades as Executive Director of the Veterans Federal Coordinating Committee and Paul Weston as Deputy Director.
The Committee was established by the President in 1978 after an interagency policy review of Federal programs affecting veterans of the Vietnam war era. It is charged with improving coordination among Government programs affecting veterans and targeting benefits and services to disadvantaged veterans, particularly those of the Vietnam era. The Committee is chaired by Stuart Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Eugene Eidenberg, Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Secretary to the Cabinet. It includes representatives of nine Federal agencies that provide services and benefits for veterans.
Dennis Rhoades, 36, was previously head of the Veterans Employment Service at the Labor Department. He also served as Assistant Director of the Veterans Federal Coordinating Committee, where he worked on designing and implementing the Veterans Outreach and Community Services program. He worked on drafting the Presidential review memorandum on the status of Vietnam veterans in 1978, developed the Disabled Veterans Outreach program in 1977, and was assistant State director for veterans employment in his native California between 1974 and 1976. Rhoades is an Army veteran and served for 18 months in Southeast Asia between 1967 and 1969.
Paul Weston, 34, was previously Special Assistant to Veterans Administration (VA) Administrator Max Cleland. He was White House project director for Vietnam Veterans Week in 1979, and was the VA's liaison to veterans and military organizations in 1978-79. A Vietnam era Air Force veteran, Weston has also worked with the President's Committee on Employment of the Handicapped, ACTION, and VA's Voluntary Service program. Weston served as chairman of the Commission on Volunteerism in his native Georgia before coming to Washington in 1977.
  