
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to provide for interagency coordination of the implementation of Federal urban and regional policy, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment of the Council.
1-101. There is established the Interagency Coordinating Council.
1-102. The Council shall be composed of the heads of the following agencies, or a designated representative, and such others as the President may designate:
(a) Department of the Treasury
(b) Department of Justice
(c) Department of the Interior
(d) Department of Agriculture
(e) Department of Commerce
(f) Department of Labor
(g) Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
(h) Department of Housing and Urban Development
(i) Department of Transportation
(j) Department of Energy
(k) Environmental Protection Agency
(1) Community Services Administration
(m) General Services Administration
(n) Small Business Administration
(o) ACTION
1-103. The President shall designate the Chairperson of the Council.
1-2. Functions of the Council.
1-201. The Council shall work with Executive agencies to involve all sectors of the Nation, including State, county and local governments, regional bodies, the private sector, neighborhood groups, and volunteer and civic associations, in a partnership to conserve and strengthen America's communities.
1-202. The Council shall facilitate cooperation and coordination of urban and regional policy implementation among and between Executive agencies.
1-203. The Council shall assist Executive agencies in coordinating timely responses to State, county and local government and community development strategies.
1-204. The Council shall identify and seek to solve interagency and intergovernmental problems which impede the effective functioning of the Federal system.
1-205. The functions of the Council shall neither substitute for nor replace Executive Office of the President clearance, review and decisionmaking procedures.
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1-301. Executive agencies shall cooperate with and assist the Council in performing its functions.
1-302. The Chairperson shall be responsible for providing the Council with such administrative services or support as may be necessary or appropriate.
1-303. The Chairperson may establish working groups or subcommittees of the Council. The Chairman may invite representatives of nonmember agencies to participate from time to time in the functions of the Council.
1-304. The Chairperson shall report to the President on the performance of the Council's functions.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
August 16, 1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:52 a.m., August 17, 1978]
  