
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Milford Wayne Donaldson – Chairman, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
•      Clement Alexander Price – Vice Chairman, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
•      Harry P. Hallock – Member, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
•      Tom Robinson – Member, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
President Obama said, "Our nation will be greatly served by the talent and expertise these individuals bring to their new roles. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in this Administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Milford Wayne Donaldson, Appointee for Chairman, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation Milford Wayne Donaldson is President of Architect Milford Wayne Donaldson, FAIA, Inc., a firm specializing in historic preservation services since 1978. Previously, he served as the California State Historic Preservation Officer from 2004 to 2012. Mr. Donaldson was first appointed as Chairman of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation in May 2010. He is affiliated with several historical and preservation organizations and is a past president of the California Preservation Foundation and past chair of the State Historical Building Safety Board, the State Historical Resources Commission, and the Historic State Capitol Commission. Mr. Donaldson received a B.A. and a B.S. in Engineering from California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, an M.S. in Architecture from the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, Scotland, and an M.A in Public History and Teaching from the University of San Diego.
Clement Alexander Price, Appointee for Vice Chairman, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
Clement Alexander Price is the Board of Governors Distinguished Service Professor of History and the Founder and Director of the Institute on Ethnicity, Culture, and the Modern Experience at Rutgers University, Newark Campus. He was first appointed Vice Chairman of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation in August 2011. He is a Trustee of the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. He is a Member of the Scholarly Advisory Committee to the National Museum of African American History and Culture, and is Chairman of the Save Ellis Island Foundation. He was Chairman of the New Jersey State Council on the Arts from 1980 to 1983. Dr. Price received a B.A. and an M.A. from the University of Bridgeport, and a Ph.D. in History from Rutgers University.
Harry P. Hallock, Appointee for Member, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
Harry P. Hallock is Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Procurement at the Pentagon and serves as the Army's Competition Advocate, a position he has held since July 2013. Mr. Hallock was appointed to the Senior Executive Service in 2007, serving as the Executive Director of the Army Contracting Command in Warren, Michigan, and the TACOM Life Cycle Management Command senior civilian procurement authority from 2007 to 2013. Previously, Mr. Hallock served as the Deputy Director of the U.S. Army Contracting Command in Huntsville, Alabama from 2011 to 2012. Mr. Hallock received a B.S. from the University of Delaware and a master's degree from the Naval Postgraduate School.
Tom Robinson, Appointee for Member, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
Tom Robinson serves as Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting) for Headquarters U.S. Air Force. He was commissioned in 1984 and served 28 years in active-duty status before entering the Senior Executive Service in 2012. Previously, Mr. Robinson served as Chief of the Contracting Division for Headquarters Pacific Air Forces. He also held positions including Director of Contracting for Ogden Air Logistics Center and Chief of the Contracting Division, Directorate of Instillations and Mission Support, Air Education Training Command at Randolph Air Force Base in Texas. Mr. Robinson received a B.A. from Canisius College, an M.P.A. from Northern Michigan University, and an M.S. from the Air War College.
  