
    Hillary for American Chair John Podesta released the following statement:
"We believe the RNC official in the room, the campaign's statement after the meeting and the candidate himself that Donald Trump's immigration plan remains the same as it's always been: tear apart families and deport 16 million people from the United States. One need look no further for confirmation than Donald Trump's own words and the TV ad released on Friday that's being lauded by white supremacists."
RNC Official:
Breitbart: RNC Official at Trump's Hispanic Meeting Debunks False BuzzFeed, Univision Reports that Donald Succumbed to Amnesty Activists
Trump campaign statement: 
"Mr. Trump said nothing today that he hasn't said many times before, including in his convention speech—enforce ourimmigration laws, uphold the Constitution and be fair and humane while putting American workers first. Today's conversation was productive and enlightening, and Mr. Trump looks forward to speaking with these leaders again soon and often." – Steven Cheung, Trump Campaign
Donald Trump's Own Words:
TRUMP'S POSITION HAS BEEN THAT HE WOULD "HUMANELY" USE A DEPORTATION FORCE TO ROUND-UP AND DEPORT 16 MILLION PEOPLE
Trump: "You're Going To Have A Deportation Force, And You're Going To Do It Humanely." "'But still tell me the how. Are you going to have a massive deportation force?' Brzezinski asked. Trump responded affirmatively: 'You're going to have a deportation force, and you're going to do it humanely, and you're going to bring the country — and, frankly, the people, because you have some excellent, wonderful people, some fantastic people that have been here for a long period of time.'" [Washington Post, 11/11/15]
Trump: "It's Not Only Deportation. It's Building A Wall And I Mean A Real Wall… But It's Going To Be Done In A Very Humane Fashion. People Will Have To Go Out, They Are Illegal Immigrants.. They Have To Go Out And They Have To Come Back Legally." TRUMP: "Well first of all, it's not only deportation. It's building a wall and I mean a real wall. Mexico will pay for the wall. Most politicians wouldn't understand how you go about doing that. It will happen. It's basically quite simple. But it's going to be done in a very humane fashion. People will have to go out, they are illegal immigrants, they came in illegally. They have to go out and they have to come back legally. Bret, there will be a deportation, and hopefully they'll be able to come back into the country." [Special Report with Bret Baier, Fox News, 11/12/15]
Trump: "You Can Do It On A Humane Basis… Good Ones Can Come Back, But They Have To Go Through A Process" A "Long Process." TRUMP: "And you can do it on a humane basis. You can do it on a basis where it works. And they come back – good ones can come back, but they have to go through a process. We have million of people wanting to get into the country and they are doing it legally, and they're going through this long process, and it's really unfair to them also." [Mornings With Maria, Fox Business, 11/6/15]
Trump Said Undocumented Immigrants Who Were Rounded Up Were "Going To Be Happy Because They Want To Be Legalized… I Know It Doesn't Sound Nice, But Not Everything Is Nice, Somebody Has To Do It." SCOTT PELLEY: "Let's assume your wall has gone up." DONALD TRUMP: "Good." SCOTT PELLEY: "Eleven, twelve million illegal immigrants—" DONALD TRUMP: "Or whatever the number is." SCOTT PELLEY: "Still in the country, what do you do?" DONALD TRUMP: "If they've done well, they're going out and they're coming back in legally. Because you said it—" SCOTT PELLEY: "You're rounding them all up?" DONALD TRUMP: "We're rounding them up in a very humane way, in a very nice way. And they're going to be happy because they want to be legalized. And, by the way, I know it doesn't sound nice, but not everything is nice, somebody has to do it." SCOTT PELLEY: "It doesn't sound practical." DONALD TRUMP: "It is practical. It's going to work. They have to come here legally. And, you know, when I talk about the wall, and I said it before, we're going to have a tremendous, beautiful, wide-open door. Nice big door. We want people to come into the country." [60 Minutes, CBS, 9/27/15]
TRUMP COMPARED HIS "HUMANE" MASS DEPORTATION PLAN TO OPERATION WETBACK
Trump Compared His "Humane" Mass Deportation Plans To Operation Wetback, Saying Eisenhower Did This In The 1950s "And It Worked." "Trump made his affinity for Operation Wetback clear during an interview with CBS's Scott Pelley in September. Speaking on 60 Minutes Overtime, Pelley asked Trump to explain his plans for curbing illegal immigration. 'We're rounding them up in a very humane way, a very nice way,' Trump said, as he has expressed before. 'What does that roundup look like to you?' Pelley pressed. 'How does it work? Are you going to have cops going door-to-door?' Trump interjected: 'Did you like Eisenhower? Did you like Dwight Eisenhower as a president at all?' 'He did this,' the presidential candidate said. 'He did this in the 1950s with over a million people, and a lot of people don't know that…and it worked.'" [Washington Post, 11/11/15]


    HEADLINE: "Donald Trump's 'Humane' 1950s Model For Deportation, 'Operation Wetback', Was Anything But." [Washington Post, 11/11/15] Trump Argued That There Was A Precedent For Mass Deportation Because Eisenhower Did So In The 1950s.TRUMP: "Well, we're on the same side of it. You know if you back to the early 1950s, Dwight Eisenhower, and I made that point during the debate, he took out in terms of illegal immigration, he felt you had to do it. He was a nice man, a high quality man, but he moved out 1.5 million people and brought them back to where they came from. They were here illegally. I think -- it really does have big precedent. We either have a country or we don't, Sean. We have a country, we have to have borders, we have borders, and we have to have laws. We either have a country or we don't. It's that simple." [Hannity, Fox News, 11/10/15]
  

Trump On Moving Undocumented Immigrants Out Of The U.S.: "Dwight Eisenhower Had The Exact Same Situation And He Moved Out One And A Half Million People And Very Few People Talked About It And It Was A Tough Situation, But What He Did Is He Did It." TRUMP: "We're going to work a plan. You know that in 19 – in an early 1950s, Dwight Eisenhower had the exact same situation and he moved out one and a half million people and very few people talked about it and it was a tough situation, but what he did is he did it. And, you know, I like Ike. The expression is I like Ike. That was his whole campaign. He was the nice guy supposedly. He moved out a million and a half people. And actually, he moved them right up to the border and move them over. They came back. Moved them again, they came back, then he brought them all the way south and they never came back. I mean, you know, it's a very famous thing. People don't talk about it." [Mornings With Maria, 11/6/15]
Trump: "Dwight Eisenhower Moved Over A Million, It's Actually A Million And A Half People Back In To The South Through The Border Because It Was A Huge Problem. Nobody Ever Mentions It. It Was A Major Operation." TRUMP: "Very detailed. It's very detail, then we explain– do you know that Dwight Eisenhower who is a nice general, in the 1950s, do you know that he moved over a million people out and what he did, he brought them to the border and they came right back. Brought them to the boarder, and they came right back. Then what they did is they took them and moved them all the way down south and they never came back. But Dwight Eisenhower moved over a million, it's actually a million and a half people back in to the south through the border because it was a huge problem. Nobody ever mentions it. It was a major operation, a million and a half people which is maybe the equivalent in those days, and he moved them out because we had a huge problem in the 1950s. Nobody ever talks about it." [The Today Show, NBC, 10/26/15]
More From Trump:
HuffPo: Donald Trump: Babies Born To Undocumented Immigrants Aren't U.S. Citizens: Not only does Donald Trump support ending birthright citizenship, the real estate mogul now says children born to undocumentedimmigrants on U.S. soil aren't American citizens at all. "I don't think they have American citizenship and if you speak to some very, very good lawyers — and I know some will disagree — but many of them agree with me and you're going to find they do not have American citizenship. We have to start a process where we take back our country. Our country is going to hell," Trump said in an interview with CNN on Tuesday night. The current frontrunner for the Republican presidential nomination added that he wants to "test out" his views in court and that he would ultimately allow "good ones" to apply to return to the U.S. once all undocumented immigrants were deported…There were an estimated 4.5 million U.S.-born children younger than the age of 18 living with at least one undocumented parent in 2012, according to a 2014 Pew Hispanic Center report.
Slate: Trump: Children of Undocumented Immigrants Must be Deported: Deport them all. That seems to be Donald Trump's nuanced message. All undocumented immigrants must be deported and any children they had while in the country should be kicked out as well. "We're going to keep the families together, but they have to go," Trump said on NBC'sMeet the Press. What about the kids who have lived their whole lives in the United States and have nowhere to go? "They have to go," he said. "We will work with them. They have to go. Chuck, we either have a country, or we don't have a country."
  