
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
Pursuant to section 204(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C. 1703(b), I hereby report to the Congress that I have exercised my statutory authority to take additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) and the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12865.
The circumstances that led to the declaration on September 26, 1993, of a national emergency have not been resolved. The actions and policies of UNITA continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of the United States. United Nations Security Council Resolution 864 (1993) imposed prohibitions against the sale of weapons, military materiel, and petroleum products to UNITA. United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1127 of August 28, 1997, and 1130 of September 29, 1997, imposed additional sanctions against UNITA due to the serious difficulties in the Angolan peace process resulting from delays by UNITA in the implementation of its essential obligations as established by the Lusaka Peace Protocol of November 20, 1994.
Recently, the United Nations Security Council acted to impose additional sanctions in response to UNITA's failure to comply with its obligations under the Lusaka Peace Protocol, which has jeopardized the return of peace to Angola. United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1173 of June 12, 1998, and 1176 of June 24, 1998, responded in particular to UNITA's continued refusal to allow the Government of Angola to establish state administration over four towns that remain under UNITA's control. These resolutions demand UNITA's compliance with its obligations under the Lusaka Peace Protocol, including demilitarization of all its forces, and full cooperation in the process of allowing the Government of Angola to extend its authority throughout Angola.
Accordingly, and pursuant to the requirements of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1173 and 1176, I have exercised my statutory authority and issued an Executive order which: (1) blocks property and property interests (within the United States or within the possession or control of United States persons) of UNITA, and of designated senior officials of UNITA and adult members of their immediate families; (2) prohibits the importation into the United States of all diamonds exported from Angola that are not controlled by a Certificate of Origin regime of the Government of Angola; (3) prohibits the sale or supply to Angola from the United States or by United States persons, except through designated points of entry, of motorized vehicles, watercraft, and spare parts for the foregoing, and equipment used in mining, regardless of origin; and (4) prohibits the sale or supply to Angola from the United States or by United States persons of mining services or of ground or waterborne transportation services, regardless of origin, to persons in UNITAheld territory. The order also prohibits any transaction by a United States person, or within the United States, that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in the order.
In furtherance of the goals of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1173 and 1176, and of the foreign policy interests of the United States, the order makes explicit that exemptions from the prohibitions that it imposes may be authorized for medical and humanitarian purposes.
The order defines UNITA to include: (1) the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola; (2) the Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola (FALA); and (3) any person acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of the foregoing, including the Center for Democracy in Angola (CEDA).
The measures taken in the order will immediately demonstrate to UNITA the seriousness of our concern over its delays in implementing the peace process. The blocking of UNITA's property and the other prohibitions imposed under this Executive order will further limit UNITA's capacity to pay for its military buildup and to undermine the peace process. It is particularly important for the United States and the international community to demonstrate to UNITA the necessity of completing the peace process in Angola.
When UNITA fully complies with its obligations and completes its transition from an armed movement to an unarmed political party, the United States will support measures lifting these sanctions.
I am enclosing a copy of the Executive order I have issued. The order is effective at 12:01 a.m., eastern daylight time on August 19, 1998.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  