
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Robert John Sander of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy.
Mr. Sander currently serves as the Principal Deputy General Counsel for the Department of the Army and Acting General Counsel of the Army during the General Counsel's absence. He provides legal and policy advice to the Secretary of the Army, the Secretariat, and other Senior Army Leaders while serving as the point of contact for legal matters between the Army, the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, and the General Counsel of the other military services and Federal agencies.
Previously, Mr. Sander served as Senior Associate General Counsel for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and as a Trial Attorney in the Counterterrorism Section of the United States Department of Justice, National Security Division.
Mr. Sander has more than 20 years of experience in the legal profession and 19 years of service in the United States Army Reserve. He is an alumni of Temple University, where he graduated Cum Laude with a major in Finance. Mr. Sander later obtained his Juris Doctor from Widener University Law School before receiving a Master of Science of Strategic Intelligence from the National Intelligence University.

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Bridget E. Bean of Virginia, to be the Assistant Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency (Grant Programs), Department of Homeland Security.
Ms. Bean currently serves as the Acting Assistant Administrator for Grant Programs at FEMA. In this capacity she oversees the Grant Management Modernization effort, a $390 million major grants systems modernization that will improve the administration and oversight of the billions of grant dollars awarded annually by DHS, all disaster and non-disaster grant policy, and a $2 billion suite of Homeland Security grant programs. The Homeland Security grant programs are designed to build, sustain, and improve the Nation's capability to prevent, protect, respond, recover, and mitigate all disaster and emergency threats. She provides oversight of grant investments across a broad range of projects, including capabilities to counter weapons of mass destruction, cybersecurity improvements, and emerging threats from active shooters and complex, coordinated terrorist attacks. Ms. Bean most recently served as the Acting Chief Component Human Capital Officer, in which she oversaw several initiatives focusing on providing transparency and customer service to FEMA. Ms. Bean has held several leadership positions throughout FEMA and at the U.S. Small Business Administration.
  