
    
  I respect the other candidates. But in a time of such global upheaval and strife, America needs a serious, experienced leader to restore America's promise, and that leader is Jon Huntsman.

In 2008, Florida and the presidency went to Barack Obama because he offered hope. To defeat the President in 2012, we need a candidate who will offer solutions. That man is Jon Huntsman.
Today at 11:15 a.m. at Scotty's Landing in Miami, I will join Gov. Huntsman to formally endorse his candidacy, and accept a role as National Chairman of GenH - the campaign's youth and young professionals outreach program. I will be joined by fellow Floridian Ana Navarro who will join the campaign as National Hispanic Chairperson.
I am confident that Jon's vision will appeal to young voters, who are concerned about the trillions of dollars in debt being piled on their backs, and who desperately seek jobs and economic opportunity.
Gov. Huntsman is the only candidate with a proven record of creating jobs, in business and as governor. He understands that, as Marco Rubio recently noted, "We don't need more taxes; we need more taxpayers."
He has a real plan and real ideas to put the American people back to work - the same ideas he championed in Utah to make that state number one in job creation.
He's stressed the need to overhaul our tax and regulatory systems, bolster manufacturing, increase free trade, and reform our Visa program to encourage the best and brightest folks from around the world to invest in America.
Perhaps most importantly, Jon is the candidate best-equipped to defeat President Obama next November.
As more Americans get to know Jon and his record, I'm confident his support will continue to grow. Two years ago, I jumped on board Marco Rubio's campaign when he was polling at 3 percent, and we made history. With Jon, I can't wait to make history again.
I respect the other candidates. But in a time of such global upheaval and strife, America needs a serious, experienced leader to restore America's promise, and that leader is Jon Huntsman.
To get involved sign-up now for email updates.
  