
    The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed as items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements.
Released August 2
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joe Lockhart
Transcript of a press briefing by Director of National Drug Control Policy Barry McCaffrey on the national drug control strategy
Statement by the Press Secretary: President Extends Condolences to Victims of Indian Train Crash
Released August 3
Transcript of a press briefing by Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy Planning Bruce Reed on the President's meeting with the National Welfare to Work Forum
Statement by the Press Secretary: Meeting with His Excellency Bulent Ecevit, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey
Announcement: President Clinton Releases Second Round of Emergency Funds To Respond to Heat Wave
Announcement of nominations for a U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia and a U.S. Court of International Trade Judge
Released August 4
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joe Lockhart
Statement by the Press Secretary on the appointment of Mara Rudman as Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Chief of Staff to the National Security Adviser
Released August 5
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joe Lockhart
Statement by the Press Secretary announcing the Presidential Medal of Freedom awards
Statement by the Press Secretary: President Clinton and Vice President Gore Strengthening the Partnership With State and Local Governments
Announcement of nomination for U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of West Virginia
Announcement of nomination for U.S. Attorney for the District of South Dakota
Announcement of nomination for U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California
Announcement of nominations for four U.S. District Judges and two U.S. Court of Appeals Judges
Released August 6
Statement by the Press Secretary on the convention concerning the prohibition and elimination of child labor
Statement by the Press Secretary: Meeting with His Excellency Kjell Magne Bondevik, Prime Minister of Norway Statement by the Press Secretary: President Clinton Announces Legislation To Provide Parity for Central American and Haitian Migrants
Statement by the Press Secretary: President Clinton Travels to New Zealand for APEC Leaders Meeting and State Visit
Statement by the Press Secretary on the establishment of a task force to coordinate the Federal response to the drought
Announcement: U.S. Special Envoy for the Americas, Mr. Kenneth H. (Buddy) MacKay, Jr., Visits Countries of the Eastern Caribbean and the Dominican Republic
Announcement of nomination for U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York
  