
    Pool Reports by Frank Lockwood, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette 



Sent:
Reports:




August 5, 2021 11:08
Pool report# 1: Morning
Good morning. I'm the print pool reporter today. It's looking like a busy day here at the White House. Other than the president's meeting with AANHPI leaders, which is a pool event, everything else that has been announced is open press.


August 5, 202112:14
Pool report # 2: Meeting with AANHPI leaders
AANHPI meeting is in the State Dining Room. Press pool members have been gathered in the East Room, waiting to proceed. Just got the green light at 12:13 to head over. I'll send the attendees list when it is ready for release.


August 5, 202112:15
Pool report #3: AANHPI meeting
Per the White House, here is the list of people attending the President and the Vice President's meeting with Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander civil rights leaders:
AANHPI Civil Rights LeadersSeema Agnani, Executive Director, National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development (National CAPACD)Christine Chen, Executive Director, Asian and Pacific Islander American Vote (APIAVote)Quyen Dinh, Executive Director, Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC)Satjeet Kaur, Executive Director, Sikh CoalitionKiran Kaur Gill, Executive Director, Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund (SALDEF)K?hi? Lewis, President & CEO, Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement (CNHA)Neil Makhija, Executive Director, Indian American ImpactGregg Orton, National Director, National Council of Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA)Tavae Samuelu, Executive Director, Empowering Pacific Islander Communities (EPIC)Chiling Tong, President & CEO, Asian/Pacific Islander American Chamber of Commerce and Entrepreneurship (National ACE)John Yang, President & Executive Director, Asian Americans Advancing Justice (AAJC); Board Member, AAPI Victory AllianceAlvina Yeh, Executive Director, Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance (APALA)Sung Yeon Choimorrow, Executive Director, National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum (NAPAWF)
Biden-Harris Administration OfficialsCedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President and Director of the Office of Public EngagementSusan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy AdvisorNeera Tanden, Senior Advisor to the PresidentKrystal Ka'ai, Executive Director, White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific IslandersErika Moritsugu, Deputy Assistant to the President & Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Senior LiaisonRohini Kosoglu, Deputy Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice PresidentEmmy Ruiz, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy and OutreachDanielle Conley, Deputy Counsel to the President Howard Ou, Associate Director for Public EngagementMorgan Mills, Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Policy Assistant


August 5, 202112:18
Pool report #4: AANHPI meeting, additional
-- President expresses sadness at passing of AFL-CIO official.


August 5, 202112:24

Pool report #5: AANHPI meeting
President done speaking. I'm addition to regret about Richard Trumka he also described conversations with Asian Americans following the deadly hate crime attack in Atlanta. People described feeling unsafe, unwanted and in some cases invisible, he said.


August 5, 202112:26
Pool report: #6: Lunch lid
Lunch lid til 1 pm


August 5, 202112:48
Pool report #7: More details on the meeting with AANHPI leaders
?Please check the tape to check quotes.
The president's initial remarks were not captured by the main microphones.
The president called Mr. Trumka a "very close" friend and said he was "more than head of AFL-CIO." He said that "at least he was with people who adore him." [Note: Verb tense is unclear.]


August 5, 202112:52
Pool report #8: AANHPI meeting, continued
Please check tapes.
"The Vice President and I are honored to host leaders representing [may have said "a" or "the"] rich diversity of Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander communities, many of whom I've met before, some of whom I'm meeting for the first time. Welcome, again, to the White House. We have a full agenda to discuss: The pandemic, economy, immigration, voting rights and hate crimes."


August 5, 202112:57
Pool report #9: AANHPI meeting
Please check tape.
The president noted it was the ninth anniversary of the shooting of ten worshipers at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin.Seven people lost their lives in "a hateful act of bigotry at the Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin," he said.
"Today, we honor everyone impacted by this tragedy, and we think about all the pain during this pandemic with the rise of hate crimes, harassment, bullying, and other forms of bias against Asian Americans. It seems not to stop," he said.


August 5, 202113:02
Pool report #10: More from the AANHPI meeting
The president discussed meeting with Asian American leaders after the murders in Atlanta.
"The discussion was very raw, it was powerful, and a common theme was that Asian Americans [were] feeling unsafe unwanted, and some of you indicated feeling invisible sometimes. Our message back to you was, at that moment, we see you, we see you. A few months later we stood here in the White House, and we signed the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act into law. It also was a powerful moment, showing that we can come together, Democrat and Republican we can come together as a nation, and truly look out for one another. "


August 5, 202113:04
Pool report #11: AANHPI meeting
The president also thanked members of the AANHPI communities for their work in combatting covid-19 and boosting vaccination efforts.


August 5, 202115:34
Pool report #12: Attendees at auto event
?Per the White House: ? In the audience are approximately 50 guests, including Cabinet Secretaries, Members of Congress, United Auto Workers leadership and members, and environmental and public health stakeholders:
Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation Administrator Michael Regan, Environmental Protection Agency Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI) Senator Gary Peters (MI) Senator Tom Carper (DE) Senator Martin Heinrich (NM) Senator Jeff Merkley (OR) Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI) Senator Alex Padilla (CA) Senator Ed Markey (MA) Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL) Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) Congresswoman Kathy Castor (FL-14) Mary Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer, General Motors Jim Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer, Ford Mark Stewart, Chief Operating Officer, Stellantis North America Ray Curry, President, United Auto Workers (UAW) Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President and National Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Climate Advisor
Introducing the President: Bernard "Bernie" Ricky, President, United Auto Workers (UAW) Local 600
Vehicles on the South Lawn: Ford F150 Lightning  Chevrolet Bolt EUV Jeep Wrangler Limited Rubicon 4xE GMC Hummer EV Ford E Transit Van


August 5, 202117:46

Pool report #13: Attendees at medal legsilation signing 
Per the White House, here's who attended.
In the audience for the President and Vice President's remarks, and the President's signing of H.R. 3325, "An Act to award four congressional gold medals to the United States Capitol Police and those who protected the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021":
Elected Officials  Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)  Senator Roy Blunt (MO)  Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)  Senator Patrick Leahy (VT)  Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL)  Representative Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02)  Mayor Muriel Bowser, Washington, DC  Karen Gibson, Sergeant at Arms of the U.S. Senate
U.S. Capitol Police Officers  Chief Tom Manger  Assistant Chief Yogananda Pittman  Captain Neysha Mendoza  Sergeant Lawrence Cook  Sergeant Aquilino Gonell  Officer Harry Dunn  Officer Caroline Edwards  Officer Nicole Roth  Officer Andrew Stockhecker  Officer Nick Scharkopf  Officer Connor RhodesOfficer Kevin Fournier  Officer Jeffrey Brodeur  Tim Barber, Public Information Officer
DC Metropolitan Police Department Officers Chief Robert J. Contee III  Commander Robert Glover  Assistant Chief Jeffery Carroll  Officer Michael Fanone  Officer Daniel Hodges
Families of Fallen Officers Gladys Sicknick, mother of USCP Officer Brian Sicknick  Charles Sicknick, father of USCP Officer Brian Sicknick  Sandra Garza, partner of USCP Officer Brian Sicknick  Serena Liebengood, wife of USCP Officer Howard Liebengood  John Liebengood, brother of USCP Officer Howard Liebengood  Anne Winters, sister of USCP Officer Howard Liebengood  Shannon Terranova, ex-wife of USCP Officer William "Billy" Evans  Logan Evans, son of USCP Officer William "Billy" Evans  Abigail Evans, daughter of USCP Officer William "Billy" Evans  Erin Smith, wife of Metropolitan Police Officer Jeffrey Smith
On stage with the President as he signed H.R. 3325 into law: The Vice President  Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)  Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)  Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)  Senator Roy Blunt (MO)  Chief Tom Manger, U.S. Capitol Police  Chief Robert J. Contee III, DC Metropolitan Police Department  Officer Harry Dunn, U.S. Capitol Police  Officer Michael Fanone, DC Metropolitan Police Department  Sergeant Aquilino Gonell, U.S. Capitol Police  Officer Daniel Hodges, DC Metropolitan Police Department 


August 5, 202117:48

Pool report #14 Photo travel lid 
A photo travel lid was called at 5:43 p.m.


August 5, 202118:11

Pool report #15: President fielded questions
At the end of today's open-press event on clean cars, the president fielded questions.
Video is available at https://www.facebook.com/watch/live/?v=308319384373406&ref=watch_permalink



  