
    Gov. Scott Walker today announced Cliff Hurst, Phyllis Woods, and Chris Wolfe as statewide co-chairs for his presidential campaign in New Hampshire.
Walker has already experienced strong support in the Granite State as he's shared his message of reform and results, and the campaign will continue to compete aggressively to win the first-in-the-nation primary.
"No one knows the Granite State – and what it takes to win its primary – better than these three great leaders," said Walker. "It is a pleasure to have Cliff, Phyllis and Chris on our team, and I thank them for their gracious support of our campaign. With their help, we'll continue to share our record, our message, and our vision for a better America in this early primary state where we have a real pathway to victory."
Walker begins a three-day tour through New Hampshire today, his sixth trip this year, with a stop at the New Hampshire Education Summit, a health care town hall in Barrington, and a house party at Chris Wolfe's home in Derry. He will also make several stops throughout the state on Thursday andFriday.
From the co-chairs
"I am pleased to endorse Gov. Scott Walker for President of the United States," said Hurst. "The governor is a man of strong faith and great character. He showed courage when he took a stand, fought the status quo, and defeated the entrenched, big-government special interests. He is a fighter who wins, and he is the leader America needs."
"Rarely have I seen a candidate that has so clearly demonstrated the courage, integrity, ability and temperament to be the leader of our country," said Woods. "A strong conservative, Scott Walker is right on the issues and has the experience, intelligence and humility to have earned my respect and my confidence. He has what it takes to be a great president."
"The Republican Party is fortunate to have many qualified candidates running for president, yet only one has implemented groundbreaking reforms and fought the liberal establishment in enacting them," said Wolfe. "That candidate is Gov. Scott Walker. In the face of unrelenting pressure, he has been unintimidated. He held fast and delivered the reforms he was elected to deliver, winning three elections in four years. America needs the strong, conservative leadership of Gov. Scott Walker."
Biographies
Cliff Hurst is the former Vice Chairman of the New Hampshire Republican State Committee (2011-2012) and former Chairman of the Manchester Republican City Committee (2004-2005, 2010). Hurst has been actively involved in previous presidential campaigns in New Hampshire. Hurst is a sales consultant at Merrimack Street Volvo. Previously, he founded Hurst deGraffenreid Wealth Management and served as Director of Human Resources at the Palazzi Corporation. He was also Senior Vice President and COO of CEI Corporation from 1981 to 1986. In the 1960s and 1970s, Hurst served as a civilian clergy member to the U.S. military.
Phyllis Woods formerly served four terms as a New Hampshire State Representative from Dover. She is an active member of several local, county, and statewide Republican committees in New Hampshire, a former executive board member of the New Hammpshire Republican Party, and a former chairman of the Strafford County Republican Committee. Woods also served as an RNC national committeewoman for New Hampshire from 2007-2012.
Chris Wolfe, an entrepreneur and longtime New Hampshire political activist, has been a Granite State resident for 34 years. He has been involved with several Republican campaigns over the years, including, most recently, Walt Havenstein's campaign for governor, Scott Brown's and Kelly Ayotte's campaigns for U.S. Senate, and Mitt Romney's and John McCain's campaigns for president. He was chairman of the Derry GOP, the largest Republican community in New Hampshire, for 10 years from 1996-2006.
Additional members of Walker's New Hampshire leadership team will be announced in the coming months.
  