
    Pool Reports by Chris Johnson, Washington Blade



Sent:
Reports:




 August 28, 2020 11:09

 In-town pool report #1 
Good morning from the White House!
It's a partly cloudy day and 88 degrees. Take note there are road restrictions around the White House due to Black Lives Matter demonstrations and the March on Washington 2020. Be advised to take that into account if you are planning any nearby travel.
In-house pool has taken the now customary morning COVID test. No news is good news on that front.
The only thing on the White House guidance prior to POTUS' travel to New Hampshire is an Oval Office briefing on Hurricane Laura, but that event is closed press. Your pooler will let you know if anything changes. 


 August 28, 2020 12:36

 In-town pool report #2 - lunch lid 
The White House called a lunch lid until 1:30 pm. 


 August 28, 2020 13:58

 In-town pool report #3 - pool call 
The White House has summoned restricted in-house pool to the briefing room doors. 


 August 28, 2020 14:20

 In-town pool report #4 - Alice Johnson pardon, No Q&A 
Pool was escorted at 2:09 into the Oval Office, where POTUS was seated at the resolute desk.
Listen: https://otter.ai/s/6vjg2bWhTMKf7NKY40olaQ
Alice Johnson, recently featured at the Republican convention, was seated nearby. Pastor Robert Jeffries and Jared Kusher we're standing at the north side of the room.
POTUS began telling Johnson's story, saying she was serving a life sentence and had done 22 years in jail for something that "a lot of people" don't go to jail for today.
"We're giving Alice a full pardon. We are going to do it right now." - POTUS said.
POTUS said she's done an "Incredible job" since her release with seeking additional prisoners who could be eligible for release.
POTUS signed the full pardon at 2:12, which he said changed his action from commutation to a full pardon.
Jeffries led the room in prayer.
A cacophony of questions and a mini-standoff as wranglers urged press to leave, but reporters kept asking. Jim Acosta asked questions about March on Washington, police brutality. POTUS said nothing.
Pool escorted out at 2:13. 


 August 28, 2020 14:47

 In-town pool report #4a - Alice Johnson event transcript 
Here's a transcript of the Alice Johnson event in the Oval Office.
TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS
POTUS: "...just incredible...she's recommended people to us, you know, as many, many people that have been put in prison and whether they should have been or not. She knows that they were put in for too long. Alice was given a life sentence, and you spent about 22 years, and for something that today a lot of people don't even go to jail for, and it was — it was horrible, and we found out about it, and we gave it commutation. That means we were able to Alice out, and she has just been so outstanding, and I'm so proud of you, and I'm giving Alice a full pardon.
"I just told her. We didn't even discuss it. We just — you were out there. I saw you in the audience last night, and I asked the folks if you could bring Alice over. We're going to give a full pardon. We're going to do it right now. That means you have been fully pardoned. That's the ultimate thing that can happen. That means you can do whatever you want in life and just keep doing the great job you're doing.
"Alice has done an incredible job since she's been out and recommending other people who said — How many people are like you? There's only one Alice, as far as I'm concerned, but how many people are like you or your circumstance who was given this massive sentence and they're good people, great people? And she said, 'So many. They're in jail. So many, and she's looking for those people, and she's recommending those people and we've already done some that you know — that you know are good people, and they've done really well since they've been out."
"So we're taking Alice from a commutation to a full pardon, and I'm excited right now, and we're very proud about the job you've done and what you represent, and Pastor Robert Jeffries, unrelated but he was here, and we thought maybe I'll sign this and then maybe you'll like to say a prayer. Maybe you could include the media because they need it probably more than we do. They definitely need it more than us that I can tell you."
POTUS signs pardon at this point
Robert Jeffries: "Father, we thank you for the remarkable story of Alice Johnson, a strong believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, whose life was filled with heartache and injustice. And yet instead of becoming bitter, she chose to trust in you. She cried out to you for years, asking relief from the hurt that she was feeling. We thank you that you chose to answer her prayers to you through a great president named Donald Trump, a great leader who, yes, believes in law and order."
"He believes in justice, but he also believes in mercy. And thank you for moving in his heart to do this right act today. And Father, I pray that today's full pardon will result in our brand new life for Alice. Continue to bless her and her family, as they go throughout this nation and world sharing the good news that you, God, have offered eternal pardon from sin from all trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Again, we thank you for the President. Thank you for the example he said for all of us of what it means to be a forgiving person. And we pray this in the name of the one who came and died and rose again, that we might have eternal life: Jesus Christ our Savior. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President for this example." 


 August 28, 2020 16:58

 In-town pool report #5 
Just got confirmation motorcade is rolling, so handing things off to the out-of-town pooler. 




Pool Reports below by Hunter Walker, Yahoo News



Sent:
Reports:




 August 28, 2020 16:56

 Travel Pool Report #1- Rolling 
The president's motorcade pulled out from the White House at about 4:55 pm and is en route to Joint Base Andrews for the flight to Manchester, New Hampshire.
Your pooler was not able to see the president leave the White House from our vantage point in the press vans. 


 August 28, 2020 17:03

 Travel Pool Report #2 - One fingered salutes along Pennsylvania Avenue 
The president's motorcade moved down Pennsylvania Avenue on a route that took us past throngs of protesters who are presumably here for the events marking the anniversary of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s March on Washington.
Many of the protesters along the avenue greeted the motorcade with raised middle fingers. There were far too many middle fingers to count. Several of the peope in the crowd opted to raise both of their middle fingers in a double barreled one finger salute.
Some of the protesters waved signs. A few that were clearly legible read "BLM" and "BLACK LIVES MATTER." One man's sign that was visible from the motorcade said, "WHITE SILENCE = BLACK DEATH."
We are off the streets and rolling down the highway now. 


 August 28, 2020 17:30

 Travel Pool Report #3 - JBA 
The motorcade arrived at Joint Base Andrews at approximately 5:15 pm.
The president boarded Air Force One shortly after. Your pooler did not see him get on the plane and an told he made no remarks.
An eagle eyed colleague spotted a former Trump campaign manager - New Hampshire's own Corey Lewandowski - and current campaign manager Bill Stepien getting on board.
We are scheduled to take off for the Manchester airport momentarily. The airport is technically in Londonderry. 


 August 28, 2020 18:56

 Travel Pool Report #4 - New Hampshire 
Air Force One touched down at the Manchester airport at about 6:38 pm.
After a brief ride along the tarmac, the pool disembarked at about 6:48 pm. POTUS is still on board.
Along the way, we caught a glimpse of an overflow crowd outside the hangar where POTUS is set to speak. They were packed in together and clearly not socially distant.
Inside the hangar, another large, packed crowd is awaiting for the president. They were treated to a view of Air Force One rolling up to the sound of the Creedence Clearwater Revival's classic hit "Fortunate Son." The pool could faintly hear the song from on board the plane.
That song was followed by another Trump rally staple "House of The Rising Sun."
We are making our way through the crowd now. Many are smiling and waving. Some are masked.
Pool is now setup and awaiting POTUS' departure from Air Force One, which is parked across from the eager crowd. 


 August 28, 2020 19:14

 Travel Pool Report #5 - Speech is starting 
POTUS walked onto the steps outside Air Force One at about 6:51 pm to the strains of Lee Greenwood's "Proud To Be An American" and roaring cheers from the crowd.
President Trump was briefly greeted at the base of the steps before slowly crossing the tarmac.
Your pooler will ask the White House for any details they can provide on the greeters.
Members of the crowd are holding professionally printed campaign signs that say "THIS IS A PEACEFUL PROTEST." Your pooler also spottef a "COPS FOR TRUMP" sign.
The president stepped behind the podium at about 6:54 pm to loud chants of "USA! USA! USA!" His speech is open press so please refer to broadcasts for quotes. 


 August 28, 2020 19:44

 Travel Pool Report #6 - Greeter 
The White House informed your pooler President Trump was greeted at the airport by New Hampshire Governor Chris Sununu. 


 August 28, 2020 20:10

 Travel Pool Report #7 - Speech over 
The pool was ushered out of the hangar at about 8:07 pm. Soon after, POTUS concluded his remarks and waved at the crowd as the Village People's "YMCA" blared.
We are going on board the smaller Air Force One and have no signal so may be unable to note exactly when we take off. Your pooler will try his best.
A few notes about the event. While the group of people behind Trump on the podium was almost all wearing masks, mask usage in the crowd in front of the president was far more mixed.
Corey Lewandowski and Bill Stepien, who were both unmasked, watched parts of the speech and greeted some fans behind a riser that was alongside the stage. Prominent New Hampshire Trump supporter Al Baldasaro was on the riser watching the speech. 


 August 28, 2020 20:27

 Travel Pool #8 - Under The Wing 
The pool just gathered under the wing of Air Force One. President Trump was speaking to a camera crew. We were not allowed to go over and it's unclear who they were with.
Trump briefly walked toward the pool clapping to the rythym of "Macho Man," which was playing from the hangar. The president seemed like he might speak to us before turning around and boarding the plane at about 8:17 pm.
We are due to take off shortly. Your pooler will likely be unable to file another report before we land. 


 August 28, 2020 21:34

 Travel Pool #9 - Comments on Shinzo Abe, Stimulus, and Sports 
Air Force One was wheels down at 9:31 pm. We are currently moving on the tarmac.
President Trump came back into the press cabin at roughly 8:38 pm and spoke to the pool for about twenty minutes. The conversation was off record except for the following three comments.
Trump was asked about the situation with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who he praised as a "great gentleman."
"I want to pay my highest respect to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a very great friend of mine. We've had a great relationship and I just feel very badly about it, because it must be very severe for him to leave. He loves his country so much and for him to leave, you know, i just can't imagine what it is. He's a great gentleman and so I'm just paying my highest respect," Trump said.
The president was also asked about the status of coronavirus stimulus talks between his administration and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
"My impression is she wants to give no stimulus ...all she wants is bailout for badly run Democrat states," Trump said.
He expressed support for a stimulus but did nit answer a question on whether he has his own plan.
"I think a stimulus would be good because people were hurt by China that did not deserve to be hurt. It wasn't their fault," he said.
The president was also asked for his thoughts about the recently cancelled games in major professional sports leagues. Here's his response:
"It's terrible. I think what they're doing to the NBA in particular is going to destroy basketball. I can't - I don't even watch it. ... You know when you watch sports, you want to sort of relax, but this is a whole different world. ... You don't want to stay in politics. You want to relax. It's very bad for the NBA and it's going to prove to be very bad for football. Roger Goodell should have learned his lesson two years ago. And I'm not letting up. I'm not letting up. They were begging for mercy two years ago on the flag. I'm not letting up. And then, all of a sudden, in the middle of the summer, he's sitting there in a t-shirt and it's blue - I guess he thought he looked good - and he was sitting there saying about - he started the whole argument again. It's going to be very bad for football and I think it's very bad for the NBA. Maybe even NBA threatening. And it's going to be very bad for baseball if they don't get smarter." 


 August 28, 2020 21:43

 Travel Pool #10- 
President Trump disembarked Air Force One at about 9:41 pm. He made his way down the steps holding a large umbrella to ward off rain that is coming down here at Joint Base Andrews.
Trump waved at the press pool and got on board the motorcade at 9:41pm. We loaded into the press ans and the motorcade began at about 9:42 pm. 


 August 28, 2020 22:09

 Travel Pool #11 - Travel/Photo lid 
The motorcade pulled on to the White House complex at about 10:05 pm. We only passed a handful of people braving the rain on the route.
The motorcade came to a stop on West Executive Avenue at about 10:06 pm and the White House called a travel/photo lid. Your pooler did not see tbe president leave the motorcade.
It's Friday night and the mood is right. Going to have some fun, show you how it's done, TGIF.
Have a great weekend! 



  