
    Ron DeSantis today joined Laura Ingraham on the Ingraham Angle. Read the highlights below.
Watch the full interview HERE.
On Donald Trump's most recent indictment:
What we need to do is get a President obviously that can beat Biden, but that can actually end the weaponization of federal power through the DOJ, the FBI. So for example, with me as president on day one, Christopher Wray gets sent packing. You're going to see the DOJ cleared out. We're going to ensure a single standard of justice in this country again, and I can say that with credibility because I've done that in the state of Florida. We drained the swamp. And here, we've gotten rid of negligent election supervisors in South Florida, we've removed two different progressive prosecutors funded by Soros who were not enforcing the law. So I've shown an ability to take action and get the job done. And as the President, I am going to do the same thing. Look, our country is in decline for a number of different reasons. Economic, cultural, but part of the reason we're in decline is because our constitutional system is totally out of whack. We need to get it back in order. I'm the guy that knows how to do [it] but you got to be disciplined, you got to be focused. You have to have the attention to detail because the swamp is not going to give up its power voluntarily.
On his successful record of getting things done:
I think when you're talking about voters in our party base, that may be a problem if you nominate some Rockefeller Republican, but it's not going to be a problem if you nominate somebody like me who has a proven record of delivering on America-first policies. How many people get elected, [and] they over-promise and they under-deliver. I can say with credibility, I met all the promises I made to the people of Florida. In fact, I over-delivered on my promises, whether it was holding China accountable, illegal immigration, education, all these things we said we'd do we got done.
On looking forward to the upcoming debates:
I think that at the end of the day, we're doing what we need to do on the ground in Iowa [and] New Hampshire. We're gonna be back there this weekend, and we're gonna get the job done. I think a lot of these guys are doing this and doing that. We're gonna be able to get on the debate stage and we're gonna be able to hash it out, and I think I'll be able to show that I'm the guy that's got the vision. I'm the guy that can get the job done electorally, and then most important, actually get all this stuff done because we've been talking about...all this stuff from illegal immigration and the border, dealing with China, all this stuff. Now is the time to do it. And if we don't do it in 2024, I don't think we're going to be able to get the job done in our lifetime. So this is a key election so we can reverse the decline of this country and give us a new birth of freedom.
  