
    I hope that you'll all remember what a great country we have, how strong we are, and how much God has blessed us.
We have a serious problem, as you know, right now with inflation that's been with us for 10 or 12 years and with too much dependence on foreign oil, which makes our Nation's security a cause of great concern. There's only two things we can do about it. One is to save energy, conservation, to stop wasting so much energy, .and every single person in our Nation can help with that. Figure out in your own driving habits, the way you heat your home, the way you air-condition your home, the way you share automobiles, everything that you do, try to save as much energy as possible. And secondly, we need to increase the amount of energy that we produce in our own country—solar energy, increased use of coal, synthetic fuels, and the other kinds of things that we can do as a great nation.
We have now before the Congress proposals which will give us an opportunity both to save and to produce more in our own country. It must be financed by the windfall profits tax, a tax on the oil companies so that they won't take the tremendous profits and keep it for themselves, but share it through your government with you so that we can weatherize homes, give us better transit systems, and so forth.
I hope that you will contact your own Members of Congress and ask them to support the windfall profits tax, because out of that tax can come enough money from the oil companies to help poor people, those with low incomes or moderate incomes, to pay for the increased cost of energy, to provide conservation encouragement, and also to produce more fuel for ourselves in our own country.
We've got about 25 percent of the total energy reserves on Earth in our own Nation-all the OPEC countries put together only have less than 5 percent—but we need to use our energy more effectively. So, if you'll help me, I'll help you, and we'll make the greatest nation on Earth even greater in the future.
Will you help me? [Applause[ Good.
  