
    Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:) 
On April 14, 2019, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) transmitted to me a report on his investigation into the effect of imports of uranium (uranium ore, uranium concentrate, uranium hexafluoride, enriched uranium, and enriched uranium in fuel assemblies) on the national security of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (the "Act").
Consistent with the Act (19 U.S.C. 1862(c)(2)), I am reporting that in my memorandum of July 12, 2019 (The Effect of Uranium Imports on the National Security and Establishment of the United States Nuclear Fuel Working Group), I determined not to concur with the Secretary's finding that uranium is being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States. While I recognized that the Secretary's findings raised concerns regarding the impact of uranium imports on the national security with respect to domestic mining, I found that a fuller analysis of national security considerations with respect to the entire nuclear fuel supply chain is necessary at this time. Thus, I did not take any action under section 232 of the Act.
I agreed with the Secretary, however, that the United States uranium industry faces significant challenges in producing uranium domestically and that this is an issue of national security. To address the concerns identified by the Secretary regarding domestic uranium production and to ensure a comprehensive review of the entire domestic nuclear supply chain, I directed the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy to establish and co-chair the United States Nuclear Fuel Working Group (Working Group) to develop recommendations for reviving and expanding domestic nuclear fuel production. The Working Group will examine the current state of domestic nuclear fuel production to reinvigorate the entire nuclear fuel supply chain, consistent with United States national security and nonproliferation goals. Within 90 days of my memorandum of July 12, 2019, the Working Group will submit a report to the President setting forth its findings and making recommendations to further enable domestic nuclear fuel production if needed.
DONALD J. TRUMP
  