
    WHEREAS with the successful termination of hostilities, there has been a gradual release from control by the Treasury Department over foreign property and interests which had been blocked to prevent their looting by the Axis and their use in ways harmful to the war effort of the United States; and
WHEREAS certain of such foreign property and interests have not yet been unblocked; and
WHEREAS it is now necessary and desirable to place the jurisdiction over the assets remaining blocked on September 30, 1948, in the same agency which is administering the program of alien property control initiated under Executive Order No. 9095 of March 11, 1942, as amended, which program is presently being administered by the Attorney General;
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including the Trading With the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, as amended, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Attorney General is hereby authorized and directed to take such action as he may deem necessary with respect to any property or interest of any nature whatsoever in which any foreign country designated in Executive Order No. 8389 of April 10, 1940, as amended, or any national thereof has any interest (including property subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) of General License No. 94, as amended (31 CFR, 1947 Supp., 131.94), and including any Scheduled Securities within the meaning of General Ruling No. 5, as amended (31 CFR, 1947 Supp., 131, App. A), both issued by the Secretary of the Treasury) which on September 30, 1948, is not unblocked or otherwise removed from the restrictions of the said Executive Order No. 8389, as amended, by any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other action issued or taken by the Secretary of the Treasury. In the performance of his duties under this order, the Attorney General or any officer, person, agency, or instrumentality designated by him, may exercise all powers and authority vested in the President by sections 3(a) and 5(b) of the Trading With the Enemy Act, as amended. As used herein, the terms "national" and "foreign country" shall have the meanings prescribed in Executive Order No. 8389, as amended.
2. With respect to the property and interests referred to in section 1 hereof, all orders, regulations, rulings, instructions, or licenses issued by the Secretary of the Treasury under the authority of Executive Order No. 8389, as amended, and Executive Order No. 9095, as amended, and in force on September 30, 1948, shall continue in full force and effect except as amended, modified, or revoked by the Attorney General.
3. It is the policy of this order that administrative action under paragraph 1 hereof shall be taken by the Attorney General or any officer, person, agency, or instrumentality designated by him. However, nothing in this order shall be deemed to limit or remove any powers heretofore conferred upon the Secretary of the Treasury or the Attorney General by statute or by Executive order. No person affected by any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other action issued or taken by either the Secretary of the Treasury or the Attorney General may challenge the validity thereof or otherwise excuse his actions, or failure to act, on the ground that pursuant to the provisions of this Executive order, such order, regulations, rulings, instruction, license, or other action was within the jurisdiction of the Attorney General rather than the Secretary of the Treasury or vice versa.
4. This order shall become effective as of midnight, September 30, 1948.
HARRY S TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 20, 1948
  