
    On Friday, August 10, 2012, the President signed into law:
H.R. 1369, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Hartshorne, Oklahoma, as the Warren Lindley Post Office;
H.R. 1560, which amends current law to allow the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo Tribe to determine the blood quantum requirement for tribal membership;
H.R. 1905, the "Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012," which extends and expands the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 and other statutory authorities relating to Iran and establishes additional statutory sanctions relating to Iran and sanctions relating to human rights abuses in Syria, and for other purposes;
H.R. 3276, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Tampa, Florida, as the Reverend Abe Brown Post Office Building;
H.R. 3412, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Abbeville, Louisiana, as the Sergeant Richard Franklin Abshire Post Office Building;
H.R. 3501, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Rome City, Indiana, as the SPC Nicholas Scott Hartge Post Office;
H.R. 3772, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service in Canton, Mississippi, as the First Sergeant Landres Cheeks Post Office Building;
H.R. 5986, which amends and extends the African Growth and Opportunity Act third-country fabric program, modifies the Textile and Apparel Rules of Origin for the Dominican Republic?Central America-U.S. Free Trade Agreement, and renews import restrictions on Burma;
S. 270, the "La Pine Land Conveyance Act," which directs the conveyance of three parcels of Federal land, totaling of 910 acres, to the City of La Pine, or to Deschutes County, Oregon, as specified;
S. 271, the "Wallowa Forest Service Compound Conveyance Act," which directs the conveyance of the Wallowa Forest Service Compound to the City of Wallowa, Oregon;
S. 679, the "Presidential Appointment Efficiency and Streamlining Act of 2011," which reduces the number of Presidential appointments that are subject to Senate confirmation;
S. 739, which authorizes the Architect of the Capitol to construct, operate, and maintain battery recharging stations in parking areas under the jurisdiction of the Senate for use by privately owned vehicles at no net cost to the Federal Government;
S. 1959, the "Haqqani Network Terrorist Designation Act of 2012," which requires the Secretary of State to report on whether the Haqqani Network meets the legal criteria for designation as a foreign terrorist organization; and
S. 3363, which allows surcharges from the sale by the U.S. Mint of coins commemorating the legacy of the U.S. Army Infantry and the establishment of the National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center (the "Museum") at Fort Benning, Georgia, to be used by the National Infantry Foundation for the retirement of debt associated with building the Museum.
  