
    Pool Reports by George Condon, National Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




August 30, 2021 08:08

In-town pool report #1 
From the White House:

From August 29 at 3:00 AM EDT to August 30 at 3:00 AM EDT, a total of approximately 1,200 people were evacuated from Kabul. This is the result of 26 US military flights (26 C-17s) which carried approximately 1,200 evacuees, and 2 coalition flights which carried 50 people.
Since August 14, the U.S. has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 116,700 people. Since the end of July, we have re-located approximately 122,300 people. 



August 30, 202112:38

In town pool report #2 
A little redundancy here in case you didn't see the update schedule guidance adding an event at1:30:
In the afternoon, the President will meet virtually with FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell and Governors and mayors from States and cities impacted by Hurricane Ida. This meeting in the South Court Auditorium will have a pool spray at the top by the in-house pool and pre-credentialed media. 


August 30, 202113:42

In town pool report 3 
Two minute warning in South Court. Stage is set with 2 small tables. President on stage right. Cedric Richmond at stage left. Sign says Status update. Hurricane Ida Briefing. We will hear from 2 governors a d one mayor before pool will be escorted out. 


August 30, 202114:06

In town pool report 4
Quotes and color to follow.
From the White House:
Participating in the President's briefing on Hurricane Ida:
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
Louisiana: Governor John Bel Edwards New Orleans Mayor LaToya Cantrell Baton Rouge Mayor Sharon Weston Broome Jefferson Parish President Cynthia Lee Sheng Morgan City Mayor Lee DragnaLafayette Mayor Josh Guillory
Mississippi: Governor Tate Reeves Bay St. Louis Mayor Michael Favre Gulfport Mayor Billy Hewes Jackson Mayor Chokwe Lumumba 


August 30, 202114:14

in town pool report 5 
2 minute warning for briefing 


August 30, 202114:29

Intown pool report 6 
What the pool saw was streamed so you probably also saw. But here are the basics.
The president was seated facing the back of the stage and the television screens on which he could see most of the participants (Gov. Reeves was on phone, not video hookup). The president entered the South Court at 1:43. He welcomed the local and state officials and told them "what I'm going to do... tell you what we're doing and then hear from you." He said there already has been "massive, massive damage" and one confirmed death. That number, he said, is "likely to grow." He said there are millions in Louisiana without power, roads impassable and for a time he said the Mississippi River "literally changed direction." He said people should continue to shelter in place and that search and rescue missions are underway, helped by more then 5,000 National Guard troops from Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas. He noted that water had been prepositioned for millions of people and 250 generators have been deployed. He said the feds are maintaining close contact with local officials. He has asked the FAA to work with Louisiana and Mississippi, using aerial drones to assess damage. He also has asked the Pentagon and DHS to make available satellite imagery that could help. "We need to be prepared... there is a lot more to do." He noted the FCC also has worked to help those who have lost cell service to use other available towers. Finally, he said that Cedric Richmond "knows the areas, knows the people." "If there is something you need, Cedric is your direct line... I mean that." He added, "If folks get knocked down, we're here to help you get up." He said the federal response will continue "as long as it takes."
At 1:49, he turned it over to Gov. Edwards, who thanked him for signing the disaster declaration and said Hurricane Ida "came on shore with everything as advertised." The good news, he said, is that all the levee systems held and performed as expected. Still, he said, "the damage is catastrophic... primarily wind damage." He said that close to two million people are without power." He said they are trying to help hospitals first. "This is going to be a long haul." He said he will need assistance on housing. Edwards, who was seated at a conference table with aides, said the state is "still in lifesaving mode here."
At 1:54, the president and the governor had a brief exchange, with Edwards saying that they expect more National Guard troops from other states because 2,400 from his state are in the Middle East. At 1:56, the president told him if he needs "anything else... just call... just holler."
He then turned to Gov. Reeves, on the phone. Reeves also thanked him for signing the needed disaster papers. He said the eye of the storm is west of Jackson and he expects it to stay for 22 hours more. "Our largest tornadic activity is along the coast," he said,noting it has slowed down considerably with more and more rainfall. The good news he said is that the "wind speed is not what we anticipated." It is about 35 mph. He said that there are about 135,000 dwellings without power. He said he has told FEMA to release search and rescue teams from his state and send them to Louisiana. Similarly, he said he can send troops to his neighboring state. He said he expects "wind and lots and lots of rain" for the next 20 hours.
AT 1:58, the president thanked him for his generosity. He then noted that Mayor Cantrell had not connected. So he turned to Jefferson Parish President Sheng at 1:59. He voiced concern over water "very high up to roofs." And she said there is no electricity and problems with water and sewage backups. It is, she said, "going to be a difficult life for some time." At 2:01, the pool was ushered out as a conversation about the impact on energy began. 


August 30, 202115:04

Intown Pool report 7 
Briefing ended at 3:01 


August 30, 202115:31

Intown pool report 8 -- lid 
Travel/photo lid declared at 3:28. 



  