
    Show of strength in Colorado after drawing a full house for a Denver rally in key purple state
On the heels of a rally in Denver that drew over 2300 supporters, Colorado elected officials and activists endorsed Senator Kamala Harris.
Colorado is a critical primary state, holding its primary on March 3rd, and will also be a crucial state in the general election next November. Harris' ability to generate enthusiasm and support in the Centennial State is just the latest confirmation Harris is the best candidate to take on Donald Trump in the general election.
Among the list of endorsees today are former senior Obama administration official Katherine Archuleta, Black Democratic Legislative Caucus of Colorado Chair Rep. Leslie Herod, State Rep. Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez, and Latina community leader Nita Gonzales are among those who announced their endorsements today.
Herod, the first LGBTQ African American elected to Colorado's General Assembly, cited Harris' long record of reforming the criminal justice system in California through reentry initiatives like Back on Track. As a product of and advocate for public education, Gonzales-Gutierrez cited Harris' plan to close the teacher pay gap by giving Colorado educators a $17,700 raise as a major reason for her endorsement. Herod and Gonzales-Gutierrez will serve as Colorado co-chairs for the campaign.
"There's one word that best describes Kamala Harris: presidential," said Katherine Archuleta. "Kamala's focus on the issues that keep people up at night and her ability to get things done shows that she has what it takes to be an effective president. As a leader in the Latina community, I also applaud Kamala's plan to protect Dreamers and their families, and I believe in her ability to restore dignity and compassion to our immigration policy. I'm proud to give her my full support."
"Senator Harris knows what it means to fight for justice -- and that's why she's earned my support," said State Rep. Leslie Herod. "As District Attorney, she was a national leader on reducing recidivism by focusing on reentry programs, and as Attorney General, she created the Open Justice initiative so that the public could access criminal justice data. Reducing incarceration and increasing transparency are critical to reforming our broken criminal justice system -- and I know that Kamala will continue to fight for justice from the White House."
"I'm endorsing Kamala Harris because of her focus on education as a means to improve our kids' lives," said State Rep. Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez. "Her plan to pay teachers their value will not only reward the dedicated public servants in our schools, but will also lead to higher quality education and better outcomes for our children. That's the moral clarity and smart leadership I'm looking for in a president, and I found it in Kamala."
"Kamala Harris will be the perfect antidote to the Trump presidency," said Nita Gonzales. "Instead of ripping apart families and terrorizing immigrant communities, Kamala understands immigrants are a critical part of our nation's fabric. She has a plan to protect Dreamers and their families from living in fear. Kamala approaches policy from a place of compassion and thoughtfulness — and that's exactly what we need from our next president."
The full list of Colorado officials is below:

Katherine Archuleta, former director of the Office of Personnel Management
State Rep. and Black Democratic Legislative Caucus of Colorado Chair Leslie Herod
State Rep. Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez
Nita Gonzales, Latina community leader and activist
Jerry Gonzales, Latina community leader
Anna Jo Haynes, Black community leader

  