
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted August 2
Sam Epstein Angel, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Mississippi River Commission for a term of 9 years (reappointment).
Brig. Gen. Robert H. Griffin, USA, to be a member of the Mississippi River Commission.
Stephen D. Van Beek, of the District of Columbia, to be Associate Deputy Secretary of Transportation, vice John Charles Horsley, resigned.
Neal S. Wolin, of Illinois, to be General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury, vice Edward S. Knight, resigned.
Submitted August 3
Ivan Itkin, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management, Department of Energy, vice Daniel A. Dreyfus, resigned.
Edward M. Stimpson, of Idaho, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization (new position).
Richard K. Eaton, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice R. Kenton Musgrave, retired.
Michael J. Frazier, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Steven O. Palmer, resigned.
David J. Hayes, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior, vice John Raymond Garamendi, resigned.
Gregory Rohde, of North Dakota, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information, vice Clarence L. Irving, Jr.
Kathryn M. Turman, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office for Victims of Crime, vice Aileen Catherine Adams.
Gail S. Tusan, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice G. Ernest Tidwell, retired.
Submitted August 4
Dan Herman Renberg, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2003, vice Julie D. Belaga, term expired.
Submitted August 5
Ruben Castillo, of Illinois, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2003, vice Michael Gelacak, term expired.
Sterling R. Johnson, Jr., of New York, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2001, vice Julie E. Carnes, term expired.
Diana E. Murphy, of Minnesota, to be Chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, vice Richard P. Conaboy.
Diana E. Murphy, of Minnesota, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for the remainder of the term expiring October 31, 1999, vice Richard P. Conaboy, resigned.
Diana E. Murphy, of Minnesota, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2005 (reappointment).
William Sessions III, of Vermont, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2003, vice Michael Goldsmith, term expired.
  