
    Mr. President, distinguished guests:
Mrs. Ford and I are greatly honored to have all of you as our guests on this auspicious occasion.
Mr. President, this summer the United States, as we have both mentioned this morning, celebrates its 200th anniversary. We are honored by the fact that you have participated in this occasion today. Your participation in Finnish-American Bicentennial ceremonies at Suomi College, founded by Finnish immigrants in my State of Michigan, is a vivid reminder of Finland's great contribution to America's background and America's present and America's future.
To cite a single example, Americans from coast to coast know of Finnish genius in Saarinen's1 design of Washington's Dulles Airport, one of the outstanding architectural achievements in our country in recent years. But whether in steel or concrete, or in mind or in spirit, the Finnish involvement with the United States continues to affirm the traditional ties of friendship between our two peoples.
Mr. President, during this Bicentennial Year, Americans are especially gratified by Finland's observance of our anniversary. The wonderful Tapiola Children's Choir has already performed here, and Finnish musicians are now entertaining at the Smithsonian festival. The Sebelius Academy Choir, I am told, will visit the United States this fall, thanks to the generosity of the Finnish Government. For these and all of Finland's contributions to our Bicentennial, Americans are deeply appreciative.
This summer, both our countries participated in the Olympic games. And I was talking to you earlier this evening about your outstanding gold medal winner2 who won the 5,000 meter and the 10,000 meter and finished fifth in the marathon. But I think it is appropriate on this occasion, Mr. President, to note that you had the high honor, yourself, of being an Olympian. You made your first trip to the United States as head of the Finnish team to the Olympic games in Los Angeles in 1932. And I am pleased to note that Finland continued to win, not only gold medals in those track contests that I mentioned but elsewhere. And may I congratulate your country and your champions on this occasion.
Mr. President, as a fellow skier I can only marvel at more than the 600 miles you ski cross-country and downhill each year. I must confess, mine is downhill. [Laughter] But your prowess as a jogger, fisherman, and hunter is legendary. At one time, we all know who follow sports that you were the high-jump champion of your country and represented Finland in the Olympics in that contest. I think it indicates very clearly that you are the embodiment of Finland's worldwide reputation for physical fitness.
To change the subject, Mr. President, it was just a year ago last week that Mrs. Ford and I visited Helsinki on the occasion of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. As host of that conference, Finland, again, showed all of the world its deep interest and active role in promoting international understanding and amity in working for peace and for stability.
We in the United States value Finland's creative participation in world affairs under your wise and skillful leadership. We welcome Finland's contributions to the United Nations peacekeeping efforts in Cyprus, as well as in the Middle East.
Our strong ties between us, bilaterally, are based on many shared ideals and genuine mutual respect. Above all, in this country Finland is respected as a nation that meets its obligations. Just a few weeks ago, Finland wrote a new page in international relations by paying off in full its World War I debt to the United States, 8 years ahead of schedule. I know that you share my satisfaction in the knowledge that this last payment will be used to send young people from Finland and the United States on exchange visits for generations to come.
Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a toast to a distinguished world statesman, the President of the Republic of Finland, and to the continued close and friendly relations between the governments and the peoples of the United States and Finland.
Mr. President.
  