
    First Woman Mayor to Co-Chair Clinton's National Women's Business Council
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of former Las Vegas Mayor Jan L. Jones, who is currently a senior executive at casino giant Harrah's Entertainment. Jones will co-chair the campaign's National Women's Business Council. She will also join such groundbreaking leaders as Madeline Albright, Geraldine Ferraro, Dolores Huerta and Billie Jean King on Hillary's "Council of Champions," honoring women who have achieved historic "firsts" in their careers.
"Hillary Clinton has the experience, the vision and the intelligence to restore our nation's place in the global economy," said Jones. "She understands that we need both a strong business community and a strong workforce – and that the two are not mutually exclusive. As president, Hillary will value innovation, bringing new industries and ideas to the forefront of the national agenda. She will also restore fiscal responsibility to our government and ensure that all Americans can share in the fruits of a prosperous economy. I am proud to endorse Hillary Clinton, knowing how much our nation will benefit from her leadership."
One of Nevada's most experienced and respected business leaders, and a leading national figure in the gaming and tourism industry, Jones currently serves as Senior Vice President for Communications and Government Relations for Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. and is one of the highest ranking executive women in the casino industry.
"As a pioneering civic leader and an international businesswoman, Jan Jones has spent her entire career breaking down barriers," said Clinton. "I am honored to have her support."
In 1991, Jones became the first woman elected official in city history, and in 1995, she was reelected with 72% of the vote. During her eight years as mayor, Las Vegas was the fastest growing city in America, and Jones oversaw over $1 billion in new growth in the downtown area, marked by signature projects like the Fremont Street Experience and Clark County Government Center. Jones brought a business perspective to government through successful implementation of private/public partnerships, and redefined Las Vegas as not just a tourist destination, but also a great place to live and work.
Jones has lectured extensively to business and government groups as well as in many academic venues. In addition, she is a former chairperson of the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, and has served as Nevada State National Committeewoman for the Democratic National Committee, and on the Board of Directors of the Nevada Resort Association, National Conference for Community and Justice, and the National Judicial College. She is currently a regional vice chair and member of the Executive Committee for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and serves as a member of the Women's Leadership Board at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, and a board member of Women's Campaign Fund in Washington, D.C.
  