
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 25
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Huntington, WV. In the afternoon, the President began a 4-day campaign tour aboard the 21st Century Express train and traveled to Ashland, KY. In the evening, he traveled to Chillicothe and Columbus, OH.
August 26
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Arlington, OH. In the evening, he traveled to Bowling Green and Toledo, OH.
August 27
In the morning, the President traveled to Wyandotte, MI. In the afternoon, he traveled to Royal Oak, and in the evening, to East Lansing, MI.
August 28
In the morning, the President traveled to Battle Creek, MI. In the afternoon, he traveled to Kalamazoo, MI, and in the evening, to Michigan City, IN, and Chicago, IL.
August 29
The President announced his intention to appoint the following new members to the Commission on Aviation Safety and Security: Antonia Handler Chayes, Jesse Lee (Jack) Beuchamp, Lt. Gen. James A. Abrahamson (Ret.), Carl W. Vogt, Brian Michael Jenkins, Kathaleen Flynn, George H. Williams, Bradford W. Parkinson, Jack Lew, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, and Ray Kelly.
The White House announced that the President notified Congress that he will make available appropriations totaling $51.2 million in budget authority for the Department of the Interior for firefighting efforts on public lands in western States.
August 30
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Cape Girardeau, MO. In the afternoon, they embarked upon a weekend campaign bus tour and traveled to Cairo, IL, arriving in the early evening. Later, they traveled to Paducah, KY.
The President announced the appointment of John E. Higgins, Jr., as a member of the National Labor Relations Board. Mr. Higgins will serve as a recess appointee.
The President announced the appointment of Kevin L. Thurm as Deputy Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. Mr. Thurm will serve as a recess appointee.
The President appointed Heidi Schulman to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Ms. Schulman will serve as a recess appointee.
  