
    FRED THOMPSON VS. RUDY GIULIANI
"Fred Thompson officially jumps into the presidential race next Thursday - as his campaign finally announced yesterday - he will become, in an instant, the greatest threat in the GOP field to front-runner Rudy Giuliani." (Charles Hurt, "Freddy Rough, and Ready to Run at Last," New York Post, 8/31/07)
"That sets the stage for a showdown between him and former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani, the nationwide GOP frontrunner in most polls. Appealing to conservatives lukewarm about other candidates, Thompson surged ahead of Giuliani last spring in Georgia and some other states. He and Giuliani are running first or second in most states." (Larry Peterson, "Thompson-Giuliani Tug of War Looms in Georgia," Savannah Morning News, 8/31/07)
"...an unannounced Thompson has done well in national and regional polls, establishing himself in a solid second-place position nationally and with strong support in some of the important primary states." (Michael Shear, "Thompson In the Race, Will Announce Formally in Sept.", Washington Post Online, www.washingtonpost.com, 8/31/07)
THE CONSERVATIVE CHOICE
"Thompson brings to the eight-man GOP field a right-leaning Senate voting record with a few digressions from GOP orthodoxy and a healthy dose of Hollywood star power. He is hoping to attract conservatives who are lukewarm about the current crop of candidates." (Liz Sidoti, "Thompson to Announce Bid on Sept. 6," Associated Press, 8/31/07)
"... he would be the only mainstream conservativefrom the South in the race. That clearly gives him a window." (John Harris, CBS's "The Early Show," 8/31/07)
"Unsurprisingly, 'The Fred' is still at the top of the heap and he still has the most grassroots support." (Jeff Hawkins, "GOP Straw Poll Analysis," Right Wing News Online, www.rightwingnews.com, 8/31/07)
"I was tickled to death that the campaign announced he will definitely run for president," said [South Carolina] state Sen. Larry Grooms, R-Berkeley, a Thompson supporter. "He will be in the state a good bit." (John O'Connor, "Thompson To Make Bid Official, Tour S.C.," The State, 8/31/07)
"He doesn't sound like a man looking to avoid a fight, and in fact ... sounded like a man spoiling for one." (Ed Morrissey, Captain's Quarters Blog, "Thompson Launch Date Set," www.captainsquartersblog.com, 8/30/07)
RIGHT ON TIME
"'The campaigning that matters happens between Labor Day and the primary, and Thompson is poised to begin right on schedule,' [Charlie] Arlinghaus [another Republican activist] said. His post-announcement tour will probably mark the start of many visits to the state over the coming months, he added." (Kate Davidson, "Thompson To Announce Candidacy," Concord Monitor, 8/31/07)
"The disclosure benefits aside, there are benefits to announcing on September 6. Consider: Congress is back in session. On September 10, House members will receive a detailed briefing from Gen. David Petraeus about Iraq; the Senate's briefing is scheduled, tentatively, for two days later. It's likely that the administration will begin to roll out the thrust of Petraeus report that weekend. The national political press corps -- most of them, anyway -- will be in one place: with Thompson." (Marc Ambinder, "Fred's Timing Makes Sense," The Atlantic Online, www.theatlantic.com, 8/31/07)
"But for Anderson Rep. Michael Thompson, who is not related to the presidential candidate, the timing is good...'Now is the time that most people start paying attention. Fall is coming, and school is back in session. This is when the campaign season kicks off.'" (John O'Connor, "Thompson To Make Bid Official, Tour S.C.," The State, 8/31/07)
A NEW KIND OF CANDIDATE
"Thompson will host 'house parties' across the nation in which supporters will be linked via the web. It's a technique pioneered by MoveOn and the Dean campaign in 2003-2004, but I think this is the most extensive use of it that we've seen from a Republican candidate." (Byron York, "Fred Thompson, Moving On," National Review Online, corner.nationalreview.com, 8/31/07)
"Senator Thompson's campaign has enormous potential." (Whit Ayres, ABC's "Good Morning America," 8/31/07)
"The campaign opted for an Internet announcement because aides contend Thompson will be able to showcase an ability to take his message directly to voters. He has made extensive use of the Internet in the run up to his formal entrance into the race, and an independent Web-based draft movement generated buzz." (Liz Sidoti, "Thompson to Announce Bid on Sept. 6," Associated Press, 8/31/07
  