
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Intergovernmental Advisory Council on Education for terms expiring July 27, 1988:
Glenn Stratton Carew will succeed Roberta T. Anderson. He is an accountant in private practice. Previously he served as a professor of accounting at the University of Georgia and Clemson University. He graduated from Piedmont College (B.S., 1968) and the University of Georgia (M.A., 1970). He also completed his Ph.D. course work at the University of Georgia. He has one child and resides in Athens, GA. He was born August 21, 1942, in New Bedford, MA.
Selma S. Morrell will succeed Joseph L. Knutson. She is a former elementary schoolteacher with over 14 years of experience in public and private schools. She has served as a member of the National Education Association. She has five children and resides in Albuquerque, NM. She graduated from Brigham Young University (B.A.). She was born February 8, 1931, in Malta, ID.
George N. Smith is a reappointment. Since 1967 Mr. Smith has been serving as superintendent of Mesa Unified Schools in Mesa, AZ. He also serves as president of the Arizona State Board of Education and is past president of the Arizona School Administrators' Association. He graduated from the University of Utah (B.S.) and Arizona State University (M.A., Ed.D.). He is married, has four children, and resides in Mesa, AZ. He was born February 11, 1927, in Safford, AZ.
James B. Tatum is a reappointment. Mr. Tatum is president of the Crowder College board of trustees and a member of the board of directors of the Association of Community College Trustees. He is also president of Tatum Motor Co. in Anderson, MO. He graduated from the United States Military Academy (B.S., 1947). He is married, has four children, and resides in Anderson, MO. He was born July 24, 1925, in Carthage, MO.
Gonzalo A. Velez is a reappointment. He is vice principal of the Newark Eastside High board of education in Newark, NJ. He graduated from the University of Santo Tomas in Manila, Philippines (A.B, B.S.E., Ph.B., M.A.). He is married, has two children, and resides in West Orange, NJ. He was born October 26, 1941, in the Philippines.
  