
    "We're ending intrusive EPA regulations that kill jobs . . . and raise the price of energy so quickly and so substantially." – President Donald J. Trump
EMPOWERING STATES TO PROSPER: The Trump Administration is proposing the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) Rule in order to restore the proper role of States under the Clean Air Act.

The ACE Rule – which will undergo public comment – proposes new emission guidelines for States to use when developing plans to limit greenhouse gases at their power plants.

This Rule gives States the flexibility needed to construct diverse, reliable energy portfolios that best fit their specific needs.


The ACE Rule proposes to reduce emissions and provide flexibility through four key actions:

Defining the "best system of emissions reduction" for existing power plants as on-site, heat-rate efficiency improvements.
Providing States with a list of "candidate technologies" that can be used to establish standards of performance, which can be incorporated into State clean air plans.
Updating the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) New Source Review permitting program in a way that encourages investments in innovative power plant technologies.
Aligning regulations to give States adequate time and flexibility to develop State plans. 



PROMOTING AMERICAN ENERGY DOMINANCE: The Trump Administration's ACE Rule promotes American energy dominance while ensuring environmental protections are in place.

The ACE Rule, if finalized, will significantly decrease bureaucratic red tape and compliance costs, keeping American energy affordable and competitive on the world stage.

The EPA projects that the ACE Rule could reduce compliance costs by up to $6.4 billion compared to the Clean Power Plan (CPP).
The ACE Rule can achieve these savings while still reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
The ACE Rule will ensure that the United States remains the world's gold standard for energy production and environmental protection.
Since 1970, the total emissions of criteria air pollutants regulated under the Clean Air Act have dropped 73 percent, while the economy grew over 260 percent.
Total energy-related carbon dioxide emissions in the United States fell by 14 percent from 2005 to 2017, while global emissions increased over 20 percent.



REPLACING BURDENSOME AND COSTLY REGULATIONS: The Trump Administration proposes replacing the Obama Administration's costly and overreaching CPP. 

At President Trump's direction, the EPA undertook a review of the Obama Administration's overly prescriptive and burdensome CPP.

The CPP was challenged by 150 entities, including 27 States and 24 trade associations.
A bipartisan majority of the United States Congress formally disapproved of the CPP.
The Supreme Court issued an historic stay of the CPP before it could be implemented.


The CPP's top-down approach to energy regulation would have unnecessarily raised electricity prices, harmed our economy, and cost jobs.

An analysis by the National Economic Research Associates found that the CPP could have caused double-digit electricity price increases in 40 States.


The impact of the CPP would have been disproportionately felt by low- to middle-income Americans who, as a group, spend a larger percentage of household income on energy costs. 

  