
    Joe Biden has cemented his move to the radical left by selecting Kamala Harris as his Vice Presidential nominee. While President Trump promises to rebuild our economy, secure our border, and defend our military, Joe Biden has now doubled-down on his promise to transform America into the socialist vision of the far-left. Lara Trump, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor, Tim Murtaugh, Trump 2020 Communications Director, Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications, and Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor discussed all this and more on tonight's 'Team Trump Online!' broadcast.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"Joe Biden has been running a lackluster campaign since day one, and adding Kamala Harris to the ticket won't change voters' blatant lack of enthusiasm for a Biden presidency," said Lara Trump, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "Kamala's embrace of radical socialist policies is just one more reason for Americans to vote for President Trump and Vice President Pence this November."
"By selecting Kamala Harris as his running mate, Joe Biden has solidified his role as an empty vessel for the far-left," said Tim Murtaugh, Trump 2020 Communications Director. "The radical Democrats will now have free rein to push for socialized medicine, open borders, and the Green New Deal."
"Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are both puppets of the far left and have endorsed extremist policies that would be disastrous to hardworking Americans across the country," said Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications. "While the media pretends that Kamala is a historic pick for Vice President, the American people know that she is an utterly uninspiring elitist."
"Kamala Harris is a phony politician, first calling Joe Biden a racist and now joining him on the Democratic ticket," said Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "Joe Biden thinks people of color and women will support him just because he chose Kamala as his running mate, but he will be proven wrong at the ballot box this November."
  