
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted August 22
Martin Jay Dickman, of Illinois, to be Inspector General, Railroad Retirement Board, vice William J. Doyle III.
Celeste Pinto McLain, of California, to be a member of the Amtrak Board of Directors for the remainder of the term expiring March 20, 1995, vice Carl W. Vogt.
Celeste Pinto McLain, of California, to be a member of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 4 years (reappointment).
Frederick F. Y. Pang, of Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Chas. W. Freeman.
Submitted August 23
Gil Coronado, of Texas, to be Director of Selective Service, vice Robert William Gambino, resigned.
Marc Lincoln Marks, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2000, vice L. Clair Nelson, deceased.
Submitted August 25
Clifford B. O'Hara, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Panama Canal Commission, vice William Carl.
Reginald B. Madsen, of Oregon, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Oregon for the term of 4 years, vice Kernan H. Bagley, resigned.
Eve L. Menger, of New York, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice Arden L. Bement, Jr., term expired.
Alfred H. Moses, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Untied States of America to Romania.
Robert M. Solow, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice Peter H. Raven, term expired.
Anne Jeanette Udall, of North Carolina, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term of 4 years (new position).
Richard Thomas White, of Michigan, to be a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the term expiring September 30, 1996, vice Frank H. Conway, term expired.
Timothy M. Barnicle, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice John D. Donahue.
James A. Beaty, Jr., of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of North Carolina, vice Richard C. Ervin, retired.
David Briones, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Texas, vice Lucius Desha Bunton III, retired.
Peter Jon de Vos, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Costa Rica.
John A. Gannon, of Ohio, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1995 (reappointment).
Helen W. Gillmor, of Hawaii, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Hawaii (new position).
Okla Jones II, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Frederick J. R. Heebe, retired.
Bruce A. Morrison, of Connecticut, to be a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board for a term expiring February 27, 2000, vice William C. Perkins, resigned.
Fred I. Parker, of Vermont, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice James L. Oakes, retired.
Joe Bradley Pigott, of Mississippi, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi, vice George L. Phillips.
G. Thomas Porteous, Jr., of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Robert F. Collins, resigned.
John R. Tait, of Idaho, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Idaho, vice Harold L. Ryan, retired.
Vincent J. Sorrentino, of New York, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Leo C. McKenna.
  