
    Pool Reports by Jeff Mordock, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 8, 202310:54 MST

Out of Town Pool #1 — Rolling
Good morning from Grand Canyon Arizona where it is a steamy 89 degrees.
The pool has been tested and swept in the RON lobby amid entertainment-starved tourists who photographed/videoed the pool sweep.
The motorcade is rolling at 10:53 to Red Butte Arizona where POTUS will deliver remarks on climate change. Your pooler has not laid eyes on POTUS this morning.
President Biden's remarks are still set for 11:00 but that will likely be delayed since we have a 25-minute drive to the Red Butte airport and you can watch them on whitehouse.gov/live
Your pooler was warned that cellphone service will be spotty at best once we are inside the Grand Canyon so please bear with me as I try to send reports as quickly as possible.



August 8, 202311:11 MST

Out of Town Pool #2 - Arrival
The motorcade arrived at Red Butte airport at 11:11.
It was an uneventful ride with no bystanders watching as he traveled along a dusty, rustic road leading into the park. Much dirt and dust flew up in the air along the bumpy motorcade ride.
Per White House, here is who traveled with POTUS via his motorcade.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the Grand Canyon Airport Historic District, Arizona:
Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsAli Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate AdvisorRyan Montoya, Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceCaitlin Durkovich, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor for Resilience and ResponseAli Nouri, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsJohn Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy InnovationChair Brenda Mallory, Council on Environmental QualityAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsJohn McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterHerbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Communications DirectorYvanna Cancela, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor for the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs



August 8, 202311:14 MST

Out of Town Pool Report #3 — Greeters
Per White House
Note Sen. Sinema is among the greeters.
Greeting the President upon arrival at the Grand Canyon Airport Historic District, Arizona:
Governor Katie Hobbs (AZ)Secretary Deb Haaland, Department of the InteriorSenator Kyrsten Sinema (AZ)Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ-07)Rep. Greg Stanton (AZ-04)John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy InnovationChair Brenda Mallory, Council on Environmental QualityDeputy Secretary Xochitl Torres Small, Department of Agriculture



August 8, 202311:21 MST

Out of Town Pool Report #4 — program begins
The program began at 11:20.
Ahead of POTUS remarks the wind kicked up a dust storm that sent all of us all scrambling to keep our heads down.
Here is who is attending todays remarks and the program schedule.
Remember you can watch all this on  whitehouse.gov/live so you are on your own for quotes but your pooler will continue to provide color
In attendance for the President's remarks on the Biden Administration's historic investments in conservation and protecting our natural resources, and how the Inflation Reduction Act is the largest investment in climate action in our nation's history.
Governor Katie Hobbs (AZ)Secretary Deb Haaland, Department of the InteriorSenator Kyrsten Sinema (AZ)Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ-07)Rep. Greg Stanton (AZ-04)John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation and ImplementationChair Brenda Mallory, Council on Environmental QualityDeputy Secretary Xochitl Torres Small, Department of AgricultureThomas Siyuja Sr., Chairman, Havasupai TribeScott Crozier, Vice-Chair, Hualapai TribeTim Nuvangyouma, Chairman, Hopi TribeBuu Nygren, President, Navajo NationOna Segundo, Chairwoman, Kaibab Band of Southern PaiuteAmelia Flores, Chairwoman, Colorado River Indian TribesTanya Lewis, Chairwoman, Yavapai-Apache NationArden Kucate, Governor, Pueblo of ZuniJohnny Lehi, President, San Juan Southern Paiute TribeCorrina Bow, Chairwoman, Paiute Indian TribeHope Silvas, Chairwoman, Shivwits and of PaiutesGregory Anderson, Chairman, Miapa Band of PaiutesAdditional state, tribal, local and community leaders & U.S. Forest Service Staff
Pre-programNational Anthem sung by Miss Navajo Nation, Valentina ClitsoCultural performance by Havasupai DancersRep. Raul Grijalva (AZ-07)Secretary Deb Haaland, Department of the InteriorSenator Kyrsten Sinema (AZ)Governor Katie Hobbs (AZ)
Speaking ProgramMaya Tilousi, Member of the Hopi Tribe, Havasupai Tribe of Grand Canyon, and the Cheyanne and Arapaho TribesThe President



August 8, 202311:22 MST

Out of Town Pool Report 5 — POTUS Remarks
POTUS began his remarks at 11:22 MST



August 8, 202311:40 MST

Out of Town Pool Report 6 — POTUS remarks conclude
POTUS remarks ended at 11:36.
As he signed the proclamation to create the Grand Canyon national monument he was flanked by several Native Americans.
The first two rows of the crowd were filled with park rangers and Native Americans dressed in traditional outfits including headdresses. They shook what sounded like rattles during key moments of POTUS remark.
POTUS talked about need to combat climate change and preserve federal lands. He also took aim at GOP efforts to ban certain books.



August 8, 202311:50 MST

Out of Town Pool Report 7 -Rolling
Motorcade is rolling at 11:48.
We are headed to what we are told is a soundless pool spray at the Grand Canyon lookout point.



August 8, 202312:19 MST

Out of Town Pool Report 8 — Arrival at look out point
Motorcade arrived at lookout point at 12:18.
One bystander forcefully flipped the bird to the motorcade while filming it with his phone as it passed by.
Other than that ride was uneventful. Usual bystanders taking pictures and videos of motorcade as it passed by.



August 8, 202313:16 MST

Out of town Pool Report #9 — Holding/ interview
We have been holding since our arrival at lookout point while POTUS does an interview
The President is doing an interview with the Weather Channel to discuss his historic actions to combat the climate crisis, respond to extreme weather, and create clean-energy jobs. The full interview will air tomorrow.



August 8, 202314:31 MST

Out of Town Pool Report 10 — Lookout spray
The pool gathered at the lookout point for a pool spray. But print/editorial did not see POTUS during spray, which apparently was for stills only.
He did not make any remarks I was told. But he did spend some time talking to a park ranger.
He did shout at the press pool "Don't jump!" From a distance as we were perched on a cliff overlooking the Grand Canyon
Greeting the President at Yaki Point, Grand Canyon National Park:
Ed Keable, Superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park



August 8, 202314:41 MST

Out of Town Pool Report 11 — Rolling
The motorcade is rolling at 2:41
On our way to Grand Canyon Airport to hop on AF1 and head to Albuquerque. Still a busy day for an already-behind schedule POTUS, who has a campaign fundraiser at 6:00 in Albuquerque



August 8, 202314:58 MST

Out of Town Pool Report - 12 Arrival at airport
Motorcade arrived at Grand Canyon Airport at 2:57.
POTUS walked up the steps and boarded AF1. We will soon head to Albuquerque.
POTUS did not take questions.
Motorcade ride was uneventful. We got flashed another middle finger, but a neon sign outside a Pizza Hut flashed, "President Biden Thank You for Coming."
Mostly bystanders just photographed motorcade with iPhone



August 8, 202315:13 MST

Out of Town Pool Report #13 -Wheels up
Wheels up at 3:13
Also POTUS boarded AF1 at 2:59. In my haste to send out report, I forgot to add the 9 in 2:59.



August 8, 202317:02 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #14 —- Wheels Down
AF1 wheels down at 5:02.



August 8, 202317:08 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #15 — Traveling with POTUS
Per WH, here is who traveled with POTUS to New Mexico.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Kirtland Air Force Base, Albuquerque, New Mexico:
Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsAli Zaidi, Assistant to the President & National Climate AdvisorRyan Montoya, Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceCaitlin Durkovich, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor for Resilience and ResponseAli Nouri, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsJohn Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy InnovationChair Brenda Mallory, Council on Environmental QualityAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsJohn McCarthy, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterHerbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Communications DirectorYvanna Cancela, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor for the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs



August 8, 202317:23 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #16 — Rolling
POTUS stepped off AF1 at 5:17.
He did not take questions from press before hopping into the limo at 5:21
He was dressed in a dark blue suit with a light blue tie and blue and white striped shirt. He spent a decent amount of time talking to the greeters.
Greeting the President at Kirtland Air Force Base, Albuquerque, New Mexico:
Governor Lujan Grisham (NM)Senator Martin Heinrich (NM)Senator Ben Ray Lujan (NM)Rep. Melanie Stansbury (NM-01)Mayor Tim Keller, Albuquerque, NMColonel Michael Power, 377th Air Base Wing Commander and Installation CommanderChief Master Sergeant Antonio Cooper, 377th Base Wing
We are now rolling to a campaign fundraiser at a private residence at 5:24. More details on private fundraisers to come.



August 8, 202317:42 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #17 -Arrival at fundraiser
POTUS arrived at fundraiser at 5:41.
We are at a private residence. Your pooler is still trying to learn more about who is hosting the event.
As we turned into the neighborhood we were greeted by enthusiastic onlookers who gave thumbs and carried pro-Biden signs.
Motorcade ride was uneventful.



August 8, 202317:53 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #18 — details on fundraiser
On behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The President is attending a fundraising event in Albuquerque, New Mexico at the home of Randi McGinn benefitting the Biden Victory Fund.
Speaking ProgramRandi McGinnGovernor Lujan Grishman (NM)The President



August 8, 202319:14 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #19 POTUS remarks
POTUS spoke for roughly 15 minutes and concluded his remarks at 7:08
He announced that he was going to Vietnam, which had not been previously announced and he did not provide any details about when trip would take place
Some of his key remarks. As always, please check against the transcript.
ON HIS ACCOMPLISHMENTS AS POTUS
Biden ticked off a list of his legislative wins, including the infrastructure law, inflation reduction act and CHIPS and Science law.
"we've got to be in a position to be able to show people what we've done."
He said it "takes time for people realize why that's their communities."
He used the example of Philadelphia highway collapse being repaired and another fix of Philadelphia's Roosevelt Blvd as things he's accomplished.
"And people are starting to say in the Philadelphia market got widened. Did this Biden proposal they did? Well, they're beginning to realize what we've actually passed is having an impact and so it's gonna take a little while but I don't care whether it does or not as long as it gets done. As long as it gets done."
On why he decided to run in 2016
"I didn't want to run. And then remember what happened in Charlottesville. When those folks came out of the woods carrying torches, Nazi banners singing the same anti semitic bile they sang in 33 and 34 in Germany, and accompanied by the Ku Klux Klan, and a young woman whose mother I met, was killed And they asked the sitting president, what he thought and he said there's good people on both sides.
"So I decided and many of you did, too, that you had we had to engage. This a different deal. This a different deal."
"So the second reason I ran was to begin to rebuild this country and rebuild the middle class because when the middle class does well the poor have a way up, and the wealthy continue to do very well. I'm a capitalist, if you can make a billion dollars make it if you can make a million dollars, make it just pay your taxes. Just pay your taxes."
On America's future 
"I know I'm only 35 years old," POTUS joked. "ButI've never been more optimistic about America's chances today. I mean that."
On the 2024 election 
"When I was deciding whether or not to run the last time I started to write a book about the inflection points in history where every couple of generations things change in such a profound way that they're never going to go back to be the same. It could be better or worse, but they're fundamental changes. And that's what's going on now. There's fundamental changes happening whether it's global warming, Tundra melting and wherever there's this fundamental change taking place we have a chance to move it in the right in the right direction, if we're smart about it."
On International Relations 
The bottom line is that allegiances are changing around the world in a big way. And they're changing in terms of, for example, the idea that there was going to be a response to his aggression in Ukraine was not likely. I spent over 200 hours with the heads of state of the European countries to hold this together. I mean it sincerely keeping all of NATO and European Union solidly together. So there's no cracks because Putin is convinced that if in fact, he can break NATO, he breaks through the changes the whole dynamic."
"We're in a situation where we fundamentally changed that dynamic."
"I'm going to be going to Vietnam shortly because Vietnam wants to change our relationship and become a partner. We find ourselves in a situation where all these changes around the world are taking place at a time we have an opportunity for smart to change the dynamic."



August 8, 202319:18 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #20 — Rolling
The motorcade is rolling to the RON at 7: 17.



August 8, 202319:22 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report #21 - Arrival at RON
Motorcade arrived at RON at 7:21.
The ride was short and uneventful with a surprisingly few bystanders.
Your pooler did not lay eyes on POTUS as he exited the limo.



August 8, 202319:41 MDT

Out of Town Pool Report 22 - Lid
We have a lid at 7:38. That's all from Albuquerque. Enjoy your night!




  