
    "President Obama concedes that 'we aren't where we need to be.' Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan agree. The American people know they aren't better off than they were four years ago. President Obama has added trillions to our national debt, blocked domestic energy production, and presided over the highest chronic unemployment in recorded history. He promised to change how Washington works, but he admits the nation's capital is as broken as ever. He raided Medicare to pay for Obamacare and is proposing massive tax increases that will kill jobs and hurt our economy. Too many middle-class families are going to sleep each night worried about the future. This may be the best President Obama can do, but it's not the best America can do. The Romney-Ryan plan for a stronger middle class will jump start our economy and create 12 million new jobs – and most importantly, give Americans hope for a better future." – Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
President Obama Promised To Change Washington – But After Nearly Four Years In Office, Even He Admits Washington Is Still Broken:
President Obama, On The Current State Of Washington: "More Of The Same. ... Maybe A Little Worse." CNN's WOLF BLITZER: "When we spoke here end of 2008, 'hope and change.' You know what I see in Washington still to this day? OBAMA: "More of the same." BLITZER: "The same old same old." OBAMA: "Yeah." BLITZER: "A lot of bickering, backstabbing." OBAMA: "Maybe a little worse." (CNN's "The Situation Room," 8/16/11)
"Obama Has Proven To Be A Divisive President, Despite His Insistence That He Is Open To Compromise And Accommodation." (Dan Balz, "Roberts's Health-Care Ruling Sends A Message To Politicians," The Washington Post, 6/30/12)
"One Omission In The Obama Campaign's Pitch Is His Unfulfilled Promise To Change Washington And Act As A Uniter." "One omission in the Obama campaign's pitch is his unfulfilled promise to change Washington and act as a uniter. During Mr. Obama's term, the capital has often been mired in gridlock and consumed by bitter fights between the parties over the budget and related issues. Those clashes will continue this year," (Carol E. Lee, "Obama Criticizes GOP In Message To Iowans," The Wall Street Journal, 1/4/12)
What Has Changed Under President Obama? Middle-Class Americans Aren't Better Off In The Obama Economy:
Under President Obama, More Than 23 Million Americans Are Struggling For Work And Unemployment Has Remained Above 8% For 42 Straight Months. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, Accessed 8/25/12)
"Across The Country, In Almost Every Demographic, Americans Earn Less Today Than They Did In June 2009, When The Recovery Technically Started." (Catherine Rampell, "Big Income Losses For Those Near Retirement," The New York Times, 8/23/12)


    People Who Have Jobs "Are Hurting" With Paychecks That "Have Fallen Behind Inflation." "More than in any other post-World War II recovery, people who have jobs are hurting, too: Their paychecks have fallen behind inflation." (Paul Wiseman, "Economic Recovery Is Weakest Since World War II," The Associated Press, 8/15/12)
  

"Unemployment Rates Rose In 44 U.S. States In July, The Most States To Show A Monthly Increase In More Than Three Years And A Reflection Of Weak Hiring Nationwide." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "Unemployment Rates Rise In 44 States In July," The Associated Press, 8/17/12)
CBS News: "This Is The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had." PELLEY: "This is worst economic recovery America has ever had. We've been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes. Ben Bernanke said any improvement in unemployment will 'likely be frustratingly slow.' Well, yes, to say the least." (CBS's "Evening News," 7/17/12)
President Obama Isn't Making Life Any Easier For Families, Having Delivered Record Debt, Skyrocketing Energy Prices, And Drastic Cuts To Medicare:
Under President Obama, The National Debt Has Surpassed $15.9 Trillion – An Increase Of Over $5.3 Trillion. (U.S. Department Of The Treasury, Accessed 8/25/12)


    "It's The Most Rapid Increase In The Debt Under Any U.S. President." "The latest posting by the Treasury Department shows the national debt has now increased $4 trillion on President Obama's watch. The debt was $10.626 trillion on the day Mr. Obama took office. The latest calculation from Treasury shows the debt has now hit $14.639 trillion. It's the most rapid increase in the debt under any U.S. president." (Mark Knoller, "National Debt Has Increased $4 Trillion Under Obama," CBS News, 8/22/11)
  

According To The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Obamacare Cuts $716 Billion From Medicare. (Congressional Budget Office, Letter To Speaker John Boehner, 7/24/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, The Average Price Per Gallon Of Gas Has Increased More Than Doubled From $1.85 To $3.74. (U.S. Energy And Information Administration, Accessed 8/25/12)
And Life Won't Be Any Better In A Second Obama Term After He Passes A Tax Hike Plan That Will Jeopardize Hundreds Of Thousands Of Jobs:
President Obama's Tax Hikes Would Subject 2.1 Million Business Owners To Higher Taxes And Would Jeopardize 710,000 Jobs. "Researchers determined the plan would actually subject 2.1 million business owners to higher rates; specifically, those who pay pass-through taxes, like most partnerships, LLCs and S-Corporations. The result, less capital in the hands of business owners and diminished labor supply, would cost the United States an estimated $200 billion in economic output and 710,000 jobs." (J.D. Harrison, "Obama Plan To Lift Top Tax Rates Would Plague Millions Of Small Businesses, Study Warns," The Washington Post, 7/17/12)
President Obama's Tax Plan "Would Hurt Small-Business Job Creators In Particular." "New research, released today by the National Federation of Independent Business, shows that allowing tax relief on the top individual rates to expire will hurt job creation and the economy. The report, published by top accounting firm Ernst & Young, shows raising top individual rates would hurt small-business job creators in particular." (NFIB, Press Release, 7/17/12)
  