
    The Jeb Bush for President Campaign announced it's first round of county leaders in Iowa. These chairs and co-chairs will be leading the organizational efforts in their counties and working every day to build a grassroots team to bring Governor Bush's message to their friends and neighbors. This impressive group demonstrates Governor Bush's commitment to bringing his message of opportunity and renewal to every corner of the state.
"I am honored to lead Governor Bush's efforts in Scott County. Jeb is the kind of hopeful, optimistic leader who will bring commonsense to a broken Washington DC. Jeb is a proven leader with a real record of results and reform."
-State Representative Linda Miller, Scott County Chair
"No one has a better record of cutting taxes, creating jobs, improving education and reining in government than Jeb Bush. We need a proven conservative leader who can get results, Jeb has done it before, he can do it again. I am honored to lead his campaign effort in Polk County."
-Johnston City Councilman Tom Cope, Polk County Chair
"I am honored to have the support of some of Iowa's finest leaders who have committed to leading my campaign efforts in their counties. I look forward to working along side this team as we bring our message of opportunity and earned success to all Iowans." said Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush.
Iowa County Leaders:
Michael Young, Waterloo
Black Hawk County Chair
A native of Waterloo, Michael is currently serving as the President of the Board of Education for the Waterloo Community School District, and he has served on the City of Waterloo Planning, Programing & Zoning Commission. He is an active member of his church and has volunteered with numerous civic and philanthropic community organizations.
Habbo Fokkena, Clarksville
Butler County Chair
Habbo is an attorney and a former US Bankruptcy Trustee for the United States Department of Justice.
Bob Camblin, Atlantic
Cass County Chair
Bob and his wife Judy raised their family in Cass County. Bob is a Navy veteran and has been active in Republican politics for over 46 years. He is the current president of Camblin Mechanical, Inc.
Joan Ballantyne, Cherokee
Cherokee County Chair
Joan is a life long resident of Cherokee County. She has had a successful career in real estate for over fifty-four years. Her vast political involvement includes working on the county committees for Governor Robert Ray and Senator Chuck Grassley, as well as other campaigns.
Tedd Bliesman, Arion
Crawford County Chair
Tedd has lived in Crawford County his entire life. He served in the U. S. Army. He also served his community for twenty-four years as a volunteer fire fighter. He is a retired insurance agent and currently manages the family properties. He is the past county chairman for George W. Bush and Mitt Romney.
Chris McLinden, Adel
Dallas County Chair
The owner of small business based in Waukee, McLinden is a nationally recognized expert on today's jobs market. Additionally, he and is wife Bev are long-time Republican activists in Dallas County. Currently, he serves on the Business Administration Advisory Board at Des Moines Area Community College (DMACC) and is the past president of the Waukee Chamber of Commerce and The Rotary Club of Des Moines. McLinden is a graduate of St. Ambrose University and post-graduate programs at Bradley University and Harvard University.
Ralph Brown, Dallas Center
Dallas County Co-Chair
Ralph Brown is a seventh generation Iowan, attorney, and long-time Iowa Republican activist. Ralph has served as the secretary of the Iowa State Senate, the executive director of the Republican Party of Iowa, and as a member of the Drake University Board of Trustees. Ralph also served nearly a decade as the Dallas County GOP Chairman.
Austin Nixon, Waukee
Dallas County Co-Chair
Nixon, the youngest member of the Dallas County Republican Party Central Committee, is a local GOP activist and Drake University student.
Barbara Smeltzer, Dubuque
Dubuque County Chair
Barbara served ten years as secretary of the Dubuque County Republican Central Committee and in 1991 was co-chair of the Dubuque County Republican Central Committee and a member of the Second Congressional District Executive Committee. She is currently an undergraduate student resource advisor at the University of Dubuque.
Kendall Tack, Wellsburg
Grundy County Chair
A native of Wellsburg, Kendall manages properties in Cedar Falls. He has served in the United States Army for 32 years, and has achieved the rank of Captain.
JoAnn & Brian Johnson, Panora
Guthrie County Chairs
JoAnn & Brian are life-long Iowans. JoAnn is a former Iowa state senator and has served as the Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration. She currently serves as the superintendent of Credit Unions for the state of Iowa. Brian currently works as a consultant and is a former educator.
Silvia Quezada, University Heights
Johnson County Chair
Silvia currently serves as a member of the University Heights City Council and has served on the University Heights Zoning Commission. She is an attorney by trade and also a member of the Johnson County Republican Central Committee.
Joni Scotter, Marion
Linn County Chair
Joni is a long-time, beloved Republican activist in Linn County having helped on the campaigns of Mitt Romney and Senator John McCain for President.
Megan Hippensteel, Cedar Rapids
Linn County Co-Chair
Megan is a long-time Linn County Republican activist. In the 2014 cycle, she was the top call-producing volunteer in the country, making over 40,000 calls.
Christal & Phil Finck, Truro
Madison County Chairs
Christal and Phil are active Madison County activists. Christal is a Madison County Republican central committee member and an active member the Madison County Republican Women's group.
Charlie Comfort, Oskaloosa
Mahaska County Chair
Charlie is a former member of the Oskaloosa School Board and a Mahaska County Republican activist.
Mike Olson, Pella
Marion County Chair
Mike is a community banker and retired Lieutenant Colonel who served in the Iowa Army National Guard. Mike is a former appointed member of the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee and is active in the Iowa Bankers Association, the American Bankers Association and the Rotary Club.
City Councilman Tom Cope, Johnston
Polk County Chair
Tom is a small business owner and also serves on the Johnston City Council. He was first elected to the Council in 2011. Cope has been active in the Des Moines area community, coaching numerous youth sports teams, and serving on his church Board of Trustees. He is originally from Aurelia, a small town in northwest Iowa, and is a graduate of the University of Iowa and Drake University Law School. Tom and his wife, Lynn, have two children, Davis and Harper.
Cynthia Wanamaker, Des Moines
Polk County Co-Chair
Wanamaker is the owner of a local interior design business and has served on the board of the Greater Des Moines Botanical Center.
Heath Lee, Des Moines
Polk County Co-Chair
An accomplished historian and author, she was awarded the 2015 Colonial Dames of America Annual Book Award as well as a Gold Medal for Nonfiction writing from the Independent Publisher 2015 Book Awards. In addition, Lee recently served as the Coordinator of the History Series for Salisbury House & Gardens, a 1920's house museum in Des Moines.
Kristine Bartley, Des Moines
Polk County Co-Chair
A Des Moines activist, Kristine is heavily involved in local Women's and Historic Preservation groups. Bartley has served on the Boards of the National Society of the Colonial Dames of America, the Daughters of the American Revolution, and the Lewis Ferry House.
Bob Gleason, West Des Moines
Polk County Co-Chair
Gleason is a long-time Republican activist who served on the Veteran Coalitions for Gov. Terry Branstad, Sen. Joni Ernst, and Gov. Mitt Romney. He is a retired Financial Analyst with the FDIC, Sergeant (ret.) in the U.S. Marine Corps during the Korean War, and a Department of Defense appointed KW60 Ambassador.
Jeff Ballenger, Council Bluffs
Pottawattamie County Chair
A fifth-generation Iowan, business leader Jeff Ballenger plays an active role in his Council Bluffs, Iowa community. In 2011, he earned the Jason Award from charitable organization Children's Square U.S.A. in recognition of his volunteer service and leadership.
Charles Dunham, Montezuma
Poweshiek County Chair
Charles is a retired newspaper editor from Deep River, near Montezuma.
State Representative Linda Miller, Bettendorf
Scott County Chair
Rep. Miller, a well-respected, retired nurse, is now serving as a State Representative in the House. She is heavily involved in her local community through civic organizations such as Scott Community Foundation Board, Davenport One, and the Davenport Community School Foundation Board.
John Anderson, Nevada
Story County Chair
A native of Nevada, John has served on the City Council and as the Chairman of the Republican Party of Story County. John is a professional in the Healthcare industry and has been an involved political activist in previous successful campaigns in Iowa.
Mayor Ruth Randleman, Carlisle
Warren County Chair
Ruth and her husband, Dr. Mark Randleman, have lived in Carlisle for twenty-five years. Ruth has served as mayor of Carlisle since 2003 and was on the city council prior to becoming mayor. She's a member of the Warren County Economic Development Corporation, the Iowa League of Cities, and The Tomorrow Plan, which all work to improve life in Iowa.
Adam Mangold, Washington
Washington County Chair
Adam served on the Washington County Board of Supervisors form 2009-2012. He is also a former chairman of the Washington County Republican Party. Adam is currently a small business owner in the insurance industry.
Julie Konidas, Sioux City
Woodbury County Chair
Julie and her husband Tim are prominent local business owners. Having operated several restaurants in town, they now focus on real estate. Julie is passionate about education and is heavily involved in the local schools and teaches Sunday School at Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church.
  