
    The Laborers' International Union of North America (LUINA), the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB), and the International Association of Bridge, Structural, Ornamental and Reinforcing Ironworkers (IW) have joined a growing coalition of labor and business groups to urge lawmakers to move forward with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal.
Terry O'Sullivan, General President of LIUNA, championed the bipartisan effort and said in statement, "The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework will ensure better futures for millions of American families. These bold investments will lift up communities, address the backlog in vital infrastructure projects, improve the environment, and create good jobs."
Chuck Fowke, chairman of the National Association of Home Builders, said in a statement, "NAHB commends Senate Democrats and Republicans for working together with the Biden administration to craft a bipartisan infrastructure package that will make much-needed improvements to the nation's roads, bridges, broadband and public transportation network while rejecting costly regulatory proposals that would harm housing affordability. Thriving real estate markets depend on high-quality, accessible and efficient infrastructure."
The International Association of Bridge, Structural, Ornamental and Reinforcing Ironworkers said: "This historic investment in the full spectrum of infrastructure is what America has been waiting for. The bill includes the funding needed to fix crumbling roads and bridges and would catapult rail, transit, air, and water infrastructure into world-leading status. These investments would unlock the potential of struggling communities and put many thousands of ironworkers to work at the same time."
LIUNA, NAHB and IW join national and local leaders, community groups, advocacy organizations, as well as large majorities of Republicans and Democratic voters, to express support for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal.
Read LIUNA's statement here.
Read NAHB's statement here.
Read IW's statement here.
  