
    President Bush Today Announced the Appointment of Two Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced the appointment of two individuals to serve in his administration.
The President has appointed David M. Childs to be a Member of the Commission of Fine Arts for the remainder of a four-year term expiring May 3, 2003. Mr. Childs is currently a Consulting Design Partner at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill in New York. He served as senior designer on the Pennsylvania Avenue Commission from 1968 to 1971, where he worked on the plans for the redesign and redevelopment of Pennsylvania Avenue, and from 1975 to 1981, he served as Chairman of the National Capital Planning Commission. Mr. Childs' completed projects in the DC area include the Washington Mall Master Plan and Constitution Gardens, the National Geographic Headquarters, Metro Center, the U.S. News and World Report Headquarters, the Four Seasons Hotel and the expansion of the Dulles International Airport main terminal. He currently serves as a Member of the board of the American Academy in Rome, the Museum of Modern Art, the Municipal Art Society, and the National Building Museum. Mr. Childs is a Fellow of the American Institute of Architects and a graduate of Yale College and the Yale School of Art and Architecture.
The President has appointed Senator Rudy Boschwitz to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council. Boschwitz represented the State of Minnesota in the United States Senate from 1978 to 1990, where he was a member of the Agriculture, Foreign Affairs, Budget, Small Business and Veterans Affairs Committees. In the spring of 1991, Senator Boschwitz traveled to Ethiopia as the emissary for President George H. W. Bush. His mission resulted in Operation Solomon, the rescue of the small black Jewish community and their airlift to Israel. Senator Bochwitz was born in Berlin, Germany, but in 1933, his family left the country when Hitler came to power. After travelling from country to country, his family gained admission to the United States and settled in New Rochelle, New York. Senator Boschwitz earned an undergraduate and law degree from New York University.
  