
    Former Shaheen Legal Counsel, the Hon. Judy Reardon and Portsmouth Dems Chair Laurie McCray Both Announce Support of Kirsten Gillibrand
Following a strong debate performance in which Senator Kirsten Gillibrand shared her vision for the country and why she's uniquely qualified to take on and beat Donald Trump, two prominent New Hampshire figures endorsed her candidacy.
Judy Reardon is the former Legal Counsel to Senator Jeanne Shaheen serving in both the Governor's office and in the US Senate, a longtime New Hampshire Democratic State Committee member, and former New Hampshire House democratic whip and has served as senior advisor to several NH presidential primary and state campaigns.
"What's been apparent since I first saw Senator Gillibrand on her first New Hampshire trip, is that she has the grit, tenacity, and skills to take on Trump and that she will make an excellent President. In all the years I've worked in Democratic primary politics, I've never met a candidate who's more exuberant. She just doesn't give up. Americans deserve a president who's a fighter, someone with a record of getting things done for her constituents and delivering on promises made - without question that person is Kirsten Gillibrand. I'm proud to back her in this race."
Laurie McCray is the Chair of the Portsmouth Democratic Committee and a longtime Democratic activist.
"Over the past several months it's been an honor to meet with, and hear from, so many intelligent and qualified Democratic candidates for president, particularly the four women senators. Today, I'm endorsing Senator Kirsten Gillibrand for president because I believe in both her vision and her ability to change our country for the better. Her comprehensive world-view approach to solving domestic and international problems showcases her skills as a leader. When it comes to policy, she is always inclusive of all Americans, and issues of concern to women and families are never an afterthought. Throughout her career, Senator Gillibrand has demonstrated fearlessness, and a willingness, to stand up for what's right and work with others to get things done. Importantly, she also has a solid track record of winning elections even when she's been underestimated. Kirsten Gillibrand is exactly the kind of President we need at this time in our country's history."
Reardon and McCray's endorsements come after they both attended the Detroit debates as the invited guests of the senator and following her impressive week-long marathon trip to the state of New Hampshire last month.
  