
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today unveiled the national leadership team for First Responders for Rudy at the Pelham-Batesville Firehouse in Pelham, South Carolina. The team will be led by National Chair Howard Safir, who previously served as both Police and Fire Commissioner for New York City. Joining Safir on the national team are U.S. Congressman David Reichert (R- WA) and S.C. State Firefighters' Association Executive Director Jim Bowie.
Reichert, a former Sheriff in King County, Washington, will serve as National Chair of Law Enforcement for Rudy. Bowie, who worked at the South Carolina Fire Academy for 16 years, will serve as National Chair of Firefighters for Rudy. In addition, the Mayor's campaign announced National Co-Chairs for Firefighters for Rudy and Law Enforcement for Rudy. Team members represent law enforcement and firefighter communities from states across the country including Iowa, Florida, South Carolina and Illinois.
"Mayor Giuliani is a strong and principled leader," said Safir, who served under Giuliani. "I saw firsthand his leadership in helping transform a crime-ridden New York City into the safest large city in our nation, while increasing preparedness by opening the city's first Office of Emergency Management. He has always shown uncompromising courage in the face of challenges. I am proud to lead First Responders across America who support Rudy for President."
"Mayor Giuliani has a proven record of supporting firefighters. As Mayor, he implemented policies that improved firefighters' safety and preparedness. Firefighters across the nation are supporting Mayor Giuliani because they admire his leadership and support his vision for our country," said Bowie. Congressman Reichert, a leader on law enforcement issues, added: "I admire Rudy Giuliani for his determination, courage, strength and ability to find real solutions to tough problems. As New York City's Mayor, he implemented the CompStat program to help police be proactive in fighting crime. The Mayor will be a leader for law enforcement and for our country; a leader who not only pledges to find solutions, but also demands our government be held accountable and show results for the American people."
Joining Safir and Reichert at today's announcement were first responders from across South Carolina. In the coming weeks, Team Rudy is expected to announce first responders' leadership teams at the state level.
About Rudy's First Responders Coalition:
Commissioner Howard Safir, National Chair, First Responders for Rudy
Safir has a distinguished career in law enforcement, having served as the 39th Police Commissioner of New York City, where he helped achieve a 38% reduction in major crime and 44% reduction in homicides. He also served as New York City's 29th Fire Commissioner. Safir, two-time recipient of the President's Meritorious Executive Award, currently serves as the Chairman and CEO of SafirRosetti, a security and investigative services company.
U.S. Congressman David Reichert, National Chair, Law Enforcement for Rudy
Reichert has served the people of Washington state for over 30 years, currently representing Washington's eighth Congressional District, serving on the Homeland Security, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Science and Technology Committees. He is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment.
Prior to being elected to Congress in 2004, Reichert served as King County's first elected Sheriff. As Sheriff, he brought a significant drop in violent crime and led the task force that solved the largest serial murder case in U.S. history. Reichert first joined the Sheriff's Office in 1972 after serving as a member of the U.S. Air Force Reserve.
Jim Bowie, National Chair, Firefighters for Rudy Bowie is the Executive Director of the South Carolina Firefighters' Association, where he has been since 1996. He worked at the South Carolina Fire Academy for 16 years prior to working for the association. Bowie is a graduate of The Citadel in Charleston, SC and began his career with the Charleston Fire Department.
National Firefighters for Rudy:
Jim Boyle, New York, National Co-Chair Boyle serves as the Associate Director of the Fire Science Institute at John Jay College. He is a retired New York City firefighter and former President of the Uniformed Firefighters Association.
Lewis Hayes, South Carolina, National Co-Chair
Hayes is the Chief of the Croft Fire Department in Croft, SC and served in the U.S. Air Force 49th Tactical Fighter Wing. He was also a firefighter in support of Operation Desert Storm.
Lee Ielpi, New York, National Co-Chair
Ielpi is a retired firefighter from Rescue Squad 2 in New York City. In addition, he is a Vietnam Veteran, having served in the Army's 1st Infantry Reconnaissance. Ielpi lost his son Jonathan (F.D.N.Y - Squad 288) on September 11, 2001. In the days and weeks following the terrorist attacks, he participated in the rescue and recovery efforts.
Tim Schmitz, Illinois, National Co-Chair
Schmitz has served as an Illinois State Representative since 1998, including currently serving as Assistant Minority Leader. He is an on-call firefighter and emergency medical technician with the Batavia Fire Department.
Brian Seymour, Iowa, National Co-Chair
Seymour is the Fire Chief of the Indianola, Iowa Fire Department and is the incoming President of the Iowa State Firefighters' Association. He previously served as the Director of Emergency Medical Services for Clarke County Hospital.
David Garofalo, Florida, National Co-Chair
Garofalo is the Captain and Paramedic for the Pasco County Fire Rescue in Florida and has served as a member of the Lutz Volunteer Fire Association.
National Law Enforcement for Rudy:
Gene Abdallah, South Dakota, National Co-Chair
Abdallah is currently a South Dakota State Senator serving as the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. He has previously served as the South Dakota Highway Patrol Superintendent, directing the largest law enforcement agency in the state. He was appointed by Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush as U.S. Marshal for the District of South Dakota.
Pat D'Amuro, New York, National Co-Chair
D'Amuro served in the FBI for over 26 years, including serving as the Inspector-In-Charge of the FBI's investigation of the September 11, 2001, Terrorist Attacks. At the time of his retirement from the FBI, D'Amuro was serving as the Assistant Director in charge of the New York office and previously served as Assistant Director for Counterterrorism at FBI Headquarters and Executive Assistant Director for Counterintelligence and Counterterrorism.
Joseph Dunne, New York, National Co-Chair
Dunne began his law enforcement career with the New York City Police Department in 1969, rising through the ranks to serve as Chief of Department, NYPD's highest ranking uniformed officer, and as First Deputy Commissioner. Dunne is currently the Senior Vice President of UBS/Paine Webber.
Don Eslinger, Florida, National Co-Chair
Eslinger is the Sheriff of Seminole County Sheriff's Department in Florida and is a recipient of numerous awards including the Military Order of the Purple Heart of the United States of America.
Jay Grant, Washington, DC, National Co-Chair
Grant is the Director of the U.S. Airport and Seaport Police and the legislative counsel and managing partner of Jay Grant & Associates. He previously served as the President and CEO of the National Association of Health Underwriters and served under former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee and as a political advisor to Congressman Asa Hutchinson.
Jim Tignanelli, Michigan, National Co-Chair
Tignanelli is currently the President of the Police Officers' Association of Michigan, which boasts 14,000 members in the state.
John Varrone, New Jersey, National Co-Chair Varrone served for 26 years in federal law enforcement with the U.S. Department of the Treasury's U.S. Customs Service, where he was appointed Assistant Commissioner of the Office of Investment.
  