
    "Only hours before President Obama campaigns in Ohio, the White House is suddenly 'committed' to saving an Ohio National Guard base it was unaware of yesterday. Hundreds of job losses threatening a community couldn't get the President's attention, but the prospect for a bad campaign event has the White House scrambling. As president, Mitt Romney will never let politics impact his commitment to getting Americans back to work and keeping our nation safe." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today, The Obama White House Abruptly Revised Course — Claiming It's "Committed" To Keeping Open An Ohio Base Threatened By President Obama's Defense Cuts:
Today, The White House Claimed President Obama Is "Committed To Working With The Department Of Defense To Find A Mission For Mansfield Lahm Air National Guard Base." " 'That said, the president is committed to working with the Department of Defense to find a mission for Mansfield Lahm Air National Guard Base, so that the men and women who serve there can continue to make their important contribution to our national security,' White House spokeswoman Joanna Rosholm said Tuesday night." (Lou Whitmire, "Future Of The 179th Addressed," Mansfield News Journal, 8/1/12)
FLASHBACK: White House Spokesman Jay Carney, On The Mansfield Base Closure Yesterday: "I'm Not Aware Of That Particular Issue. ... I'm Not Aware Of Even The Policy Implications Or What Issue This Is."  REPORTER: "Can you talk a little bit about why the president is going back to the same area of Akron, Ohio tomorrow that he has visited before? And in Mansfield the local paper is reporting if President Obama has his way his Air Force One arrival would be one of the final flights into the Mansfield airport, because the president wants to do away with the mission for the 800 guardsmen at the Mansfield." WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY JAY CARNEY: "I'll have to take the question, I'm not aware of that particular issue. In terms of why is he going to Ohio and Akron —" REPORTER: "But that area of Ohio, Mansfield and Akron, I mean he was just there on the bus tour." CARNEY: "There is not an inch of Ohio that the president does not love to visit. It's a great state, my wife's home state." REPORTER: "In terms of Mansfield, can we get you to take that question?" CARNEY: "Sure. I'm not aware of even the policy implications or what issue this is." (White House Press Briefing, 7/31/12)
Why The Quick Reversal From The Obama White House? The President's Proposed Defense Cuts Will Jeopardize Hundreds Of Ohio Jobs:
President Obama's Proposed Defense Cuts Would Jeopardize 551 Part-Time And 204 Full-Time Airmen's Jobs At Mansfield Air National Guard Base. "President Barack Obama has cited an aircraft flown by the Mansfield Air National Guard Base as an example of 'unnecessary' defense programs and recommended it for termination... Elimination of the program would leave the 179th Airlift Wing without a flying mission. It could jeopardize the future of the unit, which has 551 part-time and 204 full-time airmen. The Mansfield base has two of its four C-27Js deployed in Afghanistan. It received the planes last summer, and was the first base in the country to deploy to Afghanistan with them." (Bryan Bullock, "Mansfield Base's C-27js Called 'Unnecessary,'" The Mansfield News Journal, 2/14/12)
Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH):  "When The President Travels To Mansfield On Wednesday, I Hope He Will Get A Better Sense Of Just How Vital The C-27J Program Is To The Air National Guard Base At Mansfield And The Economy Of North Central Ohio." "Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Avon, said he too hopes the president takes note. 'When the president travels to Mansfield on Wednesday, I hope he will get a better sense of just how vital the C-27J program is to the Air National Guard Base at Mansfield and the economy of north central Ohio,' Brown said." (Lou Whitmire, "Air Force One To Land At Threatened Mansfield Base," Mansfield News Journal, 7/31/12)
Mansfield News Journal: "Beyond The Threat To National Security, Mansfield Stands To Lose Nearly 1,000 Jobs If The President Gets His Way." "Our first question to the president would be: What about the C-27J program at Mansfield Lahm Regional Airport? The Air National Guard base where Air Force One will land remains threatened by Obama's proposed cuts to the military budget. With no replacement mission for the 179th, the cargo planes that served so valiantly in Afghanistan could be scrapped next year. The cost to operate these planes -- and staff the Air National Guard unit -- is far lower than any alternative aircraft operated by our full-time military. We have proven the cost effectiveness of the 179th, yet the president's military budget has proposed eliminating the aircraft and ending the 179th's mission in Mansfield. Beyond the threat to national security, Mansfield stands to lose nearly 1,000 jobs if the president gets his way." (Editorial, "A Few Questions For The President," Mansfield News Journal, 7/29/12)
And President Obama Is Facing An "Ohio Political Storm" Over His Support For The Job-Destroying Cuts:
ABC News Headline: "Obama Flies Into Ohio Political Storm" ("Obama Flies Into Ohio Political Storm," ABC News, 7/31/12)
Vice Commander Col. Michael Howard Plans To Park The C-27J Aircraft On The Tarmac "In Full View Of Air Force One." "The local paper quotes Vice Commander Col. Michael Howard as saying he will park the wing's C-27J aircraft on the tarmac in full view of Air Force One to make a point to the visiting president. The 179th has four of the planes, two currently deployed in Afghanistan." (Ann Compton, "Obama Flies Into Ohio Political Storm," ABC News, 7/31/12)
Mansfield News Journal: "Please Explain To The People Of Mansfield Why The U.S. Government Wants To Eliminate Such A Worthwhile Part Of Our Community And Nation."  "Beyond the threat to national security, Mansfield stands to lose nearly 1,000 jobs if the president gets his way. So, Mr. President, please explain to the people of Mansfield why the U.S. government wants to eliminate such a worthwhile part of our community and nation." (Editorial, "A Few Questions For The President," Mansfield News Journal, 7/29/12)
  