
    President Bush to Nominate Four Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Charles E. Erdmann to be a Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces. Erdmann is currently a Judicial Reform Consultant with Booz-Allen and Hamilton. Erdmann was the Chief Judge of the Boznia and Herzegovina Election Appeals Sub-Commission and a Program Manager in the Office of High Representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina. From 1995 to 1997, Erdmann was a Justice on the Montana Supreme Court, and he operated a private law practice from 1986 to 1995. Erdmann has been a member of the Montana Air National Guard since 1981 and holds the rank of Colonel. He is a graduate of Montana State University and the University of Montana School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Wayne Abernathy to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Institutions. Abernathy has served with the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs since 1981. He is presently the Republican Staff Director, and from 1999 to 2001, he was the Committee Staff Director. His other positions include Staff Director for the Subcommittee on Securities, and Economist to both the Committee and to the Subcommittee on International Finance and Monetary Policy. Abernathy received a bachelor's degree from Johns Hopkins University and a Master's degree from the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins.
The President intends to nominate Joseph Huggins to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Botswana. A career foreign service officer, Huggins is currently the Executive Director of the Bureau of African Affairs and a member of the Africa bureau's policy formulation team. His past assignments include service at embassies in the former Soviet Union, Africa and the Middle East. Huggins is a graduate of the University of the District of Columbia.
The President intends to nominate Ruth Y. Goldway to be a Commissioner of the United States Postal Rate Commission for a six-year term expiring November 22, 2008. Goldway has served as Commissioner on the Postal Rate Commission since 1998.
  