
    "When President Obama's campaign claimed they didn't 'have any knowledge of the story' in the disgraceful Obama Super PAC ad, they weren't just forgetting the facts — they were deliberately misleading voters. For months, the Obama campaign has repeatedly featured these distortions in their own advertisements and campaign activity. If voters can't trust the Obama campaign to tell the truth about something so obvious, how can they trust anything they say?" — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
This Week, President Obama's Campaign Claimed They Didn't "Have Any Knowledge Of The Story" In A Disgraceful Obama Super PAC Ad:
Obama Campaign Spokesperson Jen Psaki: "We Don't Have Any Knowledge Of The Story..." PSAKI: "We have nothing - no involvement with any ads that are done by Priorities USA. ... We don't have any knowledge of the story of the family. As you know, campaign finance rules in that regard are in place for a reason." (Adam Aigner-Treworgy, "White House, Obama Campaign Distance Themselves From Super PAC Ad," CNN's White House Blog, 8/8/12)
But President Obama's Campaign Has Repeatedly Featured The Exact Story On Their Own Website, In A Campaign Ad, And On A Conference Call:
The Obama Campaign's Own Website Highlights The Same Story Featured In The Controversial Super PAC Ad:

(Obama For America Website, www.barackobama.com, Accessed 8/9/12)
In May, Obama Deputy Campaign Manager Stephanie Cutter Hosted A Campaign Conference Call That Featured The Same Story As The Super PAC Ad. "But as my colleague Reid Epstein reported yesterday, Soptic appearead in an Obama campaign ad in May, and Cutter hosted an Obama campaign conference call around that time in which Soptic told reporters the same story as the one featured in the Priorities USA ad." (Dylan Byers, "'Morning Joe' Slams Obama Camp For 'Scam'," Politico, 8/9/12)
In May, President Obama's Campaign Released An Ad That Featured The Same Person From The Super PAC Ad. "Missouri steelworker Joe Soptic starred in an Obama campaign ad and participated in a conference call with the campaign in May, as POLITICO reported Wednesday. He resurfaced this week in a Priorities USA Action super PAC ad, charging that his wife died of cancer after Mitt Romney's former private equity firm laid him off." (Byron Tau, "Obama Camp Acknowledges Knowing Man's Story," Politico, 8/9/12)
  