
    Pool Reports by Erica L. Green, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 21, 202307:56 PDT

Travel Pool #1
Good morning from rainy Lake Tahoe, where the POTUS and FLOTUS are preparing to head to Maui, Hawaii to assess the damage of the wildfires, and meet with residents, local leaders and first responders.
I will be your print pooler today.
Your pool arrived to be swept outside the community where the Biden family is vacationing around 6:30 a.m. local time.
The pool joined the president's motorcade at 7:54 a.m. and we are rolling to Reno-Tahoe International Airport.
The White House passed along the following:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route to Reno-Tahoe International Airport, Reno, Nevada:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior AdvisorCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryJordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First LadyTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



August 21, 202308:47 PDT

Travel Pool # 2
POTUS arrived at Reno-Tahoe International Airport at 8:43 a.m. local time.
He and the First Lady boarded AF1 at 8:44 a.m. he turned around, waved and gave a thumbs up. He's taking the smaller plane for what is expected to be a 5+ hour flight.
Please note that because we are traveling on the smaller plane today, cell service stops upon boarding. So I will send our wheels up time when we arrive on Maui.Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton and FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route to Maui.
You can watch it via live stream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



August 21, 202308:51 PDT

Travel Pool #3
Addendum from the White House
Traveling with the President and First Lady aboard Air Force One en route to Kahului, Hawaii:
Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management AgencyBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior AdvisorJordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First LadyTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



August 21, 202311:37 HST

Travel Pool # 4- Maui Arrival
AF1 landed at the Kahului Airport at 11:11 local time, after a 5 hour & 13 min flight which departed Reno-Tahoe at 8:57 a.m.
Early in the flight, Olivia Dalton, Principal Deputy Press Secretary and Deanne Criswell, FEMA administrator gaggled on AF1, giving updates on the federal response to the Hawaii wildfires and monitoring other situations (Hurricane Hilary). Of note, Dalton said the president will announce that Bob Fenton, currently the FEMA Regional Administrator for Region 9, will be named "Chief Federal Response Coordinator" for Maui, to lead a long-term recovery effort.
The White House reports that before we took off, President Biden spoke with Governor Jay Inslee about the wildfires in Washington State and confirmed he has authorized Fire Management Assistance Grants to support the firefighting efforts underway.
The POTUS and First Lady deplaned AF1 in
Kahului at 11:25 a.m.
Per the WH, greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Kahului Airport, Kahului, Hawaii:
Governor Josh Green (HI)Jaime Green, First Lady of HawaiiSenator Brian Schatz (HI)Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)Rep. Jill Tokuda (HI-02)
Your pooler saw POTUS shake hands with the local leaders who had gathered to greet him on the tarmac. The FLOTUS and the governor shared a long embrace.
The president and governor walked with their arms around each other to Marine 1; the POTUS will take an aerial tour of the devastation suffered by Lahaina.
Your pool will be nearby in an osprey.



August 21, 202312:12 HST

Travel Pool # 5- M1 landing
After a roughly 20 min flight, Marine One landed at Kapalua Airport at 11:59. POTUS emerged from M1 at 12:04 p.m.
Those who joined POTUS on his aerial tour included:Governor Josh Green (HI)Senator Brian Schatz (HI)Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)Rep. Jill Tokuda (HI-02)
Per the White House, greeting the President upon arrival at Kapalua Airport, Lahaina, Hawaii:Rep. Ed Case (HI-01)Mayor Richard Bissen, Maui County, HI (NP)Isabella Ka'ihikapulani, spouse of Mayor Bissen
POTUS did not come over to address the pool. He did put on a baseball cap before getting into his vehicle at 12:05 p.m. Motorcade is rolling at 12:09 p.m.



August 21, 202313:08 HST

Travel Pool #6– Front Street, Lahaina
After a short drive, the motorcade stopped at a oceanfront location called Front Street.
Along the drive, some people held signs that read "trump won" and "f**k Biden." There was also a handwritten sign that says "Maui strong."
Motorcade passed by burned blocks, homes had been consumed by fire and all that was recognizable twisted metal, bed frames, disfigured air conditioning units, blackened washing machines, and hallowed out cars. Some cars had green X's on them.
Per White House— Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Front Street, Lahaina Maui are community leaders and elders, including:
Keaaumoku KapuKamana'opono CrabbeHokulani Holt-PadillaKumu Keola ChanU`ilani KapuKaleikoa KaeoKyle NakaneluaArchie KalepaMalina Kaulukukui
POTUS and Flotus walked down Front street, and met officials at 12:29 p.m. at Dickenson and Front streets in Lahaina. POTUS shook hands and spoke with FEMA personnel and other responders. We could not hear much.
POTUS wore aviators.
POTUS largely stayed quiet as he listened to updates from personnel.
"They've been offered everything- even an air craft carrier" - a US army official said to POTUS.
At 12:38 p.m. POTUS petted a dog named Dexter. He said: "Did you guys catch the boots on here?"
The golden lab was, in fact, wearing boots on all four legs.
Pool is being reminded of where we walk, as sidewalks are not sound.
POTUS started remarks at 12:48 p.m. local against the backdrop of a charred town, where not much is standing but trees. The president delivered his remarks near the Lahaina banyan tree, which is 150 years old, and was spared in the fire. It is a symbol of hope for the residents here.
"The devastation is overwhelming," POTUS said of what he had seen on his tour.
He spoke of empathizing with residents waiting for word about loved ones, and talked about getting a call about the death of his wife and daughter from a young responder.
Biden spoke of "hollow feeling" in your chest, like "being sucked in a black hole," waiting for the news— which many here still are.
He promised to help them "recover, rebuild, and respect culture and traditions."



August 21, 202313:27 HST

Travel Pool #7– POTUS Q&A at Front Street
After remarks, a reporter asked POTUS:
"Do you feel Hawaii will have all it needs?"
"It will all the way through", POTUS said.
Also passing along additional details from WH about this stop:
Accompanying the President and the First Lady visiting areas devastated by the fire in Lahaina and speaking to local leaders and first responders:
Governor Josh Green (HI)First Lady Jaime Kanani Green (HI)Senator Brian Schatz (HI)Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)Rep. Jill Tokuda (HI-02)Rep. Ed Case (HI-01)Lieutenant Governor Sylvia Luke (HI)Mayor Richard Bissen (Maui, HI)Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management Agency
Greet ParticipantsScott Dean, Division Supervisor of FEMA Urban Search and Rescue (US&R)Brigadier General Stephen Logan, Hawaii Army National GuardChief John Pelletier, Lahaina Police DepartmentChief Brad Ventura, Lahaina Fire DepartmentBobby Lee, President of the Hawaii Fire Fighters Association Local 1463, IAFF, AFL-CIO
At the remarks:
AttendeesThe First LadyGovernor Josh Green (HI)First Lady Jaime Kanani Green (HI)Senator Brian Schatz (HI)Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)Rep. Jill Tokuda (HI-02)Rep. Ed Case (HI-01)Lieutenant Governor Sylvia Luke (HI)Mayor Richard Bissen (Maui, HI)Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management AgencyRegional Administrator Bob Fenton, Federal Emergency Management AgencyState and local elected officials and first responders
Speaking ProgramThe President
Governor Josh Green (HI)Senator Brian Schatz (HI)Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)Rep. Jill Tokuda (HI-02)Mayor Richard Bissen (Maui, HI)



August 21, 202313:54 HST

Travel Pool # 8– POTUS participates in Blessing Ceremony
After remarks, pool was taken to a sacred site, still on Front Street, where POTUS and FLOTUS were scheduled to participate in a blessing ceremony with Lahaina elders at Moku'ula.
POTUS took off his sunglasses and greeted the elders, speaking with them for about 10 minutes.
We could see one of the elders smiling, and heard the FLOTUS laughing.
One of the elders gave FLOTUS a kiss on the cheek.
Another gave POTUS a gift, that a local journalist advised was a "ti leaf" offering. But we have asked for confirmation.
Pool was ushered away after a few minutes, at 1:28, as the village elders started the traditional ceremony that is prohibited from being filmed.
We heard chanting begin as we walked away.
The motorcade is rolling to the next location at 1:46 p.m.



August 21, 202314:21 HST

Travel Pool # 9– On record briefing
Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, homeland security advisor to the president, gave an on-the-record briefing to poolers as we waited for the POTUS and FLOTUS to finish up at the blessing ceremony.
My co-pooler Annie Linskey is kindly providing her link so you can access as quickly as possible!
https://otter.ai/u/xqeRvvKh2C6aiNj1OIbvXi2oDwc



August 21, 202315:09 HST

Travel Pool #10– Lahaina Civic Center Visit/Speech
The pool arrived at the at the Lahaina Civic Center at 1:56 p.m., where the POTUS was scheduled to speak at a community meeting/celebration that is taking place.
On the short drive, droves of first responders lined the streets and waved.
As we neared the community event, residents stood with signs, many pleading for more relief. One said "Relief for Maui Now," another, "Lahaina needs relief now."
Your pooler saw one sign, held by a child, that said "Defend Maui/ Protect our Aina" (Aina means land).
POTUS started to speak to the crowd of about 400, per figure provided by the WH, at 2:25 p.m. He was wearing a green and yellow lei.
"The entire country is here for you," he told the group.
He reiterated that the government would provide as much as they need for a long as they need, to rebuild.
He promised that the government would not only "get it done," but "get it done the way you want it done," he said, which drew a loud applause.
POTUS again shared the agony of awaiting word of whether he'd lost his entire family as a way to connect with the community, hundreds of which are still searching for family members.
He went on to commend the community for its courage.
He concluded remarks at 2:38 pm.
POTUS then shook hands as a band played, and the crowd was informed that he would be visiting each table.
Pool was sent to a courthouse across the street where we are holding and awaiting briefings from members of the Hawaiian delegation.
From the WH:
The President and the First Lady are attending a community event at the Lahaina Civic Center.
In attendance:Governor Josh Green (HI)First Lady Jaime Kanani Green (HI)Senator Brian Schatz (HI)Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)Rep. Jill Tokuda (HI-02)Rep. Ed Case (HI-01)Community Heroes, Survivors, and Leaders
Run of ShowMakalapua Kanuha escorts the President and the First Lady40 children present makana (gifts) of ti leaves and salt and exchange chant with Makalapua KanuhaIkaika Blackburn and Friends – "Hawai'i Pono'ī" and "Lahainaluna Anthem"Kalikolehua Storer delivers a traditional oli(Hawaiian blessing)Earl Kuhahiko shares the mo'olelo (oral history) of LahainaMayor Richard Bissen (Maui, HI)The President"Hawai'i Aloha"



August 21, 202316:06 HST

Travel Pool #11– Rolling back to airport
POTUS spent more than an hour visiting with families who attended the community event at the civic center. He'd promised to visit with all who wanted to meet him.
The pool joined the motorcade at 3:53 p.m., and we're rolling to Kapalua Airport.



August 21, 202316:26 HST

Travel Pool# 12– Back to Kahului
The presidential motorcade arrived at the Kapalua Airport at 4:04 p.m. Your pooler did not see POTUS board Marine One.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Kahului Airport, Kahului, Hawaii:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady
Pool landed, via osprey, back at Kahului at 4:23 p.m.
White House sends this note on POTUS' last event:
"As the President promised in his remarks, he and the First Lady stayed and met with everyone who wanted to speak to them in the audience of approximately 350 community members – which lasted 70 minutes."



August 21, 202316:39 HST

Travel Pool #13–POTUS departs Maui
POTUS landed at Kahului Airport on Marine One at 4:30 p.m. he emerged at 4:34 p.m wearing his baseball cap, leis and sunglasses. He and the FLOTUS, who was also wearing a lei, walked hand-in hand to AF1, where they waved before boarding at 4:36 p.m.
POTUS did not respond to a shouted question about how he found the visit.
We're on our way back to Reno-Tahoe International.
I will send official wheels up time when we land.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and First Lady aboard Air Force One en route Reno, Nevada:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior AdvisorJordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First LadyTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



August 22, 202300:24 PDT

Travel Pool #14– Landed in Reno
AF1 landed at Reno-Tahoe International at 12:19 a.m. local time.
We were wheels up from Maui at 4:46 p.m. HI time; flight time was a little under 5 hours.



August 22, 202300:38 PDT

Travel Pool #15– Rolling to Tahoe
POTUS and FLOTUS deplaned AF1 at 12:30 a.m. and went straight to their SUV in the motorcade. POTUS waved to the pool before getting in at 12:31 a.m.
Motorcade was rolling at 12:32 a.m.



August 22, 202301:28 PDT

Travel Pool #16– Lid
At 1:23 a.m., your pool broke with the motorcade outside the POTUS' vacation home community, and we have a lid.
Signing off with a huge thanks to my co-pooler, Annie Linskey of the WSJ, as well as the AP's Seung Min Kim. They helped immensely with getting you accurate info quickly throughout this jam- packed day, (and got me through my first pooling assignment in one piece).
Goodnight (or morning, really) to all.




  