
    On the heels of a large rally in another Super Tuesday state, North Carolina, this past weekend, Senator Kamala Harris has earned key endorsements from elected officials in Virginia, which will also hold its primary on the critical March 3 date. Virginia will award nearly 100 delegates in the Democratic primary.
"We're proud to have such passionate and committed leaders onboard to elect Kamala Harris the next President of the United States," said Harris campaign manager Juan Rodriguez. "Our campaign is playing to win, and these new endorsements are just the latest sign of the widespread support and enthusiasm for Senator Harris in the all-important Super Tuesday states."
Below is a list of Senator Harris' latest Virginia endorsements:

State Senator Scott Surovell
Delegate Charniele Herring, Virginia House Democratic Caucus Chair
Delegate Lashcrese Aird
Justin Wilson, Mayor of Alexandria
Barbara Kanninen, Arlington School Board
Stephanie Morales, Commonwealth's Attorney for the City of Portsmouth
Steve Baker, Democratic Chair of Virginia's 8th Congressional District
Maria "Lola" Delores Quintela, Latinx activist

Senator Surovell, Delegates Herring and Aird, and Mayor Wilson will serve as Virginia co-chairs for the campaign.
"I'm excited to endorse Kamala Harris," said Senator Surovell. "I have no doubt that she has the tenacity, intelligence, and leadership to prosecute the case against four more years of Trump and win the election. Our nominee has to be ready to go toe-to-toe with Trump and win -- and Kamala Harris has what it takes."
"I am proud to endorse Kamala Harris' trailblazing candidacy for president," said Delegate Herring. "As the first African American woman from Northern Virginia ever elected to the Virginia legislature, I recognize Kamala's historic candidacy as she picks up the baton that Shirley Chishlom carried. I know Virginians, and Americans, will be able to count on Kamala to continue the fight for equality and justice from the Oval Office."
"Kamala Harris is the president this country needs right now because she knows what keeps people up at night," said Delegate Aird. "She's running for president to provide financial security, keep our children safe, and improve everyone's access to affordable health care. I believe in her practical approach to solving our biggest problems, and that's why I'm proud to support her candidacy."
"My choice in Virginia's upcoming Democratic primary is Senator Kamala Harris," said Mayor Wilson. "As the Mayor of Alexandria, I've seen up close how our residents have been divided, disrespected and demoralized by Trump's reckless presidency. Senator Harris promises to turn the page and write the next chapter of our story in a way that will restore American leadership abroad and tackle looming challenges at home like health care, education, our climate crisis and gun safety. I'm proud to give her my full support."
"I'm endorsing Kamala Harris because she puts education first," said Kanninen. "Her first policy of the campaign was a brilliant proposal to raise teacher pay -- and since, she has continued talking about college affordability, investing in STEM education, and keeping guns out of our schools. We need a president who puts children first, and Kamala will be that president."
"Kamala Harris will be a president for the people," said Morales. "As a prosecutor and a Black woman, I know the importance of fighting for justice from within the system. For her entire career, Kamala has given voice to the voiceless for everybody from working people to everyday consumers to innocent children to victims of crime. Kamala fights for the people, and I'm proud to support her as she takes the fight to the White House."
  