
    Presidential Determination No. 93-35
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Pursuant to the authority vested in me by Section 503(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, and Section 3(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, I hereby find that the furnishing, sale, and/or lease of defense articles and services to the Cooperative Republic of Guyana will strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.
You are authorized to report this finding to the Congress and to publish it in the Federal Register.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, August 30, 1993.

Justification for Presidential Determination of Eligibility of the Cooperative Republic of Guyana To Be Furnished Defense Articles and Services Under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control Act
Section 503 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and Section 3(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act require, as a condition of eligibility to acquire defense articles and services from the United States, that the President find that the furnishing of such articles and services to the country concerned will "strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace."
The Cooperative Republic of Guyana, with substantial U.S. help, implemented significant electoral reforms that enabled it in October 1992 to hold its first free and fair elections in over 25 years. The Guyana Defense Force (GDF) played a significant and non-partisan role in returning Guyana to the fold of democratic countries. It is in the interest of the U.S. to support the continued democratic evolution in Guyana and the professionalization of the military.
As pressure is placed on narcotics traffickers in neighboring countries, Guyana will likely become increasingly subject to drug smuggling. It also is in the national interest of the United States to support the counternarcotics efforts of Guyana and the ability of the Guyanese military to successfully interdict regional drug trafficking.
I have therefore concluded that providing defense articles and services to the Cooperative Republic of Guyana will further our long-term goals of strengthening democracy in South America, promoting regional stability and effectively meeting the threat posed by narcotics trafficking, and thereby will strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.
  