
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Scott Doney, Chief Scientist, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
•      Nancy E. Lindborg, Assistant Administrator, Democracy Conflict and Humanitarian Affairs Bureau, USAID
•      Kevin Nealer, Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
•      Chase T. Rogers, Member, State Justice Institute
•      Wilfredo Martinez, Member, State Justice Institute
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint Warren Michael Stern to serve as Director of the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office at the Department of Homeland Security. His biography is below.
President Obama said, "Our nation will be well served by the talent and expertise these individuals will bring to their new roles. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in this administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
Scott Doney, Nominee for Chief Scientist, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
Scott Doney is a senior scientist in the Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry Department of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI). His research focuses on marine ecosystem dynamics and the role of the ocean in the global carbon cycle. He returned to WHOI in 2002 following 11 years in the Advanced Study Program and Climate and Global Dynamics Division at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colorado. Dr. Doney is a Leopold Leadership Program Fellow and a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union. He is the recipient of the James B. Macelwane Medal, and is the W. Van Alan Clark Sr. Chair at WHOI. Dr. Doney received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Revelle College at the University of California, San Diego, in 1986 and a Ph.D. in chemical oceanography in 1991 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology/WHOI Joint Graduate Program.
Nancy E. Lindborg, Nominee for Assistant Administrator, Democracy Conflict and Humanitarian Affairs Bureau, USAID
Nancy E. Lindborg currently serves as President of Mercy Corps, a global relief and development non-profit organization. Ms. Lindborg also serves as co-president of the board of directors for the U.S. Global Leadership Campaign. Ms. Lindborg formerly served, from 2000-2004, as chair of the Sphere Project Management Committee, an international initiative to improve the effectiveness and accountability of non-governmental organizations. Ms. Lindborg holds a B.A and M.A. in English literature from Stanford University and an M.P.A. from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
Kevin Nealer, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
Kevin Nealer is a Principal and Partner in The Scowcroft Group, an international business advisory firm. In this capacity, Mr. Nealer provides risk analysis and direct investment support to the Group's multinational clients. Mr. Nealer has lead responsibility for the firm's support for the investment community, providing analysis to leading currency and equity/debt traders. In addition, he assists industrial and financial clients in project planning and implementing investment and work-out strategies. Previously, Mr. Nealer served on the Professional Staff of the Senate Democratic Policy Committee where he worked on trade and international economic policy, and was a Foreign Service Officer with the State Department. Mr. Nealer has served as a lecturer, program moderator, and adjunct professor of trade law and policy at the Georgetown University McDonough School of Business, and was a Fulbright professor in China. Mr. Nealer received his undergraduate degree from the University of Michigan and his law degree from Case Western Reserve University School of Law.
Chase T. Rogers, Nominee for Member, State Justice Institute
Chase Rogers has been the Chief Justice of the Connecticut Supreme Court since 2007. Prior to that, she served as a judge in the Connecticut Appellate Court from 2006 to 2007 and as a judge in Connecticut Superior Court from 1998 to 2006. Prior to becoming a judge, she was a partner at Cummings & Lockwood in Stamford, Connecticut, where she focused on employment law and commercial litigation. Chief Justice Rogers is a member of the Board of Directors of the Conference of Chief Justices and of the Connecticut Bar Foundation Nominating Committee. She received her J.D. from Boston University School of Law and received her B.A. from Stanford University.
Wilfredo Martinez, Nominee for Member, State Justice Institute
Wilfredo Martinez is currently a County Court Judge in the Ninth Judicial Circuit Court of Florida. He was initially appointed to the Court in 1998. Previously, Judge Martinez was a sole practitioner in Orlando, Florida, focusing on real estate and business law. Prior to that, he was in-house counsel for a manufacturer, distributor and retailer; worked for an insurance defense firm; and served as a staff attorney at the Legal Aid Society of the Orange County Bar Association of Florida. He is the former president of the National Conference of Metropolitan Courts and a member of the Florida Conference of County Court Judges. He received his J.D. from the New York University School of Law and his B.A. from Yale University.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key administration post:
Warren Michael Stern, Appointee for Director, Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, Department of Homeland Security
Warren M. Stern is currently Senior Advisor in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of State for International Security and Nonproliferation. Mr. Stern formerly served as head of the International Atomic Energy Agency's Incident and Emergency Center, where he led international efforts to prepare for and respond to nuclear and radiation emergencies and forged the creation of the IAEA's Response Assistance Network. Prior to this, he was the State Department's Senior Coordinator for Nuclear Safety and Deputy Director of the Office of Nuclear Energy, Safety and Security. Mr. Stern has also served as Senior Technical Advisor in the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, providing advice and guidance to senior U.S. officials on nonproliferation and nuclear security issues. Mr. Stern began his career in 1985 at the Central Intelligence Agency. Mr. Stern received his M.S. in National Security Studies from the National War College, his S.M. in Nuclear Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and his B.A. in Physics from Brandeis University.
  