
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Duke Buchan III of Florida to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Spain, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Andorra. Mr. Buchan is the Founder and CEO of Hunter Global Investors L.P. Hunter manages multiple funds that invest in a range of asset classes globally, including real estate. Mr. Buchan and his family own and manage farms that grow over a 100 varieties of heirloom vegetables and raise horses. He is active in a number of educational and philanthropic causes. As an example, he established the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's (UNC) largest single endowment focused on Spanish languages, literature, and culture. Mr. Buchan received a B.A. in economics and Spanish from UNC and an M.B.A from Harvard Business School. He also studied at La Universidad de Valencia, and La Universidad de Sevilla in Spain. He speaks Spanish, and has a working knowledge of Catalan.
Thomas J. Hushek to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America the Republic of South Sudan. Mr. Hushek, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1988. He is currently the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary (Acting Assistant Secretary) in the Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations at the Department of State. A three-time Deputy Chief of Mission and senior official at the State Department, he has extensive experience in management and communications, coordination of humanitarian programs, and crisis management. Mr. Hushek has served at eight U.S. Missions overseas. He earned a M.I.A. from Colombia University and a B.A from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. He speaks Russian and Persian (Dari).
  