
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Carla A. Harris – Chairperson, National Women's Business Council
•      S. Fitzgerald Haney – Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
•      Beth Heifetz – Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
President Obama said, "I am grateful these accomplished individuals have agreed to join this Administration, and I'm confident they will serve ably in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Carla A. Harris, Appointee for Chairperson, National Women's Business Council
Carla A. Harris is the Vice Chairman of Global Wealth Management, Managing Director, and Senior Client Advisor at Morgan Stanley. From 2009 to 2012, she was the head of their Emerging Manager Platform. For more than a decade prior, Ms. Harris was a senior member of the firm's Equity Syndicate desk, responsible for Equity Private Placements and led their retail and consumer capital markets effort from 2003 to 2008. Ms. Harris served as Chair of the Private Placement Commitment Equity Committee from 1995 to 2005. She began her career with Morgan Stanley in the Mergers & Acquisitions department in 1987. Ms. Harris received an A.B. from Harvard University and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
S. Fitzgerald Haney, Appointee for Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
S. Fitzgerald Haney is Director of Business Development and Client Services at Pzena Investment Management, a position he has held since 2007. From 2002 to 2007, he was Director for Strategic Planning and New Business at the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Haney was a senior associate at Israel Seed Partners, a venture capital firm in Jerusalem, Israel. Previously, he was a Vice President of Marketing and Strategic Planning at Citicorp/Citibank in Mexico, and worked in marketing at Pepsico, Inc. and Procter & Gamble in Brazil, Mexico, and Puerto Rico. He served on the board of Ayecha, an organization devoted to Jews of Color, and was a former Board Chair of the Foundation for Jewish Culture. Mr. Haney received a B.S. and an M.S. from the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service.
Beth Heifetz, Appointee for Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
Beth Heifetz is a partner at the law firm Jones Day. Previously, from 1989 to 1991, she served as Litigation Counsel at the National Legal Aid & Defender Association, and from 1986 to 1989 she was an associate at the firm of Onek, Klein & Farr. Ms. Heifetz is a member of the Washington Lawyers Committee for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and the Harry A. Blackmun Scholarship Foundation. She is a former co-chair of the American Bar Association's Litigation Section Pro Bono and Appellate Practice Committees. Ms. Heifetz received a B.A. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and a J.D. from New York University School of Law.
  