
    Los Angeles- NBA legend and business entrepreneur Earvin "Magic" Johnson, in collaboration with musical greats Clarence Avant, Berry Gordy, and Quincy Jones, will host a fundraiser in Los Angeles for Senator Hillary Clinton on Friday, September 14.
"Senator Hillary Clinton has a unique understanding of the domestic and international issues and has the experience and knowledge to help lead our country and get us to a better place," said Earvin "Magic" Johnson. "We need a winner as our next President of the United States-someone that can help realistically improve relations in the world, someone that will work to provide affordable and accessible healthcare and someone that is simply a strong leader. I know that's Hillary Clinton."
"I am honored to have such Magical and fabulous support," said Hillary Clinton. "As the campaign continues, I am humbled by the actions taken by supporters willing to do all they can to ensure that my campaign is successful. Magic, Clarence, Berry, and Quincy are a true testament to knowing what it takes to be a success," she concluded.
Last month, Quincy Jones endorsed Senator Clinton in an inspiring video tribute during the African American Men for Hillary luncheon in Washington, D.C. which brought together more than 200 African American men supporters from the business, entertainment, faith, government, and political sectors.
"I am delighted to be a co-chair of this event," said Clarence Avant. "Hillary has been a friend for many years. I have watched her serve our country as First Lady, and now as a Senator from New York. She has done so in a manner that makes us all proud to be Americans. I am confident that with the experience and leadership that she brings to the job, when she returns to the White House,, she will hit the ground running on day one -- working on behalf of the American people," he concluded.
Berry Gordy who has known Senator Clinton for many years added, "Hillary has been a devoted public servant for most of her life. I believe that at this point in our nation's history, she has the strength and focus that is required to lead our country. I am supporting her with the full confidence of knowing, that our country is at a crossroads, and we need her leadership at this time in the White House."
The event will be held at the home of Cookie & Earvin "Magic" Johnson.
Earvin Johnson, Jr. is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Magic Johnson Enterprises (MJE) which owns and/or operates business ventures across 89 cities and 22 states. Through MJE, Mr. Johnson has bolstered the economy by establishing brand name businesses in underserved communities, training and hiring local residents and employing local contractors. As Chairman and Founder of the Magic Johnson Foundation, Mr. Johnson continues to work to improve the educational, health, and social needs of children, young adults and inner-city communities throughout the nation.
Berry Gordy founded and presided over the musical empire known as Motown. Under his tutelage, Motown became a model of black capitalism, pride and self-expression and a repository for some of the greatest talent ever assembled at one company.
Clarence Avant is a music executive widely renowned for his dedication to pioneering opportunities within the recording industry. During his 40 year career, Avant has been honored publicly for his positive contributions to society. In 1993, Avant was named Chairman of Motown Records and four years later he became the first African-American to serve on the International Management Board for Polygram. Today, Avant is president of his own publishing companies, Avant Garde and Interior Music Corp.
Quincy D. Jones Jr. is a composer, conductor and record producer who during five decades in the entertainment industry has earned more than 70 Grammy Award nominations, more than 25 Grammy Awards, and a Grammy Legend Award in 1991. He is best known as the co-producer of two of the top-selling records of all time: the album Thriller by Michael Jackson, which sold 104 million copies worldwide.
  