
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced additions to its Florida campaign. Joining Team Rudy as Broward County Co-Chairs are Chip LaMarca, Chairman of the Broward County Republican Party, and Paul Sallarulo, Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of the North Broward Hospital District.
LaMarca, who also serves as the President of the Lighthouse Point City Commission, along with Sallarulo, will help build a grassroots effort in Broward County to promote Mayor Giuliani's strong leadership and his 12 Commitments to the American People.
"Rudy's experience and vision for our country is already resonating with Republicans in Florida," said LaMarca. "I'm honored to be on board helping to spread his positive message for America."
Previously, the Giuliani Campaign announced Ed Pozzuoli, former Chairman of Broward Republican Executive Committee, as its chair in Broward County. Broward County contains the second highest number of registered Republicans in Florida.
About the Broward County Co-Chairs:
Chip LaMarca, Co-Chair
LaMarca is currently serving as the President of the Lighthouse Point City Commission and serves as the Chairman of the Broward County Republican Party. He also owns LaMarca Construction Corporation.
In addition, LaMarca is the Club President of the Exchange Club of Pompano Beach, serves on the Broward Children's Center Board of Directors and as a member of the Auxiliary Board for Hugs for Kids, a child abuse prevention agency. He was named Broward County Republican of the Year in 2005.
Paul Sallarulo, Co-Chair
Sallarulo is the Executive Vice President of Alinian Capital Group, LLC.
Governor Jeb Bush appointed Sallarulo as Commissioner of the North Broward Hospital District in 1999, and he was reappointed in 2003 for an additional term of four years. He currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Commissioners and Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Sallarulo is active with the Republican Party, including having been selected as one of the "Top 10 Young Republicans in Florida." Sallarulo was the Regional Chair for Florida Governor Charlie Crist's successful 2006 election and as President George W. Bush's Regional Coordinator for Broward and Palm Beach Counties in 2004.
Sallarulo is a graduate of Baruch College and holds an M.B.A. from Nova Southeastern University with honors. He resides in Fort Lauderdale, Florida with his two children.
  