
    I want to say first of all that I'm very proud of Mayor Ed Koch and New York and all the people who live here. My heart goes out in thanksgiving to the delegates who did such a wonderful job Monday night in protecting the integrity of the primary system and in honoring the votes of 19 million Democrats who expressed their will this year. And I also wanted to point out that last night, after one of the greatest speeches I have ever heard, I called Senator Kennedy and told him how much I appreciated it.
Ours is a nation, ours is a party, well represented by thousands of people like you who believe in the greatness of the United States and who believe in openness, debate, controversy, courage, conviction, and who believe in the future and are not afraid to express your will in the most open, democratic, and greatest party on earth. I'm grateful to you for that.
And I'm also grateful for a party which, at the end of this convention, will be united and ready to face the Republicans no matter what comes. And I have absolutely no doubt that Fritz Mondale and I will be ready to serve 4 more years beginning in January.
And finally, let me say to you that throughout this year and throughout the last 4 years you've shown your confidence in me. We have faced formidable odds in the past. We have never been defeated on any major issues and any major campaigns, and I have no doubt that together we'll be victorious not only for ourselves, but for our country.
I want you to have a good evening on Wednesday night, tonight. Don't forget how you're going to vote. [Laughter] And then I hope you'll honor my request for the greatest Vice President this Nation has ever seen to be renominated. Fritz said that's obviously a very successful line in my speech, and I ought to use it more often. [Laughter] I look forward to seeing you tomorrow night, Thursday night, and I'll make the decision about accepting your nomination at that time.
I now want to keep you in suspense, so good day, work hard tonight and tomorrow. I'll see you Thursday evening. God bless you.
  