
    Madison, Wis. - Gov. Scott Walker today announced a team of local leaders who will serve as co-chairs for his presidential campaign in Georgia, a state where Walker has experienced considerable support and where his campaign will continue to have a strong presence in advance of the state'sMarch 1 primary election. They join Walker's state chairman, U.S. Rep. Doug Collins, in leadership of the campaign's efforts in Georgia.
"We are incredibly energized by the support our campaign is receiving in the South, especially in Georgia," said Walker. "As we announce these new team members today, we take another step toward victory in the Georgia primary next year. I thank these individuals for their willingness to contribute their time and talents to our cause as we continue to share our message of fighting and winning for the hard-working taxpayers."
Walker's Georgia co-chairs include:
State Sen. Judson Hill
State Rep. Matt Ramsey, Georgia House Majority Caucus Whip
State Rep. Christian Coomer
Julianne Thompson, former co-chair of the Atlanta Tea Party
Rachel Little, former Gwinnett County Republican Party chair
State Sen. Judson Hill was first elected to the Georgia Senate in 2004, by almost 75 percent of the vote, to represent East Cobb County and a portion of Sandy Springs in Fulton County. Senator Hill currently serves as Chairman of the Finance Committee and the Legislative Federal and State Healthcare Financing Overview Committee. He is also a member of the Appropriations, Insurance and Labor, Rules, Health and Human Services, and Regulated Industries and Utilities Committees. Senator Hill served in the Reagan Administration as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia, and also in Washington, D.C. as a White House appointee at the U.S. Department of State, Agency for International Development. Senator Hill and his wife Shelly are proud parents of three children and have lived in East Cobb County for over 25 years.
State House Majority Caucus Whip Matt Ramsey, a native Georgian, was first elected to the Georgia House of Representatives in 2007. He currently serves as a member of the Judiciary Non-Civil, Higher Education, Rules, Ways and Means, Appropriations, Ethics and Regulated Industries Committees. Ramsey was elected by the House Majority Caucus in 2013 to serve as the Majority Caucus Whip in the State House. Matt currently practices law in Fayette County and is a partner with Warner, Hooper, and Ramsey, P.C. in Peachtree City, Georgia. Matt and his wife Missy have two children, Anna Lynne and Jacob.
State Rep. Christian Coomer serves as the Representative for Georgia's 14th State House District. He is the Chairman of the House Transportation Committee, which has oversight responsibilities for the State Department of Transportation's $3 billion annual budget. Prior to being named committee chair, Chairman Coomer served for three years as Administration Floor Leader to Governor Nathan Deal. Chairman Coomer served four years on active duty in the United States Air Force Judge Advocate General (JAG) Corps before opening his own law practice in Cartersville. Coomer and his wife Heidi have two sons, Christian and Collin.
Julianne Thompson is one of Georgia's most high-profile conservative activists. She is co-founder of one of the largest and most influential coalitions in Georgia and is well-known for being able to build strong grassroots organizations on a state and national level. She is the former co-chairman of the Atlanta TEA Party and former press secretary of the Georgia Republican Party, where she currently serves on the executive board. In 2012, she was selected as one of Georgia's 16 presidential electors.
Rachel Little, active in numerous political organizations and campaigns at both the local and state level, is the immediate past chairman of the Gwinnett County Republican Party. She recently received the Georgia Republican Party Chairman of the Year Award and was recognized as the Woman of the Year by the Conservative Republican Woman of North Atlanta. Rachel served as a state co-chairman for both the Herman Cain and Mitt Romney presidential campaigns leading up to the 2012 presidential election. Rachel is a native of Atlanta and lives in Gwinnett County with her husband Bill.
Additional members of Walker's state leadership will be announced in the coming months.
  