
    Your Imperial Majesty, ladies and gentlemen:
The poet Emerson has said that, "The ornament of a house is the friends who frequent it."
Our one regret this evening is that our warm friend and honored guest has not been able to ornament the occasion more-by bringing along his very beautiful and charming Empress. We miss her very much--because this administration champions beauty in all its forms.
His Majesty's coronation will take place in October, after a reign of nearly 26 years. This gathering of friends offers you heartfelt good wishes and prayers for still brighter success.
To them I must add special congratulations on Your Majesty's superb sense of timing. You have had the foresight to schedule your coronation when your polls are up.
You also have the satisfaction of looking back on a most impressive record of very progressive leadership. You have taught Iran's people that they have in their own strength and imagination the power to solve their own problems and to realize their own dreams.
When I visited Iran with Mrs. Johnson-just 5 years ago next week--the land reform program, that we discussed until late in the evening, was just beginning. Tonight, 50 percent of Iran's rural families farm their own land. Some 7,000 or more rural cooperatives have already been established--and more than 800 extension corpsmen are out helping the farmers of that country to acquire new agricultural skills.
This promise of new progress and dignity beckons all the Middle East. The people of that region have just suffered a very great shock. But that shock should and must not obscure the vision of what they can do to solve their problems constructively, peacefully--by working together, by working with their neighbors.
We stand ready tonight, as before, to help those who ask our help--to strengthen the independence of all who seek it in purposeful partnership. Now, as always, America seeks no domination--by force of arms, by influence of wealth, by stealth or subversion.
We seek to build in brotherhood. We want to continue giving and learning--as we will again when Iranian and American scientists soon begin to study ways to exploit Iran's water resources, and to employ the exciting new technology of desalting. Our cooperation will continue to grow in this and many other ways.
We take great pride in having with us this evening Mr. David Lilienthal who has done so much to plan and develop our own land and who is now giving his talented energies to your country.
But turning the dreams we all share into a shared reality asks a long journey of both our countries. We take heart from the knowledge that the people of Iran, under Your Majesty's leadership, have the fortitude and vision to continue their advance, and to so inspire all who would follow in hope.
Ladies and gentlemen, I can conclude this statement in no better way than to recall for you the words of a great Persian poet:
"Dig deep and sow good seed;Repay the debt you owe your country's soil;You need not then be beholden to any man."
Our distinguished guest this evening has truly sown good seed. I ask those of you who have come from throughout our land to join me in a toast to the architect of Iran's future, the distinguished sovereign and leader of the Iranian people, and our most valued and trusted friend, His Imperial Majesty, the Shah of Iron.
  