
    Good morning. I didn't know you had this many people in Burlington. I'll see most of you in a few minutes at the townhall meeting. I will see a lot of you later on at the townhall meeting, and I hope if you can't be there, that you'll listen to what is asked me and what I say.
This morning we will be discussing some matters that are very important to you and to me, indeed to all people in our country and around the world. We'll be talking about issues of peace, controlling nuclear weapons. We'll be talking about the strength of our country, the unity which, when it binds us together, has always been enough to meet any challenge or to overcome any problem or to answer any question.
In the past when our country has been challenged, almost always it's been obvious to everyone. We could understand the First World War or the Second World War or the Great Depression, and we recognized that our country was in trouble, in danger, and we all worked together-our families, our communities, our Nation was unified.
Now we have a serious problem because we rely too much on foreign oil. We import about half of all the oil we use. We need to become more energy-secure, because our Nation's security is threatened. Everyone can help. We have to do two things: One is, save energy, don't waste energy. Every American can decide how to accomplish this goal in your driving, at your home, at your job—how to save energy.
And the other, of course, is to produce more energy in our own country—oil, gas, coal, geothermal supplies, gasohol in Iowa. We can also use more solar energy. These are the kind of things we can all do.
Farmers have a great opportunity to help with the energy problem, and, of course, no one can come to Iowa without realizing that you have the most wonderfully productive land on Earth and one of our greatest blessings that God's given us in this Nation, this beautiful land to produce food and fiber for ourselves and for all the world. I'm very happy to be back. I'm very happy to be back at Burlington.
Thank all of you for coming out. We love every one of you.
We have the greatest country on Earth. and together we can make it even greater in the future.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
  