
    Alexandria, VA - On Saturday, Senator John McCain campaigned alongside Senator Lindsey Graham in New Hampshire. At a town hall meeting in Manchester, the two sat down with NBC's Kelly O'Donnell in a joint-interview where they discussed Senator McCain's advice on running for president, the upcoming FOX News debate, Donald Trump and Senator Graham's new iPhone.
As highlighted by Kelly O'Donnell, Senators McCain also discussed his support and endorsement of Senator Graham's candidacy for president. McCain stated, "Remember that this time in 1999, I was not on the charts. This time in 2007, my campaign was dead. So I'm very confident that with this kind of setting in New Hampshire where people examine you very carefully, Lindsey Graham will excel and I'll do anything I can to help him."
Watch the joint-interview here:

Graham On The Upcoming FOX News Debate: "I Have A Chance Here In This Early Debate Where There's Not So Much Noise And Gibberish."
"Well, the opportunity is probably to be heard. You've got the Donald Trump debate. Everybody's going to be [wondering] how will he perform? What will he say? Well when I'm in the first debate, which is the happy hour debate at five o'clock — start drinking — by nine o'clock Donald may make sense to you if you drink enough. But I have a chance here in this early debate where where's not so much noise and gibberish. The problem Mr. Trump is going to have is he's eventually going to have to tell us how to solve a problem. And, his solution on immigration is just a bunch of gibberish. They're all going to walk back and we're going to let some of them come back, maybe, is not much of a solution. So over time solutions are going to be his downfall and will lead to my rise."
Senator John McCain's Advice to Graham On Running For President: "Be Lindsey Graham." "It's the town hall meeting, it's the exchanges, don't give long speeches, lots of give and take. Remember that at this time in 1999, I was not on the charts. This time in 2007 my campaign was dead. So I'm very confident that with this kind of setting in New Hampshire where people examine you very carefully, Lindsey Graham will excel and I'll do anything I can to help him.
Graham: "What I've Seen From [McCain] Is Stay True To Yourself...Have A Message That's Bigger Than The Party, Good For The Country."
"Well, I take that there's hope for a guy like me. I was with John when he was fifth in a four-person race. I was with John in 1999 and what I've seen from Senator McCain is stay true to yourself, which is what he's trying to tell me just be Lindsey. Have a message that's bigger than the party, good for the country."
On Senator Graham's New iPhone: McCain: "We're Starting Lessons." Graham: "It'd Be Like Giving A Monkey A Gun, But I'm Going To Get There."
McCain: "Now he's got to learn how to use it. We're starting lessons."
Graham: "He's the last guy I'd ask [for lessons]. It'd be like giving a monkey a gun, but I'm going to get there. I'm going to learn how to use this phone."
  