
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the endorsements of West Virginia State Senators Donna Boley, Karen Facemyer and John Yoder. Together, these Senators will work to build the Mayor's grassroots support across the state.
In addition, the Giuliani Campaign today filed to participate in the West Virginia Republican Convention.
"We are glad to have these Senators join Team Rudy," said Rick Wiley, Giuliani's National Deputy Political Director. "Their support shows the Mayor's message of strong leadership and his vision for our country is resonating all across the United States. He is the Republican candidate best positioned to win the Presidency, and the Senators' endorsements in this key state demonstrate Rudy's growing support."
About Rudy's West Virginia Endorsements:
Senator Donna J. Boley (R-Pleasants) Boley was first appointed to the West Virginia State Senate in 1985 and was elected in 1986. She has served as the Minority Leader, Chairman of the Pleasants County Republican Executive Committee and as a member of the State Republican Executive Committee. She has been a delegate to all Republican National Conventions since 1988 and was a Senior West Virginia Advisor to President George W. Bush in 2000.
Senator Karen Facemyer (R-Jackson)
Facemyer, a former educator, has served in the State Senate since 2000. She previously served in the West Virginia State House from 1992 to 1998. She is a member of the Jackson, Mason, Roane and Putnam County Chambers of Commerce; American Legion Auxiliary Unit #23; Co-Chair of Council of State Government Agriculture and Rural Development Committee; and President of the Polymer Alliance Zone. Facemyer is a graduate of Glenville State College and Marshall University.
Senator John Yoder (R-Jefferson)
Yoder is an attorney who was first elected to the State Senate in 1992. He has served as Minority Whip. Previously, Yoder was District Court Judge for the 9th Judicial District in Kansas and Supreme Court Fellow for the Supreme Court of the United States. He served as Special Assistant to the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court from 1981 to 1983. Yoder also served in the U. S. Department of Justice. He is a graduate of Chapman College and the University of Chicago. Yoder has a law degree from the University of Kansas.
  