
    Pool Reports by Diana Glebova, The Daily Caller 



Sent:
Reports:




August 18, 202306:32

In-town pool report #1 - Camp David schedule
Good morning everyone,
I'll be your in-town pooler for the day.
POTUS is set to host a trilateral summit at Camp David this afternoon with Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida and South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol.
This is the first time President Biden has invited foreign leaders to the compound during his presidency, and the three are expected to discuss cooperation on a range of topics, including China and North Korea.
Here is the schedule for the day at Camp David:
8:30 a.m.: Press briefing by Jake Sullivan
9:30 a.m.: ROK arrival
10:00 a.m.: Japan arrival
11:00 a.m: Leaders handshake
3:00 p.m: Joint press conference
4:00 p.m: ROK departure
4:30 p.m.: Japan departure
6:00 p.m.: POTUS departure
POTUS arrived at Camp David at 3:25 p.m. yesterday.



August 18, 202308:22

In-town pool report #2- Camp David briefing moved up
From the White House:
The press gaggle with National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will begin shortly after the pool's arrival to Camp David, aiming to begin at approximately 8:15am. It will be live-streamed onWhiteHouse.gov.



August 18, 202308:34

In-town pool report #3- 2 minute warning
Two minute warning for presser with Jake Sullivan at Camp David.



August 18, 202308:51

In-town pool report #4- Jake Sullivan presser over
The national security adviser's press conference at Camp David ended at 8:50 a.m.



August 18, 202309:47

In-town pool report #5- Arrival of South Korean President
ROK President Yoon touched down on the lawn of Camp David at 9:17 a.m.
He exited the helicopter at 9:21 a.m. and walked down the sidewalk.
He got on a golf cart at 9:22 a.m. and was driven away.



August 18, 202309:54

In-town pool report #6- Arrival of Japanese Prime Minister
Japanese Prime Minister Kishida touched down at Camp David at 9:47 a.m.
He walked out of the helicopter at 9:50 a.m., walked down the sidewalk, got in a golf cart, and was driven away.



August 18, 202310:14

In-town pool report #7- POTUS-Yoon meeting
From the White House:
The President is participating in a meeting with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea.
U.S. Manifest:The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council
Korean Manifest:H.E. Yoon Suk Yeol, President of the Republic of KoreaH.E. PARK Jin, Minister of Foreign AffairsT.H CHO Taeyong, Director of National Security, Secretary-General of the NSC Secretariat, Office of the President 3.H.E. CHO Hyundong, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United States of AmericaDr. Kim Tae Hyo, Principal Deputy National Security Advisor, Secretary-General of the NSC Secretariat



August 18, 202311:00

In-town pool report #8- POTUS-Kishida meeting
From the White House, sent out at 10:45 a.m.
The President is participating in a meeting with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan.
U.S. Manifest:The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Rahm Emanuel, Ambassador of the United States to Japan
Japan Manifest:H.E. Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of JapanH.E. Hayashi Yoshimasa, Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. Kihara Seiji, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. Akiba Takeo, National Security AdvisorMr. Funakoshi Takehiro, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs



August 18, 202311:19

In-town pool report #9- 2 min warning
2 minute warning for leadership handshake



August 18, 202311:27

In-town pool report #10- Leadership handshake
The three leaders - President Biden, President Yoon and Prime Minister Kishida - shook hands at 11:25 a.m. at Camp David.
The handshake took place in front of the "Camp David" sign at the Laurel building on the grounds.
POTUS walked out of the building down the central sidewalk, while Yoon and Kishida came down a sidewalk on the side.
"Welcome," Biden said. Other comments were too quiet to hear.
The three then posed for their official picture.
POTUS has already met with Yoon and Kishida unilaterally.
A press conference with the three leaders is expected at 3 p.m.



August 18, 202311:34

In-town pool report #11- Trilateral meeting top
From the White House:
More tk with Biden comments.
The President is participating in a trilateral meeting with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Rahm Emanuel, Ambassador of the United States to JapanT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific AffairsT.H. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council
Korean ManifestH.E. Yoon Suk Yeol, President of the Republic of KoreaH.E. Park Jin, Minister of Foreign AffairsT.H. Cho Taeyong, Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentH.E. Cho Hyundong, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to the United StatesDr. Kim Tae Hyo, First Deputy Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentT.H. Kim Eun Hye, Senior Secretary to the President for Public Relations, Office of the PresidentDr. Choi Sang Mok, Senior Secretary to the President for Economic Affairs, Office of the PresidentT.H. Lee Choongmyon, Secretary to the President for Foreign Affairs, Office of the President
Japan ManifestH.E. Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of JapanH.E. Mr. Hayashi Yoshimasa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of JapanMr. Kihara Seiji, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. Akiba Takeo, National Security AdvisorMr. Shimada Takashi, Executive Secretary to the Prime MinisterH.E. Mr. Tomita Koji, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the United States of AmericaMr. Funakoshi Takehiro, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. Namazu Hiroyuki, Director-General, Asian and Oceanian Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Foreign Affairs



August 18, 202311:51

In-town pool report #12- More in depth on trilateral
POTUS began his remarks at the top of the trilateral Camp David summit by welcoming Yoon and Kishida.
He spoke of the "new chapter" between the three countries, given that the leaders of the US, ROK and Japan have never participated in a "stand alone" summit.
"Our countries would be stronger and the world would be safer if we stand together," Biden said.
Yoon spoke second followed by Kishida, who offered condolences for the Maui wildfires and on the passing of Yoon's father.
POTUS did not answer any questions.
Pool yelled: "Do you view China as a threat?"
"What message does this summit send to Russia and China?"
"Is China's economy collapsing, sir?"



August 18, 202315:07

In-town pool report #13- 2 minute warning to press conference
Two minute warning to trilateral presser.



August 18, 202315:14

In-town pool report #14- Trilateral press conference
Presser began at 3:14 p.m. after the three leaders walked down the side walk and to the podium.
The presser will be live streamed on the White House website.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken and national security adviser Jake Sullivan sat in front of the podium.
Reporters from the U.S., ROK and Japan sat in rows in the woods.



August 18, 202315:57

In-town pool report #15- Presser details
Details on the presser:
To begin, POTUS expressed happiness about the "new era in partnership" between the three countries.
Biden thanked the leaders for providing relief for the devastating wildfires in Hawaii. He also said he is monitoring Hurricane Hillary.
Biden then spoke about what the leaders accomplished at the summit. The leaders committed to trilateral defense collaboration, doubling down on information sharing, strengthening ballistic defense collaboration, and establishing a trilateral hotline "whenever there is a crisis in the region or affecting" the U.S., ROK or Japan.
The leaders are also expanding economic cooperation, launching a supply chain early warning system pilot, commuting to global health cooperation, and trilateral research exchange, Biden said.
President Yoon spoke second. He said the Camp David summit began a "new chapter in our trilateral cooperation."
Yoon noted that the three leaders agreed to have regular trilateral summits and global youth summits to expand cooperation further.
Trilateral defense exercises are "crucial" to counter North Korean capabilities, Yoon said.
He also said he hopes Biden will meet him in South Korea.
Prime Minister Kishida spoke third. He spoke about the devastating Maui wildfires and expressed his condolences.
Kishida spoke about how the "international order has shaken from its foundation" due to Russia's war on Ukraine, North Korean missile launches and conflict in the South China Sea, and how the trilateral alliance will be important going forward.
In the question and answer session, each leader called on a reporter from their country, who posed one question to each of the leaders.
Biden called on The Associated Press, who posed questions to each leader. Please check transcript for the quotes.
Biden answered questions on the nuclear umbrella, detainees and Ukraine.
The AP reporter also posed a domestic question to Biden: "What is your reaction to the special counsel appointment into your son?"
POTUS said he had no comment.
Please check video for transcripts.



August 18, 202316:31

In-town pool report #16- Last remarks
The press conferences lasted approximately 54 minutes and ended shortly after 4 p.m.
At the end, a reporter asked POTUS if the U.S. was winning the competition with China.
"I'm winning all the competitions," Biden said.



August 18, 202316:40

In-town pool report #17- Question on Xi
One question was shouted during the presser and was difficult to make out in the live stream.
A reporter asked POTUS when he planned to talk to Chinese President Xi.
Biden answered the question at the end of the press conference, saying, "I expect and hope to follow up on our conversation in Bali this fall. That's my expectation."



August 18, 202316:55

In-town pool report #18: CORRECTION on "competitions" remark
My 16th pool report stated that POTUS said "I'm winning all the competitions" in response to a question about competition with China.
He actually said, "We're winning all the competitions."



August 18, 202318:07

In-town pool report #19- Week ahead from the White House
Week Ahead 8/18 – 8/27
This evening, the President and the First Lady will travel to Lake Tahoe, Nevada where they will remain over the weekend.
On Monday, the President and the First Lady will depart Lake Tahoe, Nevada en route to Maui, Hawaii.
In Maui, the President and First Lady will meet with federal, state, and local leaders. The President and the First Lady will see firsthand the impacts of the devastating wildfires as well as discuss the recovery effort. While in Maui, they will also talk to survivors and thank first responders.
In the evening, the President and the First Lady will depart Maui, Hawaii and return to Lake Tahoe, Nevada where they will remain until Saturday.
On Saturday, the President and the First Lady will depart Lake Tahoe, Nevada and return to the White House.



August 18, 202318:17

In-town pool report #20- POTUS departure
POTUS boarded Marine One to leave Camp David at 6:11 p.m.
He was far away from the pool and did not stop to take questions.
He is headed to JBA and will be flying to Lake Tahoe this evening.
Yoon and Kishida departed at 4:34 p.m. and 5:03 p.m. respectively.



August 18, 202318:17

In-town pool report #21- Travelers with POTUS
From the White House: Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary




 
Pool Reports below by Peter Gold, Fuji TV 



Sent:
Reports:




August 18, 202305:55

Foreign Pool Report #1 -- Good Morning
Good morning
I am your foreign pooler for today's historic US-Japan-Republic of Korea trilateral summit meeting, to be held at Camp David.
Below is the schedule of events:
11:00 AM THE PRESIDENT greets with and welcomes President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan to the Camp David Trilateral Summit
Camp David
11:15 AM THE PRESIDENT holds a trilateral meeting with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan
Camp David
3:00 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts a joint press conference with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan
Camp David
6:00 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Camp David en route to Joint Base Andrews
Camp David
In-Town Travel Pool
The President arrived at Camp David yesterday.
The leaders of Japan and the Republic of Korea arrived in Washington yesterday and will travel to Camp David today for the summit.
I will send some background information in my next report.



August 18, 202305:56

Foreign Pool Report #2 -- US Japan ROK Trilateral Summit Background
Below please find some background information on today's US Japan ROK Trilateral Summit at Camp David
Today, Friday, August 18, 2023, President Biden welcomes Japanese Prime Minister Kishida Fumio and ROK President Yoon Suk Yeol (family names before given names in the Japanese and Korean style) to Camp David, the presidential retreat near Thurmont, Maryland, for an historic trilateral summit. This summit is the first visit to Camp David by any foreign leader during the Biden-Harris administration, and the first one since 2015, when then-President Barack Obama hosted the six Gulf Cooperation Council nations at a summit to reassure them that the US was committed to their security, and ease concerns that a nuclear deal with Iran would leave them more vulnerable.
By holding this summit at Camp David, with its long tradition of hosting historic, significant meetings and discussions, President Biden is expressing how much he has prioritized the Indo-Pacific region and his relationships with these two leaders, the US alliances with these two countries, and their trilateral cooperation. President Biden wants to recognize the political courage that President Yoon and Prime Minister Kishida have exercised in improving their bilateral relationship after a period of chilly relations, but also to signify and to demonstrate how seriously he takes our relationships with them.
There have been five Japanese Prime Ministers who have visited Camp David, making Prime Minister Kishida the sixth. There has been one Korean President who has visited Camp David, making President Yoon the second.
Other notable foreign leader meetings at Camp David include:
1959 Dwight Eisenhower hosts Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev1978 Jimmy Carter hosts Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat2000 Bill Clinton hosts Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat2003 George W. Bush hosts British Prime Minister Tony Blair2007 George W. Bush hosts Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
National Security Council Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific Kurt Campbell said on Wednesday that today's summit comes after "a breathtaking kind of diplomacy between President Yoon and Prime Minister Kishida" that "defied expectations… sometimes against the advice of their own counselors and staff…to elevate the Japan- South Korean relationship into a new plane".
According to NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby, the summit is the culmination of intense engagement among the three countries. He notes that "since day one of the administration, we've held three leader level meetings, including at the Hiroshima G7 Summit, five engagements between our foreign ministers, 13 defense leader meetings, and three meetings just between our mutual national security advisors. And that's just the top level of engagement. There [has also been] a spate of lower level engagement both in the diplomacy and the security and defense realms, of course, moving forward in lockstep in all kinds of new, unprecedented ways".
US officials, including John Kirby, have been quick to point out that today's summit it is not about China or a specific challenge in the region; rather, it is really about the broader challenge of improving our trilateral cooperation. Kirby noted just how far Japan and the ROK have come in improving their relationship after a period of chilly relations and now, "we think there is room for growth, particularly in a trilateral format, and that's really what this [summit] is all about".
Topics for discussion are expected to include:

Closer military cooperation among the three countries
Increased coordination on international political matters
Trilateral cooperation on ballistic missile defense and technology development
Maintaining peace and stability around Taiwan
China's increased activity in the Pacific Islands
North Korea's provocations and nuclear weapons development
North Korea's cyber and cryptocurrency challenges
North Korea's support of Russia in its war on Ukraine
Improved cooperation in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands

It is being reported that the summit will result in several documents, two among them entitled "Camp David Principles" and the "Spirit of Camp David", with the first one containing sustainable guidelines for trilateral cooperation going forward, and the second one outlining a vision for trilateral cooperation and its implementation plan. (Notably, "Spirit of Camp David" is a revival of a phrase that entered the political lexicon after the 1959 Eisenhower-Khrushchev Camp David summit.) It has also been said that the President hopes to use the summit to burnish his credentials as an international statesman as he embarks on his re-election campaign.
Announcements of initiatives are expected to include:

Annual trilateral summits
A three-way hotline among the nations
Progress towards the goal of trilateral sharing early missile warning data (Phnom Penh statement)
Improved trilateral information sharing generally
A more comprehensive exercise program
Other cooperation on measures intended to strengthen extended deterrence and improve stability
Commitments to consult in critical circumstances
Investment in people to people exchange and educational initiatives
Investment in broad and deep trilateral set of engagements to bring people together
A fundamental commitment that relationship backsliding will not be possible

The trilateral has been characterized by White House officials as the beginning of a new chapter in our partnership, that will tool it up for the 21st century that should not be seen in isolation but rather as part of a much larger suite of engagements and accomplishments of the Biden administration and also past administrations. The three countries are seeking to be together as allies and partners in creative strategic ways within the larger context of our engagement with ASEAN, The Quad, AUKUS, and various bilateral relationships.
Additionally, the summit should be viewed as the three countries taking their security and broader coordination to the next level in a really fundamental way. As part of that, the commitment to consult seeks to acknowledge and build into the core of the relationship is the fact that the three countries share a fundamentally interlinked security environment and that something that poses a threat to any one of fundamentally poses a threat to all. White House officials were quick to point out that this is not a formal Alliance commitment. It is not a collective defense commitment but is a commitment that, in the event of a regional contingency or threat, the three would immediately and swiftly consult with one another, without infringing any one's right to defend itself under international law or the existing bilateral treaty commitments. This is a common security framework that increasingly will give the leaders and top national security officials the incentive to work closely together whenever one faces a challenge and make sure that policy actions in response are taken together.
Today's Camp David summit is expected to rile up North Korea, which sees any coordinated effort between the US, Japan, and the ROK as the three countries ganging up on North Korea. As such there has been media speculation that we will see a North Korean missile launch at some point around the timing of the summit. China, too, views negatively any cooperation between the three countries. As such, it has been reported that Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said at a briefing Tuesday, "China opposes relevant countries forming various cliques and their practices of exacerbating confrontation and jeopardizing other countries' strategic security. We hope the countries concerned will go with the trend of the times and do something conducive to regional peace, stability and prosperity."
Course of Events
President Yoon and Prime Minister Kishida arrived yesterday at Andrews Air Force Base and were met officially.
Today they will be transported to Ft. McNair where they will board Marine helicopters for transport to Camp David where they will be met by the President.
There will be bilateral meetings for each leader to have a chance to raise specific issues with the President and his team.
There will be a substantial set of trilateral engagements.
The three leaders will share lunch together with National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Secretary of State Blinken.
Later the three will have a joint press conference.
The President has been at Camp David since Thursday evening with his national security team preparing for the summit.



August 18, 202309:03

Foreign Pool Report #3 -- Jake Sullivan Gaggle
The President's National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan gaggled at Camp David for approximately 16 minutes.
Highlights below.
Please check against transcript.
On the summit generally:
The summit marks the first visit here to Camp David by a foreign leader and in this case, it will be to foreign leaders in the Biden administration. It's actually the first foreign leader visit to Camp David since 2015. And in keeping with the time honored tradition of hosting significant consequential diplomatic meetings at Camp David this summit signifies a new era of trilateral cooperation for the US, Japan and the ROK.
The President has really focused on each of these relationships, each of these alliances, the bilateral relationship we have with Japan and with Korea and then of course, the trilateral cooperation among the three of us.
A lot of that frankly, is due to the President's focus and investment in the personal aspect of diplomacy and cultivating leader to leader relationships with both the president of Korea and the Prime Minister of Japan, and the trust and respect that has been engendered by his investment in these relationships. has led to significant bilateral accomplishments the Washington declaration with the Republic of Korea, the work the US and Japan have done together to support Ukraine and to enhance Japan's defense capabilities.
What is new as a result of the summit:
Today, we are going to lay a strong foundation for this trilateral partnership to make sure that it's deep, it is strong and that it's built to last. We're opening a new era and we're making sure that era has staying power. So that means regularizing meetings between our leaders and our senior officials on an annual basis to discuss the broad agenda of security technology, regional strategy, economic partnership and more. We're announcing significant steps to enhance trilateral security cooperation in the region in the face of North Korean provocations, including a multi year exercise plan, deeper coordination and integration on ballistic missile defense and improving information sharing and crisis communication and the policy coordination that goes along with responding to contingencies in the Indo Pacific. We're unveiling new economic and energy security initiatives including an early warning mechanism for supply chain disruptions. Our three countries will announce new regional initiatives to build partner capacity throughout the Indo Pacific including in the maritime security domain, which will ensure that our cooperation benefits not just the people of our three countries but the people of the entire region.
North Korean missiles using Russian missile technology and cooperation between the two:
In terms of this specific report, you're referring to about Russian missile technology and North Korean missiles I don't have anything to add to that. today. I will say something our intelligence community is taking a hard look at. And this is also a dynamic picture. Because as we have seen, Russia has been seeking to get material for its war effort in Ukraine from Pyongyang from North Korea, and as they have done with other countries like Iran, when they ask they usually also offer some types of security cooperation in return. So that's something that we're taking a hard look at. And I would just point out that North Korea is subject to multiple UN Security Council resolutions. Russia is a permanent member of the Security Council. It has a heightened responsibility to comply with those Security Council resolutions and to the extent it is not doing so including with respect to ballistic missile defense technology and other things. Russia would be you know, in sort of flouting and in flagrant violation of UN Security Council resolutions. I'm not asserting that that is the case today. So I'm not validating that report. I am saying it is a matter of concern and it is a matter that we're very much looking into.
Is the future goal of trilateral cooperation a mutual defense pact or similar?
We have not set that as an explicit goal. We have not set an endpoint of a formal trilateral Alliance. We have strong and deepened decades long bilateral alliances with both Japan and the ROK. We would like to see them continue to strengthen their cooperation. And for this three way cooperation to get deeper and more institutionalized. Today, we're announcing a commitment to consult among the three countries that itself is a very significant step because it means that the three countries recognize their common interest in having a coherent and coordinated response to to any contingencies security contingency, but I'm not pointing an arrow towards a defined endpoint of the kind you're talking about
On reports of Ukraine's counteroffensive faltering:
I will say that over the course of the past two years, there have been a lot of analyses of how this war would unfold coming from a lot of quarters. And we've seen numerous changes in those analyses over time as dynamic battlefield. Battlefield conditions change. So what we have said, from multiple podiums and multiple briefings remains the same, which is we're doing everything we can to support Ukraine and it's counter offensive. We're not going to handicap the outcome.
Staying Power of the Trilateral Alliance:
First, in terms of the actual mechanisms of collaboration, so the three countries are putting pen to paper to say we will meet annually at leader level and at every significant level of our government and the work between those meetings will set out further substantive progress.
Second, you can see in specific outcomes of today, that same multiyear perspective.
What the leaders will commit to you today is a multiyear planning process for the military exercises in all domains, air, land, sea, undersea, cyber etc. And that means that you will start to see a kind of momentum built into the planning processes of our three national security establishments with a horizon that extends not just a year out or three years out, but quite extensively.
Finally, the sheer breadth of the commitments being made today. And the ways in which these commitments will stitch together our systems across economics, technology, people to people regional cooperation, that traditional security domain mean that we believe that today is going to establish the kind of foundation that will make this trilateral partnership built to last.
Ukraine/NATO
The Vilnius document is what governs NATO's attitude toward and approach to Ukraine's eventual membership in NATO
No update on Chinese hackers breach of the US Federal network and high level officials such as the Secretary of Commerce.
Trilateral summit is explicitly not the beginning of a mini-NATO
We've said that and we will continue to underscore that
We've had a combined 150 years of Alliance cooperation with Japan and Korea. So this is in that sense, the work that we are doing with these two countries. is not new. What is new, is that we are now stitching all of that work together to try to enhance regional stability and security. And I would just point out that in all of those decades of cooperation we've had with Japan and the ROK, we have helped safeguard stability and security in the Indo Pacific. And that has created the conditions for all of the countries of the region to do well economically, by the way, including China. And then finally, I would just underscore that this summit today, this partnership is not against anyone, it is for something. It is for a vision of the Indo Pacific that is free, open, secure and prosperous. This is an affirmative agenda.



August 18, 202309:22

Foreign Pool Report #4
ROK President Yoon' Suk Yeol's helicopter touched down at Camp David at 917 am.



August 18, 202309:25

Foreign Pool Report #5
President Yoon alighted from his helicopter shortly after touchdown and walked down a pathway flanked by a US honor guard.
He was dressed in camp casual style sporting a blue blazer but no necktie.



August 18, 202309:51

Foreign Pool Report #6
Prime Minister Kishida Fumio alighted from his helicopter shortly after touchdown at 947 am and walked down a pathway flanked by a US honor guard.
He was dressed in camp casual style sporting a black blazer but no necktie.



August 18, 202310:10

Foreign Pool Report #7 - - Meeting participants
Forwarding along from the White House press office.
The President is participating in a meeting with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea.
U.S. Manifest:The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council
Korean Manifest:H.E. Yoon Suk Yeol, President of the Republic of KoreaH.E. PARK Jin, Minister of Foreign AffairsT.H CHO Taeyong, Director of National Security, Secretary-General of the NSC Secretariat, Office of the President 3.H.E. CHO Hyundong, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United States of AmericaDr. Kim Tae Hyo, Principal Deputy National Security Advisor, Secretary-General of the NSC Secretariat



August 18, 202310:11

Foreign Pool Report #8
Although Prime Minister Kishida was far away from the pool, an eagle-eyed colleague tells me, having seen it on TV, that Prime Minister Kishida was wearing the blue lapel pin commemorating Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea, the most well-known being Yokota Megumi.



August 18, 202311:01

Foreign Pool Report #9 - - Meeting participants
Forwarding from the WH Press Office.
The President is participating in a meeting with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan.
U.S. Manifest:The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Rahm Emanuel, Ambassador of the United States to Japan
Japan Manifest:H.E. Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of JapanH.E. Hayashi Yoshimasa, Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. Kihara Seiji, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. Akiba Takeo, National Security AdvisorMr. Funakoshi Takehiro, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs



August 18, 202311:29

Foreign Pool Note #10 - - Handshake Greeting
President Biden, Prime Minister Kishida, and President Yoon gathered in front of a "Camp David" sign outside the Laurel Lodge at Camp David for a photo opportunity handshake at 11:24.
President Biden arrived first, coming out of the lodge as the 2 foreign leaders approached on a sidewalk from the side.
The President greeted the other two saying, "welcome" and then asked "are you ready to get some lunch?"
After a handshake the three leaders turned and walked toward the building.



August 18, 202311:38

Foreign Pool Report 11 - - Trilateral Participants
The President is participating in a trilateral meeting with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Rahm Emanuel, Ambassador of the United States to JapanT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security CouncilT.H. Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific AffairsT.H. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council
Korean ManifestH.E. Yoon Suk Yeol, President of the Republic of KoreaH.E. Park Jin, Minister of Foreign AffairsT.H. Cho Taeyong, Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentH.E. Cho Hyundong, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to the United StatesDr. Kim Tae Hyo, First Deputy Director of National Security, Office of the PresidentT.H. Kim Eun Hye, Senior Secretary to the President for Public Relations, Office of the PresidentDr. Choi Sang Mok, Senior Secretary to the President for Economic Affairs, Office of the PresidentT.H. Lee Choongmyon, Secretary to the President for Foreign Affairs, Office of the President
Japan ManifestH.E. Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of JapanH.E. Mr. Hayashi Yoshimasa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of JapanMr. Kihara Seiji, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. Akiba Takeo, National Security AdvisorMr. Shimada Takashi, Executive Secretary to the Prime MinisterH.E. Mr. Tomita Koji, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the United States of AmericaMr. Funakoshi Takehiro, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. Namazu Hiroyuki, Director-General, Asian and Oceanian Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Foreign Affairs



August 18, 202312:03

Foreign Pool Report #12 - - Trilateral Photo Opportunity
President spoke first, the President Yoon, and then Prime Minister Kishida,with the two foreign leaders speaking in their own languages.
President Biden
It's not only that first summit I've hosted at Camp David, it is the first ever standalone summit between the leaders of Japan and Republican Korea and the United States.
strengthening the ties between our democracies has long been a priority for me
our countries are stronger and the world would be safer as we stand together
He thanked the two for their political courage that brought the here and said he looks forward to working with both of you as you began this new era Cooperation and renew our resolve to serve serve as a force of good across the Indo Pacific and quite frankly around the world
President Yoon
Our trilateral partnership is opening a new chapter, which carries great significance in my view.
The stronger coordination between Korea, the US and Japan requires more robust institutional foundations. Moreover, challenges that threaten regional security must be addressed by us building up stronger commitment to working together.
Today will be remembered as a historic day, where we established a firm institutional basis and commitments to the trilateral partnership.
Today, I hope we will explore together ways to elevate cooperation between Korea the US and Japan to a new plane through in depth discussions.
Prime Minister Kishida
He opened with an expression of condolences for the devastation in Hawaii, saying that Japan is has decided to offer a total of around $2 million of support.
He also offered condolences to President Yoon on the passing of his father.
On the Summit, PM Kishida noted that he and President Yoon have been meeting on almost a monthly basis since March of this year but holding a trilateral meeting means that we are indeed making a new history.
HThe international community is at a turning point in history. In order to allow the potential of our trilateral strategic collaboration to bloom and blossom, I wish to take this moment to raise the security coordination between Japan, ROK, and the US to new heights while strengthening the coordination between the Japan-US and the US-ROK alliances. As we deepen our cooperation and response to North Korea, I wish to expand and deepen our collaboration in extensive areas, including economic security, such as critical and emerging technology cooperation and supply chains resilience. Today, I look forward to engaging in a frank discussions amongst ourselves in order to declare a new area of Japan-US-ROK partnership.
They tool no questions although two were shouted, one about what the Summit means with respect to China and North Korea and one about the Chinese economy.
Please check against transcript.



August 18, 202316:34

Foreign Pool Note #13 - - President Yoon depart Camp
President Yoon and his delegation lifted off from Camp David in a Marine helicopter at 4:34 p.m.
Next up will be Prime Minister Kishida's departure.



August 18, 202317:04

Foreign Pool Report #14
Prime Minister Kishida lifted off from Camp David in a Marine helicopter at 5:03 p.m.
My last Report should have been titled Foreign Pool Report, not Foreign Pool Note.
Your pooler regrets the error.



August 18, 202317:53

Foreign Pool Note #15 - - Awaiting departure
We are awaiting the President's departure on Marine One.
To clarify, I prioritized coverage of the foreign leader departures over sending a Foreign Pool Report after the press conference, given the open press nature of the event.
Please review the WH Pool Reports and reach out to me if I can be of assistance to you with your stories.



August 18, 202318:05

Foreign Pool Note #16 - - Week Ahead
Forwarding the week ahead from the White House press office.
Week Ahead 8/18 – 8/27
This evening, the President and the First Lady will travel to Lake Tahoe, Nevada where they will remain over the weekend.
On Monday, the President and the First Lady will depart Lake Tahoe, Nevada en route to Maui, Hawaii.
In Maui, the President and First Lady will meet with federal, state, and local leaders. The President and the First Lady will see firsthand the impacts of the devastating wildfires as well as discuss the recovery effort. While in Maui, they will also talk to survivors and thank first responders.
In the evening, the President and the First Lady will depart Maui, Hawaii and return to Lake Tahoe, Nevada where they will remain until Saturday.
On Saturday, the President and the First Lady will depart Lake Tahoe, Nevada and return to the White House.



August 18, 202318:17

Foreign Pool Note #17
President Biden lifted off from Camp David at 6:16 p.m. on his way to Lake Tahoe for a week of vacation, interrupted on Monday by a visit to Maui to survey the wildfire devastation.
His path to the helicopter was far away from where the pool was and he did not stop to take questions.



August 18, 202318:18

Foreign Pool Report #18 - - Traveling with the President
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary




 
Pool Reports below by Peter Baker, New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 18, 202319:15 EDT

Out of Town Pool Report #1
JBA AndrewsAugust 18, 2023
Marine One arrived at Andrews at 6:49 pm. POTUS, still in a blazer and tieless, wearing his Aviators, gave a little wave and smile to the pool, then boarded without stopping to talk.
AF1 wheels up at 7:14 pm.
The White House passes this along:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route to Reno-Tahoe International Airport:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady
Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary 
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



August 18, 202320:54 PDT

Out of Town Pool Report #2
Reno, Nev.August 18, 2023
AF1 landed at Reno-Tahoe International Airport at 8:28 pm local time (11:28 pm ET). No one came back to visit during the flight.
POTUS, still in blazer and open-collar shirt though sans shades, and FLOTUS, in black blouse and pants, disembarked at 8:43 pm and were greeted by Brigadier General Daniel Waters and Chief Master Sergeant Cameron Pieters. They chatted for a couple minutes and POTUS clapped one of their shoulders.
Without stopping to talk with your pool, the first couple then got into one of the Chevy Suburbans and the motorcade is now embarking on an hour-long drive to a borrowed home where they will be staying. No information yet on who owns the home. Your pool will be staying in a hotel about a half hour away from there, across the state line in California.



August 18, 202321:14 PDT

Out of Town Pool Report #3
Along motorcade route to Lake TahoeAugust 18, 2023
Accompanying POTUS and FLOTUS on the plane were Ashley Biden and Maisy Biden. Also spotted getting off were Naomi Biden and her husband Peter Neal, who brought their dog. Someone was carrying a "Happy Birthday" balloon because the family is celebrating Maisy's 23rd birthday.
Hunter Biden flew separately on a commercial flight with his wife Melissa Cohen and their son Beau and are already at the residence awaiting the rest of the family, according to the White House.
Update: The White House says the residence is a rental, not a borrowed home.



August 18, 202321:49 PDT

Out of Town Pool report #4
Lake Tahoe, Nev.August 18, 2023
The motorcade arrived at the rental house around 9:40 pm local time (12:40 am ET). The pool van remained on the side of the highway as POTUS's vehicle headed into the entrance of the Glenbrook community where the residence is located. We had no view of the house.
We have a lid. Good night!



August 18, 202321:53 PDT

Out of Town Pool report #5
Lake Tahoe, Nev.August 18, 2023
The White House passes this along:
The First Family is renting a private home for their stay in Lake Tahoe. The home belongs to Tom Steyer and Kat Taylor. The First Family is renting the home for fair market value.




  