
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign released its latest television ad, entitled "Tiny." The ad highlights Barack Obama's belief that Iran "doesn't pose a serious threat" even though they support terrorism, are developing nuclear capabilities and repeatedly threaten to eliminate Israel. If Barack Obama doesn't consider those "serious threats" then he is dangerously unprepared to be president. The ad will air in key states. 
VIEW THE AD HERE: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QhH2q6h7_Ow 
Script For "Tiny" (TV :30) 
ANNCR: Iran. Radical Islamic government. Known sponsors of terrorism.
Developing nuclear capabilities to "generate power" but threatening to eliminate Israel.
Obama says Iran is a "tiny" country, "doesn't pose a serious threat".
Terrorism, destroying Israel, those aren't "serious threats"?
Obama -- dangerously unprepared to be president. 
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approved this message. 
AD FACTS: Script For "Tiny" (TV :30) 
ANNCR: Iran. Radical Islamic government. Known sponsors of terrorism. Developing nuclear capabilities, to "generate power" but threatening to eliminate Israel. Obama says Iran is a "tiny" country, "doesn't pose a serious threat". Terrorism, destroying Israel, those aren't "serious threats"? Obama -- dangerously unprepared to be president. JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approved this message.

In May 2008, Barack Obama Called Iran A "Tiny" Country That Doesn't "Pose A Serious Threat To Us." OBAMA: "Strong countries and strong Presidents talk to their adversaries. That's what Kennedy did with Khrushchev. That's what Reagan did with Gorbachev. That's what Nixon did with Mao. I mean think about it. Iran, Cuba, Venezuela -- these countries are tiny compared to the Soviet Union. They don't pose a serious threat to us the way the Soviet Union posed a threat to us. And yet we were willing to talk to the Soviet Union at the time when they were saying we're going to wipe you off the planet. And ultimately that direct engagement led to a series of measures that helped prevent nuclear war, and over time allowed the kind of opening that brought down the Berlin Wall. Now, that has to be the kind of approach that we take. You know, Iran, they spend one-one hundredth of what we spend on the military. If Iran ever tried to pose a serio us threat to us, they wouldn't stand a chance. And we should use that position of strength that we have to be bold enough to go ahead and listen. That doesn't mean we agree with them on everything. We might not compromise on any issues, but at least we should find out other areas of potential common interest, and we can reduce some of the tensions that has caused us so many problems around the world." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Pendelton, OR, 5/18/08)
Watch Barack Obama: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ew5qP2oPdtQ


  