
    New Endorsements Come One Month After Gaining Support of Two Longtime Biden SC Advisors
Youngstown, OH— Today, presidential candidate Tim Ryan received the endorsements of three prominent South Carolina stakeholders who have switched their support from Vice President Biden to Congressman Tim Ryan. Reverend Caesar Richburg, senior pastor at Bethel AME church in Columbia, previously campaigned for Biden. In addition, George C. Bradley, Ph.D., former President of Paine College, and Dr. Tina Marshall-Bradley, Academic Coordinator in the Master of Science in Education (MSED) program in the Riley College of Education and Leadership at Walden University, are also joining Reverend Richburg in supporting Congressman Ryan over Biden.
"Tim Ryan is a man of faith and understands the challenges that African Americans face throughout the country," said Reverend Richburg. "His message of healing the country and doing something to address gun violence is the message that we preach to bring us together."
"Tim Ryan understands the needs of children. His common sense approach to address the growing concerns of mental health, social healing and fixing the broken education system is why we're so eager to support him," said Dr. George Bradley and Dr. Tina Marshall-Bradley.
"As I've traveled around South Carolina, I have had the opportunity to meet some incredible people doing extraordinary work to uplift their communities and be true advocates for positive change," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "Reverend Richburg, Dr. Bradley and Dr. Marshall-Bradley have spent their lives dedicating themselves to create opportunity in their neighborhoods and have set a high standard for those around the country to replicate. I am honored to have their endorsement as we continue to build momentum in the Palmetto State."
The endorsements come one month after the support of Fletcher Smith and Brandon Brown, two former advisors to Vice President Joe Biden.
In October 2007, Dr. Bradley was named the 14th President of Paine College in Augusta, Georgia. Within the first two years of his presidency, Dr. Bradley has reduced the institutions financial deficit and has partnered with local, state, and federal agencies on over $8 million of capital projects that will benefit the broader Augusta community. He has laid the foundation for the growth of the institution through a twenty-five year master plan that has already had an economic impact on the Augusta community.
Reverend Caesar Richburg is the senior pastor at Bethel AME church in Columbia, South Carolina. Rev. Richburg has been an active minister in the South Carolina AME church for 25 years. He has led in the areas of civil rights, human rights and education, and led the effort to establish a paid MLK Holiday for Greenville County in South Carolina, which was the last county in America to Recognize Dr. King's accomplishments.
Find out more about Tim at TimRyanForAmerica.com.
  