
    President George W. Bush today announced that he has named five individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President has named Jess Sharp to be Deputy Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. Mr. Sharp previously served as Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. Earlier in his career, he served on the Professional Staff on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in the U.S. House of Representatives. Mr. Sharp received his bachelor's degree from Colgate University and his master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
The President has named John D. Adams to be Associate Counsel to the President. Mr. Adams previously served as a Law Clerk to Justice Clarence Thomas on the United States Supreme Court. Prior to this, he worked as an Associate at Hunton & Williams, LLP. He received his bachelor's degree from the Virginia Military Institute and his JD from the University of Virginia School of Law.
The President has named Todd F. Braunstein to be Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. Mr. Braunstein previously served as Associate Director of the Domestic Policy Council. He received his bachelor's degree and JD from Harvard University.
The President has named Terry A. Wolff to be Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Iraq and Afghanistan Policy Implementation. Brigadier General Wolff previously served as Commanding General of the Coalition Military Assistance Training Team in Iraq. He received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy. He received master's degrees from Catholic University of America, the United States Army Command and General Staff College, and the Naval War College.
The President has named Mary Burce Warlick to be Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Russia of the National Security Council. Ms. Warlick previously served as Director of the Office of Russian Affairs at the Department of State. She is a career Senior Foreign Service Officer and received her bachelor's degree from Valparaiso University and her master's degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
  