
    The AFL-CIO, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Association, and the North America's Building Trades Unions (NABTU) have joined a growing coalition of labor groups to urge lawmakers to move forward with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, citing provisions in the legislation that would support the creation of good-paying union jobs across the country.
Liz Shuler, Acting President of the AFL-CIO said, "The bipartisan infrastructure deal is a win for America's workers who are hungry to rebuild our nation after decades of delay and decline. This is a testament to the leadership of President Biden and a hopeful sign that policies supported by large majorities of the American people can move through a closely-divided Senate. As this bill moves toward final passage, we need to make sure that strong labor standards are included so we can make good on the promise to create millions of good-paying union jobs. Finally, we urge senators to capitalize on this momentum by passing the rest of the widely popular Build Back Better agenda, including the American Families Plan and the PRO Act."
Mark McManus, General President of the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of the United States and Canada (UA), said in statement, "The bipartisan infrastructure bill reminds us that Washington can still get bold things done when the livelihoods of working families are on the line. This bill will put the brothers and sisters of the United Association to work replacing lead pipes, modernizing our energy infrastructure, and improving our access to safe and clean water in communities across the United States. This legislation is an important investment in working families like ours, and we look forward to continuing our work with the Biden-Harris Administration to replace all of our nation's lead pipes, provide clean and safe water, deliver affordable and reliable energy, and to build the critical infrastructure that powers our nation."
Sean McGarvey, President of the North America's Building Trades Unions (NABTU), championed the bipartisan effort and said in statement, "North America's Building Trades Unions commend committed lawmakers and the Biden Administration for coming together to craft bipartisan legislation to address our nation's infrastructure needs. This robust package will strengthen neglected communities, create millions of American jobs, and reestablish America's standing among global competitors."
Jim Hoffa, General President of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters said, "America in recent years has fallen behind in its efforts to create jobs that can support working families. This bill is a critical step toward ensuring that doesn't happen again, while making much-needed upgrades that will keep this country competitive with the rest of the world."
ALF-CIO, UA, NABTU and Teamsters join national and local leaders, community groups, advocacy organizations, as well as large majorities of Republicans and Democratic voters, to express support for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal.
  