
    On Tuesday, August 15, Vice President Kamala Harris will return to Seattle, WA to deliver remarks ahead of the one-year anniversary of the Inflation Reduction Act being signed into law. Joined by Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, the Vice President will highlight the monumental impact that this historic legislation is having on communities throughout America and discuss the Biden-Harris administration's continued commitment to addressing the climate crisis with the urgency it demands while building a clean energy economy that creates good-paying jobs.
Last year, Vice President Harris fought alongside President Biden to pass the largest climate investment in the country's history and advance environmental justice while cutting energy bills for working families and creating good-paying jobs in wind, solar, and electric vehicle manufacturing. The Vice President personally cast the tie-breaking vote to pass this legislation through the U.S. Senate. The Inflation Reduction Act has also lowered prescription drug prices for seniors, capped the cost of insulin at $35 a month for those on Medicare, and reduced health insurance premiums for 13 million people across the nation. The Inflation Reduction Act is Bidenomics in action.
Tuesday's celebration of the Inflation Reduction Act will be Vice President Harris' second visit to Seattle since taking office. In October of last year, she was in town to announce new funding for electric school buses while touting the impacts of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
Media interested in covering the Vice President's remarks celebrating the Inflation Reduction Act should RSVP HERE by 5:00 pm ET, Monday, August 14, 2023. The Vice President's arrival at King County International Airport will be open to pre-credentialed media. Reporters interested in covering this arrival should RSVP HERE by 5:00 pm ET, Monday, August 14, 2023.
In Seattle, the Vice President will also deliver remarks at a campaign reception. This reception will be covered by an editorial pool.
  