
    Longtime Activist Chip Moynihan and Keene City Councilor-At Large Bettina Chadbourne Join 7-Term State Rep. Jane Beaulieu in Throwing Support Behind Harris
Following Senator Kamala Harris' performance during Wednesday night's debate, two key Granite State leaders are endorsing Harris for president.
Keene City Councilor-at-Large Bettina Chadbourne and longtime Seacoast Democratic activist Chip Moynihan join State Representative Jane Beaulieu in announcing their endorsements of Harris after Wednesday's debate.
"I've seen many candidates this cycle, and Kamala Harris is as impressive as they come. She is authentic in both her words and actions, and forms an immediate bond with all who see her," said Keene City Councilor-at-Large Bettina Chadbourne. "Her compassion, toughness, and overall decency are exactly what our party needs to defeat Donald Trump. I am very excited to endorse her candidacy for president."
"I have been involved in New Hampshire politics for years, and I have rarely seen someone as thoughtful, principled, and energizing as Kamala Harris. Not only does she have policies and proposals that will actually help everyday Granite Staters, she has a combination of intelligence, humor, and fearlessness that I admire greatly and wholeheartedly believe will serve her well in a matchup against Donald Trump," said longtime Seacoast Democratic activist Chip Moynihan. "I am extremely excited to announce my endorsement of Harris."
Earlier this morning, State Representative and an Assistant House Majority Leader Jane Beaulieu also announced her endorsement of Harris, saying, "As a longtime New Hampshire legislator, I know first hand the issues impacting Granite Staters and keeping them up at night. Kamala has clear-eyed, pragmatic solutions to many of these problems, including her plans to give the middle class a needed tax break, ensure quality and affordable healthcare for all, to make our drinking water safe from PFOA chemicals, and to protect our nation's precious natural resources. I'm also confident that Kamala's passion, toughness, and optimism are not only what our country needs right now -- but what our party needs to defeat Donald Trump. I'm proud to endorse Kamala in her campaign for president."
Harris has previously received endorsements from former New Hampshire Democratic Party Chair Joe Keefe, State Representatives Dick Ames, Patty Cornell, and Linda Tanner, former Dover Mayors Jack Buckley and William Boc, Co-Chair of the NHDP Senior Caucus Pam Jorgensen, and former State Rep. Lisa DiMartino in endorsing Harris.
  