
    WASHINGTON — During a week-long trip to Washington state, California, and Wyoming last week, Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland met with community leaders, elected officials, and Tribes to highlight the Biden-Harris administration's investments in Tribal communities, climate resiliency, offshore wind energy, and conservation efforts in line with the America the Beautiful initiative. The Secretary's visit comes?on the heels of the?Senate's passage of the?Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act,?the most significant long-term investment in the United States' infrastructure, climate resiliency, and legacy pollution clean-up.
Select press coverage is below:
Strengthening the Nation-to-Nation Relationship with Indian Country
Secretary Haaland?traveled to Taholah, Wash., where she discussed?the Biden-Harris administration's?historic?investments in Tribal communities, including funding for climate resilience projects?and?broadband internet access.?
KING 5: Washington tribes could get more federal funding to flee rising sea levels
The nation's first Native American Secretary of the Interior said after years of letting down tribal communities, the federal government wants to help tribes on Washington's coast reach higher ground. "It's clear the federal government hasn't lived up to its trust and treaty obligations, for decades," Interior Secretary Deb Haaland told leaders of several tribes Monday morning.
Takoma News Tribune: U.S. Interior Secretary sees climate change effects on coastal tribal communities
Funding for climate resilience projects, broadband internet access and Bureau of Indian Education schools were among the Biden-Harris administration's investments in tribal communities that U.S. Interior Secretary Deb Haaland spoke with tribal leaders about Monday morning on the Washington coast. Haaland and U.S. Rep. Derek Kilmer traveled Aug. 9 to Taholah, Wash. — located on the Quinault Indian Reservation in Grays Harbor County — to see first-hand the challenges of coastal tribal communities feeling the effects of climate change.
Seattle Times: This tribe has lived on the coast of Washington for thousands of years. Now climate change is forcing it uphill
Within minutes last winter, the ocean overcame this village's seawall and flooded the courthouse, community center, store, post office and dozens of homes, forcing evacuations. Now the tribe, which lived at sea level for thousands of years, is moving its village up the hill as the effects of climate change take hold. The village provided a somber backdrop Monday during a historic visit from Deb Haaland, the secretary of interior — and the nation's first Native American Cabinet secretary. While meeting with tribal leaders, she promised hundreds of millions of dollars in aid to tribal nations to combat the threat of a warming planet.
Building a Clean Energy Economy
Secretary Haaland and White House Council on Environmental Quality Chair Brenda Mallory were in Eureka, Calif., with U.S. Representative Jared Huffman, California Energy Commissioner Karen Douglas, Tribal leaders and community officials to discuss offshore wind opportunities that will create jobs and strengthen the local economy.
Times Standard: US Interior secretary touts Humboldt County offshore wind project
Federal and state officials gathered at Woodley Island in Eureka on Tuesday to highlight Humboldt County's promising future as a leader in offshore wind energy, a move that would bring thousands of jobs to the Humboldt Bay region. Joined by U.S. Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland, White House Council on Environmental Quality Chair Brenda Mallory and California Energy Commissioner Karen Douglas, North Coast Rep. Jared Huffman praised the Biden administration's effort to pursue offshore wind energy in California.
North Coast Journal: Offshore Wind Energy Offers 'Tremendous Promise'
Excitement and promise were in the air yesterday afternoon as North Coast Congressmember Jared Huffman, along with U.S. Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland, White House Council on Environmental Quality Chair Brenda Mallory and California Energy Commissioner Karen Douglas toured Humboldt Bay, getting a glimpse of where offshore wind turbines will be placed for a renewable energy project. "It's a real honor to be here in Humboldt County, Eureka, talking about the tremendous promise of offshore wind for this region," Douglas said.  "... We are in a climate emergency. We are experiencing these heatwaves, wildfires, drought and the compounding effects of these events on our electricity system, on so many aspects of our way of life."
Lost Coast Outpost: Biden Cabinet Member Joins Huffman, White House Official and Others to Highlight Offshore Wind Developments Planned Off the Humboldt County Coast
U.S. Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland and White House Council on Environmental Quality Chair Brenda Mallory were joined by Huffman and California Energy Commissioner Karen Douglas. The foursome stood in front of the fisherman statue, with Humboldt Bay at their backs and a breeze blowing in from offshore. "Since the first days of this administration, President Biden has been committed to confronting climate change, creating thousands of good-paying union jobs and paving the way for the nation's transition to a cleaner energy future," Haaland said, adding that offshore wind is a critical component of that agenda.
Spotlight on Locally Led Conservation Initiatives
While in Wyoming, Secretary Haaland announced the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture's support for the state's migration strategy, which is designed to improve outcomes for wildlife, honor private landowner rights, and preserve multiple-use opportunities. Secretary Haaland met with Governor Mark Gordon and local elected leaders in Lander and Tribal leaders on the Wind River Reservation.
Wyoming Tribune Eagle: Interior, Agriculture Depts., state commit to enhancing wildlife corridors
The agencies announced today $2 million in grants, through the Improving Habitat Quality in Western Big Game Migration Corridors and Habitat Connectivity program, for projects in the West that enhance and improve the quality of state- or Tribal-identified priority big-game habitat, stopover areas, and migration corridors on federal land, or voluntary efforts on private and Tribal land.
E&E News: Haaland backs Wyoming wildlife migration strategy
Interior Secretary Deb Haaland yesterday endorsed the state of Wyoming's approach to identifying and protecting wildlife migration corridors, underscoring once again the issue's bipartisan appeal. Meeting with Republican Gov. Mark Gordon as part of a Western states swing, Haaland gave a thumbs-up to the collaboration-based strategy Gordon enacted through an executive order in February 2020.
Buckrail: Secretary of Interior visits Wyoming
U.S. Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland visited Wyoming Thursday, Aug. 12 as part of the Biden administration's "America the Beautiful" initiative. Haaland met with Governor Mark Gordon in Lander, according to a press release from Gordon's office. Her visit started on the Wind River Reservation with a designation of the Path of Honor — Wind River Veterans Memorial, a tribute to military service members and veterans from the Wind River Reservation. Haaland, a former Democratic congresswoman from New Mexico, is the first Native American to fill her position.
Investing in Our Public Lands
Secretary Haaland wrapped her trip out West in Yellowstone National Park, where she highlighted how the Great American Outdoors Act (GAOA) is making significant investments in park infrastructure, creating jobs, and supporting local economies, while also furthering the goals of President Biden's America the Beautiful initiative to support locally led efforts to conserve, restore, and protect lands and waters across the nation.
Bozeman Daily Chronicle: Interior Secretary Deb Haaland praises infrastructure investments during Yellowstone National Park visit
The U.S. Secretary of the Interior visited the country's first national park on Friday, where she praised bipartisan legislation that has allowed the park to fund road improvements, bridge replacements and the rehabilitation of historic sites. At an overlook on the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone River, Interior Secretary Deb Haaland touted Yellowstone's plan to invest $121.5 million in improving park infrastructure — a move made possible through the passage of the bipartisan Great American Outdoors Act.
Wyoming Tribune Eagle: Haaland highlights conservation investments Yellowstone
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland wrapped up her weeklong Western trip Friday in Yellowstone National Park. During her Yellowstone visit, Haaland highlighted how the Great American Outdoors Act is making significant investments in park infrastructure, creating jobs and supporting local economies, according to a news release. 
NBC Montana: Sec. Haaland discusses conservation in Yellowstone
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland finished her trip out west in Yellowstone National Park on Friday. Haaland highlighted the Great American Outdoors Act and how it is making significant investments in park structure, creating jobs, and supporting local economies.
  