
    Charge up. Start your battery. And drive forward toward an electric future made in America.
Today, President Biden announced a new, ambitious goal for America: make half of all sold in 2030 zero-emissions vehicles. He was joined by automakers and union workers at the White House to outline a set of actions his Administration is taking to position America to drive the electric vehicle future forward, outcompete China, tackle the climate crisis, and create good-paying, union jobs.
President Biden signed an executive order outlining his new goal and kicking off the development of long-term fuel efficiency and emissions standards to save consumers money, cut pollution, boost public health, advance environmental justice, and combat climate change. The action aims to unleash the full economic benefits of his Build Back Better Agenda and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, investing in the infrastructure, manufacturing, and incentives that we need to grow good-paying, union jobs at home, lead on electric vehicles around the world, and save American consumers money. President Biden also announced EPA and DOT actions to address the previous administration's harmful rollbacks of fuel efficiency and emissions standards.
Before jumping in an all-electric Jeep, President Biden was joined by automaker leaders, United Autoworkers (UAW) leadership and rank and file members, Members of Congress, and environmental leaders.
Here's what they are charged up about:
Labor Organizations
Ray Curry, President, United Autoworkers (UAW): "We are at a critical time for the auto industry as countries compete to build the vehicles of the future. We are falling behind China and Europe as manufacturers pour billions into growing their markets and expanding their manufacturing. We need to make investments here in the United States.  Fortunately, President Biden recognizes the importance of this moment, and his Build Back Better Plan makes the bold investments in manufacturing, consumer incentives, and infrastructure needed to ensure vehicles of the future are made in our country.  Investments alone are not enough.  Today's announcement on emissions standards brings more certainty and better planning for the auto industry and UAW member future jobs.  While the UAW notes that the companies have made voluntary commitments on Electric Vehicles, the UAW focus is not on hard deadlines or percentages, but on preserving the wages and benefits that have been the heart and soul of the American middle class. We must be ambitious not just about retaining good union jobs, but growing them, and about expanding U.S. manufacturing of electric vehicles, from parts to assembly. It is incumbent that these future jobs will be good-paying American union scale wage and benefit jobs that protect salaries and our critical health and safety standards.  The members of the UAW, current and future, are ready to build these electric cars and trucks and the batteries that go in them. Our members are America's secret weapon in winning this global race.  That is why, today we stand with the President and support his ambition not just to grow electric vehicles but also our capacity to produce them domestically with good wages and benefits and the right to bargain and urge Congress to seize this opportunity for the sake of working people and our country's future. Any auto industry transition to alternative fueled engines must be paired with passage of the Stabenow Amendment and passage or an agreement to adhere to the policies of the PRO Act to ensure these jobs of the future will protect UAW members, their families, and our American middle class. The Senate needs to pass the PRO Act and get it to the President's desk for signature."
Automakers
Joint Statement of Ford, GM, and Stellantis: "Today, Ford, GM and Stellantis announce their shared aspiration to achieve sales of 40-50% of annual U.S. volumes of electric vehicles (battery electric, fuel cell and plug-in hybrid vehicles) by 2030 in order to move the nation closer to a zero-emissions future consistent with Paris climate goals.  Our recent product, technology, and investment announcements highlight our collective commitment to be leaders in the U.S. transition to electric vehicles.  This represents a dramatic shift from the U.S. market today that can be achieved only with the timely deployment of the full suite of electrification policies committed to by the Administration in the Build Back Better Plan, including purchase incentives, a comprehensive charging network of sufficient density to support the millions of vehicles these targets represent, investments in R&D, and incentives to expand the electric vehicle manufacturing and supply chains in the United States.  With the UAW at our side in transforming the workforce and partnering with us on this journey, we believe we can strengthen continued American leadership in clean transportation technology through electric vehicle innovation and manufacturing.  We look forward to working with the Biden Administration, Congress and state and local governments to enact policies that will enable these ambitious objectives."
Joint Statement of BMW, Ford, Honda, Volkswagen, and Volvo: "We were proud to stand with California to establish progressive new greenhouse gas regulations, and we remain committed to leading the industry in fighting against climate change. That's why we support the Administration's goal of reaching an electric vehicle future and applaud President Biden's leadership on reducing emissions and investing in critical infrastructure to achieve these reductions. While the California framework companies are driving towards 40-50% of our sales being EVs in the next nine years, bold action from our partners in the federal government is crucial to build consumer demand for electric vehicles and put us on track to achieve the global commitments of the Paris Climate Agreement. That includes a strong nationwide greenhouse gas emissions standard, continued investments in charging infrastructure, and broad consumer incentives for all electric vehicle purchases."
John Bozzella, President and CEO, Alliance for Automotive Innovation: "Auto manufacturers are committed to a net-zero carbon transportation future, and we look forward to working with the Administration as we evaluate EPA's proposed changes to light-duty vehicle standards for Model Years 2023-2026. Collectively, the auto industry has committed to investing more than $330 billion to bring exciting new electric vehicles (EVs) to market, including plug-in hybrid, battery and fuel cell EVs. And we support stringent GHG and fuel economy standards that are aligned and encourage continued improvements. As we look beyond 2026, the industry's shift to electrified cars, trucks and SUVs will drive significant GHG reductions to fight climate change and make a better world for future generations. With the right complementary policies in place, the auto industry is poised to accept the challenge of driving EV purchases to between 40 and 50 percent of new vehicle sales by the end of the decade. Federal and state governments?and all stakeholders?will need to provide significant support for consumers, infrastructure and innovation. The auto industry has stepped up?investments in electrification globally will exceed $330 billion by 2025. But all levels of government will need to do their part for this challenge to succeed. The U.S. needs to rapidly expand its charging and hydrogen fueling infrastructure, retool existing manufacturing facilities and build new ones, prepare and position our workforce to lead this transition, and provide consumer incentives to make these vehicles affordable and accessible to a wide range of customers. Future GHG rules aligned with industry investment, and supportive governmental policies will be essential to significantly reducing GHG emissions, while maintaining a vital U.S. auto manufacturing sector and the millions of jobs it supports. We urge the Biden Administration and policymakers to continue advancing measures that will support the broad and equitable consumer adoption of electric-drive vehicles and that align environmental progress, vehicle affordability, and U.S. economic competitiveness."
Bernhard Kuhnt, President and CEO, BMW of North America: "BMW applauds President Biden's leadership on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and his Administration's efforts to foster the adoption of electric vehicles."
Statement from Honda: "Honda, one of the four original automakers that partnered with California to develop stringent vehicle GHG emissions regulations, applauds the Biden Administration for setting ambitious climate goals related to vehicle emissions. Honda has a long history as a fuel economy leader in the U.S., and we continue to maintain the top position among all full-line automakers for the lowest fleet-wide CO2 emissions, according to the latest report by the U.S. EPA. Building on that foundation, we announced our goal to sell 40% electrified vehicles by 2030 and 100% by 2040, as part of our efforts to be carbon neutral by 2050. We also have taken significant steps to reduce emissions associated with the production of our vehicles through long-term virtual power purchase agreements (VPPAs) for renewable wind and solar power that will cover more than 60% of the electricity Honda uses in our North American auto plants. Now, we are partnering with utilities and energy-sector allies to develop vehicle-to-grid (V2G) integration, technology that can unlock even greater environmental gains. In order to meet our collective climate goals, we will need to work closely with state and federal governments to promote policies that stimulate consumer demand for EVs, create electrification infrastructure, and support EV manufacturing jobs here in the United States."
HYUNDAI Motor Company: "Hyundai Motor America supports the Biden administration's goal for the automotive industry to achieve 40-50% zero emission vehicle (ZEV) sales by 2030. Meeting this goal will be challenging and underscores the need for robust incentives for consumers to drive demand for ZEVs and rapid development of hydrogen fuel cell and electric vehicle infrastructure. Both battery and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles are critical technologies to combat climate change. Hyundai will continue to develop these capabilities and make them more accessible to Americans as part of our commitment to progress for humanity."
Kia America: "Kia is already making major investments in electrification and mobility with a goal to offer 11 EVs globally by 2026. We look forward to reviewing this federal rule in more detail and urge further progress on other necessary supportive governmental policies including robust charging infrastructure and broad consumer incentives to ensure widespread consumer adoption of these vehicles."
Jeremie Papin, Chairperson, Nissan Americas: "With LEAF, Nissan showed our pioneering spirit in electric vehicles. Now with more than a half-million pure EVs sold and more than 5 billion electric miles driven on roads around the world, we're helping to lead the electric vehicle revolution. Nissan is fully committed to doing our part toward building a cleaner, safer and more inclusive society for all."
Thomas J. Doll, President and CEO, Subaru of America, Inc: "Subaru applauds the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to addressing climate change by moving forward with policies that promote vehicle electrification, spur economic growth, and create new jobs. Together with our employees and over 630 retailers in the United States, Subaru looks forward to working with the Administration to help achieve its ambitious 2030 goals for transitioning the transportation sector to a zero emission future."
Ted Ogawa, CEO, Toyota Motor North America: "Today the EPA proposed stringent new environmental standards for future vehicles. Concurrently, the Biden Administration set an aspirational goal that up to 50% of the new vehicle market will be electric by 2030. You can count on Toyota to do our part. This is great for the environment and helps protect the 436,000 American jobs of our employees, dealers, suppliers and other stakeholders in the U.S. Let's go!" 
Scott Keogh, President & CEO, Volkswagen Group of America: "Today, the government issued new rules that present our industry with tough new challenges. And here's the thing: I like 'em. In fact, I'm thrilled with the Environmental Protection Agency's latest move to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It means federal policy is finally catching up to what we realized years ago: we must head towards a cleaner future together?and electric vehicles are what will drive us there. It's why we announced a $800 million investment to assemble EVs in Chattanooga, Tennessee, long before any nudges from the federal government. We're committed to increasing our annual sales of electric vehicles that drivers love?like the ID.4?to 40-50% by the end of this decade. The nation is calling for tangible actions, and we're proud to say we've already been working to answer it. We're equally proud to join with all the other automakers who commit to doing the same. But we also know that these efforts won't be enough. If America is as serious as companies like Volkswagen about reducing emissions and creating the high-paying jobs of the future, we need more than rules. We need aggressive and imaginative investments?especially those that encourage drivers to choose electric sooner and lead America into this future, faster.  America can bring charging infrastructure to every corner of this country. America can provide incentives that make purchasing any EV a no-brainer. And if we do, we can create a truly robust and competitive EV market in the United States. Bold, national investment is a short-term bridge?one that only the government can build. Once we cross it, we'll be many miles closer to a more sustainable future."
Volvo: "Volvo Cars shares the Biden administration goals to advance sustainability and electrification. Volvo Cars wants to lead the transition to zero tailpipe emission mobility and our plan is to be a fully electric car company by 2030.Our goal is to be climate neutral by 2040. We are reviewing the recently released proposed rule but we support Administration's goals of an electric vehicle future and lower emissions year over year. It is essential that the US government pursue policies that encourage and develop the US electric vehicle market via consumer incentives available to all manufacturers. Additional support for infrastructure development is critical as well, such as public charging infrastructure."
Climate and NGO Leaders
Zoe Lipman, Director of Manufacturing and Advanced Transportation, BlueGreen Alliance: "The Biden administration is taking significant action today to ensure America leads on climate and in the global race to build the next generation of electric and advanced vehicles here at home. Strong standards must go hand-in-hand with bold investments to rebuild and retool the American manufacturing sector and to secure and create good jobs in the auto sector and beyond. The president's announcement illustrates how we can both act on climate, jobs, and manufacturing at once and build a cleaner, fairer and more equitable economy. Now, Congress must act to ensure that workers and communities see real gains from the move to a cleaner economy. The shift to electric vehicles is happening globally. Whether or not workers and manufacturing across America see the benefits from this transition depends on the actions we take now. It depends on the U.S. becoming and remaining both a leading market and a leading producer of this technology, while providing good jobs to those creating that prosperity. Bold investments to retool and rebuild American manufacturing will preserve good-paying jobs in our domestic auto industry and create more jobs building the vehicles of tomorrow. Building back better now will ensure we combat climate change, build good jobs, rebuild communities nationwide, and grow good jobs and manufacture our advanced and electric vehicle future here in the United States." [Statement, 8/5/21]
John Podesta, Founder and Chair of the Board of Directors, Center for American Progress: "The Biden administration is undertaking a major course correction, reversing the Trump administration's destructive efforts to flatline the clean car standards and instead driving forward with major improvements in vehicle emissions reductions and fuel efficiency over each of the next five years. This rule will be a significant and critical contribution to the Biden administration's commitment to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions economywide by 2050. The president has also focused auto manufacturers and autoworkers on the shared goal of electrification, which is exactly right. Building on today's momentum, several automakers are announcing their intentions to plan for up to 50 percent electric sales by the end of the decade, and I think time will prove that to be the floor rather than the ceiling for ambition as we move urgently toward a 100 percent clean future. Congress now has a major opportunity to deliver on a historic investment package through budget reconciliation. The major investments in Biden's Build Back Better agenda for electric vehicle consumer incentives and automotive manufacturing investments will move the United States toward a new era of high-quality, unionized manufacturing jobs right here in the United States. With these investments and longer-term clean car standards yet to come, I am confident we will be on the path to 100 percent electric for new vehicle sales by 2035, and I applaud the Biden administration for today's strong steps in that direction." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Lori Lodes, Executive Director of Climate Power Education Fund: "Transportation is both the biggest climate polluter in the country and one of the greatest expenses for families. What the Biden Administration did today is take a big step toward making our cars run cleaner, cheaper, and farther. The Biden Administration knows the toll filling up a gas tank takes on our pocketbooks, health, and the climate. Now it's time for Congress to do what's necessary to get clean vehicles into the homes of everyday Americans and make sure those cars are powered by a nation running on clean energy."
Houston Mayor Sylvestor Turner, Chair, Climate Mayors: "One of the quickest ways to meet President Biden's goal of halving emissions by 2030 is to dramatically increase the number of electric vehicles on America's roads, and to strengthen fuel efficiency and tailpipe emissions standards. Climate Mayors applaud today's announcement by the Biden Administration and stand ready to support this massive transition. We know too well that tail-pipe emissions from gas-powered cars and trucks not only warm the planet we share, but also choke our neighborhoods and put the health of our communities at risk. As we continue to face the evolving challenges of Covid-19, the connection between air quality and the health of our most vulnerable communities has never been more important. Meeting this new goals and standards will also create thousands of good green jobs building, charging and maintaining the fleets of the future. The rubber will meet the road in cities, towns and villages across the country. At our Climate Mayors Summit later this month, we look forward to sharing ideas for how local leaders can be the foot on the electric accelerator through city fleet purchases using programs like the Climate Mayors EV Purchasing Collaborative, building out urban charging infrastructure and cultivating a zero-carbon workforce."  [Statement/Tweet, 8/5/21]
Fredd Krupp, President, Environmental Defense Fund: "This is a defining moment for America – the official starting gun in the race to eliminate tailpipe pollution from cars, passenger trucks and SUVs and to make sure those zero-emission vehicles are manufactured here at home. The Big Three and other automakers have invested billions of dollars in developing zero-emitting vehicles – a testament to the enormous economic, job and consumer benefits that these vehicles will deliver. A strong vision from President Biden, along with these significant investments, will help ensure lots of high-paying manufacturing jobs here in America to produce zero-emitting vehicles – vehicles that will then save their owners thousands of dollars on gas. Transportation is also the biggest source of climate pollution in the U.S. Ensuring half of new cars sold are zero-emitting will help to reduce that pollution and secure healthier air for all. Countries around the world are racing to eliminate pollution from their cars and trucks. The expected announcement will signal that the U.S. will not be left behind. Now we must all work together to build on that announcement and eliminate pollution from all new passenger cars by 2035 and all new freight trucks and buses by 2040. It's a goal that's ambitious but achievable. American can win this race, and our prize will be good jobs, savings at the gas pump for American families, cleaner air and a safer climate." [Statement, 8/4/21]
Carol Browner, Former EPA Administrator and Board Chair, League of Conservation Voters: "With today's actions, President Biden is making needed progress to cut carbon pollution from cars and trucks. His commitment to a 50 percent reduction in carbon pollution from new cars by 2030, coupled with urgently needed action by Congress in both the bipartisan infrastructure bill and budget process to ensure adequate investments in electric vehicles and clean energy, will cut the pollution that drives climate change, save families money at the pump and deliver clean air for all. LCV looks forward to actively engaging in the public process to make certain these and future standards are even stronger and developed to ensure that all new cars sold are zero emission vehicles by 2035. Now is the time to set the strongest possible clean car standards to meet the climate ambition goals that science and justice require." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Molly Rauch, Public Health Policy Director of Moms Clean Air Force: "Women buy 62 percent of all new cars sold in the U.S. and influence more than 85 percent of all car purchases. So when moms are pleased with progress in the auto industry, it really matters. Today's announcement gives us a strong turn signal – the US is going to protect children from dangerous pollution from the transportation sector. We are shifting into the passing lane. Now it's time to get into high gear, and speed into 21st century technology and U.S.-made vehicles that get us to climate safety. We cannot get there fast enough. EPA's announcement on clean car standards seeks to repair years of backsliding from the auto industry on climate pollution. We have lost precious time due to the harmful rollbacks during the Trump administration, and we must act with urgency in addressing those rollbacks and accelerating to zero emitting vehicles. We need strong, long-term standards that achieve 100 percent zero-emission passenger vehicle sales by no later than 2035, and 100 percent zero-emission freight truck sales by no later than 2040. In communities around the world and here at home, millions are suffering from the devastating impacts of climate change, right now. Climate heat, climate fires, and climate floods are hurting our loved ones. We must act now on the climate crisis. That's why we will raise our voices as parents to make sure that this long-term vision becomes a reality. Our children deserve nothing less." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Shannon Heyck-Williams, Senior Director of Climate and Energy Policy, National Wildlife Foundation: "With wildfires threatening lives and homes in Western states, a record drought underway, and an intensifying hurricane season, it's clear we need an all-of-the-above approach to reducing emissions and spurring innovation from both policymakers and the private sector. The Biden Administration's improved fuel efficiency standards and revved up deployment of electric vehicles not only create clean manufacturing jobs, but are critical to protecting public health and stabilizing the climate for people and wildlife alike. This new plan from the White House is a significant step in addressing the single greatest source of U.S. greenhouse gas pollution ? transportation." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Simon Mui, Deputy Director for Clean Vehicles and Fuels, NRDC (Natural Resources Defense Council): "After unjustified delays by the Trump administration, President Biden is getting us back on the road to cleaning up tailpipe pollution, the largest source of carbon emissions. We can and must reach the president's goal of getting at least half of our new car sales to be electric vehicles by the end of this decade. EPA must move expeditiously to put standards in place that will deliver on this important goal." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Dan Lashof, Director, World Resources Institute United States: "The importance of these new vehicle emission standards is hard to overstate. Along with the infrastructure investments currently under consideration in Congress, these standards will be among the most impactful measures that the Biden administration can take to address the climate crisis. Transportation is now America's number one source of carbon pollution, so these new emission rules will be a primary tool to achieving the United States' commitment to cut greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2030. Tightening vehicle emissions standards offers a wide array of additional benefits that go well beyond tackling climate change. Stronger standards will cut consumer spending on fuel by billions of dollars and significantly reduce tailpipe pollution that puts our health at risk. And the new rules will jolt car manufacturers to accelerate their transformation to all-electric vehicles, better positioning American companies to compete in global markets as internal combustion engines become obsolete at breakneck speed. Many manufacturers and the United Auto Workers union clearly recognize the future is electric and are cooperating with the administration to seize upon this opportunity. All consumers will benefit as everything from small sedans and SUVs to full-sized pickup trucks are offered in electric versions.  Congress should supplement these standards by passing infrastructure and reconciliation packages that unlock billions of dollars in funding for electric vehicle charging infrastructure and rebates for electric school buses, transit buses and commercial trucks as well as passenger vehicles." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Julie Cerqueira, Executive Director, U.S. Climate Alliance: "Strong vehicle standards protect our communities from unnecessary air pollution and fuel costs, and address the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. There's much more work to do, but these new proposed rules are a critical step forward and will benefit our health, economy, and planet. Our states have been driving the transition to clean cars for many years and we look forward to working with the administration and continuing to lead." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Governors
California Governor Gavin Newsom: "California applauds the Biden Administration's move to boldly reduce climate pollution from cars, inspired by California's nation-leading framework. The climate emergency demands no less. Today's proposal will help to clean the air and create a healthier future for our children and our planet. We look forward to continuing our decades-long collaboration with federal partners to build on California's clean car leadership and deliver the investments needed to support the nationwide build-out of clean vehicle infrastructure." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Colorado Governor Jared Polis: "I thank President Biden for embracing the rapid market transition to electric vehicles and am pleased to see American car companies are on board. As Governor I have taken bold action to adopt a zero-emissions vehicle standard, which we did in 2019 with support of 99% of car manufacturers, and we continue to take bold steps to protect our air and our Colorado way of life. I recently signed a bipartisan transportation and infrastructure package that speeds up the transition to electric vehicles while fixing our roads. Both the clean car standards and additional federal funding to Colorado through the American Jobs Plan, and the bipartisan infrastructure bill will help Colorado transition to electric vehicles and reach 100% renewable energy by 2040." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Illinois Governor JB Pritzker: "Electric vehicles will power our future. That's why we're making key investments to make Illinois the EV capital of the nation.   I welcome these smart policies @POTUS is putting in place today to move our auto industry forward." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
New Mexico Governor Lujan Grisham: "New Mexico is already on the road toward adopting clean car standards that will put us on a path toward job creation and ensure long-lasting environmental stewardship and better public health outcomes – but a national rule means bigger emissions reductions from all states, not only the ones who choose to adopt the California rules. With transportation being the country's number one source of greenhouse gas emissions, the Biden Administration is making the right decision for our economy, for public health and for our environment. Meanwhile, New Mexico will continue to pursue clean car standards, as well as other efforts to curb pollution from this sector, including building up electric vehicle infrastructure and adopting clean fuel standards. These efforts not only improve air quality and combat a changing climate, they'll also spur economic growth and diversification and contribute to job creation here in New Mexico. Automakers the world over acknowledge that low-emission and zero-emission vehicles are the future – New Mexico is on board, and has been on board, and the rest of the country is going to get on board, too. I commend the Biden Administration for the forward-thinking action taken today." [Statement, 8/5/21]
North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper: "I applaud the Biden-Harris Administration's efforts to strengthen car and truck standards and propel the transition to zero-emission vehicles. Moving to cleaner vehicles will create jobs, save consumers money and strengthen our economy, all while reducing harmful airpollution and greenhouse gas emissions. I issued Executive Order 80 in 2018 that sets an ambitious goal of increasing zero-emission vehicles in our state, and I'm glad to work in coordination with President Biden on this objective." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Oregon Governor Kate Brown: "Couldn't agree more, @POTUS. In Oregon, we're investing in EV infrastructure, taking climate action, and creating 21st century jobs. I'm happy to see this administration doing the same on a national level. EVs are the future." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Washington Governor Jay Inslee: "The Biden administration has taken much-needed actions to meaningfully reduce pollution from cars and trucks. Transportation is our country's number one source of emissions. We thank President Biden for building from existing efforts between California and auto manufacturers in order to move swiftly. As we've seen from the devastating droughts and wildfires raging across the West, climate change is already here. We must act boldly and urgently. As federal agencies take next steps, we urge the Biden Administration to enable state leadership by empowering states to accelerate the transition to clean cars and trucks through strong vehicle standards, and to deliver on its commitments of a nationwide build-out of clean vehicle and mass transit infrastructure. Washington looks forward to its continued partnership with the Biden Administration, industries and other states to realize our clean energy future." [Statement]
Members of Congress
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer: "We can't reduce greenhouse gas emissions without dealing with carbon pollution from cars we drive @POTUS's executive order and my Clean Cars plan are the kind of bold action we need Dems promised bold climate action?and we're making it a vital part of infrastructure legislation" [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin: ""The electric vehicle revolution is here. President Biden's goal would drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions while spurring job creation and innovation across America. Our transition to zero-emission vehicles is a win for Illinois, the planet, and our kids' and grandkids' futures." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Delaware Senator Tom Carper, Chairman, Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works: "The science demands it and the auto industry supports it?now we have an administration with the leadership to move our nation towards the clean cars of the future. Today's announcement from the Biden Administration is good for our planet, good for our health, and good for our nation's autoworkers. EPA's and DOT's proposals course correct for the terrible mistake of the previous administration. But the President has gone further by charting a course to a zero-emissions future. "We are in a global competition for who gets to make the clean cars of the future, and President Biden's leadership means that we'll develop that manufacturing and those supply chains right here in America. The President's plan will reduce harmful air pollution and keep us on track to meet our climate goals, while also helping the American auto industry remain competitive globally. That's what I like to call a win-win-win." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow: "Michigan workers are the best in the world and this is their moment. @POTUS' announcement, paired with Congress' work on the Build Back Better agenda, will put people to work, lower costs for families, and tackle the climate crisis. A win-win-win for Michigan!" [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Michigan Senator Gary Peters: "The future of the auto industry is electric. I welcome these much-needed steps by @POTUS to help ensure we lead the way in the 21st century mobility race?powered by Michigan workers." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Michigan Congresswoman Debbie Dingell: "I commend the Biden-Harris Administration for their strong commitments today and strong leadership in combatting the climate crisis and accelerating our nation's shift to go electric, while also supporting good-paying, union jobs. But we need an all-hands-on-deck approach to make these goals come to life – and I'm committed to collaborating on intentional actions and a bold reconciliation package to do this. The American worker can make this ambitious goal into a reality – they're the best workers I know. But we also need to support them with strong wages and benefits. We need to continue lifting up the United Auto Workers and ensuring that electric vehicle manufacturing jobs stay here in America by building batteries, developing the minerals for those batteries, and creating the infrastructure to support these vehicles … With the collaborative commitment of this Administration, the auto industry, the auto workers, the environmental community, and a strong reconciliation package in Congress, we can keep America at the forefront of innovation and technology while addressing the climate crisis head on and supporting hard-working families across the country. We cannot wait another second to invest in decarbonizing the transportation sector, so I'm committed to working every single day on a reconciliation package to address these critical needs and keep jobs here at home while protecting our planet with a cleaner economy." [Statement, 8/5/21]
Michigan Congressman Dan Kildee: "I applaud @POTUS for his bold leadership on electric vehicles! Putting more electric vehicles on the road will create Michigan jobs and help reduce carbon emissions. Evs are a win-win when it comes to growing our economy and combatting the climate crisis." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Michigan Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin: "Great news this morning showing how Michigan & the auto industry can lead the way in addressing climate change and maintaining our edge over China when it comes to emerging technology. Public-private partnerships like these are an essential way to power the transition to Evs, create new manufacturing jobs right here in Michigan AND lower carbon emissions. Looking forward to working with our auto manufacturers & the administration to help meet these new goals!" [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Florida Congresswoman Kathy Castor, Chair, House Climate Crisis Committee: "Kicking it into a higher gear  to reduce pollution, solve the #ClimateCrisis, and put $ in family pocketbooks" [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Hawaii Senator Mazie Hirono: "Great news: America's moving towards cleaner cars and cleaner air. What a refreshing change from the previous administration's climate change denial." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
California Congresswoman Judy Chu: "I applaud @POTUS Biden for his plan to have electric vehicles make up half of US car sales by 2030. This will encourage innovation, drive car sales, and put more people to work all while building a more sustainable environment for the future!" [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Colorado Congresswoman Diana DeGette: "This is an important step to combat the #ClimateCrisis. This announcement puts us on track to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from new cars by 60% in 2030 & will eliminate 2 BILLION tons of carbon pollution from our atmosphere. This is a big deal for our environment!" [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Missouri Congressman Emanuel Cleaver: "I'm thrilled to see @POTUS' new executive order, which takes an important step towards protecting the environment and counteracting the #ClimateCrisis. These new actions, in conjunction with the President's #BuildBackBetter agenda, will provide good-paying, union jobs to hardworking Americans all while working to preserve the planet for future generations." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Minnesota Congresswoman Betty McCollum: "These bold actions will lower emissions to help fight climate change, and reduce our nation's reliance on fossil fuels. I applaud President Biden's leadership! #ActOnClimate" [Tweet, 8/5/21]
New York Congressman Tom Suozzi: "Climate change is real and the President is making it a priority! Today, President Biden rolled out a strategy, part of his "Build Back Better" agenda, that sets a voluntary target that half of all vehicles sold in the United States be electric by 2030. Setting new fuel efficiency and emissions standards while mapping out a route toward a future where Americans drive a lot more electric vehicles is a big, bold, and necessary step forward in the climate fight." [Tweet, 8/5/21]
Oregon Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici: "The transportation sector is a large source of carbon dioxide emissions in the US. @POTUS is setting a target to make 50% of all new vehicles sold in 2030 zero emission. This will create jobs, improve the health of our communities, & help solve the #ClimateCrisis" [Tweet, 8/5/21]
  