
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Highway Safety Advisory Committee for the terms indicated:
For terms expiring March 15, 1987:
Cecelia K. Bros will succeed Joanne Corday Kozberg. She is president of the American Ethnic League United Hungarian Fund in Washington, DC. She was born March 1, 1934, in Jyor, Hungary, and now resides in Springfield, VA. Frederick Edward (Fritz) Hitchcock, Jr., will succeed Michael L. Johnson. He is owner and operator of several new car dealerships in City of Industry, CA. He was born October 24, 1939, in Des Moines, IA, and now resides in Palos Verdes Estates, CA.
Candy Lightner will succeed Stanley J. Preebe. She is president and chief executive officer of MADD (Mothers Against Drunk Drivers). She was born May 30, 1946, in Pasadena, CA, and now resides in Arlington, TX.
Frank E. (Gene) Raper will succeed Russell I. Brown. He is president of the United Packaging Corp. He was born January 18, 1946, in Portsmouth, VA, and now resides in Hacienda Heights, CA.
John F. Sammons, Jr., will succeed William B. Snyder. He is mayor of the city of Temple, TX, and president of Temple Supply Co. He was born June 21, 1949, in Temple, TX, and still resides in Temple.
For terms expiring March 15, 1988:
Thom L. Holmes will succeed Paul R. Meyer, Jr. He is president and chief executive officer of HJT Industries and Associates. He was born January 30, 1946, in Texarkana, AR, and currently resides in Los Angeles, CA.
Eric Harrison Jostrom will succeed Harold Coker. He is vice president of Eaton Vance Management. He was born March 1, 1942, in Newton, MA, and currently resides in Essex, MA.
Vern McCarthy, Jr., will succeed Michael J. Hermreck. He is president of Vern McCarthy, Ltd. He was born May 12, 1927, in Melrose Park, IL, and currently resides in Oak Brook, IL.
Thomas G. McGuire will succeed Henry Edward Hudson. He is the retired chairman of the board of Industrial Indemnity Insurance. He was born March 15, 1907, in Santa Rosa, CA, and currently resides in Borrego Springs, CA.
Andrew S. Natsios will succeed Lexie E. Herrin. He is chairman of the Massachusetts State Republican Committee. He was born September 22, 1949, in Philadelphia, PA, and currently resides in Holliston, MA.
Edward F. Reilly, Jr., will succeed Evie Teegen. He is a Kansas State senator. He was born March 24, 1937, in Leavenworth, KS, and currently resides in Leavenworth.
Oswaldo Gonzalez Rodriguez will succeed Walter W. Gray. He is the owner of Cornput Income, Inc. He was born December 26, 1932, in Cardenas, Cuba, and currently resides in West New York, NJ.
A. Starke Taylor, Jr., will succeed John A. Kraeutler. He is the mayor of Dallas, TX. He was born July 2, 1922, in Paris, TX, and currently resides in Dallas, TX.
  