
    Pool Reports by Cassie Semyon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




August 4, 2023 11:49

VP In-Town Pool Report 1
Hi all -
I'm your pooler today for the Vice President's visit to Southeast Washington, D.C.
Pool was loaded into vans on West Executive Ave around 11:20am. Your pooler did not see the VP get in her vehicle. Motorcade rolling at 11:46am. We're told it's about a 20 minute ride.
As previously announced, today the VP will travel to the Congress Heights neighborhood to deliver remarks in highlighting the continued impacts of Bidenomics, and will make an announcement about increasing support for the nation's small businesses. The remarks at Sycamore & Oak is open to pre-credentialed media and live-streamed at WhiteHouse.gov/Live
Yesterday, the White House held a background call on today's announcement, so I have a little summary for you all in case you missed it with all the other news we had going on:

Vice President Harris is set to announce federal funding to more than 40 organizations helping underserved entrepreneurs grow and scale small businesses, which the White House is billing as "a key pillar of 'Bidenomics'"
A Senior WH official told reporters "this program marks what I think is the crucial next step in minority businesses' pathway to the American dream."
The setting for the announcement is Sycamore & Oak - a minority retail village that houses 13 black owned businesses.
The grants are part of the $125 million Capitol Readiness Program, funded by a program reauthorized in the American Rescue Plan. Officials said Thursday they received 1,000 applications.
43 organizations were selected to receive funding, including nonprofits, private sector entities, and higher education institutions.

More to come…


August 4, 2023 12:50

VP In-Town Pool Report #2
After an uneventful ride that took us past the Washington monument where plenty of onlookers paused to take photos and videos, the motorcade pulled up to Sycamore & Oak at 12:00pm. We did not see the VP enter the pavilion. When the pool was brought in, Deputy Secretary of Commerce Don Graves was giving brief remarks. Before Graves, Ramiro Cavazos, President and Chief Executive Officer of the
United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce (USHCC) and Under Secretary Don Cravins, Jr., Under Secretary of Commerce gave remarks
The stage is set with a banner that reads "INVESTING IN AMERICA" with President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris framing it (see tweet with photo) and 6 flags. The podium is framed on three sides with a "Bidenomics" sign.
There's roughly 150 seats in the pavilion that are filled, and there are people standing along the far sides of the pavilion to listen to the VP's remarks.
At 12:24pm Monica Ray, Executive Director and President, Congress Heights
Community Training and Development Corporation came to the stage to make introductory remarks. She gave an overarching review of Sycamore & Oak, and said she was proud to have the VP here. Her remarks are included in the otter.
At 12:28, the VP walked on stage, wearing a cream blouse and charcoal gray suit. She started with talking about how much she loves small businesses, and how her mother had help from a small business owner, Mrs. Shelton, who ran a daycare. "She was part of the cultural fabric of the community."
Some other excerpts:
"Our economy has not been working for working people. Entire communities have been left out and left behind. Trickle down economics. Well it benefited big corporations and the wealthiest Americans, but not regular folks. So when President Biden and I took office, we decided to invest in the working people of America to create millions of jobs, to rebuild American manufacturing, repair our roads and bridges, to replace every lead pipe in our nation, to connect every home with high speed internet, to expand clean energy production, and to make sure that every person in America not just the wealthy or well connected has the opportunity to thrive. All that ladies and gentlemen is called Bidenomics."
"Todays [job] numbers reflect a point that President Biden made many times - America's economy is strong."
VP exited the stage at 12:43pm to a standing ovation.
Otter of the remarks can be found here: https://otter.ai/u/ePH57uC4GrLF83ol8tZ92o3uvMA it was also live-streamed for your viewing pleasure.
Pool is loaded back into the vans as of 12:47pm and rolling to an undisclosed small business that the VP is visiting.


August 4, 2023 13:29

VP In-Town Pool Report 3 - shopping stop
After a short 10 minute ride, we are in the Capitol Hill neighborhood. We are at Rewild, a plant store. VP entered at 12:59pm.
"Hi, I'm Kamala," she greeted the owner as she walked in. We are waiting for more details on the shop.
"Have you seen what's happening in Joshua Tree?" she asked
"What kind of plant is good for people who work a lot of hours?" VP asked.
She picked out a leafy green plant and a cream ceramic pot. She asked the owner Pool was ushered out of the shop at 1:08pm. The VP remained inside until 1:11pm. She told us the plant is a gift that they are going back for as it's being repotted.
She then walked across the street to cheers of onlookers and entered Eastern Market. There were a few people eating and shopping at the She stopped at Bowers Fancy Dairy Products. There's a Washington Nationals flag hanging from the rafters.
"I haven't seen you in a while! It's tough to get out these days."
She ordered some cheddar cheese.
"Is it from Wisconsin?" She asked. When he replied negative, she asked for some yellow cheddar from Wisconsin. The business owner says they have been in business since the 1960s.
She sampled some cheeses and got very excited, telling Deputy Commerce Sec Graves "it's ridiculous. A complete treat, right?"
"I take my cheese seriously," she said.
"I got cheese curds yesterday in Wisconsin. I love cheese curds! I wanted to get some cheddar but I didn't have time."
"I'm going to treat the secretary," she told the owner, who your pooler is trying to get the name of.
She paid for her purchase and exited Eastern market at 1:22pm. It's unclear what her final purchase was because the pool was ushered out as it was being bagged (but cheddar was involved).
Pool reporters shouted questions asking what she got and about Donald Trump (both about the indictment and he comments about DC falling apart). She didn't engage.
Pool was rolling back to the White House at 1:24pm. Sadly, we didn't get any cheese.


August 4, 2023 13:39

VP In-Town Pool Report #4
Pool rolled in to West Executive Drive at 1:31pm and unloaded. We did not see the VP.
I tweeted (or X'd? shared? What word are we using?) some photos and video from our stops. You can find me @casssemyon.
That's all from me!


August 4, 2023 15:34

VP In-Town Travel Pool #4a
And I have one more update to add!
Passing along some background on the VP's shopping trip today on Capitol Hill!
Have a good weekend all!
On Background from a White House Official
Following her remarks the Vice President stopped by REWILD, a plant and flower studio, in the Eastern Market Neighborhood of DC. REWILD received an SBA loan in August of 2021 that allowed the growing business to expand to now 4 locations, as well as operate a gift shop at the U.S. Botanic Garden, in collaboration with the Friends of the USBG. They would not have been able to obtain an SBA loan without the help of a community bank, Capital Bank, MD. This loan helped them to purchase a warehouse which enabled them to grow their business. The warehouse in Hyattsville has become the nexus of operations, allowing them to provide office space for full time staff, which now 35 (and counting), offer clients behind the scenes tours, and host public gatherings. This expansion would not have been possible without this warehouse, which we could only have obtained with this loan. 



  