
    Pool Reports by Tarini Parti, The Wall Street Journal 
Note: The pool reports for the Vice President's trip to Singapore and Vietnam are all consecutively numbered by this reporter from 1 through 46 spanning the period of August 20 through August 27.



Sent:
Reports:




August 25, 202100:14 SGT

VP travel pool # 21 —- Air Force Two 
Pool arrived at Paya Lebar Air Base at 7:03 PM. Vice President Harris exited a black SUV and posed for a photograph with her advance team in front of Air Force Two.
She then approached a line of officials from Singapore, speaking briefly with each one on one. The Vice President was wearing a black mask. (Participants below). She took a selfie with Dr. Vivian Balakrishnan, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Singapore.
Symone Sanders, senior advisor for the Vice President, briefed reporters on our schedule upon arriving in Hanoi. She did not offer an explanation for the delay when asked repeated questions. She did say the Vice President is "well." Will send full quote ASAP but wanted to send before we take off.
Greeters

His Excellency Dr. Vivian Balakrishnan, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Singapore
His Excellency Ashok Kumar Mirpuri, Ambassador of the Republic of Singapore to the United States
Mr. Ng Eng Dih, Deputy Secretary of Defense for Policy
Colonel Amos Yeo, Commander, Air Power Generation Command
Mr. Rafik Monsour, Chargé d'Affaires, a.i., U.S. Embassy Singapore




August 25, 202100:16 SGT

VP travel pool #22 — statement 
When pressed about the delay, Symone Sanders said, "You saw her get onto the plane. She is well, all is fine."


August 25, 202100:18 SGT

VP Travel Pool Report #23 — full exchange on AF2 about the delay 
We landed at Noi Bai International in Hanoi, Vietnam, at 9:45 PM. A list of officials greeting the Vice President is at the bottom of this report.
Symone Sanders came to the back of the Air Force Two to speak to reporters shortly before takeoff. After briefly describing our schedule upon landing in Hanoi, she was pressed for the cause of our three hour delay in arriving at Paya Lebar Air Base for our flight to Vietnam.
Reporter: what was the cause in the delay?
Sanders: "I do not have an update I can share with you on that right now."
She was asked the same question again.
Sanders: "I do not have an update I can share with you right now."
A reporter noted that there were conspiracy theories already being spread online about the cause of the delay.
Sanders: "I will note you all saw the Vice President out on the tarmac."
"She is well, all is fine and looking forward to meetings in Hanoi tomorrow."
Sanders then came back to the press area of the plane shortly after takeoff and said,"This has nothing to do with the Vice President's health," she said of the delay.
While we were in the air, the pool was referred to a State Department statement that is public. The delay was due to an "anomalous health incident."
Greeters

Ms. Nguyen Vu Ha Le, Vice Chairman of the Presidential Office
Le Chi Dung, Director General of External Relations Department, Presidential Office
La Viet Ha, MFA's Director General for Americas Department
Chargé d'Affaires Christopher Klein




August 25, 2021 00:19 SGT

VP Travel Pool # 24 — state department statement 
Here is the state department statement that the pool was referred to. I wanted to make sure you all have.
STATEMENT
HANOI, August 24, 2021 – Earlier this evening, the Vice President's traveling delegation was delayed from departing Singapore because the Vice President's office was made aware of a report of a recent possible anomalous health incident in Hanoi, Vietnam. After careful assessment, the decision was made to continue with the Vice President's trip.
The delegation will leave Singapore tonight and arrive in Hanoi, Vietnam.


August 24, 202123:21 ICT

VP Travel Pool #25 JW Marriot in Hanoi Arrival 
The Vice President exited Air Force Two to some applause from those gathered on a tarmac. She was greeted by a line of officials, each putting their arm to their chest instead of shaking hands. Everyone was masked.
One reporter shouted a question of why the vice president continued her trip to Vietnam in the wake of "a report of a recent possible anomalous health incident in Hanoi, Vietnam."
Pool was escorted into the motorcade at 10:06 P.M. We arrived at the JW Marriott in Hanoi at 10:38 PM.
VP's team says no more events today.
Greeters:- Mr. Le Khanh Hai, Chairman of the Office of State President- Mr. Nguyen Quoc Dung, MFA Vice Minister- Ms. Nguyen Vu Ha Le, Director General of Foreign AffairsDepartment, Office of the State President- Mr. Le Chi Dung, Director General of Americas Department, MFA- Chargé d'Affaires Christopher Klein, US Embassy Hanoi, Vietnam


August 25, 2021 10:47 ICT

VP Travel Pool #26 EMBARGOED bilat info 
Good morning from Hanoi -- Passing along background info from VP's office and then embargoed factsheet on her bilats today. Embargo will lift after the meetings. I will send a note.
If the attached factsheet doesn't go through, reach out to VP's office please.
On background attributed to a WH official (no embargo):
On Wednesday morning, the Vice President will hold a series of bilateral meetings with Vietnamese officials.
She will meet with: President Ngyuen Xuan Phuc; Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh; and Vice President Vo Thi Anh Xuan.
Throughout these meetings, the Vice President will discuss a range of bilateral and regional issues, including: enhancing the bilateral relationship; security cooperation; the challenges posed by Beijing in the South China Sea; the economic relationship and how we can work together to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on supply chains; addressing the climate crisis; the importance of multilateral cooperation, including through ASEAN, and other efforts.
As the Vice President has made clear, she believes we need to work with our partners to meet not just traditional challenges we face, but the challenges of the future. She will underscore the Biden-Harris administration's vision for engagement in the region, and discuss ways to build on our shared vision.
The Vice President will reaffirm the U.S. commitment to a strong, prosperous, and independent Vietnam, as well a free, open, healthy, and resilient Indo-Pacific region.
We anticipate a number of deliverables. For example:

On Covid-19: assistance to save lives now and get shots in arms through vaccine distribution assistance
On the Climate Crisis: collaborating to expand clean energy and electric vehicles
Addressing shared war legacies
Increasing our security partnership, including through the Coast Guard
And others, which we will announce following the meetings.

 In the afternoon, she will participate a health security event with Southeast Asian nations (the members of ASEAN plus Papua New Guinea). She will be joined by the Vietnam Deputy Prime Minister Pham Bin Minh and Minister of Health Nguyen Thanh Long. The health ministers from the other nations will be participating virtually. She will be launching the CDC's Southeast Asia regional office, which will be 1 of 4 regional offices around the world. The goal of the office is to work with the countries in the region to advance regional health goals, through strengthening core capacities in areas such as surveillance, data use, laboratory science, workforce development, and emergency preparedness.
She will reinforce our priority of strengthening global health security in the region and will discuss steps we can and should be taking to achieve this goal.
This will be her first engagement with representatives from all ASEAN countries. The United States is committed to ASEAN centrality and ASEAN's essential role in the Indo-Pacific's regional architecture, and we are committed to deepening the U.S.-ASEAN Strategic Partnership. ASEAN is a critical body that brings the region closer together and builds deeper cooperation.
Finally, she will be witnessing the signing of the lease for our new embassy compound, which symbolizes the future of our partnership. The U.S. Embassy celebrated the 25th anniversary of normalization in 2020, and formalizing the lease agreement allows us to look ahead to the next 25 years and beyond of U.S. engagement in Vietnam. 


August 25, 2021 12:13 ICT

VP Travel Pool #27 China comment/Presidential Palace
Bilats in Vietnam are ongoing. Harris again made some China comments and some news on upgrading the partnership between the two countries at the top of the second meeting. In bold below.
—Press vans were rolling to the Presidential Palace at 9:04. We went ahead of VP's motorcade. We arrived at around 9:20 am.
Limited pool was set up inside the Gold Room for the first meeting so we didn't see VP's arrival. We watched the Vietnamese delegation get seated ahead of time in the room. They were handed fresh masks. Two members of the delegation in military uniforms were combing their hair while waiting.
U.S. delegation got seated a few mins ahead of VP. VP arrived at 10:29 am for her courtesy call with Võ Th? Ánh Xuân, vice president of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, in the Gold Room at 10:29. She stood in front of her chair and they both waved. Pool ushered out at 10:30 am after a photo op. And then told to go back in since part of the pool stayed back, so we missed a few mins.
Walked back in just before VP Harris started speaking. She introduced every member of the delegation.
Participants below, per VP's office:
US side1. VPOTUS2. Mr. Christopher Klein, Chargé d'Affaires a. i. of the United States Embassy in Vietnam3. The Honorable Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President4. The Honorable Philip Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President5. The Honorable Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council6. Mr. Kin Moy, Senior Bureau Official for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Department of State7. Ms. Nancy Leou, Special Advisor to the Vice President for East Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific9. Mr. Drew Bazil, Embassy Notetaker
Vietnam Delegation:1. Vice President Vo Thi Anh Xuan2. Chairman of Presidential Office Le Khanh Hai3. Minister of Health Nguyen Thanh Long4. Minister of Industry and Trade Nguyen Hong Dien5. Deputy Minister of National Defence Hoang Xuan Chien6. Lãnh ??o B? Công an, Leader of Public Security7. Deputy Minister of Agricultural and Rural Development Le Quoc Doanh8. Assistant to the Vice President Nguyen Dung Tien
—
Her bilateral meeting with Nguy?n Xuân Phúc, president of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, started at 10:56 in the Mirror Room.
Harris entered the room and said looked forward to the discussion and was honored to be the first VP to visit Vietnam in a long time. Couldn't hear what president/interpreter said to VP as they were walking to seats.
They stood by a big bust of Ho Chi Min and raised their hands in a sign of respect before being seated.
Based on the interpretation we heard, the president thanked the VP for coming and congratulated her for being the first woman and African-American VP. He also thanked the administration for sending vaccines and equipment to help with the pandemic.
He talked about strengthening mutual trust between both sides, saying he wanted to make the trip to the country a "great success." He then introduced everyone in his delegation.
Rough transcript of Harris remarks, including China: (Thanks to Zoland and the rest of the travel pool for helping with this)
"It is my honor to be the first vice president of the United States to visit Vietnam in the last quarter century. I very much look forward to a productive conversation that is focused on strengthening the relationship between the United States and Vietnam, and expressing our continuing support for a strong, prosperous, and independent Vietnam."
"Our relationship has come a long way in a quarter of a century...Our partnership has produced tangible results." Mentioned the opening of the new CDC office and peace Corp office.
"All of these are a symbol of our enduring relationship with Vietnam and Southeast Asia as a member of the Indo-Pacific region."
"I would also as that while we are here to consider doing what we can to upgrade our relationship as a strategic partnership. This will send a positive message to our members and our people, and the region as we deepen our relationship. And I would thank you for your help in releasing American citizens."
"We will work closely with Vietnam to uphold rule-based international freedom of navigation, an issue that we take seriously, and including, as it relates to the South China Sea."
"We need to find ways to pressure and raise the pressure, frankly, on Beijing to abide by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and to challenge its bullying and excessive maritime claims. "
Participants below:
US side1. VPOTUS2. Mr. Christopher Klein, Chargé d'Affaires a. i. of the United States Embassy in Vietnam3. The Honorable Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President4. The Honorable Philip Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President5. The Honorable Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council6. Mr. Kin Moy, Senior Bureau Official for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Department of State7. Ms. Nancy Leou, Special Advisor to the Vice President for East Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific8.The Honorable Symone Sanders, Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor & Chief Spokesperson to the Vice President 9. The Honorable Mike Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President.10. Mr. Drew Bazil, Embassy Notetaker
Vietnam Delegation:1. President Nguyen Xuan Phuc2. Minister of Foreign Affairs Bui Thanh Son3. Chairman of President's Office Le Khanh Hai4. Minister of Health Nguyen Thanh Long5. Minister of Industry and Trade Nguyen Hong Dien6. Deputy Minister of National Defence Hoang Xuan Chien7. Lãnh ??o B? Công an, Leader of Public Security Ministry8. Deputy Minister of Agricultural and Rural Development Le Quoc Doanh
Pool was ushered out at 11:06. Now holding while bilat is ongoing.


August 25, 2021 12:44 ICT

VP Travel Pool #28 More Harris quotes 
From the top of the bilat with the president:
"The United States also wants to maintain our security cooperation and let me affirm that the United States Navy will maintain a strong presence in the South China Sea and will continue to challenge Beijing's bullying and excessive maritime claims."
"We urge Vietnam to support the joint statement of maritime principles for the Western Pacific that we have proposed. The statement will affirm our collective commitment to upholding freedom of the seas."
"I understand that Vietnam recently requested a third former United States Coast Guard Cutter and our administration strongly supports this request as we want to help Vietnam develop its maritime security capabilities."
Also fixing a typo in the previous report:
"I would also ask that while we are here to consider doing what we can to upgrade our relationship as a strategic partnership."
(And apologies to Zolan for calling him Zoland in the previous report)


August 25, 2021 13:14 ICT

VP Travel Pool #29 Vaccine announcement 
Pool was moved to the Office of Government right after being ushered out of the bilat with the president. We were holding there for about 45 mins.
VP entered the building with the Ph?m Minh Chính, Prime Minister of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, at 11:52 am. They walked down a red carpet and then did a photo op with flags from both the countries.
The bilat started at 11:57 am. Participants listed below.
Harris started speaking around noon. She said the US would send one million more Pfizer vaccines that would start arriving in the next 24 hours. (This was in the embargoed factsheet but since she said it, so we can go for it). She mentioned strengthening economic and security partnerships.
"I know the Vietnamese people are facing a difficult time right now," she said referring to the pandemic. On economy: "It has grown rapidly in recent years." "We are grateful for Vietnam's instructive leadership…" "We again have an enduring partnership."
Embargo still holds on the rest of the factsheet I sent earlier this morning since bilat is ongoing.
Also Zolan on behalf of the pool asked for more context and details on the Harris quote on prisoners.
Response:
Statement from Symone Sanders, chief spokesperson:
"The US government regularly raises issues of American citizens detained abroad. We have nothing to announce at this time"
Participants for bilat below:
US Delegation:1. VPOTUS2. Mr. Christopher Klein, Chargé d'Affaires a. i. of the UnitedStates Embassy in Vietnam3. The Honorable Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President andChief of Staff to the Vice President4. The Honorable Philip Gordon, Special Assistant to the Presidentand Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President5. The Honorable Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the Presidentand Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National SecurityCouncil6. Mr. Kin Moy, Senior Bureau Official for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Department of State7. Ms. Nancy Leou, Special Advisor to the Vice President for EastAsia, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific8. The Honorable Symone Sanders, Deputy Assistant to thePresident and Senior Advisor and Chief Spokesperson to theVice President9. Mr. Dean Lieberman, Director for Strategic Communications andAssistant Press Secretary10. The Honorable Mike Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President11. Mr. Drew Bazil, Embassy Notetaker
Vietnam Delegation:1. Prime Minister Pham Ming Chinh2. Minister of Foreign Affairs Bui Thanh Son3. Minister, Chairman of Government Office Tran Van Son4. Minister of Planning and Investment Nguyen Chi Dung5. Minister of Science and Technology Huynh Thanh Dat6. Minister of Health Nguyen Thanh Long7. Minister of Industry and Trade Nguyen Hong Dien8. Deputy Minister of National Defence Hoang Xuan Chien9. Lãnh ??o B? Công an, Leader of Public Security 10. Deputy Minister of Finance Vu Thi Mai


August 25, 2021 15:28 ICT

VP Travel Pool #30 Bilat ends/embargo lifts 
Bilat with the PM ended at 12:45 pm. Embargo has now lifted on rest of the fact sheet. 
Pool has been waiting in press vans. Rolling to the hotel shortly for her next two events. 


August 25, 2021 15:31 ICT

VP Travel Pool #31 stop at McCain Monument 
After leaving the presidential palace, VP made an OTR stop en route to the hotel at the McCain monument on the third anniversary of his death. Info below from VP's office.
It started pouring rain just as we pulled up. She got out of the car at 12:53 pm. An aide holding an umbrella followed her. She looked at the monument, closed her eyes for a few seconds before laying a bouquet of flowers down.
She stopped to talk to pool in the rain about the late senator. Very hard to hear so working on transcript with help from TV pool's mics.
Background
On the three-year anniversary of his death, the Vice President is visiting the spot where the plane of then-Lieutenant Commander John McCain, U.S. Navy, was shot down by the North Vietnamese in 1967. He was captured by Vietnamese citizens after being shot down and spent five years imprisoned by the North Vietnamese Army. This monument serves as a reminder of the cost of war and a symbol of the continued growth in the U.S.-Vietnam relationship. Senator McCain visited the monument multiple times during his approximately 25 visits to Vietnam between 1985 and 2017. Senator McCain died Aug. 25, 2018 after being diagnosed with brain cancer. U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin visited the McCain Marker on July 29, 2021.


August 25, 2021 15:33 ICT

VP Travel Pool #31b Quotes from McCain monument
Sorry for the delay. We finally got some decent audio from the stop -- thanks to NBC's Sally Bronston.
"John McCain was an extraordinary American hero. I was honored and privileged to serve with him for a short time in the United States Senate. John McCain, he loved our country. He was so courageous and really lived the life of a hero—the sacrifices he made that were on every scale imaginable, loved our country and really always fought for the best of who we are. And it turns out today is the anniversary, so there we are."
We are now back at the hotel, where the rest of the events today will be after a lunch break. Your poolers are drying off after getting soaked in the rain at the OTR. 


August 25, 2021 15:57 ICT

VP Travel Pool #32a livestream link CDC event 
We are waiting for VP's remarks on the official launch of the CDC Southeast Asia Regional Office. Here is the livestream link for the event sent by VP's office: https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fpitc.z...
The U.S. delegation in co-hosting the event along with the government of Vietnam.
We are going to be moving very quickly to the next event, but I will send a couple of quotes and an otter link for those who are asleep and not able to watch live. 



  