
    This year, roughly 14,000 American women will lose their lives to ovarian cancer and more than 20,000 will be diagnosed with the disease. They are our mothers and grandmothers, sisters and daughters, aunts, neighbors, and friends. During National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month, Melania and I join with all Americans in remembering those we have lost to ovarian cancer, supporting those who bravely fight this disease, and reaffirming our resolve to eradicate cancer for future generations.
It is important that all Americans know the symptoms and risk factors associated with ovarian cancer. Women who are middle-aged or older, who have had cancer, or who have a family history of breast or ovarian cancer, may be at increased risk of developing this disease. Early detection of ovarian cancer remains one of the best ways of combatting it, which is why I urge all women, especially those who may be at increased risk of developing ovarian cancer, to consult their healthcare providers about their risk of this disease.
Our Nation is making strides in the battle against cancer, and we applaud the dedicated researchers and highly skilled medical professionals who give great hope and provide exceptional treatment options to people across our country. My administration is committed to supporting their efforts as they continue innovating and providing women and their doctors with the resources they need to treat and defeat diseases like ovarian cancer. Earlier this year, the Food and Drug Administration approved an additional therapy for the treatment of ovarian cancer, and I signed into law Federal "right to try" legislation, which provides those diagnosed with a terminal illness expanded options for care and treatment that could save their lives.
We will continue to find new ways to beat ovarian cancer, as this devastating disease still affects too many women each year. We stand with all those who know the pain and heartache of battling ovarian cancer. Together, we affirm our commitment to finding new and improved ways to prevent, detect, and treat cancer, and ultimately to curing this horrible disease.
  