
    Today I signed into law H.R. 4800, the "Department of Housing and Urban Development-Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989." The legislation funds Federal housing, veterans, science, and other important programs for the coming Fiscal Year.
The Act contains necessary funding for the Space Station "Freedom." The Space Station will advance the frontiers of scientific knowledge and strengthen cooperation in space among the United States and its Allies. The Act also provides important funding needed to restore the Nation's Space Shuttle capability, which is essential to national security and the effective use of space to meet our economic needs. Although the Act permits the transfer of a specified amount of Department of Defense funds to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to fund certain space activities, it does not require such transfer and therefore does not mandate action inconsistent with the Bipartisan Budget Agreement to which the Congressional Leadership and I agreed last November.
In addition to providing the funds to continue the Nation's leadership in space, the Act funds essential federal housing assistance programs, supports vital efforts to improve the environment, and provides veterans the benefits they earn by answering the Nation's call to arms.
The HUD—Independent Agencies Appropriations Act is only the second of the 13 appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 1989 that the Congress must send me before it completes its work for the year. In past years, the Congress has sent me a single mega-bill called an "omnibus continuing resolution" that wraps up the various appropriations bills in a single bill that spends $600 billion of the taxpayers' money. The mega-bill approach does not permit the Legislative and Executive branches to exercise the necessary control over Federal spending.
I urge the Congress to continue its work and send me the remaining 11 appropriations bills in a timely fashion and within the funding levels of the Bipartisan Budget Agreement.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
August 19, 1988.
  