
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 28
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Texas as a result of severe storms and flash flooding caused by Tropical Storm Claudette, beginning on or about July 24, which caused extensive property damage.
July 30
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
The President met at the White House with Senator Robert Morgan and members of the North Carolina State Legislature.
July 31
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison. The President declared a major disaster for the State of Indiana as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning on or about July 25, which caused extensive property damage.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1977 Annual Coal Mine Health and Safety Report of the Department of the Interior.
August 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Republican congressional leadership;
—Mr. Moore;
—Robert R. Bowie, Deputy Director, National Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale;
—Representative Norman E. D'Amours of New Hampshire.
August 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—members of the United Democrats of Congress;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas;
—Senator Donald Stewart of Alabama;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Secretary of Energy-designate
Charles W. Duncan, Jr.
The White House announced that applications for the 1980-81 White House Fellowships are now available and must be requested by November 15, 1979. The program was established by President Johnson in 1964 to give outstanding individuals early in their career firsthand experience in governing the Nation. It is open to all U.S. citizens except those in civilian Federal Government positions. Fellows are assigned for 1 year to a Cabinet officer, the Vice President, or a senior member of the President's staff. Although their job assignment is the core of their year, they also participate in educational seminars with top Government officials, leading scholars, journalists, and others who deal with the National Government. There are no occupational, age, sex, racial, political, or religious restrictions. Minority groups and women are encouraged to apply. Application materials and additional information can be obtained from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, Box 7737, Washington, D.C. 20044 (202/653-6263). Requests for applications must be postmarked no later than November 15, and completed applications no later than December 1, 1979.
August 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Lyle Gramley, member of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Polish American leaders.

  