
    "President Biden and I have committed nearly $1 trillion to build a thriving, clean energy economy for America," the Vice President said while in Seattle to highlight the impact that the Inflation Reduction Act is having on communities across America
SEATTLE – Today, Vice President Kamala Harris touted how the Inflation Reduction Act is building a clean energy economy and helping to address the climate crisis. On the eve of the one year anniversary, the Vice President -- who cast the tie-breaking vote to pass the Inflation Reduction Act through the U.S. Senate last year – highlighted how the Biden-Harris administration is advancing environmental justice, cutting energy bills for working families, boosting manufacturing across the country, and creating good-paying jobs.
"One year ago, President Biden and I made the largest climate investment in America's history," said Vice President Harris. "We are creating millions of good-paying clean energy jobs, we are rebuilding America's manufacturing, and we are driving American innovation – something this state knows so well. In total, President Biden and I have committed nearly $1 trillion to build a thriving, clean energy economy for America."
Vice President Harris also toured McKinstry, one of the many businesses throughout the nation that is experiencing a significant increase of building electrification and energy efficiency work due to this monumental law. McKinstry specifically works on the design, construction, and operation of energy-efficient and net-zero buildings.
"All of these investments create jobs – good-paying, union jobs," said Vice President Harris. "Jobs for workers like many of those who are here with us today, including plumbers and pipefitters, and members of IBEW, and Sheet Metal workers, and the kind of folk who are just some of the most skilled and experienced workers in our nation – going to work every day to build our clean energy economy."
Tomorrow will officially mark the one-year anniversary of the Inflation Reduction Act being signed into law. Beyond making unprecedented investments in climate action, the legislation also lowered prescription drug prices for seniors, capped the cost of insulin at $35 a month for those on Medicare, and reduced health insurance premiums for 13 million people across country. Today's return to Seattle is a continuation of the Vice President's summer of action in which she has already held a blitz of events in 17 states as she leads the fight to advance opportunity and protect fundamental freedoms.
  