
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Danielle J. Hunsaker of Oregon, to serve as Circuit Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 
Danielle Hunsaker currently serves as the Presiding Judge on the Washington County Circuit Court of Oregon. Before taking the bench in 2017, Judge Hunsaker was a partner at Larkins Vacura Kayser LLP in Portland, Oregon, where her practice focused on civil and appellate litigation in both State and Federal court. Judge Hunsaker also served as an adjunct professor at Lewis & Clark Law School from 2011 to 2016, where she taught Advanced Civil Procedure. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Hunsaker served as a law clerk to Judge Paul J. Kelly, Jr., of the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit and Judge Michael W. Mosman of the United States District Court for the District of Oregon. She later clerked for Judge Diarmuid F. O'Scannlain of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Judge Hunsaker earned her B.S., cum laude, from the University of Idaho and her J.D., summa cum laude, from the University of Idaho College of Law, where she served as Lead Articles Editor on the Idaho Law Review.
William J. Nardini of Connecticut, to serve as Circuit Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
William Nardini is an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut, where he serves as Chief of the Criminal Division. Mr. Nardini currently serves on the Criminal Chiefs Working Group of the Attorney General's Advisory Committee in the Department of Justice and the Advisory Committee for Local Rules of the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut. From 2010 to 2014, Mr. Nardini served as the Department of Justice Attaché at the United States Embassy in Rome, Italy. Mr. Nardini was also a Fulbright Scholar in Italy in 1998. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Nardini served as a law clerk to Judge Jose A. Cabranes and Judge Guido Calabresi, both of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and to Justice Sandra Day O'Connor of the Supreme Court of the United States. Mr. Nardini earned his B.A., summa cum laude, from Georgetown University and his J.D. from Yale Law School, where he served as Executive Editor of the Yale Law Journal.
Fernando L. Aenlle-Rocha of California, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Central District of California.
Fernando Aenlle-Rocha currently serves as a Judge on the Los Angeles Superior Court of California. Before taking the bench in 2017, Judge Aenlle-Rocha was a partner at White & Case LLP in Los Angeles, where his practice focused on business litigation, white-collar defense, and business crimes investigation. Before joining White & Case, Judge Aenlle-Rocha was a partner at McDermott, Will & Emery LLP and an Associate at Stephan, Oringher, Richman & Theodora. Before entering private practice, Judge Aenlle-Rocha served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Central District of California. Judge Aenlle-Rocha received his B.A. from Princeton University and his J.D. from the University of California, Berkeley, School of Law.
Adam L. Braverman of California, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. 
Adam Braverman is Associate Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Mr. Braverman previously served in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of California, including as the United States Attorney and as Deputy Chief of the Criminal Enterprise section. Before entering government service, Mr. Braverman was in private practice at Goodwin Procter LLP, where his practice focused on civil litigation, white-collar defense, and internal investigations. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Braverman served as a law clerk to Judge Consuelo M. Callahan of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and Judge Reggie B. Walton of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Mr. Braverman received his B.A., cum laude, from George Washington University and his J.D. from George Washington University Law School.
Silvia Carreno-Coll of Puerto Rico, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico.
Silvia Carreno-Coll currently serves as a United States Magistrate Judge for the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico. Before taking the bench in 2011, Judge Carreno-Coll served as Associate Regional Counsel for Caribbean Programs in the Environmental Protection Agency and as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Puerto Rico. Judge Carreno-Coll teaches a Federal Practice seminar at the University of Puerto Rico School of Law and is a member of the Federal Bar District Examination Committee. Judge Carreno-Coll earned her B.A., cum laude, from Emerson College and her J.D., cum laude, from the University of Puerto Rico School of Law.
John M. Gallagher of Pennsylvania, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
John Gallagher is an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, where he is the Chief of the Allentown Branch. Before joining the United States Attorney's Office, Mr. Gallagher held leadership positions in both the Miami and Philadelphia Police Departments and also served as a New York City Police Officer from 1989 to 1994. Mr. Gallagher was also a White House Fellow in the Department of Justice from 2000 to 2001, serving as Counsel to Attorneys General Janet Reno and John Ashcroft. Mr. Gallagher earned his B.S. from Long Island University and his J.D. from New York Law School.
Barbara Bailey Jongbloed of Connecticut, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut.
Barbara Jongbloed currently serves as a Judge on the New London District Superior Court for the State of Connecticut. Before taking the bench in 2000, Judge Jongbloed served as an Assistant United States Attorney and Chief of the Criminal Division in the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Jongbloed served as a law clerk to Chief Judge T.F. Gilroy Daly of the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut. Judge Jongbloed earned her B.A., cum laude, from Lawrence University and her J.D. from New York University School of Law.
Sandy Nunes Leal of California, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Sandy Leal currently serves as a Judge on the Orange County Superior Court for the State of California. Before taking the bench in 2018, Judge Leal was a Deputy Chief in the United States Attorney's Office for the Central District of California, where she served as an Assistant United States Attorney since 2004. Before joining the United States Attorney's Office, Judge Leal was an Assistant District Counsel in the Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service, where she was in the Attorney General's Honors Program. Judge Leal earned her B.A. from the University of Washington and her J.D. from Boston College Law School.
Shireen Matthews of California, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of California.
Shireen Matthews is a partner at Jones Day in San Diego, California. Prior to joining the firm, Ms. Matthews served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Criminal Division of the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of California. Before entering government service, Ms. Matthews was an associate with Latham & Watkins LLP in San Diego. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Matthews served as a law clerk for Judge Irma E. Gonzalez of the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. Ms. Matthews earned her B.A., magna cum laude, from Georgetown University and her J.D., cum laude, from Duke University School of Law.
Rick Richmond of California, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Central District of California.
Rick Richmond is a partner at Jenner & Block. He is the founding and managing partner of the firm's Los Angeles office. Prior to joining Jenner & Block, Mr. Richmond was a partner with Kirkland and Ellis for 17 years. Before entering private practice, Mr. Richmond served on the Appellate Staff of the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Richmond served as a law clerk for Judge Harlington Wood, Jr., of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Mr. Richmond earned his B.S., cum laude, from Brigham Young University and his J.D., cum laude, from George Washington University, where he was the Senior Managing Editor of the George Washington Law Review.
Daniel Mack Traynor of North Dakota, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the District of North Dakota. 
Daniel Traynor is a shareholder at the Traynor Law Firm in Devils Lake, North Dakota, where his practice focuses on insurance defense, personal injury, and business litigation. Mr. Traynor is a member of the North Dakota State Board of Higher Education and former Chair of the Disciplinary Board of the North Dakota Supreme Court. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Traynor served as a law clerk to Chief Justice Gerald W. VandeWalle of the North Dakota Supreme Court. Mr. Traynor earned his B.A. from the University of North Dakota and his J.D., with distinction, from the University of North Dakota School of Law, where he served as an Associate Editor on the North Dakota Law Review.
Cory T. Wilson of Mississippi, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi.
Cory Wilson currently serves as a Judge on the Mississippi Court of Appeals. Before taking the bench in February 2019, Judge Wilson served in the Mississippi House of Representatives, from 2016 to 2019. Prior to his elected service, Judge Wilson served as Senior Advisor and Counsel in the Mississippi State Treasurer's Office and Deputy Secretary of State in the Mississippi Secretary of State's Office. Judge Wilson also served as a White House Fellow in the Department of Defense as a Special Assistant to Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld from 2005 to 2006. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Wilson served as a law clerk to Judge Emmett Ripley Cox of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Judge Wilson earned his B.B.A., summa cum laude, from the University of Mississippi and his J.D. from Yale Law School, where he served on the Yale Law Journal.
Grant C. Jaquith of New York, to serve as Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.
Grant Jaquith is the United States Attorney for the Northern District of New York, where he serves as the chief Federal law enforcement officer for the Northern District of New York. Prior to becoming United States Attorney in 2017, Mr. Jaquith served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of New York, including as First Assistant United States Attorney, Chief of the Criminal Division, Narcotics Chief, and Chief of the Albany Office. From 1982 to 2011, Mr. Jaquith also served in the Judge Advocate General's Corps of the United States Army in several roles, including as Staff Judge Advocate, Circuit Judge, and Chief of Military Law, rising to the rank of Colonel. Mr. Jaquith earned his B.S., cum laude, from Presbyterian College and his J.D. from the University of Florida College of Law.
Scott J. Laurer of Virginia, to serve as Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.
Scott Laurer is a Deputy Legal Advisor at the National Security Council. Before joining the National Security Council, Mr. Laurer served in the United States Navy as Special Counsel to the Chief of Naval Operations and as a Commanding Officer in the United States Region Legal Service Office for Europe, Africa, and Southwest Asia. Mr. Laurer earned his B.A. from Rutgers University, his J.D. from Temple University Law School, and his LL.M. in International and Comparative Law from George Washington University Law School.
Robert A. Dixon of Washington D.C., to serve as United States Marshal for the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.
Robert Dixon was most recently the Director of Investigations for the Department of Labor's Office of the Inspector General, retiring in 2016. Mr. Dixon began his career with the Department of Labor in 1980 and has served in law enforcement for more than 30 years. Mr. Dixon received his B.A. from Morehouse College.
  