
    Veteran strategist has advised presidential campaigns and California's leaders
Chicago, IL -- The Obama for America campaign today announced that Mitchell Schwartz, a veteran strategist who has served on the campaigns of Senator Boxer, Governor Davis, Mayor Villaraigosa and several presidential candidates, will serve as California State Director. Schwartz currently serves as President of the Bomaye Company, a public affairs firm in Los Angeles.
"Californians are ready for leadership that can unite the country and bring fundamental change to Washington," said Schwartz. "Barack Obama had the judgment to oppose the Iraq war from the start and he will bring the war to an end while restoring America's credibility around the world. The thousands of Californians who have joined our grassroots campaign know that to truly turn the page on the Bush years, it's not enough to change parties, we've got to transform our politics."
"I'm grateful for the support of Mitchell Schwartz," said Senator Obama. "Whether it was as an advocate for human rights or the environment, Mitchell has worked tirelessly to change conventional thinking in Washington. A proven strategist with deep California roots, Mitchell will build on the strong support for this campaign that already exists across the state, and provide the leadership we need in California so we can change America."
Schwartz has served on nearly presidential campaign since 1984, including a pivotal role in 1992 as Gov. Bill Clinton's New Hampshire State Director. Schwartz served in the Office of Public Affairs for the Department of State under President Clinton between 1993-1995. After founding the Bomaye Group, a public affairs firm in Los Angeles which coordinated the grassroots and online campaign surrounding An Inconvenient Truth and assisted the Save Darfur Campaign, Schwartz served as an advisor to a number of California's elected officials.
Schwartz also serves as President of the Board of the Los Angeles League of Conservation Voters. He lives in Los Angeles with his wife and 2 children and is on the board of Temple Israel of Hollywood.
  