
    "Today's grim unemployment numbers are just the latest evidence that President Obama's economic policies have disappointed middle-class Americans. After nearly four years in office, the President has left families struggling with unemployment on the rise in cities across the country and an economy stuck in neutral. Mitt Romney will repair the economy for the middle class by creating 12 million new jobs and higher take-home pay for American workers." – Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today, The Department Of Labor Reported The Unemployment Rate Increased In A Majority Of Cities In July:
"Unemployment Rates Rose In A Majority Of Major U.S. Cities In July..." "Unemployment rates rose in a majority of major U.S. cities in July from June, more evidence that the job market remains weak." ("Unemployment Rate On The Rise In Half Of U.S. Cities," The Associated Press, 8/29/12)
The Unemployment Rate Rose In 193 Large Metro Areas And Remained Unchanged In 66. "The Labor Department says unemployment rates rose in 193 large metro areas. They fell in 114 and were unchanged in 66. In June, rates rose in 332 cities, fell in only 29 and were unchanged in 11." ("Unemployment Rate On The Rise In Half Of U.S. Cities," The Associated Press, 8/29/12)
And The National Unemployment Rate Increased To A Five-Month High Last Month And Is Projected To Remain Above 8% For The Rest Of The Year:
In July, The National Unemployment Rate "Ticked Higher To 8.3% ... The Highest Rate Since February." "The unemployment rate ticked higher to 8.3% in July from 8.2% in the previous month. This is the highest rate since February." (Greg Robb, "Nonfarm Payroll Up 163,000 In July, Rate At 8.3%" MarketWatch, 8/3/12)
"The Unemployment Rate Has Been Stuck Above 8 Percent For More Than Three Years, The Longest Run Since The Great Depression." (Lucia Mutikani, "Jobs Increase In July, But Jobless Rate Rises To 8.3 Percent," Reuters, 8/3/12)
The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office Has Projected "The Unemployment Rate Will Stay Above 8 Percent For The Rest Of The Year." "The unemployment rate will stay above 8 percent for the rest of the year, CBO estimates, and the rate of inflation in consumer prices will remain low." ("An Update To The Budget And Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2012 To 2022," Congressional Budget Office, 8/22/12)
It's Just The Latest Evidence The Nation Is Suffering From The "Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had":
CBS News: "This Is The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had." CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("CBS Evening News," 7/17/12)
"By Just About Any Measure," President Obama Has Presided Over A Feeble Economic Recovery. "The recession that ended three years ago this summer has been followed by the feeblest economic recovery since the Great Depression. Since World War II, 10 U.S. recessions have been followed by a recovery that lasted at least three years. An Associated Press analysis shows that by just about any measure, the one that began in June 2009 is the weakest. The ugliness goes well beyond unemployment, which at 8.3 percent is the highest this long after a recession ended." (Paul Wiseman, "Economic Recovery Is Weakest Since World War II," The Associated Press, 8/15/12)


    "The Ugliness Goes Well Beyond Unemployment, Which At 8.3 Percent Is The Highest This Long After A Recession Ended." (Paul Wiseman, "Economic Recovery Is Weakest Since World War II," The Associated Press, 8/16/12)
  

CNBC's Brian Sullivan: "Since 1970, This Is Statistically The Worst Recovery Out Of A Recession In A Developed Nation." SULLIVAN: "And if you look at this chart, you will notice the U.S. is, since 1970, this is statistically the worst recovery out of a recession in a developed nation. So in other words, in over 40 years, this is officially the slowest recovery when compared to other countries. So Miles, there's a report out recently that Canada, right, is now wealthier on a per capita basis in terms of net worth per household than the United States. So I would ask you: how do we fix that? Right? What can America do better?" (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 8/1/12)
  