
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four people and designate two people to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to designate Naomi Churchill Earp, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Ms. Earp currently serves as Commissioner and Vice-Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Prior to this, she served as Director of Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity of the National Institute of Health. Earlier in her career, she served as Director of the Office of Advocacy and Enterprise at the Department of Agriculture. Ms. Earp received her bachelor's degree from Norfolk University and her master's degree from Indiana University. She later received her JD from Catholic University's Columbus School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Robert T. Howard, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Information and Technology). Mr. Howard currently serves as Senior Advisor to the Deputy Secretary at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prior to this, he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Analysis and Learning Technologies Division at the Cubic Corporation. Earlier in his career, he served as a Major General of the United States Army. Mr. Howard received his bachelor's degree from Northeastern University and his master's degree from Texas A&M University.
The President intends to nominate Collister Johnson, Jr., of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. Mr. Johnson currently serves as Senior Management Consultant at Mercer Management Consulting. Mr. Johnson has served as a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation since 2002. Prior to this, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of FastShip Atlantic, Incorporated. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Vice President and Director of Presidential Airways, Incorporated. Mr. Johnson received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to designate James R. Kunder, of Virginia, to be Acting Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development. Mr. Kunder currently serves as Assistant Administrator for Asia and the Near East at the United States Agency for International Development. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Administrator for Asia and the Near East at the United States Agency for International Development. Earlier in his career, he served as Vice President for Program Development at Save the Children Federation. Mr. Kunder received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his master's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Sara Martinez Tucker, of California, to be Under Secretary of Education. Ms. Tucker currently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Hispanic Scholarship Fund. Prior to this, she served 16 years at AT&T. Among her assignments at AT&T, she served as a National Vice President and as Vice President of Consumer Operations. Ms. Tucker received her bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Texas at Austin.
The President intends to nominate Peter E. Cianchette, of Maine, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring September 14, 2010.
  