
    "Our legislation would do just that by creating a skills-based points system similar to those used for decades in Canada and Australia. A points system identifies and attracts the world's most-skilled immigrants. And by limiting the flood of low-skilled workers, it would encourage employers to hire, train and pay more to American workers already here."
Our immigration plan is pro-worker and pro-growth By Sen. Tom Cotton and Sen. David Perdue USA Today August 8, 2017
President Trump got big applause last week during a speech in Ohio when he called for fixing our immigration system. Instead of a "terrible system where anybody comes in," the president advocated for a "merit-based system, one that protects our workers" and "our economy."
According to polls, most Americans agree with him, but our outdated immigration laws do the opposite.
The basic principles of those laws haven't been changed in over half a century, making them divorced from the needs of our economy, while also depressing working-class wages. That's why we've introduced the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy Act, which updates our immigration laws to attract more ultra-high-skilled workers — and give working-class families the raise they deserve.
The ideal immigration system should have three objectives. First, attract the young and highly skilled, since they provide the biggest boost to our economy. Second, seek out people who can integrate into American society most effectively. Third, give priority to uniting immediate families, since it's better to give precious green cards to parents and their minor children rather than to fill out someone's family tree with grown siblings and cousins.
... 
Our legislation would do just that by creating a skills-based points system similar to those used for decades in Canada and Australia. A points system identifies and attracts the world's most-skilled immigrants. And by limiting the flood of low-skilled workers, it would encourage employers to hire, train and pay more to American workers already here.
... 
The new system would retain immigration preferences for the spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents, but not for most extended and adult family members. It would eliminate the so-called diversity visa lottery, which hands out green cards randomly without regard to skills or family connections, is plagued by fraud and doesn't even promote diversity. It would also remove per-country caps on immigration, so that high-skilled applicants aren't shut out of the process because of their country of origin. In addition, the bill would cap the number of refugees offered permanent residency to 50,000 per year, in line with a recent 13-year average.
These changes are pro-worker, pro-growth and proven to work. They would ultimately reduce our annual immigration levels by half after ten years and reorient it toward high-skilled workers, which is just what our economy needs. Furthermore, these changes have widespread public support. They would raise wages for working Americans, create jobs, give immigrants a decent shot at moving up the economic ladder and make America more competitive. It makes no sense to stick with 50-year-old immigration laws. Let's finally bring them into the 21st century.
Read the full op-ed here.
  