
    "Don't underestimate Joe's ability to f*ck things up."
Barack Obama urged Biden not to run for president in 2016 and 2020, preferred Hillary Clinton over his own vice president, questioned Biden's ability to win, and warned others "don't underestimate Joe's ability to f*ck things up."
But don't expect Obama to be as honest about Biden tonight as he was with his confidantes. Instead, Obama will simply remind voters of their eight years of terrible policies. At the end of their "America last" administration, Americans turned to President Trump to clean up their messes and put America first.
The Obama-Biden Administration FAILED to deliver for American workers. They oversaw the worst economic "recovery" since the Great Depression.

Under Obama and Biden, job growth averaged just 110,000 jobs per month, wages grew at a paltry average of just 2.2%, and the average unemployment rate was 7.4%. Even Joe Biden admitted workers were left behind in their "recovery."
Obama mocked President Trump's pledge to revive America's economy in 2016, asking "what magic wand does he have?" Obama said it was impossible, but President Trump succeeded.
Under Obama, Biden pushed for terrible trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) that would have decimated even more jobs and continued Biden's decades-long record of helping foreign countries at the expense of working-class Americans.

The Obama-Biden Administration FAILED to keep Americans safe and coddled terrorists, jeopardizing American security. 

Iranian terrorist Soleimani was permitted to plot attacks on American troops in the Middle East while Obama and Biden delivered pallets of cash to the Iranian regime as part of a terrible deal that would have allowed them to acquire nuclear weapons.
ISIS was allowed to flourish and grow across the Middle East while America's adversaries were emboldened. 

The Obama-Biden Administration FAILED to deliver on healthcare, promising to make it more affordable and instead making it more expensive. 

After getting caught lying to the American people that they could keep their plan if they liked it, ObamaCare cancelled private plans while driving up premiums for middle-class families and making healthcare more expensive (a trend that President Trump is reversing).
Instead of tackling prescription drug prices, Obama and Biden struck a corrupt deal with pharmaceutical industry executives to protect drug manufacturers in exchange for a $150 million advertising blitz to sell ObamaCare.
Obama once admitted that the "public option" scheme that Joe Biden is now proposing would wipe out families' privately-held health plans.

  