
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Our Nation's law enforcement officials have accepted a great responsibility, one that often entails considerable personal risks and sacrifices. By cooperating with law enforcement personnel in their efforts to fulfill that responsibility, participants in Neighborhood Watch programs are demonstrating the kind of personal responsibility and moral resolve that all Americans must emulate if we are to win the war on drug trafficking and other crime.
Neighborhood Watch programs provide an effective means for concerned citizens to assist law enforcement officials in preventing crime and apprehending its perpetrators. Participants in Neighborhood Watch programs remain vigilant against crime in their communities and notify the police when they observe any suspicious activity. They clean up their local parks and declare them off-limits to gangs and drug dealers. They also keep watch over elderly individuals and other members of their communities who might easily become victims of theft or violence, and they organize special clubs where young people can find wholesome alternatives to delinquency and drug use.
Through their efforts to cooperate with the police and with one another, Americans across the country are reclaiming the safety of their streets and neighborhoods. Individuals of all ages, business leaders, educators, members of the criminal justice system, and elected officials at each level of government have shown that -- working together -- we can make every community a place where law-abiding citizens are able to live and work, free from fear and danger.
On Tuesday, August 7, 1990, millions of Americans will demonstrate their determination to prevent drug trafficking and other crime by taking part in a "National Night Out." Sponsored by the National Association of Town Watch, this event is designed to strengthen police-community cooperation and increase participation in local crime and drug abuse prevention efforts. During the "National Night Out" as an expression of their resolve to defend the safety of their homes and neighborhoods, concerned citizens will participate in special marches, candlelight vigils, block parties, and events for youth. Many will observe the "National Night Out" simply by turning on their porch lights and by sitting on their porches, lawns, or front steps from 8:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
To encourage all Americans to join with their neighbors in these and other crime prevention activities, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 296, has designated August 7, 1990, as "National Neighborhood Crime Watch Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim August 7, 1990, as National Neighborhood Crime Watch Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  