
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 30
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Independence, MO, where they met with families from the State who have problems with the current health care system. They then toured the Harry S. Truman Library in the afternoon.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Cleveland, OH, where they attended a fundraising dinner for senatorial candidate Joel Hyatt at a private residence. Following the dinner, they returned to Washington, DC.
August 1
In the morning, the President traveled to Jersey City, NJ, where he met with families from the State who have problems with the current health care system. He returned to the White House in the late afternoon.
August 2
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser at a private residence in Oxon Hill, MD.
The President declared major disasters exist in Oregon and Washington following severe damage to the ocean salmon fishing industries caused by the El Niño weather pattern and recent drought.
The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to the National Science Board:
—Eve L. Menger;
—Claudia Mitchell-Kernan;
—Diana S. Natalicio;
—Robert M. Solow;
—Warren M. Washington;
—John A. White.
The President announced his intention to appoint Dolores Kohl as a member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the National Advisory Board on Indian Education:
—Joseph Abeyta;
—Agnes Cavis;
—Rosemary Ackley Christensen;
—Mark Maryboy;
—Aleta Paisano-Suazo;
—Janine Pease-Windy Boy;
—Scott Ratliff;
—Sherry Red Owl.
The White House announced that the President has invited President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine to Washington, DC, for an official working visit on November 29.
August 3
The President announced his intention to appoint Barbara Blum, LaDonna Harris, Loren Kieve, and Catherine Baker Stetson to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development Board of Trustees.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kit Dobelle as a member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
August 4
The President announced his intention to nominate Herschelle Challenor to the National Security Education Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sheldon C. "Shay" Bilchik as Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention at the Department of Justice.
August 5
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth Spencer Yalowitz as Ambassador to Belarus.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph M. Aragon, Stephen R. Colgate, and Kenneth Young as members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
  