
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Steven J. Menashi of New York, to serve as Circuit Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. 
Steven Menashi is a Special Assistant to President Donald J. Trump and Associate Counsel to the President. He previously served as Acting General Counsel at the Department of Education. Before entering public service, Mr. Menashi was an Assistant Professor of Law at George Mason University, where he taught courses in administrative law and civil procedure. Before entering academia full time, Mr. Menashi was a partner at Kirkland & Ellis in New York, where his practice focused on civil and regulatory litigation. While at Kirkland & Ellis, Mr. Menashi also was a Research Fellow at the New York University School of Law and the Opperman Institute for Judicial Administration. Mr. Menashi served as a law clerk to Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and to Justice Samuel Alito of the Supreme Court of the United States. Mr. Menashi earned his B.A., magna cum laude, from Dartmouth College, and his J.D., with distinction, from Stanford Law School, where he was inducted into the Order of the Coif and served as Senior Articles Editor of the Stanford Law Review.
Jodi W. Dishman of Oklahoma, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma.
Jodi Dishman is a Shareholder at McAfee & Taft in Oklahoma City, where her practice focuses on complex civil litigation in Federal and State courts and where she serves as President of the Oklahoma City Chapter of the Federal Bar Association. Before joining McAfee & Taft, Ms. Dishman spent five years as an attorney in the San Antonio, Texas office of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Dishman served as a law clerk to Judges Edward C. Prado and Carolyn Dineen King of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Ms. Dishman earned her B.B.A., cum laude, from Southern Methodist University and her J.D., summa cum laude, from the University of Oklahoma College of Law, where she served as Editor-in-Chief of the Oklahoma Law Review.
Karen S. Marston of Pennsylvania, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Karen Marston serves as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, where she is Chief of the Office's Narcotics and Organized Crime section. Ms. Marston previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Western District of North Carolina, receiving the Department of Justice Director's Award in 2002. Ms. Marston has also served as an Adjunct Professor at Temple University Beasley School of Law. Ms. Marston earned her B.A. from Davidson College and her J.D., magna cum laude, from Wake Forest University School of Law, where she served as an Articles Editor on the Wake Forest Law Review.
Richard E. Myers II of North Carolina, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina.
Richard Myers is the Henry Brandis Distinguished Professor of Law and Director of Trial Advocacy at the University of North Carolina School of Law, where his teaching and scholarship focuses on criminal law. Previously, Professor Myers served as an Assistant United States Attorney in both the Eastern District of North Carolina and Central District of California United States Attorneys' Offices. While a Federal prosecutor, Professor Myers prosecuted a wide variety of crimes including counterfeiting, narcotics, and firearms offenses. Before going into public service, Professor Myers was in private practice at O'Melveny & Myers LLP. Upon graduation from law school, Professor Myers served as a law clerk to Judge David Sentelle on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He earned his B.A., summa cum laude, and his M.A. from the University of North Carolina at Wilmington and his J.D., magna cum laude, from the University of North Carolina School of Law, where he served as an Articles Editor on the North Carolina Law Review.
Sarah E. Pitlyk of Missouri, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.
Sarah Pitlyk is a Special Counsel at the Thomas More Society, where her practice focuses on constitutional and civil rights litigation. Before joining the Thomas More Society, Ms. Pitlyk worked at Clark & Sauer LLC, a civil litigation firm in St. Louis, Missouri, and was an associate at Covington & Burling LLP in Washington, D.C. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Pitlyk served as a law clerk to then-Judge Brett Kavanaugh of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Ms. Pitlyk earned her B.A., summa cum laude, from Boston College, M.A.'s from Georgetown University and the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (Belgium), where she studied as a Fulbright Scholar, and her J.D. from Yale Law School.
Anuraag "Raag" Singhal of Florida, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
Raag Singhal serves as a Circuit Court Judge for the 17th Judicial Circuit in Broward County, Florida, having been appointed to the bench by then-Governor Rick Scott in 2011. Before his appointment, Judge Singhal was in private practice in Fort Lauderdale where his practice focused on criminal defense in both the trial courts and courts of appeals. Early in his career, Judge Singhal served as a prosecutor in the Office of the State Attorney. Judge Singhal earned his B.A. from Rice University and his J.D. from Wake Forest University School of Law.
David M. DeVillers of Ohio, to serve as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio. 
David DeVillers is an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of Ohio. While serving as an Assistant United States Attorney, Mr. DeVillers has led numerous organized crime task forces involving the FBI, ATF, DEA, and IRS. He has twice served as a Legal Advisor with the Department of Justice's Office of Overseas Prosecutorial Development Assistance and Training—in Tbilisi, Georgia, from 2010 to 2012 and in Bucharest, Romania, and Sofia, Bulgaria, in 2018. Mr. DeVillers received his B.A. from the State University of New York, Oswego, and his J.D. from Capital University.
Thomas L. Leonard III of Michigan, to serve as the United States Attorney for the Western District of Michigan. 
Thomas Leonard is the founder of MiStrategies, a policy development and strategic collaboration firm. Previously, Mr. Leonard served as a Member of the Michigan House of Representatives, including as Speaker of the House. Before serving in the legislature, Mr. Leonard was an Assistant Attorney General in Genesee County, assigned to the Special Crimes Division in Flint. He received his B.A. from the University of Michigan and his J.D. from Michigan State University College of Law.
Owen M. Cypher of Michigan, to serve as the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Michigan. 
Owen Cypher is a Deputy United States Marshal and Senior Judicial Security Inspector for the United States Marshals Service for the Eastern District of Michigan. Mr. Cypher has worked for the United States Marshals Service in various roles since 2003, including as a Senior Inspector in both Asset Forfeiture Investigations and Protective Intelligence Investigations. Mr. Cypher also served in the United States Marine Corps as a Corporal from 1995 to 1999. Mr. Cypher earned his B.A. from American Military University.
Ralph Sozio of New York, to serve as the United States Marshal for the Southern District of New York.
Ralph Sozio currently serves as Assistant to the Special Agent In-Charge for the United States Secret Service's New York Field Office. Mr. Sozio joined the Secret Service in 2002, after serving in the New York City Police Department. Prior to his decades-long career in law enforcement, Mr. Sozio earned his B.S. from the Pratt Institute.
  