
    They're total failures, but now they're back with even more radical policies.
Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are the most far-left presidential ticket in American history, and one only needs to compare their proposals to Crooked Hillary Clinton's 2016 platform to know that.
Take taxes for example. Clinton proposed raising taxes by $1.4 trillion. Biden's tax hike would be more than twice that amount, roughly $4 trillion.
"Biden has proposed ideas more ambitious and liberal than policies supported by Hillary Clinton in the 2016 campaign, a McClatchy review of the candidates' platforms found," the outlet reported last year. "On nearly every major issue, Biden has either exponentially increased the scope of what Clinton proposed or advocated for new ideas that most Democrats would have up until recently considered fringe."
And speaking of fringe, it's a perfect way to describe Crooked Hillary's slide into the absurd ever since she failed to visit Wisconsin and lost fair and square in 2016. First she helped finance foreign interference in our democracy, then she hatched the Russia collusion hoax to explain away her failure. She refused to accept the results of the election and even said President Trump was an illegitimate president, doing the Kremlin's bidding by undermining our democracy and sowing division.
Now Crooked Hillary is backing Biden, which is no surprise because they have a lot in common:

They both supported the terrible Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal that would have killed American jobs and shrunk our economy.
They both are propped up by Wall Street.
They both are known for enriching their families by selling their influence and access to power.
They both abandoned Wisconsin.
They both disdain the American people.
They both described Black men as "predators" without a conscience.
They both collapsed before our eyes.
They both are serial failed presidential candidates.

Joe Biden's 47 years of corruption and failure were a disaster for our country. Now he's bringing back retreads like Crooked Hillary who helped run America into the ground. Their radical, left-wing ideas will crush our economy and take us back to weakness on the world stage.
President Trump is cleaning up the mess caused by Biden and Clinton by bringing jobs back to the U.S., instituting an America First foreign policy, and taking on China. He created the best economy in American history before the virus from China hit us, and he will do it again. President Trump is succeeding where Biden and Clinton failed.
  