
    Momentum Continues as Representatives Beaulieu, Long, Pilotte, and Winters All Stand with Richardson
MANCHESTER, NH -- Governor Bill Richardson's New Hampshire efforts gained a major boost today with the endorsements of ten key Manchester activists and elected officials including State Representatives Jane Beaulieu, Pat Long, Maurice Pilotte, and Joel Winters. With polls showing he has moved past John Edwards and into third place in New Hampshire, today's endorsements further demonstrate that the Governor's aggressive campaigning and frequent visits to the Granite State are paying off with real grassroots support.
State Representative and Alderman Pat Long, Ward 3's leading vote-getter in 2006, is supporting Richardson for the breadth and depth of his experience.
"I am proud to stand with the most qualified and most experienced candidate in the race for President," said Rep. Long, who also serves as Business Agent for the Iron Workers Local Union #7.
State Representative Jane Beaulieu led her candidate field on Manchester's Westside in 2006.
"Governor Richardson has the momentum in New Hampshire," said Rep. Beaulieu. "His experience, his optimism and his plan to get all US troops out of Iraq with no residual forces left behind are all resonating with New Hampshire voters."
The complete list of today's Manchester-area endorsements includes:
State Representative Jane Beaulieu
Dick Charpentier, President of the Franco-American Centre
Glen Gervais, Ward 2 Activist
State Representative Pat Long
State Representative Maurice Pilotte
Clifford Ross, Ward 3 Activist
Kevin Staley, Director of the Humanities Program, St. Anselm College
Jim Stevenson, Ward 1 Activist
Bill Whitmore, Ward 2 Activist and former Vice President of the NH AFL-CIO
State Representative Joel Winters
These key grassroots activists and elected officials join the committed Richardson supporters of the New Hampshire Steering Committee and New Hampshire Latinos for Richardson coalition group.
Background:
Richardson Announces New Hampshire Steering Committee
http://newhampshire.richardsonforpresident.com/pressreleases?id=0089
New Hampshire Latinos Endorse Governor Bill Richardson for President
http://newhampshire.richardsonforpresident.com/pressreleases?id=0093
  