
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Thomas A. Shannon, Jr., of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Western Hemisphere Affairs). A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Shannon currently serves as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the National Security Council. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to that, he was Director of Andean Affairs and as U.S. Deputy Permanent Representative to the Organization of American States (OAS). Mr. Shannon received his bachelor's degree from the College of William and Mary. He later received his M. Phil and D. Phil from Oxford University.
The President intends to nominate Donald C. Winter, of Virginia, to be Secretary of the Navy. Mr. Winter currently serves as Corporate Vice President and President of Northrop Grumman Mission Systems. He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of TRW Systems. Earlier in his career, Mr. Winter was awarded the Secretary of Defense medal for meritorious civilian service while working for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Rochester. He later received his master's degree and PhD from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to nominate Michael W. Wynne, of Florida, to be Secretary of the Air Force. Mr. Wynne currently serves as Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics at the Department of Defense. He previously served as Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics. Before that, Mr. Wynne served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ixata, and as Chairman of Extended Reach Logistics. Mr. Wynne received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy at West Point and served as a Captain in the United States Air Force. He received his first master's degree from the Air Force Institute of Technology, and his second master's degree from the University of Colorado.
The President intends to nominate Brenda La Grange Johnson, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Jamaica. Ms. Johnson has served as a Partner of BrenMer Industries for nearly 30 years. Prior to that, she was a supervisor and teacher for Operation Head Start in Brooklyn, New York. Ms. Johnson received her bachelor's degree from Duke University and her master's degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to designate Robert D. McCallum, Jr., of Georgia, to be Acting Deputy Attorney General of the Department of Justice.
The President intends to designate Jerry Paul, of Florida, to be Acting Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation of the National Nuclear Security Administration at the Department of Energy.
  