
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 26
In the morning, the President traveled to Lake Tahoe, NV. In the afternoon, he participated in water clarity testing aboard a University of California, Davis, research vessel on Lake Tahoe.
In the evening, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA.
July 28
In the morning, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter L. Scher for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure as the Special Trade Negotiator for Agriculture in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marshall S. Smith as Deputy Secretary at the Department of Education.
July 29
The White House announced that the President and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright will send Special Middle East Coordinator Dennis B. Ross to the Middle East on July 30 to meet with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel and Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority.
July 30
In the afternoon, the President met with Deputy President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and Vice President Al Gore in the Oval Office.
In the evening, the President traveled to Fort A.P. Hill in Bowling Green, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ela Yazzie-King to serve a second term as a member of the National Council on Disability.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Anne Sullivan as General Counsel at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to appoint Aaron D. Miller to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
July 31
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul M. Igasaki to serve a second term as Vice Chair and Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Tadd Johnson as Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ernest J. Moniz as Under Secretary at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles O. Rossotti to be Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service.
The President announced his intention to appoint Dennis DeConcini, Neil Hartigan, Joe Serna, Jr., and Harriett F. Woods to the Federal Home Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dan Reicher as Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy at the Department of Energy.
August 1
In the morning, the President met with President Heydar Aliyev of Azerbaijan in the Oval Office. Later, the two leaders had a working luncheon in the Old Family Dining Room.
The President declared a major disaster in Colorado and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, heavy rain, flash floods, flooding, mudslides, landslides, and severe ground saturation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Cheryl Feldman Halpern as a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
The President announced his intention to to nominate John Arthur Hammerschmidt as a member of the National Transportation Safety Board.
The President announced the nomination of Dennis Dollar to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the National Credit Union Administration.
The President announced the nomination of Nancy Dorn to serve as a member of the Inter-American Foundation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dale Cabaniss to serve as a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard F. Keevey to serve as the Chief Financial Officer for the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paula J. Dobriansky as a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jacques Gansler as Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert W. Gee as Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate John E. Mansfield as a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate George Moose as the Representative of the United States to the European Office of the United Nations, with rank of Ambassador.
The White House announced that the President has asked Representative Donald Payne to lead a Presidential delegation, including Representatives John Conyers and Cynthia McKinney, to the Presidential Inauguration in Liberia on August 2.
  