
    Mitt Romney today announced his Farmers and Ranchers for Romney coalition.
"I'm honored to have so many farmers and ranchers standing with my campaign," said Mitt Romney. "They are the backbone of America and play a critical role in ensuring Americans across the country have access to safe and affordable food. The fruit of their labor nourishes the world, and I admire their hard work in harvesting our country's bountiful resources. Our farmers and ranchers also have a critical role in the health of our economy, employing millions of Americans.  I'm grateful to have their support in my efforts to turn around the economy and strengthen the middle class." 
Commissioner Adam Putnam said, "As Florida's Agriculture Commissioner, I'm proud to be supporting Governor Romney's campaign to get this country moving in the right direction again. While agriculture in America has its own set of unique challenges, farmers are looking for a leader in the White House who knows how the private sector works. Throughout the past three and a half years, President Obama has demonstrated in both his rhetoric and his policies that he lacks that understanding. I'm confident that Governor Romney's experience and vision will restore a brighter future for all Americans."
Senator Mike Johanns said, "Having served as U.S. Secretary of Agriculture and represented Nebraskans as both Governor and Senator, I'm familiar with the challenges and opportunities throughout rural America. From ranches to family farms, the heartland helped build this nation and agriculture remains part of the very fabric that binds it together. President Obama's policies have failed to reinvigorate our economy, and even worse, his regulatory overreach stifled growth and cost jobs. Once a man of soaring rhetoric, his words now diminish the labor and sacrifice of all Americans by saying they didn't build their businesses. I grew up on a farm and know that success is not the result of government action, but rather individual initiative and hard work. Mitt Romney understands the power of free enterprise and its ability to unleash the entrepreneurial spirit. As president, he will not only jumpstart economic growth in this country, but also carefully tend to the needs of agricultural producers and rural communities."
Former USDA Deputy Secretary Charles Conner said, "I was raised on a family farm, and having policies which help agriculture thrive is close to my heart. That's one of the reasons why I'm supporting Mitt Romney. The task of turning around our economy so it works for all Americans will not be an easy one, but I'm confident Governor Romney will deliver. Having spent most of his career in the private sector, he knows why President Obama's policies have ill-served economic growth and the jobs that only free enterprise can create."   
Iowa Agriculture Secretary Bill Northey said, "Here in Iowa, farmers form a key role in powering our economy. Over the course of the past three and a half years, President Obama hasn't made good on the promises of his campaign four years ago, and the impact of his economic policies has been devastating throughout the country. The need for a new direction and fresh leadership in the White House could not be clearer, and I believe Mitt Romney will provide both."
National Chairs
Florida Agriculture Commissioner Adam Putnam
Ambassador Tom Nassif
Iowa Secretary of Agriculture Bill Northey
Kentucky Agriculture Commissioner James Comer
Sen. Mike Johanns (NE)
Former USDA Acting/Deputy Secretary Charles Conner
National Co-Chairs
Secretary John Block
Secretary Ed Schafer
Secretary Clayton Keith Yeutter
Sen. Pat Roberts (KS)
Sen. Jerry Moran (KS)
Sen. Roy Blunt (MO)
Sen. Chuck Grassley (IA)
Sen. John Hoeven (ND)
Sen. Thad Cochran (MS)
Sen. Saxby Chambliss (GA)
Sen. John Boozman (AR)
Rep. Frank Lucas (OK)
Rep. Bob Goodlatte (VA)
Rep. Randy Neugebauer (TX)
Rep. Mike Conaway (TX)
Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (NE)
Rep. Glenn "G.T." Thompson (PA)
Rep. Marlin Stutzman (IN)
Rep. Bob Gibbs (OH)
Rep. Scott Tipton (CO)
Rep. Steve Southerland (FL)
Rep. Rick Crawford (AR)
Rep. Tim Huelskamp (KS)
Rep. Randy Hultgren (IL)
Rep. Reid Ribble (WI)
Rep. Jack Kingston (GA)
Rep. Stephen Fincher (TN)
Rep. Cory Gardner (CO)
Rep. Tom Latham (IA)
Rep. Kristi Noem (SD)
Rep. Denny Rehberg (MT)
Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA)
Alabama Agriculture Commissioner John McMillan
Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black
Kansas Agriculture Secretary Dale Rodman
Louisiana Agriculture Commissioner Dr. Michael Strain
Michigan Agriculture Director Jamie Clover Adams
Mississippi Agriculture Commissioner Cindy Hyde-Smith
South Carolina Agriculture Commissioner Hugh Weathers
Tennessee Agriculture Commissioner Julius Johnson
Texas Agriculture Commissioner Todd Staples
Utah Agriculture Commissioner Leonard Blackham
Wisconsin Agriculture Secretary Ben Brancel
National Advisory Board
Former Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Jack Parnell
Former Agriculture Secretary Bill Even, South Dakota
Former Agriculture Secretary Arthur Gen "A.G." Kawamura, California
Former Agriculture Secretary Don Ament, Colorado
Bryan Black, Past President, National Pork Producers Council
Al Montna, Former Chairman, USA Rice Federation
Chris Policinski, CEO, Land O'Lakes
Greg Ibach, Director — Nebraska Department of Agriculture
J.D. Alexander — President, National Cattleman's Beef Association
The Honorable Randy Russell, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Agriculture
Katie Smith — Former Director, Missouri Department of Agriculture
John Miller— Former CEO, National Beef Packing Company
Steve Troxler — North Carolina Agriculture Commissioner
The Honorable Leland Strom
John Johnson, former USDA Deputy Administrator
Charles Kruse, former Missouri Farm Bureau President
Nathan Sanderson Ph.D., Agriculture Policy Advisor to South Dakota Governor Dennis
Daugaard
Tom Stenzel, President, United Fresh Produce Association
Jim Magagna, Wyoming
Hobey Bauhan, Virginia
Jay Vroom
Sam Moore, Kentucky
James Moody, Cold Creek Farms
Bruce Nelson, Former Chairman, USA Dry Pea and Lentil Council
Dan Wyant, Past Director, Michigan Department of Agriculture
Mike Yost, Past Chairman and President, American Soybean Association
Former U.S. Senator Duncan Faircloth (NC)
Former U.S. Rep. Robin Hayes (NC), Chairman, NC Republican Party
Trent Bushner, former President Colorado Corn Growers
Robert Bray, Colorado Cattlemen's Association
Mike Firestine, Pennsylvania
Dave Armstrong, GreenStone Farm Credit Services
Richard Ebert, Vice President of Pennsylvania Farm Bureau
*Company/business names are provided for identification purposes only.
  