
    First Lady Melania Trump accompanied her husband on a visit to Biarritz, France for the 45th G7 Summit.
While in France, Mrs. Trump participated in several spousal events hosted by Mrs. Brigitte Macron. Upon arrival, the First Lady joined the President for an official welcome reception at the Phare de Biarritz, participated in a group photo on the coast at Rocher de la Vierge, and concluded her evening at the Hôtel du Palais for a G7 Spouse dinner.
On Sunday, Mrs. Trump accompanied Mrs. Macron and other G7 spouses for a walking tour of Espelette, France – a village located to the southeast of Biarritz. While in the village, the First Lady visited several of the charming shops, including a fabric store, a traditional bakery, and a regional grocery store before stopping by a nearby pepper field to meet with a local farmer and learn more about the regional agriculture.
Prior to departing Espelette, Mrs. Trump visited Saint-Etienne Church where a Basque choir performed under the beautifully painted historic ceiling. The last stop of the day was to Villa Arnaga known for its wonderful French and English gardens. In the evening, the First Lady joined her husband for an extended G7 dinner at the Hôtel Du Palais.
On Monday morning, Mrs. Trump traveled to Côte des Basques Beach for a surfing demonstration and a youth biodiversity presentation. The young surfers joined Mrs. Trump, along with the other spouses, on dry land for a brief introduction to surfing and a group photo. During the biodiversity presentation, the First Lady was escorted to three displays by a youth member to learn more about their marine life and environmental conservation projects.
Prior to her departure, the First Lady attended the Joint Press Conference between the President and President Emmanuel Macron of France.
"A very enjoyable and productive trip to Biarritz," said First Lady Melania Trump. "Mrs. Macron was a gracious host, showing us around some of France's most beautiful and charming villages and towns. The G7 is a great opportunity for the spouses and partners to come together on a global stage to further engage in our discussions for the future of our youth and to enhance our relationships with one another."
  