
    President Trump's 2020 Convention honors the great American story, the American people that have written it, and how President Donald J. Trump has empowered them to succeed. The convention highlights the progress that has been made under President Trump's leadership, the hardworking Americans that make it possible, and how he will continue to make America great. While Democrats attack our country and sow division, President Trump is implementing an agenda that puts the American people first.
Former Florida Attorney General Pam BondiRemarks as Prepared: 
I'm Pam Bondi.
Our party's theme tonight is "America— the land of opportunity."
And listening to the stories of discoveries and deliverance, you can't help but be proud to call this country home.
But for Joe Biden, it's been the land of opportunism, not opportunity.
As a career prosecutor and former Attorney General of Florida, I fought corruption and I know what it looks like, whether it's done by people wearing pinstripe suits or orange jumpsuits.
At the Democrats' convention, we were told to look at Joe Biden as the model of integrity.
But, when you look at his 47 year career in politics, the people who benefited are his family members, not the American people. Let's take a closer look.
We all know about Joe's son, Hunter Biden.
A corrupt Ukrainian Oligarch put Hunter on the board of his gas company, even though he had no experience in the country -- or in the energy sector.
None. Yet he was paid millions to do nothing.
He only had onequalification that mattered: He was the son of the man in charge of distributing U.S. aid to Ukraine.
And recently reported information revealed that a few months after Hunter Biden joined the corrupt company's Board, the Obama-Biden State Department began doing business with them even as it remained under investigation for corruption.
It gets worse.
That very same company was being investigated by a Ukrainian prosecutor.
Joe Biden— the Vice President of the United States— threatened to withhold aid to Ukraine unless that same prosecutor was fired... and then he was fired.
Hunter only resigned from that board… just before his dad announced his campaign for president.
Now let's talk about China.
Fact: Joe Biden flew to China on Air Force Two with Hunter along for the ride.
They said he was just there as a family member.
But we know that's untrue.
In Beijing, Hunter didn't just go sightseeing. He had meetings with his Chinese bank partners.
Hunter even arranged for his dad to meet one of the partners.
Ten days later, those Chinese communist bankers approved millions to go to Hunter's firm.
And those bankers work for the Chinese Communist Party— which oppresses their people, cheated American workers for decades, and covered up a deadly virus.
To this day, Hunter controls a 10% stake in that firm.
And Joe Biden has done more than look the other way on China—he's said "the Chinese aren't our competition."
"Come on man, they're not bad folks."
Come on, Joe.
Talk to the folks in middle America who lost countless jobs to China while your son was getting rich with them.
But there's more.
Fact. There have been numerous press reports that have shown other close Biden family members benefited from Joe's 47 year political career.
Joe Biden was point person on Iraq.
The president of a construction firm met with Biden's team in the White House and then, who did they hire to build thousands of houses in Iraq?
Joe Biden's close family member, who had NO experience in the industry and NO experience in Iraq.
A company official bragged that it helps to have a family member "of the Vice President as a partner."
The family member put it more bluntly by saying there's "a line of 747s filled with cash— ready to invest."
Now, let's follow the money down south.
Again, as reported in the press, yet another family member of Joe's set his sights on Costa Rica and Jamaica, where millions of dollars flowed from the Obama-Biden administration in taxpayer-backed loans to projects linked to, yes, that same family member.
These aren't … isolated … incidents, it's a deliberate pattern of conduct.
And that's just what he did as Vice President.
Imagine what he'd do as President.
How many American families would be allowed to get away with this?
Why should there be one standard for the elite political class, and another set of rules for the rest of us?
When millions of Americans voted for Donald Trump, they knew he'd be different and he is.
He's a tough no nonsense outsider who can't be bought or intimidated.
He won't even take a paycheck from the American people. He donates his paycheck to charities across the country.
Democrats have been lecturing America about integrity for 4 years while their nominee has been writing the textbook on abuse of power for over 40 years.
If they want to make this election a choice between who's been saving America and who's been swindling America, bring it on.
Joe says he will build back better… yeah, build the Bidens back better.
Our president is in this to build a better, safer, and stronger America and will finish what he started to keep this a real land of opportunity for everyone.
If you wanna check your voting status, secure your ballot, or register to vote: text "vote" to 88022.
Remember, the best is yet to come.
Tiffany TrumpRemarks as Prepared:
Good evening I'm Tiffany Trump,
Since speaking at the Republican Convention 4 years ago, so much has changed for the world, for our country, and for my family.
Like so many students across the world, I graduated from law school during the pandemic. Our generation is unified in facing the future in uncertain times -- and many of us are considering what kind of country we want to live in.
As a recent graduate, I can relate to so many of you who might be looking for a job. My father built a thriving economy once, and believe me, he will do it again.
This election I urge each and every one of you to transcend political boundaries. This is a fight for freedom versus oppression, for opportunity versus stagnation, a fight to keep America true to America.
I urge you to make your judgement based on results and not rhetoric.
If you believe in criminal justice reform, there is only one president that passed the First Step Act. Giving people a second chance, a chance at life once again.
And if you believe in expanding quality and affordable healthcare, only President Trump, my father, signed Right to Try into law, the Favored Nations clause, and other actions to lower drug prices and keep Americans from getting ripped off.
People must recognize that our thoughts, opinions, and even the choice of who we vote for are being manipulated and invisibly coerced by the media and tech giants.
If you tune into the media, you get one biased opinion or another. And if what you share does not fit into the narrative they seek to promote, then it is either ignored or deemed a "lie," regardless of the truth. This manipulation of what information we receive impedes our freedoms.
Rather than allowing Americans the right to form our own beliefs, this misinformation system keeps people mentally enslaved to the ideas they deem correct. This has fostered unnecessary fear and divisiveness amongst us.
Why are so many in the media, in technology, even in our own government, so invested in promoting a biased and fabricated view?
Ask yourselves why are we prevented from seeing certain information? Why is one viewpoint promoted while others are hidden?
The answer is control -- and because division and controversy breeds profit.
But what are the consequences when only one side of the story gets out or when only one viewpoint is acceptable?
For our education system it meant sacrificing civil debate, by creating an atmosphere where students with contrary opinions are too afraid to speak. Many students find themselves suppressing their beliefs to fit into the acceptable groupthink.
In short, our nation suffers by inhibiting our diversity of thought and inclusion of ideas. Working together, outside of our political comfort zones, will accomplish so much more.
Some cynical politicians don't seem to believe in the miracle of America. I do. As Maximo Alvarez so eloquently put it on this stage last night, if freedom is lost in this country, "there is nowhere else to go." Having hope is not weakness…Believing in Miracles is a gift from God.
Tonight, I want to tell you the uncensored truth of what we believe in:
We believe in equality of opportunity.
We believe in freedom of thought and expression. Think what you want. Seek out the truth. Learn from those with different opinions. Then freely, make your voice heard to the world.
We believe in school choice, because a child's zip code in America should not determine their future.
We believe in freedom of religion for all faiths.
And we believe in the American spirit. A country founded on ideas, not identity. A country where our differences are embraced. And the only country where the word "dream" has been attached to it. Because in America, your life is yours to chart.
So, if you are hearing these things and thinking to yourself, THAT is the kind of country I want to live in. Well, whether you realized it or not, you're a Trump supporter.
I implore you to see beyond the façade -- the masks -- that so many other politicians employ.
My father is the only person to challenge the establishment, the entrenched bureaucracy, big pharma, and media monopolies to ensure that American's constitutional freedoms are upheld, and that justice and truth prevail.
My father does not run away from challenges -- even in the face of outright hatred -- because fighting for America is something he will sacrifice anything for. He dreams big dreams for our country -- and he is relentless at achieving them.
You see, Make America Great Again is not a slogan for my father, it is what drives him to keep his promise of doing what is right for American citizens.
The energy for change and opportunity is with us.
God has blessed us with an unstoppable spirit. His Spirit…The American Spirit. My dad has proven to be driven by that spirit! He has demonstrated his faith by his uncompromising heart and actions! My dad has made me believe that America can truly be great again!
If you care about living your life without restraints, about rebelling against those who would suppress your voice, and building YOUR American Dream. Then the choice in this election is clear.
A vote for my father, Donald J. Trump, is a vote to uphold our American ideals. Be true to yourself. And stay true to the Dream of America.
Thank you and God bless you all.
Kim ReynoldsRemarks as Prepared:
I'm Kim Reynolds, governor of the great state of Iowa.
I love this state and am so proud to serve its people. Iowa truly is a land of opportunity.
It's the birthplace of the computer; it's a landmark of the financial-services industry. And as so many of you already know, it's filled with farmland that feeds and fuels the world.
It's also home to people who care for one another, who work hard, who love this Country and are truly grateful for the freedoms it provides.
As I like to say, Iowa is one big, small town. Neighbor helping neighbor is in our DNA. From the sick farmer who can't harvest his crops to the single mom who loses her job and is struggling to get back on her feet, the town -- the community -- helps them get through it.
But what happens when a storm rips through almost the entire state? When it's not one farmer who lost his crop but hundreds. When it's not one neighbor who is without food, but thousands.
That happened, just two weeks ago. A storm called a derecho, with hurricane-force winds of up to 140 miles per hour, wiped out millions of acres of crops, left thousands without power.
Destroyed homes. Wrecked lives, and left devastation in its wake.
It was the worst storm in our state's history.
And Iowans did what you expect Iowans to do. They helped each other. They took care of each other. And they still are.
But someone else also had our back: Our president.
When the winds had finished raging and the cleanup had only begun, he showed up. You might not know, because the national media didn't report it. But the Trump administration was here. In full force.
The day after the storm, the president called to assure me that we had the full backing of the federal government.
Later that week, Vice President Pence came to Iowa to again assure us that the President and his administration were behind us.
With the help of the Trump Administration, we quickly received a disaster declaration that will help Iowans get back on their feet. The President cut through the bureaucracy to do what needed to be done, and to do it quickly.
But that's not the first time President Trump showed Iowans that we can rely on him.
In 2019, when 100-year floods breached nearly all levees and devastated communities large and small along the Missouri River in Iowa, Nebraska and Missouri, the President approved our request for aid in record time -- two days. Well this year, he did it in less than 24 hours.
Whether it's providing needed relief to farmers who were the target of China's unfair trade practices, hammering out new free -- and fair -- trade deals, or fighting for workers and small businesses who were hit hard by COVID-19, we have a President and an Administration who gets things done.
And because of President Trump and his leadership, our county is able to show resolve through adversity, and see opportunity grow and thrive.
This is an administration of action and outcomes. They are delivering every day on their promise to make America great again. And that's exactly why we need to re-elect President Trump in November.
Thank you. And may God bless the United States of America.
Ryan HoletsRemarks as Prepared:
I'm Ryan Holets, a Police Officer in New Mexico...
In 2017, I had an encounter that changed my life forever. I had just started my shift and responded to a call for service at a gas station. When I arrived, I saw a man and a woman sitting on a grassy slope. I recognized the tell-tale signs…a needle, a spoon…I knew immediately they were preparing to inject themselves with heroin.
Sadly, this is a common sight for me. I encounter the ravages of addiction every day. But, nothing could prepare me for what I discovered as I approached them. The woman was very pregnant. In my shock, I asked her if she knew that she was harming her baby by doing drugs. She crumbled, and burst into tears.
Two worlds collided as I knelt down beside her, a police officer and a homeless drug addict – brought together by forces outside of our control. As we talked, our humanity, distinct from our stations in life, was made abundantly clear. Her name was Crystal, and in the midst of her suffering, she confided that she loved her unborn baby. She wanted the best for her child. In that moment, I saw her the way that all of you who know or love an addict see them, as fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, cousins, friends. Human beings full of value and dignity, but robbed of their potential by this disease.
When Crystal said she was looking for a family to adopt her baby, God showed me exactly what I had to do. Without hesitation, I told her that my family would adopt her baby.
Today, our beautiful daughter, Hope, is a thriving two year old. Crystal is approaching three years of recovery. She is a dear friend and a constant inspiration to me and others.
I hold a special place in my heart for those facing opioid addiction. That's why I'm enormously grateful to the President for his leadership in fighting this deadly enemy. Through his efforts, we are turning the tide on the crisis of addiction.
President Trump declared the Opioid Crisis to be a public health emergency and secured $6 billion in new federal funding to help Americans fight opioid abuse. He invested an additional $100 million to stop the opioid crisis in rural America. And in a move that strikes at the root of the problem, he implemented a Safer Prescribing Plan aimed at reducing opioid prescriptions by over a third within three years. An effort that stops addiction before it ever gains a hold in someone's life.
And it's having an impact! Drug overdose deaths decreased in 2018 for the first time in 30 years. Many of the states hardest hit by the opioid crisis are seeing the largest drop in deaths. We're seeing that doctors are writing fewer prescriptions for opioid pain drugs. These are significant improvements that have a meaningful impact.
We are fortunate, America, to have a President who cares deeply for the downtrodden, who works tirelessly to find solutions. A President who doesn't just talk about problems – but stops and helps.
President Trump is the leader we've needed the past four years. And he is the leader we need for the next four years. You see, Donald Trump is the right President at the right time. Let's make sure he's re-elected on November 3rd!
Florida Lieutenant Governor Jeanette NuñezRemarks as Prepared:
Good evening, my name is Jeanette Nuñez, and I'm proud to serve as Lieutenant Governor of the great State of Florida. Tonight, I'm honored to share my story of faith, family, and American freedom.
As the daughter of Cuban immigrants, my story began in 1959, before I was born, when my parents' dreams of a prosperous life became a nightmare. Chaos spread quickly when Fidel Castro took control of Cuba.
The government confiscated private property—stealing people's homes, farms, and businesses.
For my parents, the difficult decision to flee Communist Cuba came when the Castro regime abolished religious freedom.
Fellow Americans, the fabric of our Nation is in peril. Daily, the radical Left systematically chisels away at the freedoms we cherish. They peddle dangerous ideologies, cower to global progressives, and normalize socialism to dismantle our Constitution.
Let me assure you, Socialism doesn't offer opportunity. Socialism deprives. It is a falsehood that feigns promises for its masses and consistently yields only misery.
President Ronald Reagan warned, "if we lose freedom here, there's no place to escape to."
Truer words have never been spoken.
Americans have a choice. We can go down a dark road of chaos and government control; or we can choose the path of freedom and opportunity that was paved by those who sacrificed everything to preserve the American Dream for future generations.
I have faith that Americans will choose the right path. In 2016, our country yearned for a leader who would work tirelessly to jumpstart our economy and fight for hard-working Americans.
Since Day 1, President Donald Trump has put America First. His pro-growth, pro-jobs agenda has ushered in historically low unemployment, record job creation, higher wages and rising homeownership. The President is fighting to rescue American jobs and industries for places like Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Puerto Rico...jobs that were needlessly shipped overseas. He's defended our religious freedom, stood with democratic allies like Colombia, and shown unwavering resolve while confronting tyrants in countries like Venezuela, Cuba, China, and Nicaragua.
Let us join our President in his vow that America will never be a socialist country!
We must do this by continuing to support a Commander in Chief with a bold agenda that safeguards the rights and freedoms protected under our Constitution.
Today, more than ever, that means supporting our men and women in law enforcement and our heroes in uniform.
It means fighting to provide the best quality education by empowering parents and preserving school choice.
And it means rejecting the socialist takeover of our nation that will destroy the innovation, economic vitality, and freedoms we hold so dear.
As a daughter of immigrants, a wife, a mother of 3 and the first Latina Lieutenant Governor in the history of the State of Florida, it is my distinct privilege to share my story—which is really your story and the story of a nation that has opened doors, lifted its people and yielded success in a way only the United States of America can.
Together, let's ensure 4 more years for President Donald J. Trump so that he can continue protecting our republic and so one day, our children, can proudly tell the story of what our generation did to defend the values of faith, family, and freedom.
Thank you, may God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.
Eric TrumpRemarks as Prepared:
Good evening, America.
When I stood on this Convention stage four years ago, no one fully understood the historic change that was about to take place.
We could all feel it. Something was happening. A movement was forming just below the surface.
The forgotten men and women, voiceless in Washington D.C., were preparing to rise up.
Our movement followed the pattern of so many that came before us.
--First, we were ignored.
--Then we were laughed at.
--Then they fought us.
And then – together – we won. From that moment forward, America came first.
America started winning again. America became respected again.
But with every movement, there is a counter-movement.
In the view of the radical Democrats, America is the source of the world's problems.
As a result, they believe the only path forward is to erase history and forget the past. They want to destroy the monuments of our forefathers.
They want to disrespect our flag – burn the stars and stripes that represent patriotism and the American dream.
They want to disrespect our National Anthem by taking a knee, while our armed forces lay down their lives every day to protect our freedom.
They do not want the Pledge of Allegiance in our Schools. Many, do not want one nation under God.
The Democrats want to defund, destroy, and disrespect our law enforcement.
The Democrats want an America where your thoughts and opinions are censored when they do not align with their own.
President Reagan said, "Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction… It must be fought for and protected."
This is the fight that we are in right now -- and it is a fight that only my father can win.
My father ran, not because he needed the job, but because he knew hardworking people across this great country were being left behind.
The media mocked these patriots – and "the flyover states" in which they lived.
They ignored the Trump flags.
They ignored the millions of MAGA banners and barns painted in Red, White and Blue.
The Silent Majority had no one fighting for them -- in either Party.
Their so called leaders were bowing to China, bribing Iran, and spending more time worrying about how they were received by the elites in Paris — than how Americans would provide for their families in Pittsburgh.
Our family lost friends but it only pushed us to fight harder.
My father pledged to every American in every city, state and town: He Was Going to Make America Great Again.
And so began "The Great American Comeback."
Almost immediately, taxes were slashed.
Regulations were cut and the economy soared to new heights -- heights never seen before.
Wages went through the roof.
Unemployment reached historic lows, especially for Black Americans, Hispanic Americans and Women.
Trade deals were ripped up and renegotiated — lights were turned back on in abandoned factories across our country.
Trillions of dollars were repatriated back into the United States — which had been sitting in foreign lands for far too long.
Once again --- America became the envy of the world.
And with that renewed strength — came leverage.
The President demanded that our allies pay their fair share for the defense of the Western World.
My father rebuilt the mighty American military – added new jets, aircraft carriers. He increased wages for our incredible men and women in uniform, and expanded the military defense budget to $721 billion per year.
America was no longer weak in the eye of the enemy.
The moment President Trump ordered special forces to kill some of the deadliest terrorists on the planet --- the day the mighty MOAB was dropped on insurgent camps --- is the day America took a stance to never be defeated by the enemy.
Al-Baghdadi and Soleimani? Dead!
Over and over again. Issue after issue.
The economy.
The Wall.
The Military.
Trade deals.
Tax cuts.
Supreme Court Justices.
VA Hospitals.
Prescription drugs
School Choice
"Right To Try"
Moving the embassy to Jerusalem
Peace in the Middle East
Never-ending wars were finally ended.
Promises made, and promises, for the first time, were kept.
Most politicians spend their entire careers in Washington DC and get absolutely nothing accomplished.
For example: Joe Biden. Joe Biden is a politician who has been in government for 47 years.
He is a career politician who has never signed the front of a check and does not know the slightest thing about the American worker or the American business --- the engine which fuels the greatest economy the world has ever known.
The same politician who is a total pushover for Communist China and someone who would be a giant relief for the terrorists who've now spent years running, hiding, and being taken out by the most talented military known to man.
Biden has pledged to raise your taxes by 4 trillion dollars -- 82% of all Americans will see their taxes go up significantly.
Biden has pledged to stop border wall construction and give amnesty and healthcare to all illegal immigrants.
Biden has pledged to Defund the Police and take away our Cherished Second Amendment.
My father on the other hand, delivered the largest tax cuts in American history --- knows that if you do not have a border, you do not have a country --- and will always support Law Enforcement and your Right to Keep and Bear Arms.
Every day my father fights for the American people. The forgotten men and women of this country. The ones who embody the American Spirit, which is unlike anything else in the world.
It built the New York City skyline, it built the Hoover Dam and soon — under my Father's leadership — it will send Americans to Mars.
The American Spirit can be felt in the majesty of the Grand Canyon, the shadow of Mt. Rushmore and in the stillness of the air at Gettysburg.
It can be seen in the wide-eyed wonder of every American child as they take their first breath in the greatest Country the world has ever known.
It defeated fascism and communism and in 68 days, it'll defeat the empty, oppressive, and radical views of the extreme left.
Ronald Reagan's quote ends with this simple warning: "One day we could spend our sunset years telling our children … what it was once like in, the United States, where men (and women) were free."
Under President Trump, freedom will never be a thing of the past. That's what a vote for Donald Trump represents. It is a vote for the American spirit, the American dream and the American flag.
To the Law Enforcement Officer who is being attacked, betrayed and whose job they are trying to make extinct – My father will fight for you.
To all Houses of Worship and to all people of Faith, stripped of our religious freedoms and religious liberties – My father will fight for you.
To the Voiceless – Shamed, Censored and Canceled – My father will fight for you.
To our Farmers who work dawn to dusk to keep our plates full – My father will too fight for you.
To every single Mother and Father, to our Veterans, our Coal Miners and to the American Worker - My father will fight for you.
And to every proud American who bleeds Red, White and Blue – My father will continue to fight for you.
In closing, I'd like to speak directly to my father.
I miss working alongside you every day but I'm damn proud to be on the front lines of this fight.
I am proud of what you are doing for this country.
I am proud to show my children what their grandfather is fighting for.
I am proud to watch you give them hell.
Never stop. Continue to be unapologetic. Keep fighting for what's right.
You are making America strong again.
You are making America safe again.
You are making America proud again.
And, yes, together with the Forgotten Men and Women -- who are finally forgotten no more -- you are making America Great Again!
Dad, let's make Uncle Robert proud.
Let's go get another 4 years.
I love you very much!
God Bless You and God Bless the United States of America!
Kentucky Attorney General Daniel CameronRemarks as Prepared:
Thank you, and it is an honor to be with you as a proud Republican and supporter of President Donald J. Trump. My name is Daniel Cameron and I'm the Attorney General of the great state of Kentucky.
I was raised in Kentucky, just a few miles from Abraham Lincoln's birthplace. Our first Republican president believed in compassion. Self-reliance. Freedom. Equality. And justice.
Sadly, there are some who don't believe in this wisdom or in the better angels of our shard American history, as they tear down the statues of people like Ulysses S. Grant and even Mr. Lincoln himself.
Lincoln said that "any nation that does not honor its heroes will not long endure." And for Republicans, our heroes are those who propelled an imperfect nation ever forward, always striving to make life better for everyone.
But even as anarchists mindlessly tear up American cities while attacking police officers and innocent bystanders, we Republicans do recognize those who earnestly strive for peace, justice, and equality.
In fact, it was General Dwight Eisenhower, a future Republican president, who said: "Democracy is…a…system that recognizes the equality of humans before the law."
Republicans will never turn a blind eye to unjust acts, but neither will we accept this all-out assault on western civilization.
My values were shaped by my faith and by my parents. I worked at their small coffee shop, meeting people from all walks of life. And I realized something: everyone needs a cup of coffee.
That lesson has stuck with me because, despite our difference, we all want the same things:
For our children to have more opportunities than we did. To feel the dignity of work. And to believe that if you play by the rules, you can make a good life for yourself and your family.
The question is: will we choose the path that gives us the best chance to meet those universal desires?
Or will we go backward, to a time when people were treated like political commodities who can't be trusted to think for themselves?
I think often about my ancestors who struggled for freedom. And as I think of those giants and their broad shoulders, I also think about Joe Biden, who says:
If you aren't voting for me, "you ain't black."
Who argued that Republicans would put us "back in chains."
Who says there is no "diversity" of thought in the black community.
Joe Biden is a backwards thinker in a world craving forward-looking leadership. There's no wisdom in his record or plan, just a trail of discredited ideas and offensive statements.
Joe Biden would destroy jobs, raise our taxes, and throw away the lives of countless unborn children.
And he is captive to the radical left, a movement committed to cancel culture and the destruction of public discourse. They believe your skin color must dictate your politics. If you fail to conform while exercising your God given right to speak and think freely, they will cut you down.
The politics of identity, cancellation, and mob rule are not acceptable to me, and Republicans trust you, the people, to think for yourselves and to pursue your American Dream however you see fit.
"The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present," Mr. Lincoln said. "The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise to the occasion."
I've believe President Trump can meet Lincoln's mandate, even as Joe Biden remains trapped by his party's radicals and his own failed record.
Let's be honest: no one is excited about Joe Biden. And so I ask you to judge the record:
On criminal justice reform: Joe Biden couldn't do it, but President Trump did.
On the economy: Joe Biden couldn't do it, but President Trump did build an economy that worked for everyone, especially minorities, and he will do it again.
And on immigration: Joe Biden promises more to illegal immigrants than he does to you, and President Trump believes his highest duty is to the American worker.
The choice is clear.
Let me close with something my mom has always said: that this country's many faces comprise a family, not separate parts to be divided against each other.
And like any family, we care for one another. We grieve together. We share our burdens and struggles, and we celebrate our successes. And though we fuss and fight, we are not enemies. We are Americans, united by a collective faith in our Constitution and laws and the fundamental fairness they represent.
We are defenders of life and of individual liberty. And we carry the mantle of Eisenhower and of Reagan to be a force for good in this world, and one that must always be reckoned with.
That's my Republican Party, the Party of Lincoln, that believes America is an indispensable nation…an Evergreen Tree, standing tall in a turbulent world.
And that's why I am voting for Donald Trump for President.
Thank you for listening, and may God Bless you and keep you safe, wherever you are.
The Honorable Mike PompeoRemarks as Prepared:
Hi. I'm Mike Pompeo. I'm speaking to you from beautiful Jerusalem, looking out over the Old City.
I have a big job…as Susan's husband and Nick's Dad!
They are more safe, and their freedoms more secure, because President Trump has put his America First vision into action. It may not have made him popular in every foreign capital, but it has worked.
President Trump understands what my great fellow Kansan, President Eisenhower said, "for all that we cherish and justly desire -- for ourselves or for our children -- the securing of peace is the first requisite."
The primary Constitutional function of the national government is ensuring your family – and mine – are safe and enjoy the freedom to live, work, learn and worship as they choose.
Delivering on this duty to keep us safe and our freedoms intact, this President has led bold initiatives in nearly every corner of the world:
In China, he has pulled back the curtain on the predatory aggression of the Chinese Communist Party.

The President has held China accountable for covering up the China virus and allowing it to spread death and economic destruction in America and around the world, and he will not rest until justice is done;
He has ensured that Chinese Communist Party spies posing as diplomats are jailed or sent back to China; and
He has ended ridiculously unfair trade deals with China that punched a hole in our economy. Those jobs are coming back home.

In North Korea,

The President lowered the temperature and, against all odds, got North Korean leadership to the table. No nuclear tests, no long range missile tests and Americans held captive in North Korea came home to their families as did the precious remains of scores of our heroes who fought in Korea.

Today, because of President Trump, NATO is stronger, Ukraine has defensive weapons systems and America left a harmful treaty so our nation can now build missiles to deter Russian aggression.
In the Middle East,

When Iran threatened, the President approved a strike that killed Iranian terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, the man responsible for the murder and maiming of hundreds of American soldiers and thousands of Christians across the Middle East.
You will all recall that when the President took office, radical Islamic terrorists had beheaded Americans and ISIS controlled a territory the size of Great Britain. Today, because of the President's determination and leadership, the ISIS caliphate is wiped out, its evil leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is dead, and our brave soldiers are on their way home.

The President exited the U.S. from the disastrous nuclear deal with Iran and squeezed the Ayatollah, Hezbollah and Hamas.

The President moved the U.S. Embassy to this very city of God, Jerusalem, the rightful capital of the Jewish homeland.
And the President brokered an historic peace deal between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, that our grandchildren will read about in their history books.

As a soldier, I saw, first hand, people desperate to flee to freedom. The way each of us can best ensure our freedoms is by electing leaders who don't just talk, but deliver.
An American hostage imprisoned in Turkey for two years, Pastor Andrew Brunson, said upon his release that he survived his ordeal with these words of scripture -- "Be faithful, endure and finish well." If we stay the course, we will.
May God richly bless you and may God bless our great nation, the United States of America.
  