
    
  Sen. Cruz Names Mississippi State Co-Chairs Senator Chris McDaniel and Keith Plunkett

HOUSTON, Texas – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today announced the beginnings of his Mississippi Leadership Team, consisting of top Mississippi conservative activists and current state senators. Led by Co-Chairs State Senator Chris McDaniel and Keith Plunkett, the group will be in charge of helping to assemble and grow Sen. Cruz's grassroots network in Mississippi in advance of the March 8th primary.
This Tuesday, Sen. Cruz will visit the Magnolia State on his 'Cruz Country ' bus tour to speak at locations across Mississippi, including a "Down Home Breakfast" at Connie's Fried Chicken in Tupelo and at Sweet Pea's Table in Olive Branch. The events schedule may be found at www.tedcruz.org/cruzcountry.
"Ted Cruz's values are Mississippi's values, and Mississippi is essential to the 2016 primary election process. I understand what it means to be a strong, principled leader who will fight even when it is not easy to do so. Ted Cruz is that kind of man," said State Sen. Chris McDaniel. "That is why I am so incredibly excited to serve as a Mississippi Co-Chair for the Cruz campaign. I look forward to spreading Sen. Cruz's conservative message and helping elect him to be our next President."
"I am thrilled to work with such a tenacious group of courageous conservatives who have shown time and time again that they will vigorously fight to defend conservative principles," said Cruz. "I am honored that they will help spread my message to all Mississippians."
The Cruz for President Mississippi Leadership Team includes:
State Senator Chris McDaniel, State Co-Chair, Ellisville
State Sen. Chris McDaniel is the state senator for the 42nd District of Mississippi. McDaniel leads the United Conservatives Fund, a member-led state political action committee dedicated to advancing the conservative movement and electing true conservative candidates. McDaniel leads the fight against Obamacare and is a former federal law clerk.
Keith Plunkett, State Co-Chair, Flora
Keith Plunkett is currently the Policy and Communications Director for the United Conservatives Fund. Throughout his career he has worked on communications and policy issues with a range of public officials, from Aldermen to Congressmen, and a variety of businesses, government agencies, and non-profits. He has served as a board member of several non-profit, civic, and political organizations.
State Senator Melanie Sojourer, Natchez
State Sen. Melanie Sojourer represents the 37th District of Mississippi and is a sixth generation member of Oakwood Plantation in addition to serving as a community and church volunteer.
Kolby Busby, Jackson
Kolby Busby is currently the Mississippi Federation of College Republicans Executive Director. Formerly, he was the President for the College Republicans at Jones County Junior College. Busby has been an activist for a variety of conservative causes throughout Mississippi.
Laura Van Overschelde, Pearl
A former nurse anesthetist for 37 years, Laura Van Overschelde is currently the Chairwoman of the Mississippi Tea Party and a council member on the Mississippi Humanities Council.
Brad Patano, Ocean Springs
Brad Patano is the President of Young Professionals Business Leaders and is an Executive Committee Member for the United Conservatives Fund. As a partner in an engineering and architecture firm on the gulf coast, Brad is all too familiar with the overreach and interference of government regulation.
State Representative-Elect Steve Hopkins, Southaven
Rep.-Elect Steve Hopkins is the State Representative-Elect for District 7 and founded the DeSoto County Conservative Coalition
  