
    Pool Reports by Michael Collins, USA Today



Sent:
Reports:




 August 26, 2020 10:39

 In-town print pool report #1 
Good morning from the White House. I will be your print pooler for the day.
POTUS has no public events on his schedule today. He meets with medical professionals in the Oval Office at 3 p.m. to discuss COVID, but that meeting is closed press.
I'll let you know if I hear of any schedule updates.
The pool has been tested for COVID. 


 August 26, 2020 12:42

 In-town print pool report #2: Lunch lid 
The White House has called a lunch lid until 2:30 p.m. 


 August 26, 2020 17:01

 Print pool report #3: Dinner lid 
We have a dinner lid until 7 p.m. 


 August 26, 2020 20:06

 In-town print pool report #4: Call with PM of Greece 
>From Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis of Greece. President Trump expressed concern over increased tension between NATO allies Greece and Turkey in the Eastern Mediterranean. President Trump reaffirmed that Greece and Turkey must commit to dialogue, which is the only path to resolving their differences. The two leaders also discussed important bilateral and regional issues. 


 August 26, 2020 20:21

 In-town print pool report #5 
>From Kayleigh McEnany:
"President Trump condemns violence in all forms and believes we must protect all Americans from chaos and lawlessness. This is why he is encouraging Democrat Governors to request the National Guard and federal law enforcement to augment their local law enforcement efforts. We have assisted Wisconsin in the deployment of almost 1,000 National Guard and over 200 federal law enforcement personnel, which include FBI and U.S. Marshals." 


 August 26, 2020 20:32

 Print pool report #6: Kellyanne gaggle 
Kellyanne Conway gaggled at the White House this evening.
Some highlights:
On reports that alleged Kenosha shooter Kyle Rittenhouse attended a Trump rally in Des Moines: "We're not responsible for the private conduct of people at our rallies any more than … all the crazy people who have been involved with the Obama/Biden campaigns or other things."
On whether the president could postpone tomorrow's acceptance speech because of Hurricane Laura: "We never say no around here because things happen at a volume and velocity around here, and we adapt to events. As of right now, the president plans to speak tomorrow."
On the upcoming election: "I said to the president, you're really well positioned for re-election. … I feel that way. And I haven't always felt that way. He knows that, too. I think a week from now the polls are going to show him ahead in some key states."
On her staying power at the White House: "I've always known that I'm a staffer, not a principal."
Public service "can be very meaningful and consequential, and that's been reaffirmed every day when I walked in here. I feel like we are helping people and if I could be a tiny little, little molecule that's doing that day by day by day, that's very gratifying." 


 August 26, 2020 21:09

 In-town print pool report #7: Pool called 
Pool has been loaded in the vans and is awaiting White House departure for an off-the-record movement. I'll provide more details when they are available. 


 August 26, 2020 21:18

 In-town print pool report #8: WH departure 
Motorcade departed the White House at 9:17 pm. Pooler did not see POTUS. I'll provide more details about our destination when they are available. 


 August 26, 2020 21:35

 In-town print pool report #9: Fort McNair arrival 
Motorcade arrived at Fort McNair at 9:28 pm after a short, uneventful ride through Washington.
POTUS immediately boarded Marine One, which was wheels up at 9:33 pm.
Handing off to out-of-town pool. 


 August 26, 2020 23:55

 In-town print pool report #10 
>From Judd Deere
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. President Trump expressed concern over increased tension between NATO allies Greece and Turkey in the Eastern Mediterranean. President Trump reaffirmed that Greece and Turkey must commit to dialogue, which is the only path to resolving their differences. The two leaders also discussed important bilateral and regional issues. 


 August 27, 2020 00:02

 In-town print pool report #11: Fort McNair return 
Marine One touched down at Fort McNair at 11:56 pm.
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off the chopper three minutes later and walked a few yards to an SUV for the short ride back to the White House. He did not take any questions.
We are rolling at midnight. 


 August 27, 2020 00:17

 In-town print pool report #12: WH arrival 
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 12:12 am. Pool did not see POTUS or the first lady enter the mansion.
And with that, we have a travel/photo lid.
Goodnight everybody. Or maybe good morning is more appropriate. 




Pool Reports below by Sebastian Smith, Agence France-Presse



Sent:
Reports:




 August 26, 2020 20:10

 Out of town pool report #1 
POTUS is now at the Republican convention at Fort McHenry, Baltimore, per the White House, 15 minutes after flying in on Marine One.
The helicopter touched down at 9:53 pm, landing on a meadow surrounded by large trees, barely half a mile from the historic fort itself.
Trump did not stop to take questions from pool at the landing zone, going straight to his motorcade for the quick ride to the fort. Given the layout of the landing zone and the angle of the floodlights, pool was unable to get eyes on POTUS or those accompanying him — only a group getting into the Beast and other vehicles.
Pool had been in place ahead of time but the president's entire trip was under embargo until now.
Pool is holding in vans outside the fort while POTUS attends the convention event with VP Pence. We are not being allowed in but he can obviously be followed on screen. 


 August 26, 2020 20:39

 Out of town travel pool report #2 
While we wait for POTUS to depart Fort McHenry, here is a little color from this rather unusual landing zone:
Under tonight's half moon, the lush meadow might, in other circumstances, have been quite bucolic. This being a makeshift Marine One landing zone, however, the shadowy, tree-lined borders were thick with the black SUVs and vans of the president's motorcade, fire trucks and other equipment.
Pool was unable to identify people getting off Marine One because POTUS exited from the far side, where the Beast had pulled up in the grass. Also, the floodlights silhouetted all the travelers.
Seconds earlier, the support helicopter landed and numerous people who couldn't be identified, including someone in an ankle length red dress, got out. They ran, at times rather awkwardly in the dark, to get clear of the incoming Marine One.
Pool, which arrived separately by van, passed several groups of protesters — about a dozen people at a time -- in the streets just outside Fort McHenry. They all seemed to be anti-Trump though it was dark so I may have missed something. Signs spotted included: "dump Trump." One protester raised a middle finger at your pooler's van, though this is not being taken personally. 


 August 26, 2020 23:26

 Out of town travel report #3 
POTUS motorcade rolling from Fort McHenry at 11:25 pm. Pool was not able to see Trump get in the Beast. 


 August 26, 2020 23:36

 Out of town travel pool report 4 
POTUS motorcade returned to the meadow/landing zone. Pool could not see POTUS boarding Marine One but did see Kellyanne Conway board. Lift off was at 11:33 pm. With that, handing off to the in-town pool, and goodnight. 



  