
    Pool Reports by Zach Montague, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




August 8, 2022 08:13

Travel pool report #1 — Awaiting departure
Good morning again from Rehoboth. It's a pleasant, sunny morning and a breezy 80 degrees by the beach.
The pool is swept and awaiting the president.
As a programming note, we'll be handing off from here to today's out-of-town pool, which will pick up from the president's arrival in Dover and continue onward to Kentucky. 


August 8, 2022 08:55

Travel pool report #2 — Rehoboth departure
The motorcade pulled up beside Marine One at 8:48 a.m. in the Gordons Pond area of Cape Henlopen State Park.
The president and the First Lady boarded the helo a minute later and were in the air by 8:53 a.m.
Handing off from here. A pleasure being your pooler this weekend.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route Dover, Delaware:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations  Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady  Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President 




Pool Reports below by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




August 8, 202209:04

Travel pool #3/checking in from Dover AFB[APP Note: Gillman continued the numbering started by Montague (above).]
The travel pool for President Biden's visit to Kentucky to survey flood recovery arrived at Dover Air Force Base just before 8am aboard the presidential aircraft, after watching sunrise at Joint Base Andrews.
Taking the handoff from the Rehoboth pool as we await Marine One. Off AF1's nose, a row of about a dozen huge gray cargo planes stretches into the distance.
We are in the smaller plane today. No cell service once the doors close. Karine is already aboard and will gaggle en route Lexington, Kentucky. That should be livestreamed, barring technical issues. 


August 8, 2022 09:26

Travel pool #4/Biden at Dover AFB
Marine One has touched down at Dover Air Force Base. It pulled to a stop at 9:17am. The president and first lady stepped out at 9:19 and strode toward the pool waiting under the wing
Asked about China/Taiwan he said
"I'm not worried but I'm concerned that they're moving as much as they are. But I don't they're going to do anything."
Said he's feeling fine. 


August 8, 2022 09:27

Pool report #4a/a bit more Biden gaggle
The president said he feels fine and that Pelosi trip was up to her.
Off to Kentucky. 


August 8, 2022 09:30

Travel pool #4b Biden quote on China
about China/Taiwan he said
"I'm not worried but I'm concerned that they're moving as much as they are. But I don't think they're going to do anything more than they are." 


August 8, 2022 09:33

Travel pool #4c/Otter link China comment
https://otter.ai/u/PH0fZbN8TnApfJXn5KuofdfwviA 


August 8, 2022 10:48

Pool report #5/Kentucky arrival and gaggle
Air Force One was wheels up from Dover AFB at 9:34am and wheels down at Lexington, Kentucky, at 10:38am.
Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled for 16 minutes near end of flight.
On Gaza-Israel cease fire she reiterated yesterday's statement. Cease fire good. Civilian casualties a "tragedy...We support a timely and thorough investigation."
Says people will see savings soon from the inflation reduction bill and dismissed GOP criticism. "It's like dishonest water that Republicans are carrying for the rich."
On China: "The United States is prepared for what Beijing" might do.
On fighting near Ukraine nuclear plant: "Fighting near a nuclear plant is dangerous." No signs of elevated radiation.
On NYC mayor complaining that Texas is sending migrants by bus and White House isn't doing enough, KJP reiterated that FEMA is helping. "This is on Governor Abbott. This is what he's doing"
Please consult the transcript.
Deboarded at 10:48. Awaiting POTUS.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route Blue Grass Airport in Lexington, Kentucky: Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting Caitlin Durkovich, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Resilience and Response Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady 


August 8, 2022 10:53

Travel pool #6/Lexington KY airport 
The Bidens walked down the steps from Air Force One hand in hand.
Linda Gorton, Mayor of Lexington, KY, greeted them in the tarmac. They chatted for a couple of minutes before the Bidens headed to Marine One.they boarded at 10:52.
Pool heading to Ospreys. 


August 8, 2022 11:54

Travel pool #7/arrival in Chavies, Kentucky
Pool Osprey was airborne at 11:01a from Lexington.
We touched down at 11:36a at Wendell H. Ford Airport, Chavies, Kentucky, followed several minutes later by Marine One, which was briefly visible through open tail near the end of the flight.
Marine One taxied to a stop at 11:41.The President and Dr. Biden ce out five minutes later.
Gov. Beshear is in blue jeansand navy short sleeve polo with a cap hanging out of his back left pocket. Wearing sunglasses
He stepped forward to shake the president's hand. After POTUS and then the first lady had hugged Kentucky's first lady and worked their way down the line of greeters,, POTUS turned back and gave the governor a very deliberate salute. Then all the greeters and the Bidens huddled.
POTUS eventually shredded his blazer and slung it over his left arm as he continued chatting with the gov and others a few feet beyond the (unmoving) rotor of Marine One.
He boarded his SUV at 11:53.
Greeting President Biden upon arrival at Wendell Ford Airport in Chavies, KY:

Deanne Criswell, Administrator of FEMA
Andy Beshear, Governor of Kentucky
Britainy Beshear, First Lady of Kentucky
Jacqueline Coleman, Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky
Chris O'Bryan, Second Gentleman of Kentucky
Hal Rogers, U.S. Congressman (KY-01)
Cynthia Rogers, Spouse of Congressman Hal Rogers

Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route Wendell H. Ford Landing Zone:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady  Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President 


August 8, 2022 12:26

Travel pool #8/school tour
Just outside the airport the motorcade passed a barn adorned with a big Trump flag and next to a flag with a nasty message aimed at today's VIP visitor: Between the F and the K, an American flag stood in for the missing "UC"and then "Biden."
Out on the main road we drove along Lost Creek, whose banks are strewn with flood detritus. Building materials. Clothing. Plastic laundry basket high in a tree.
"Those are pieces of everybody's houses. That's all that's left," Gov. Beshear told President Biden once we stopped at 12:05 pm at a school. A school bus says Breathitt County Schools No. 1403.
"It took out power... just incredible," Beshear said.
Potus asked if the damage was from the storms or floods. "Rushing waters," the governor said.
Very hard to hear from very muddy lawn across driveway.
The school is a shell. One story. Very modest building. Windows shattered. Insulation drooping from the ceiling.
Potus marveled about all the floods. Co-pooler Sebastian Smith caught a snippet comparing this to wildfires that have burned as much area as New Jersey. Biden held the hand of FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell as he praised the recovery efforts.
"I'm not being kind," he said when she demurred.
The Beshears and the Bidens talked more with the bus as backdropbefore resuming the motorcade at 12:22 en route a more formal briefing.
Just beyond the school lots more damage visible in the creek near the road, including a washed out school bus. 


August 8, 2022 12:37

Pool report #8/flood briefing
Correction: the previous OTR stop was not a school. Trying to find out what that building was.
Motorcade passed a digital road sign flashing a toll free number for FEMA and reminding residents that they can find "Showers laundry supplies medical food" at shelters.
Turning off highway 15 we passed a heavily damaged large prefabricated home, twisted and lifted along the long axis off the ground. A large red X was painted on the small side, facing the road, presumably to denote danger.
We have arrived at Marie-Caney Elementary School in Lost Creek, Ky. President Biden will get a briefing here. 


August 8, 2022
[APP Note: There are two reports numbered as #8. The second one (above) is meant to be #9. See reporter's note in #10.]


August 8, 2022 13:58

travel pool #10/flood briefing and color from Lost Creek, Ky
Apologies for delay. Terrible cell service in Lost Creek, Ky., at the FEMA center/elementary school. Also I believe I called two different pool reports #8, so I'll call this #10 and pick up from there. Apologies for any confusion.
Pool spent 15 minutes at a briefing at Marie Roberts-Caney Elementary school in Lost Creek, Ky. (home of the Redskins).
President Biden called the deadly floods in eastern Kentucky another sign of dangerous climate change.
"It's unfortunate. It's my second visit to Kentucky, for a crisis," he said. "I promise you… As long as it takes we're going to be here. We [the federal government] are committed. There's absolute 100 percent coverage of cost for the next few months."
"People don't realize those piles of heavy debris, it takes a lot of time, a lot of money to take it away," Biden said.
He talked about flying over the region.
"It's a magnificent state," Biden said, calling it "incredibly heartbreaking" to see cars and buses washed into creeks, and that 37 people have died (and the tally is likely to go to 38, Gov. Beshear said moments earlier).
A horseshoe table is set up in the school media center, with a dozen people seated besides President Biden. Governor Beshear is to his right.
"If you're a survivor in need and you have any cell service, go to 1-800-621-3362… to get what you need," Biden said.
He thanked FEMA and other first responders, and gave a shout out to the Red Cross and its president, Gail McGovern, seated at one end of the horseshoe.
Beshear spoke before the president.
"This is the most devastating and deadly flooding event certainly in my lifetime, unlike anything we've ever seen," the governor said.
Thousands of people are staying with friends and relatives "but it's going to take us some time to stabilize people with needs for housing. Thankfully we have over 100 travel trailers on site, faster than we ever anticipated."
"The National Guard airlifted out over 1300 people" and state police and other agencies rescued thousands of others, Beshear said. Nine days out, "We've got power to everybody but about 200 homes. That is incredible. Water to more people than we ever thought was possible in this period of time. Cell phone service… Today is beautiful but the weather has not helped us out. It has either been raining or altogether too hot."
Beshear lauded Biden.
"He came through" … for "Team Kentucky," he said.
He expressed gratitude for private support, too. "The world has come to our aid with more donations and more dollars that you've ever seen," Beshear said, though he emphasized that money is far more useful at this point.
U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers, R-Ky., spoke after Biden.
"Mr. President we are thrilled that you're here," he said. "This storm occurred at 3 a.m." He lauded Biden for signing a disaster declaration "in record time… And of course the governor has been terrific."
"The spirit of the people in east Kentucky shines through. I am reminded of the Scripture. We are …struck down but not destroyed."
"The nation stands behind you," FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell said, addressing the governor. "It's a really challenging situation to watch. And heartbreaking."
Col. Jeremy Slinker, the state's emergency management director, noted that many people have been cut off because bridges have been washed out, but all wellness checks have now been completed.
Correction from report #7: Of course the president did not shred his blazer under the blazing Kentucky sun. He shed it. Autocorrect AI needs a bit of tweaking.
First lady Jill Biden is in the gymnasium with volunteers sorting and folding donated clothing. POTUS joined her about 15 minutes after pool was escorted from the briefing. He fist bumped some volunteers, shook hands with others and chatted with many.
Joining President Biden for a briefing on the flood response in Eastern Kentucky:
· Deanne Criswell, Administrator of FEMA · Andy Beshear, Governor of Kentucky · Jacqueline Coleman, Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky · Hal Rogers, U.S. Congressman (KY-01) · Gracia Szczech, FEMA Administrator for Region 4 · Gail McGovern, President, American Red Cross · Jeremy Slinker, Kentucky Emergency Management Director · Chris Friley, Breathitt, Kentucky Emergency Manager Director · Jeff Noble, Breathitt County Judge Executive · Laura Thomas, Mayor of Jackson, KY · John Hunt, Floyd County Sheriff · Caitlin Durkovich, Senior Director for Resilience, National Security Council


August 8, 2022 14:31

Travel pool #11/ neighborhood flood tour
The presidential motorcade pulled away from the FEMA center at Marie Roberts-Caney Elementary School in Lost Creek, Ky., at 2:07 pm. And pulled to a stop 3 minutes later at the Doran J. Hostetler Memorial Bridge over a muddy swollen creek.
The stop is that twisted prefab home with the big red X mentioned in previous report. Up close I see if the X is not paint. It's tape.
President Biden and his entourage walked down the dirt and gravel driveway. He and Dr. Biden et al spoke with a bunch of folks from several generations. Presumably the family who had lived here.
"Hey Jackson. How ya doing. My name's Joe" he said to a boy.
Then he said something jokey about "when you are president" he should remember this.
All sorts of stuff from the house is up at the curb. Much of it caked in mud. A table saw. Dining chairs. A tub. A refrigerator..
Next stop is across the road.
The family of six waited in the outline of the foundation of their home. They are on flat ground. The home itself is hundreds of feet away near a nearby Go Time gas station. Gas is posted at $3.79. Diesel is $4.35.
Biden high-fives a toddler being held in arms of q woman presumably his mom. The boy had his left hand back in his mouth soon enough as the Bidens spoke with the older folks. Pool was 40 feet away in a muddy but shaded spot. A utility poll is leaning toward the spot of the former house. Between there and the main road is a pond that isn't a pond--it's floodwater that hasn't yet subsided.
More tk
Joining the President and the First Lady to survey flood damage and greet with families:
Deanne Criswell, Administrator of FEMA Andy Beshear, Governor of Kentucky (KY) Britainy Beshear, First Lady of Kentucky Jacqueline Coleman, Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky (KY) Chris O'Bryan, Second Gentleman of Kentucky Hal Rogers, U.S. Congressman (KY-01) Cynthia Rogers, Spouse of Congressman Hal Rogers Jeff Noble, Breathitt County Judge Executive Gail McGovern, President, American Red Cross
Leading the tour:
County Judge Executive Jeff Noble 


August 8, 2022 15:02

Travel pool #12/Biden remarks
President Biden walked back across rhetoric two lane road to the first property. The big condemned prefab house is his backdrop. Still in Lost Creek, Ky.
"No complaining, just getting up" and doing what's needed to rebuild,
Biden said, describing the stoicism and grit he encountered as he spoke with these families who lost homes in the floods.
"The bad news for you is I'm coming back because I want to see it," he said adter vowing a steadfast federal response that ensures they build back better (yes he used the phrase) than it was before. "These people deserve an enormous amount of credit for their courage and their stamina."
He ended at 2:55. Press headed back to vans. Motorcade rolled at 3p.
Sweltering hot. Shirts are showing lots of sweat stains, including the president's.
Rep. Hal Rogers opened. He praised Gov.Beshear for "marvelously" leading the state's response.
Beshear gushed back at the efforts of Republicans including Rogers and the senators McConnell and Paul, who are not with the President.
"Communities have been destroyed if not wiped off the map," the governor said. Flooding is common in this area but this was unprecedented, he said, describing the torrents of debris that swept through homes. "Maybe not one scrap that we can locate."
And he noted Ky lost 81 people to tornadoes less than a year ago.
"The trials and tribulations we Kentuckians" have endured are almost unfathomable, the governor said. He shared anecdotes of first responders and neighbors stepping up including one guy with a jet ski who saved at least 10 people.
"We are here til every life and every structure is rebuilt," Beshear said. He again pleaded for well wishers to send money not water or clothes. The state has had to find warehouses several counties away to store such donations, he said. 


August 8, 2022 15:20

Travel pool #13/back at airport for choppers
Back at the choppers at Chavies, Ky lat 3:17p.
Pool watched the Bidens board Marine One from afar at 3:19. Weare now boarding one of three Osprey in the flock. Next stop Lexington KY.
The off airport sign next to the "F[American flag]K Biden" sign actually read "TRUMP 2024 Fix America Again"
In attendance for the President's remarks on the response to flooding in Eastern Kentucky:


 Deanne Criswell, Administrator of FEMA
 Andy Beshear, Governor of Kentucky (KY)
 Britainy Beshear, First Lady of Kentucky
 Jacqueline Coleman, Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky (KY) 
 Chris O'Bryan, Second Gentleman of Kentucky
 Hal Rogers, U.S. Congressman (KY-01)
 Cynthia Rogers, Spouse of Congressman Hal Rogers
 Jeff Noble, Breathitt County Judge Executive 
 Gail McGovern, President, American Red Cross
Community members


Run of Show


 Hal Rogers, U.S. Congressman (KY-01)
 Andy Beshear, Governor of Kentucky (KY)
The President





August 8, 2022 16:20

Travel pool #14/quick gaggle at Lexington Ky
The President gaggled briefly.
Asked if he had invited Sen Mitch McConnell for this trip he said he'd spoken to the minority leader and didn't think he needed to come.
"I don't think so. He's got a Senate to run."
He said he assure Kentuckians they'll get the help they need.
Biden stepped out of Marine One and onto the tarmac at Lexington, Kentucky, at 4:12. It's a smaller chopper. Marked VH-60N which makes it a White Hawk.
He dropped his aviator sunglasses and stooped to retrieve them.
We are aboard.
Pool Osprey lifted at 3:27pm from Chavies, Ky. Can't say for sure when Marine One lifted but pool watched it touch down at Lexington KY airport at 4:05.
Pool touched down at 4:00pm and waited under the wing in shade for Marine One to taxi over to Air Force One.
Much appreciation to Sebastian Smith and o to ther co-poolers for pitching in with details and quotes through the day. And thanks for all your patience as telecomm challenges delayed some reports. 


August 8, 2022 16:22

Travel pool 14a
Gaggle audio Lexington
https://otter.ai/u/rm4Ubjyje7XV2Xi14tTDjmRcXbg 


August 8, 2022 17:39

Travel pool report #15/back at JBA
Air Force One landed at Joint Base Andrews at 5:29 pm. Uneventful 70-minute flight from Lexington, KY.
Pool just deplaned. 


August 8, 202217:47

Travel pool #16/JBA
The president and Dr. Biden emerged from Air Force One at 5:39p.
The president is now wearing dress shoes. He had been wearing hiking boots to survey flood damage in Kentucky.
They walked to Marine One and boarded. Rotors started at 5:44. Wheels up at 5:47.
Handing off to intown pool. 




Pool Reports below by Lauren Gambino, The Guardian 



Sent:
Reports:




August 8, 2022 17:46

WH in-town pool report #1 - awaiting Marine One arrival
Good afternoon from the White House, where the in-town pool is on the south lawn awaiting the arrival of Marine One.
It is open press. ETA is 5:50PM. 


August 8, 2022 18:02

WH in-town pool report #2: Marine One arrival
Marine One landed on the south lawn of the White House at 5:55PM.
POTUS and FLOTUS emerged shortly thereafter, at 5:58. POTUS, wearing a mask that he promptly removed, helped FLOTUS down the final steps and they walked together across the lawn. He waved to the pool but took no questions.
It is hot and sticky but no rain — yet. Pool briefly saw a faint rainbow peeking through the clouds near the White House before Marine One made its arrival. 


August 8, 202218:05

WH in-town pool report 2a: traveling on Marine One
The White House sent this along:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Marine One from Joint Base Andrews en route to South Lawn:

 Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
 Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
 Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
 Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President




August 8, 2022 18:31

WH in-town pool report #3: Lid
The White House called a lid at 6:29 PM.
Have a great night! 



  