
    This afternoon, President Biden spoke to California Governor Gavin Newsom about the emergency preparedness measures in place and the initial response to Tropical Storm Hilary. Throughout the weekend, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, FEMA Deputy Assistant Administrator Colt Hagmaier, Marcus Coleman, Director of DHS Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, and Keith Turi, FEMA Office of Response and Recovery Deputy Assistant Administrator, spoke to national broadcast and local TV stations across California, Nevada and Arizona. Administration officials outlined steps the Administration has taken to prepare and reiterated the importance of listening to local and state officials. 
CNN: FEMA chief: Hilary will be 'serious impact and threat'
FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell tells CNN's Kasie Hunt that California residents should take Hilary seriously and listen to local officials.
FOX News: FEMA official issues warning on Hurricane Hilary as Southern California braces for impact
FEMA official Marcus Coleman joins 'Fox News Live' to discuss Hurricane Hilary and the storm's potential to cause record-breaking rain in California.
FOX Weather: FEMA ready to respond as Hilary's historic rain, flooding expected for Southwest US
President Joe Biden said FEMA is ready to respond following Hurricane Hilary. The storm will bring rain and likely flooding to the southwestern U.S.
Colt Hagmaier, deputy assistant administrator for FEMA, joined FOX Weather with the latest on the federal response.
Spectrum: As Hilary approaches, FEMA administrator warns: 'People need to take the storm serious'
The Biden administration is urging Californians to take Tropical Storm Hilary seriously ahead of its expected Sunday evening arrival. It will be the first tropical storm to hit southern California since 1939, according to the National Weather Service.
"People really need to take this storm in California serious," Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Deanna Criswell said on ABC's "This Week" on Sunday. "The total rain amounts aren't like what we see in some of our Atlantic storms and Gulf storms, but it's going to really be potentially devastating for them in these desert areas."
KGTV (ABC San Diego, CA): VIDEO: How FEMA plans to handle Tropical Storm Hilary in San Diego County
[…] Forecasters expected Hilary to make history as the first tropical storm to his Southern California in 84 years, bringing flash floods, mudslides, isolated tornadoes, high winds and power outages.
Marcus Coleman with FEMA spoke with ABC 10News Executive Producer Eric Solomon about how the agency plans to dealing with a Tropical Storm in an area like San Diego which isn't used to getting this type of weather.
KGO (ABC Southern CA): 'BATTENING DOWN THE HATCHES': HERE'S HOW SOCAL IS BRACING FOR HURRICANE HILARY
[…] FEMA has activated its National Response Coordination Center. Officials expect flooding, landslides and power outages.
"So we encourage people to take the time to get prepared now with this unprecedented storm. People may not be sure how seriously they should take it. We're encouraging people to take this very seriously," said Senior FEMA official Marcus Coleman Jr.
KLAS (CBS Las Vegas, NV): Federal officials urge residents in Las Vegas area to prepare ahead of 'catastrophic' Hilary[Joshua Peguero, 8/19/23]
The federal government is urging everyone in Clark County to brace themselves for heavy rain and flooding this weekend ahead of a severe weather event.
State and local officials are also treating the remnants of Hurricane Hilary, which is expected to hit the Vegas valley the hardest on Sunday night, as a 100-year storm.
"Our concerns are wide-ranging. There's a lot of different things that may happen, from flood impacts, from power outages," Marcus Coleman, a senior official with Federal Emergency Management Agency, said on Saturday.
FEMA officials say you should have a plan that includes stocking up on water, non-perishable food items, and important medicine.
"When we talk about storms like this, it's not just going to be a whole of government approach. It's going to take a whole community approach," Coleman said.
During a press conference on Saturday, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell was adamant that Hilary won't cause the agency to move any resources away from Maui to California or Nevada.
Deanne Criswell on CBS Face the Nation – August 20

CRISWELL: We have a team that is embedded in California in the state and several staff. One of our offices is in California, so we had a lot of staff already on the ground. We are moving in some additional resources to make sure that we can support anything that California might need, but they're a very capable state as well and they have a lot of resources. If it does exceed what their capability is we're going to have additional search and rescue teams and commodities to support anything they might ask for.
Deanne Criswell on ABC This Week – August 20

CRISWELL: People really need to take this storm in California serious. We need to make sure people stay out of harm's way, they don't drive through this weather, and they take it serious.
Deanne Criswell on CNN State of the Union – August 20
 
CRISWELL: We will take measures to ensure there is always going to be enough funding to continue to support immediate responses to these types of severe weather events.
Marcus Coleman on KGTV (ABC San Diego, CA) – August 20 

COLEMAN: We want every individual and family want to make sure that they have supplies that they need.
Marcus Coleman on KTLA (Los Angeles, CA) – August 20

COLEMAN: FEMA's mission is to help people before during and after disasters. What that means right now for California is that we have personnel that is working closely with California's Office Of Emergency Services.
Marcus Coleman on Spectrum News One (California statewide) – August 20 

COLEMAN: The California Office Of Emergency Services is going to have information available at california.org. FEMA has information available at FEMA.gov to ensure that you can get the latest information on how we're supporting our state counterparts. I also encourage everyone to download the FEMA app – that's a free phone app. You can sign up for local weather alerts and get preparedness information if you need to jump start your recovery process.
Marcus Coleman on KNBC (NBC Los Angeles, CA) – August 20 
 
COLEMAN: We have activated The National Response Coordination Center, that ensures that we continue to coordinate across different government agencies, in support of the state, and counties that are anticipating impacts from the storm. The key thing that we want people to know right now is that we want individuals and families to do their part, so as you all we talked about: Following instructions of local officials, taking time to do any final preparedness measures is really important for everybody. This storm is unprecedented, and we want to make sure people are taking the impact seriously.
  