
    California State Assemblymembers Mike Eng, Edward Hernandez and Lloyd Levine today endorsed Hillary Clinton for President of the United States citing her strength and experience.
"I thank Assemblymembers Eng, Hernandez and Levine for their show of support and confidence in me," said Clinton. "I look forward to working with California legislators on issues important to the state including protecting the environment, investing in communities as well as strengthening our economy and healthcare system."
Assemblyman Mike Eng of California's 49th District pointed to Hillary's experience as her key strength: "I firmly believe that Hillary Clinton is the best choice for California. Her proven leadership, wealth of experience, and genuine concern for working and middle-class families are the reasons for which I am supporting her."
California Assemblyman Edward Hernandez, who represents California's 57th district, hailed Hillary's commitment to healthcare as the top reason for his support: "Senator Clinton is a well-respected leader on the issue of healthcare in this country, and I know as President she will make universal access to healthcare a top priority. As a healthcare provider myself, and as someone who has made access to healthcare an integral part of my legislative agenda, I am proud to support Senator Clinton for President," Hernandez said.
As First Lady of the United States and as a United States Senator, Clinton has worked tirelessly to bring universal health coverage to Americans. She helped to create a program to administer vaccines to children, the state children's health insurance program, and has led the fight against HIV/AIDS by supporting the Early Treatment for HIV Act as well as the Ryan White CARE Act, bills which expand HIV treatment to low-income individuals and improving treatment and access for all people infected with HIV.
Assemblyman Lloyd Levine, Chair of the Utilities and Commerce Committee, as well as the representative of California's 40th district, noted that Clinton's platform calling for energy independence is highly critical to secure our nations future: "I am whole-heartedly in support of Senator Clinton's plans to promote energy independence in our country and fight global warming. Her goals mirror what I've tried to achieve here in California, making our state a leader in solar and renewable energy. I look forward to helping her in any way I can," Levine concluded.
Hillary Clinton has established herself as a leader in the effort to curb global warming. She encourages investing in clean energy technologies, establishing a national market-based program to reduce global warming pollution, increasing our fuel efficiency, and restoring the United States' rightful place as a leader in international efforts to address the problem of climate change.
Senator Clinton has introduced a plan to create a Strategic Energy Fund that would inject $50 billion into research, development, and deployment of renewable energy, energy efficiency, clean coal technology, ethanol and other homegrown biofuels, and more.
Assemblymembers Eng, Hernandez and Levine join with other California elected officials including U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Reps. Lucille Roybal-Allard, Jane Harman, Doris Matsui, Grace Napolitano and Ellen Tauscher as well as Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez, Assemblymembers Sandré R. Swanson and Fionna Ma, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom and human rights leader Dolores Huerta in supporting Hillary Clinton.
  