
    Two-Thirds of Endorsers Come from Counties Where Trump Won by More Than 18%
DES MOINES, IA – Following Montana Governor Steve Bullock's strong debate performance, today six Iowa Democratic leaders announced their endorsement of his campaign for president. The endorsements span across west, central, and eastern Iowa and include current and former elected officials, local party leaders, and prominent Democratic activists.
"Word is getting out that Governor Bullock has what it takes to beat Donald Trump and make government work again. Governor Bullock's growing list of statewide endorsements are a testament to the vision he laid out on the debate stage: ensuring a fair shot for all Americans, including places like Iowa that Washington has left behind," said Megan Simpson, Iowa State Director. "As the only candidate who has won a Trump state, Governor Bullock's career is defined by working together to get progressive things done. We're thrilled to welcome these leaders to Team Bullock as we fight to ensure every Iowan gets a fair shot at a better life."
These supporters join two leading Iowa Democrats who previously endorsed Governor Bullock: Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller and Iowa DNC Member and former 22-year Story County Chair Jan Bauer.
Governor Bullock's new Iowa endorsements include:

Dave Muhlbauer, Denison: Crawford County Supervisor, Iowa State Association of Counties Region 3 President, and farmer
Bill Gannon, Mingo: Former Three-Term State Representative and House Minority Floor Leader, former Democratic candidate for governor, and owner/operator of a century farm
Suzette Jensen, Des Moines: East Des Moines Democrats Co-Chair and former six-year Des Moines School Board Member
Ray Blase, Ankeny: Founding member of West Des Moines Democrats, founding member of Ankeny Area Democrats, and former Bureau Chief of the Polk County Attorney's Office
Kathleen Gannon, Mingo: Jasper County Democratic Activist, farmer, and former Iowa Association of Independent Colleges and Universities executive
Jonna Jensen, Maquoketa: Jackson County Democratic activist and faith leader

From Supervisor Dave Muhlbauer: "We need a leader who can restore a sense of unity and hope to our nation. For that ? and so much more ? I'm proud to endorse Steve Bullock for President. From international markets to mainstreet Iowa, Governor Bullock will break the status quo of going-it-alone, and replace it with getting things done together. As a farmer, a rural County Supervisor, and a father, I know I can trust Governor Bullock to lead us back on course to ensure that no matter where you live, everyone has a shot to be successful."
From Former House Minority Floor Leader Bill Gannon: "Simply put: As President, Governor Bullock will get the job done. I believe that with the right leadership, government can be an agent for good that lifts up every American. Governor Bullock's shown that in even the most divisive of times, he can forge solutions to achieve needed progress. I'm proud to support him at every step along the way."
From East Des Moines Democrats Co-Chair Suzette Jensen: "For too long, our government has not worked for Americans. Corporate dark money and special interests have dominated Washington's decision-making. This has left parts of our country behind. Governor Bullock has demonstrated that he has the ability to make changes that serve the needs of people over corporate interests. He was the only candidate to actually take a strong stand against Citizens United and has fought and won against dark money in Montana. I've been impressed with his accomplishments from expanded access to healthcare to making college more affordable. I am supporting Governor Bullock because he is the leader we need in Washington."
  