
    New York, NY -- During a campaign stop in New York City today, Barack Obama called on Camp Obama graduates and community leaders to continue fighting during the home stretch of the campaign. Obama was also endorsed by several members of the New York State Senate, New York State Assembly, New York City Council and Suffolk County Legislature at the event. A complete list of endorsers is included below.
"What you are joining isn't just a political campaign; it's a grassroots movement for change," Obama stated. "And that kind of grassroots change is something I've got some experience with. After college, I took a job as a community organizer in Chicago, working with a group of churches to rebuild neighborhoods that had been devastated by the closure of nearby steel plants. It was hard work, but we kept at it, and block by block, we transformed those neighborhoods."
In attendance at the meeting were over 300 Obama supporters from the New York area, many of whom completed a three-day training in New York City with the campaign's "Camp Obama." At Camp Obama, participants learned community organizing skills, similar to those Obama taught and used as an organizer.
Obama told the group, "For those of you who participated in Camp Obama, you're learning the skills you'll need to help build this grassroots movement from the bottom-up. You're going to be knocking on doors, calling folks up, distributing campaign fliers and doing the on-the-ground work that's going to make the difference in this election."
Also in attendance at this community meeting were key elected officials and clergy members, all of whom formally endorsed Senator Obama's candidacy for president. These leaders include: Senator Eric Adams (D-Brooklyn); Assemblyman Michael Benjamin (D-Bronx); Suffolk County Legislator Jon Cooper (D-Suffolk County); City Councilwoman Helen Diane Foster (D-Bronx); Rev. Wendell Foster (Christ Church, Bronx); Rev. Clinton M. Miller (Brown Memorial Baptist Church, Brooklyn); Senator Kevin Parker (D-Brooklyn); Senator Bill Perkins (D-Manhattan); City Councilman James Sanders, Jr. (D-Queens); and City Councilman Al Vann (D-Brooklyn).
In addition Assemblyman Karim Camara (D-Brooklyn), Suffolk County Legislator Elie Mystal (D-Suffolk County), Senator John L. Sampson (D-Brooklyn), and Suffolk County Legislator Vivian Viloria-Fisher (D-Suffolk County), endorsed Barack Obama today though they were unable to attend the event.
  