
    To Ambassador Andrew Young
I accept with deep regret your resignation as Ambassador to the United Nations, to be effective when your successor assumes the duties of your office. Subsequently, your continuing support for the policies of our nation will be extremely valuable.
You have earned the gratitude of all Americans with your superb performance in a most difficult assignment. You have helped to prove, thanks to your dedication and sensitivity, that our country is sympathetic to the deepest social and political aspirations of increasingly awakened human beings throughout the world. You have proven that we are sensitive to the demands for world peace and racial justice, and have earned for us the friendship, trust and respect of many nations which had previously considered the United States to be suspect and unworthy of such a relationship. You have truly exemplified the finest attributes of the American character.
You can be justifiably proud of the many achievements of yourself and your assistants and staff in the United Nations.
You have my best wishes and personal thanks.
Your friend,
JIMMY CARTER
August 14, 1979
Dear Mr. President:
It has been an extremely exciting and rewarding opportunity to serve as your Ambassador to the United Nations. I have appreciated the support and encouragement from you and Secretary Vance. Your commitment to negotiated actions in this multi-lateral forum has made it possible to advance the cause of peace, human rights and economic development far beyond my expectations. I will always be grateful for my service with your administration.
I am afraid, however, that my conduct has created serious difficulties for the administration on several occasions. It has made me question my value as a continued part of your team.
I have always acted in behalf of what I felt was the best interest of our nation, though often it has been interpreted to the contrary.
I want you to fulfill the tremendous promise of your administration, and that depends to a great extent on a settlement of the situation in the Middle East.
It is therefore extremely embarrassing that my actions, however well-intentioned, may have hampered the peace process. In order to avoid any further complications, I would like to offer my resignation as the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations.
I will be glad to continue during the month of August as President of the Security Council and also to fulfill a commitment to lead a trade mission to Africa in early September.
There is a good staff here at USUN and they are fully capable of carrying on through the General Assembly.
I will return to Atlanta and after a brief period of respite, I will begin to campaign diligently for your re-election.
It has been an honor and privilege to serve with your administration.
Sincerely,
ANDY
Andrew Young
  