
    "It's been over a month since President Obama declared government – not hard-working Americans – was responsible for building our nation's small businesses. But it's not just the President's rhetoric – he's supported policies that are hostile to job creators, which will impede hiring, destroy jobs, and raise taxes on over 2 million business owners. Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan have a bold plan that will get businesses hiring again, while creating 12 million new jobs and more take-home pay for middle-class families." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Last Month, President Obama Told Hard-Working Americans They "Didn't Build" Their Businesses:
President Obama: "If You've Got A Business, You Didn't Build That. Somebody Else Made That Happen." OBAMA: "Somebody helped to create this unbelievable American system that we have that allowed you to thrive. Somebody invested in roads and bridges. If you've got a business, you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen. The Internet didn't get invented on its own. Government research created the Internet so that all the companies could make money off the Internet." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Roanoke, VA, 7/13/12)
Over The Last Month, Small-Business Owners Everywhere Have Spoken Out Against President Obama's Remarks:
Charlie Minnick, General Manager Of Camper Coaches In Texas: "This Business Was Built By Us." ANCHOR: "A Lubbock businessman is firing back with a message of his own. If you drive by Camper Coaches on the South Loop, you'll see a sign that reads 'We Built This Business.'" MINNICK: "All we want people to know, no matter what you've heard or what you hear posted everywhere, this business was built by us." (KCBD, 8/24/12)
Michael Passalaqua, A Restaurant Owner In Pennsylvania: "I Was Pretty Appalled By (Obama's) Comment." "Michael Passalaqua, the owner of Angelo's restaurant in North Franklin Township, said he 'risked everything I owned' to open his restaurant and 'I was pretty appalled by (Obama's) comment.'" (Brad Hundt, "Business Owners Take A Political Stand," Washington Observer-Reporter, 8/1/12)
Martin Mendez, Owner Of Splash Publications In Colorado: "'I Did Build My Business, Mr. President, You Didn't." "From ads to press conferences Republicans are having a field day with the president's 'you didn't build it' blunder as Democrats move to do damage control. 'I did build my business, Mr. President, you didn't,' Martin Mendez with Splash Publications said." ("Colorado Business Owners Speak Out On Obama's Business Comment," KCNC-TV, 7/31/12)
Jack Davis, Owner Of Advance Surface Technologies In Colorado: "This President Doesn't Have An Appreciation For What It Takes To Start Or Run A Business." "But on the heels of his 'the private sector is doing fine' gaffe, he's paying for it. 'To me the statement he made truly demonstrates to me that this president doesn't have an appreciation for what it takes to start or run a business,' said Jack Davis, owner of Advance Surface Technologies in Arvada." ("Colorado Business Owners Speak Out On Obama's Business Comment," KCNC-TV, 7/31/12)
Dick Robinson, Robinson Dairy Of Colorado: "I Think [President Obama] Thinks The Government Is The One That Subsidizes Everything That Gets Started, And It Isn't." ("Colorado Business Owners Speak Out On Obama's Business Comment," KCNC-TV, 7/31/12)
Taylor Brown, Owner Of Northern Broadcasting System In Montana: "I Take Offense When Anyone Talks Down To Successful Taxpayers, Telling Us That We Did Not Build The American System That We Enjoy." "I take offense when anyone talks down to successful taxpayers, telling us that we did not build the American system that we enjoy. Yes, in fact we did build it! ... Taylor Brown is the owner of the Northern Broadcasting System, a regional radio and TV network based in Billings." (Taylor Brown, "Guest Column: In Fact, Mr. President, We Did Build That," Bozeman Daily Chronicle, 8/1/12)
Karl Milliron, Small-Business Owner From Ohio: "That's Just Purely Insulting." "Karl Milliron was among several small-business owners at a 'We Did Build This' press conference today who made it clear they felt insulted by President Barack Obama's recent remark about how businesspeople amassed wealth. ... 'That's just purely insulting,' Milliron said, at a news conference this afternoon at PR Manufacturing, sponsored by the Mitt Romney campaign." (Linda Martz, "Obama Remarks Upset Local Business Owners," Mansfield News Journal, 8/2/12)
And Small-Business Owners Have Even Protested President Obama And Vice President Biden:
Chris McMurray, Owner Of A Virginia Bakery, Refused To Let Vice President Biden Stop By His Store Because Of President Obama's "You Didn't Build That" Remarks. "The owner of a Virginia bakery gave Vice President Biden's advance team an answer they probably don't hear too often: No. Chris McMurray, owner of 'Crumb and Get It' bakery in southwestern Virginia, reportedly refused to let Biden stop by his store Wednesday because of concerns he had about President Obama's 'you didn't build that' remark." ("Virginia Bakery Owner Turns Down Biden Visit Over 'You Didn't Build That'," Fox News, 8/16/12)
Ross Murty, Co-Owner Of Village Corner Deli In Iowa, Wore A T-Shirt Protesting President Obama's "You Didn't Build That" Remark While Catering An Obama Campaign Event. "A man who catered a campaign event for President Barack Obama in Iowa came clothed for a food fight. Ross Murty, co-owner of the Village Corner Deli in Davenport, donned a T-shirt emblazoned with the message 'Government didn't build my business, I did,' before slinging beef brisket, pulled pork and assorted sides to reporters covering a swing by the president through the city on Wednesday." (Brian Browdie, "Pro-Mitt Caterer Hired For Obama Event," New York Daily News, 8/16/12)
  