
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Dr. Robert Wolgemuth, former Chairman of the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association and best-selling author, has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Dr. Wolgemuth will play an important role in sharing Governor Romney's message of strengthening the American family with voters across the country.
"I am very pleased to have Robert's support," said Governor Romney. "He is a respected social conservative author and leader who understands the most important work being done in America today is the work being done inside the four walls of the family home. With his help, we will work to share our message of true conservative change with Americans across the nation."
With today's announcement, Dr. Wolgemuth said, "Governor Romney has demonstrated that he is the one candidate in both parties who can represent the three pillars of the Reagan coalition – a strong military, a strong economy and stronger families. Most importantly, he has laid out a vision for strengthening American families through championing a Federal Marriage Amendment and defending the sanctity of human life. Governor Romney has the experience, vision and personal values to lead our county as we face ongoing and new domestic and global challenges, and I am proud to support his candidacy."
Background On Dr. Robert Wolgemuth:
Robert Wolgemuth Is The Former Chairman Of The Evangelical Christian Publishers Association. A former high school and family counselor, Dr. Wolgemuth has been in the publishing business for more than 30 years. He has served in executive positions in the magazine and book business in Illinois and Texas, served as president of a large Nashville, Tennessee, book publisher and co-founded a publishing company. His company, Wolgemuth & Associates, Inc., exclusively represents the writing work of approximately fifty Christian authors. A best-selling author himself, Dr. Wolgemuth has written over twenty books.
He is a 1969 graduate of Taylor University, from which he received an honorary doctorate in May, 2005. Robert Wolgemuth is the father of two grown daughters, two sons-in-law, and five grandchildren. He and Bobbie, his wife of over 37years, live in Central Florida, where he serves is an elder at the First Presbyterian Church in Orlando.
  