
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 4
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a reception for the Kennedy Center Honors recipients. In the early evening, they traveled to Budapest, Hungary, to attend the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
December 5
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton arrived in Budapest.
In the afternoon, following the President's meeting with President Arpad Goncz and Prime Minister Gyula Horn of Hungary, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a congressional reception in the Diplomatic Reception Room at the White House.
December 6
In the late morning, the President met with the School to Work National Employer Leadership Council.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eugene Branstool to be Chairman of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.
December 7
The President announced his intention to appoint Milton Irvin and Judith A. Scott to be members of the Advisory Committee on the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
The President announced his intention to appoint JoAnn Jones as a member of the National Advisory Council on Indian Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lilliam Rangel Pollo to be a member of the National Council on Disability.
December 8
The President announced his intention to nominate John L. Bryant, Jr., and Phillip Frost to be members of the National Museum Services Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Albert J. Dwoskin to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Miami, FL, to attend the Summit of the Americas.
December 9
In the early afternoon, the President addressed summit participants at the Jackie Gleason Theater for the Performing Arts in Miami Beach, FL.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a reception for summit heads of state and their spouses at the Biltmore Hotel Country Club in Coral Gables, FL.
The President announced his intention to appoint Michael Lewan as Chair and Maura Temes as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
The President announced his intention to appoint Harry Robinson to be a member of the Commission of Fine Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint David Gardner to be a member of the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities.
  