
    To rewrite the rules of the 21st century economy to work fairly for everyone, Andrew Yang is releasing policies to elevate women to leadership roles in both the public and private sectors, protect a woman's right to choose, and require safe and fair working conditions for pregnant women.
NEW YORK — Today, Andrew Yang released two new major policies: one focused on the promotion of women to leadership roles in the public and private sectors and a second aimed at protecting and expanding a woman's right to choose. To make the 21st century economy work equally for all, Andrew Yang is prioritizing equal representation among leadership roles and women's rights to bodily autonomy.
Andrew Yang has been a long-time champion of elevating women to leadership roles throughout his career, and he will continue to do so as president of the United States. Elevating women to leadership roles within the private sector and government is both prudent and ethical. Studies have shown that organizations with more women in leadership roles are more efficient. More importantly, we should ensure enough women hold leadership positions in our organizations because it's simply the right thing to do.
Andrew Yang is committed to elevating women to leadership roles in the military and in his administration—including cabinet-level positions. His policy focusing on women in leadership incorporates a commitment to appoint women to the federal bench, requires women to be included on corporate boards, and highlights his gender-neutral paid family leave federal mandate.
Andrew Yang believes a woman's right to choose is fundamental. His new policy highlights this as the only way to ensure women are able to fully and fairly participate in today's economy, and it also asserts that women and medical professionals are the only ones who should be trusted to make this decision. Restricting access to abortion bars professionals from providing these crucial services and sets a dangerous precedent for our society as a whole.
In the policy, he highlights his commitment to work with Congress to codify Roe v. Wade into law, appoint judges who support a woman's right to choose, repeal the Hyde Amendment, and increase funding for Planned Parenthood, among other actions.
In addition to policies surrounding women in leadership roles and a woman's right to choose, Andrew Yang released a plan to ensure fair working conditions for pregnant women so that women can continue to advance their careers during and after a pregnancy.
Too often pregnant workers face both discrimination and inadequate support in the workplace. If the rules of our 21st century economy are to work for everyone, pregnant workers must be treated fairly in the workplace and be given reasonable accommodations for their changing physical abilities.
Andrew Yang will advocate for legislation like the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act to guarantee pregnant workers reasonable accommodations. He will lobby the states to pass their own anti-discrimination laws to protect pregnant workers until a federal mandate can be passed, and he will implement a comprehensive federal Paid Family Leave plan that provides all families—regardless of makeup—the necessary time to heal and bond with their child.
Women's rights are human rights, and elevating more women to leadership positions and expanding women's right to choose will ensure we are equipped to navigate the dramatic economic and technological shifts ahead of us. Taking these steps will make us a more efficient and more equitable society.
Read Andrew Yang's policy to elevate the promotion of women to leadership roles here.
Read Andrew Yang's policy to protect a woman's right to choose here.
Read Andrew Yang's policy to ensure that pregnant women receive the support they need at work during their pregnancy here.
  