
    Pool Reports by George Condon, National Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




December 3, 202109:55

In town pool report #1 
Pool is gathering at 10 to go into the State Dining Room for the President's remarks on the November jobs report.



December 3, 2021
[APP Note: Report #2 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


December 3, 202110:27

In town pool report 3 
Now the pool is gather for real to go into the State Dining Room



December 3, 202111:28

In town pool report #4 State Dining Room 
The president was in the State Dining Room from 10:45 until 11:05, speaking on the November jobs numbers, Covid-19, the overall economy and his agenda in Congress. He praised Congress for averting a shutdown. He took four questions, including one as he was exiting the room, a shouted "No" when asked if he had spoken this morning with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
It was on live TV. You might not have noticed what was clear in the room, that he was speaking with a very husky voice and coughed several times. That prompted the very first question from Fox's Peter Doocy, "Are you okay?" The president responded what I have is a one-and-a-half year old grandson who has a cold and likes to kiss his pop. He then defended his administration's record working with poorer nations, stating he has done more for the world than every other nation in world combined. He reminded reporters that he had suggested suspending patent rights to speed the spread of vaccines. He said he does not yet see the need to require vaccines for all domestic air passengers. "The measures I announced yesterday we believe are sufficient," he said. He said he knows a lot about this. "But I'm not a scientist" and will listen to the scientists.
Asked about Ukraine and Russian intentions there, he said he has been in "constant contact" with allies and with Ukrainian leaders and that he is working on policies that would "make it very difficult for Mr. Putin" to be aggressive. He then left the State Dining Room as more questions were shouted. The one about talking to Putin today is the only one he acknowledged.
More to come.



December 3, 202111:52

In town pool report #5 More from State Dining Room 
The president opened his remarks giving cautious praise to the Senate's action averting a government shutdown. He called it both "a great achievement" and the "bare minimum" one could expect from Congress. He said he would be signing it later today. He specifically thanked Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer. He urged Congress to use the coming weeks to finalize a full spending bill.
He then turned to the November jobs report, calling it a time to "reflect on the year gone by" and the economic progress he sees in his first ten months in office. "America is back at work," he declared, touting the drop in the unemployment rate to 4.2 percent from 4.6 percent. He said the decline in the unemployment rate in those months is an "historic drop." He also stated that Americans "have more in their pockets today" than they did at this point last year "even after accounting for inflation." He noted that new unemployment claims have dropped from 18 million a year ago to 2 million last month. He cited the increase in November of 210.000 but did not mention that the prediction had been for twice that number. He did, though, note that in recent months the initial reports of job growth have had to be "recalibrated" when more data arrives. He said 6 million jobs have been gained in his administration, calling that "a record for a new president." To those noting they are suffering in the economy, he said, "I hear you." He said people "need to see it and feel it."
His next topic was Covid. He called attention to the steps he announced the day before, repeating the points. On gas prices, he insisted that the steps he has taken are "beginning to work" and said he and his team are "not sitting around waiting" for prices to come down. He said he has "brought together other countries" to address the issue, but cautioned we "won't solve the problem of high gas prices overnight." He said more progress will be seen "in the weeks ahead."
Surrounded by Christmas decorations, he acknowledged "another concern" of people not able to find gifts or groceries" because of supply chain issues. He recalled the steps he has taken to deal with those issues. At one point, he turned toward the pool reporters and cameras and chided them, saying "a couple of your stations found some empty shelves" to highlight in stories. But he said those were "old shelves" and urged reporters to go look again. "We're heading into the holiday season in strong shape," he said.
At the 11-minute mark, he turned to his Build Back Better legislation, insisting it will not add to inflationary pressures and calling for its passage.
After 14 minutes of speaking, he took the handful of questions from poolers, starting with Peter Doocy's "Are you okay" question noted in the previous pool report.
The State Dining Room was quite festive for such serious remarks on a global pandemic, gas prices, inflation and domestic unemployment. There were two large Christmas trees, one over each of the president's shoulders. The ornaments were the very definition of presidential: they were small framed photos of presidents. Most obvious was one of the current president and first lady. Also spotted were photos of Presidents Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, John F. Kennedy and Bill Clinton. The mantle was bedecked with bright red ornaments. Against the wall was this year's Gingerbread house.



December 3, 202112:19

In town pool report #6 lunch lid 
we have a lunch lid until 1:15.
And to anticipate questions, there is no word on a bill signing yet on either timing or if it would be open to any coverage.



December 3, 202113:24

In town pool report #6 Briefing delay 
The briefing will now start at 1:45 p.m.



December 3, 202113:38

In town pool report #7 the president's health 
Per the White House:
Memorandum from Kevin C. O'Connor physician to the president
Re: President Biden's congestion
1. The following is released with permission of the patient
2. As is readily apparent, President Biden is experiencing some increased nasal congestion this week. This can be heard in his voice and he is feeling the colloquially well-known "frog in ones throat."
3. Investigation has included a comprehensive respiratory panel which includes 19 common respiratory pathogens, to include COVID-19, other coronaviruses, influenza, streptococcus, tol name a few… All of these tests were negative. Including the above, he has been tested for COVID-19 three times this week.
4. Treatment will include common over the counter medications for symptoms.



December 3, 202113:50

In town pool report 8 
two minute warning for briefing at 1:50



December 3, 202114:46

In town pool report #9 - end of briefing 
The briefing started at 1:54. After 49 questions from 23 reporters, it concluded at 2:43.



December 3, 202118:39

In town pool report #10 
The pool has been summoned



December 3, 202118:50

In town pool report 11 
Pool is waiting in vans in South lawn for departure to parts unknown.



December 3, 202119:05

In town pool report 12
Motorcade rolling at 7:04 pm. Destination unknown.



December 3, 202119:37

In town pool report 12
The motorcade arrived at 7:13. We're just not sure where it arrived since the sightlines from the poolvan are what we might call imperfect. The White House informs that he is dropping by a family dinner. Just not sure if that is a restaurant on 23d street in the West End or a private residence. Pool did not see him get in the limo at the White House or alight here. Other than those pesky details, your pool is on top of it. Holding in an alley.



December 3, 202120:48

Pool report 13
The president was dining at Imperfecto on 23d street. Motorcade departed at 8:45 reroute to White House and planned departure for Camp David



December 3, 2021
[APP Note: Report #14 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


December 3, 202121:17

Pool report 15
Emerging from the White House at 8:57 p.m., the president took two questions from the pool before boarding Marine One. Asked what he can do to prevent a Russian invasion of Ukraine, he said, "We've been aware of Russia's actions for a long time and my expectation is we're going to have a long discussion." Asked if he accepts Putin's red line in Ukraine, he responded, "I won't accept anybody's red line."
With that, he boarded Marine One heading toward Camp David. A lid will not be declared until he lands. But his departure, sadly, brings to what can only be called a premature end to a pool that fell just short of the coveted 12-hour mark.



December 3, 202122:35

In town Pool report #16
I spoke too soon. One more pool report.
The president landed at Camp David at 9:35 p.m. So now -- really -- we have a travel/photo lid. Good night.




  