
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

An area in south-central Alaska contains examples of geological phenomena associated with two major mountains chains, the Alaska Range and the Chigmit Mountains, in an array that includes jagged peaks and two symmetrical, steaming volcanoes. These volcanoes, Redoubt and Iliamna, have been listed on the National Registry of Natural Landmarks.
The area's land forms also contribute to an outstanding example of ecological diversity in zones which remain relatively unspoiled for continued scientific research. Large mammals such as moose, caribou, Dall sheep, grizzly bear, black bear, and wolverine occur in natural populations. Whistling swans nest and rare trumpeter swans assemble in the area. Other birds, including bald eagle, gyrfalcon, osprey, and endangered peregrine falcon, breed within the area. Seabird colonies occur along the coast. One of the most stable natural populations of caribou in Alaska, the Mulchatna herd, calves and migrates within the area, offering significant opportunities for scientific study of this mammal.
Sockeye salmon runs within the area are exceptional. The area includes the upper drainage of the Kvichak River System, which is the single most productive spawning and rearing habitat for red salmon in the world, and the subject of scientific research for many years.
Historical resources of the area are significant. Kijik Village, on the shore of Lake Clark, is the site marking the first known Russian exploration of the region in the late eighteenth century. The area holds great promise for the discovery of further evidence defining the impact of the Native-European contacts.
The land withdrawn and reserved by this proclamation for the protection of the geological, archeological, historical, biological and other phenomena enumerated above supports now, as it has in the past, the unique subsistence culture of the local residents. The continued existence of this culture, which depends on subsistence hunting, and its availability for study, enhances the historic and scientific values of the natural objects protected herein because of the ongoing interaction of the subsistence culture with these objects. Accordingly, the opportunity for local residents to engage in subsistence hunting is a value to be protected and will continue under the administration of the monument.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the Government of the United States to be national monuments, and to reserve as part thereof parcels of land, the limits of which in all cases shall be confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected.
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter, President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that there are hereby set apart and reserved as the Lake Clark National Monument all lands, including submerged lands, and waters owned or controlled by the United States within the boundaries of the area depicted as the Lake Clark National Monument on the map numbered LACL-90,009 attached to and forming a part of this Proclamation. The area reserved consists of approximately 2,500,000 acres, and is the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected. Lands, including submerged lands, and waters within these boundaries not owned by the United States shall be reserved as a part of the monument upon acquisition of title thereto by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands, and all waters within the boundaries of this monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from entry, location, selection, sale or other disposition under the public laud laws, other than exchange. There is also reserved all water necessary to the proper care and management of those objects protected by this monument and for the proper administration of the monument in accordance with applicable laws.
The establishment of this monument is subject to valid existing rights, including, but not limited to, valid selections under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and under or confirmed in the Alaska Statehood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding Section 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing withdrawal, reservation or appropriation, including any withdrawal under Section 17 (d)(1) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1)); however, the national monument shall be the dominant reservation. Nothing in this Proclamation is intended to modify or revoke the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding dated September 1, 1972, entered into between the State of Alaska and the United States as part of the negotiated settlement of Alaska v. Morton, Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Complaint filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall promulgate such regulations as are appropriate, including regulation of the opportunity to engage in a subsistence lifestyle by local residents. The Secretary may close the national monument, or any portion thereof, to subsistence uses of a particular fish, wildlife or plant population if necessary for reasons of public safety, administration, or to ensure the natural stability or continued viability of such population.
Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy or remove any feature of this monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 1st day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and third.

JIMMY CARTER
  