
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the endorsement of New Jersey Assembly Republican Leader Alex DeCroce. DeCroce, who represents Morris and Passaic Counties, is recognized for making fiscal integrity and tax reform top priorities for Republicans in the New Jersey General Assembly. He will serve as Giuliani's Honorary New Jersey State Co-Chair.
"Rudy was able to accomplish the impossible in New York City by cutting taxes, creating jobs and dramatically reducing crime, making it a livable and safe city again," said DeCroce. "No candidate has the experience and the results of Mayor Giuliani. He is the only Republican who can defeat the Democrats in New Jersey."
"It is an honor to have Assemblyman DeCroce on our New Jersey team," said Giuliani's National Campaign Manager Michael DuHaime. "His experience and knowledge will serve us well as we spread the message that Rudy is the only Republican who can win New Jersey in both the primary and general elections."
About Alex DeCroce:
DeCroce is a member of the New Jersey General Assembly, having served since 1989 when he was chosen to fill a vacancy. He was subsequently elected to the office nine times. During his tenure, he has served in a variety of leadership positions, including Majority Leader, Deputy Speaker and Conference Leader.
DeCroce has an extensive record of public service. In 1984, he became a member of the Morris County Board of Freeholders, a position he held until 1989. He served as Freeholder Director in 1986. In addition, he is a former member of the Morris County Board of Elections and Board of Taxation. He also is a former chairman of the Board of Trustees of Morris County College and served two years as Chairman of the Morris County Republican Committee.
DeCroce represents the 26th Legislative District, which includes Butler, Chatham Borough, East Hanover, Florham Park, Hanover, Kinnelon, Lincoln Park, Montville, Morris Plains, Parsippany-Troy Hills, Pequannock and Riverdale in Morris County, and Bloomingdale, Pompton Lakes and West Milford in Passaic County.
  