
    The President. Thank you very much for being here. This is very exciting for me. I know so many people that are in your church and—the Latter-Day Saints. The job you've done is beyond anything you could think of—and 180 countries, taking care of people the way you take of people, and the respect that you have all over the world.
I would love you to, while the media is here, just say a couple of words of what we just discussed, all of the care and all of the giving that you've done. And to help people, in particular poor people, would be a great thing. And perhaps they will transmit that to different parts of this country and the world. And it's so brilliant to hear it.
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints President Henry B. Eyring. Thank you, Mr. President. We're here in a place where we have food and material that we give to the poor. But this is simply an example of what we do across the world, the idea being the—we think we have an obligation to God to look out for the people who would, without our aid, have tragedy in their lives, either poverty or hunger.
And this is an example of what we do in—how many, Bishop?
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints Presiding Bishop Gérald J. Caussé. A hundred and twenty house facilities in the U.S. and Canada and others.
Mr. Eyring. A hundred and twenty.
The President. So great.
Mr. Eyring. And would you say a word about what you've seen across the world?
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles President Russell M. Nelson. I was in China last week, and there I got see what a wonderful job President Trump had done just previously. They were filled with hope because of your visit, Mr. President. And I also happened to drop in on an occasion when the Chinese members of the church were bringing supplies for schoolchildren who didn't have means of getting what they needed to go to school with.
The President. Right. Well, that was very nice. I heard you were there. Formerly a great heart surgeon, one of the best in the world, and he decided to help even more people by doing what you're doing. So we appreciate that.
Dr. Nelson. Thank you very much.
The President. Thank you all very much. Appreciate it. Thank you.
  