
    New polls show continuing broad, bipartisan support among voters for President Biden's economic agenda. Voters on both sides of the aisle have identified the Build Back Better Act's provisions to cut prescription drug costs as their top priority, which the President spoke to in his remarks on Monday. They also support efforts to lower the costs of key expenses like health care and housing.
Similarly, President Biden's infrastructure plan continues to retain massive support among the public as the Administration begin implementing its historic investments, and as the President and senior Administration officials criss-cross the country to communicate its benefits to the middle class.
See below for excerpts from the polling analyses:
Data for Progess, 12/8/21: "We find that voters attribute recent increases in prices to pandemic shortages, not government spending. In fact, increased government spending as outlined by the Build Back Better Act to make investments in the things that Americans spend most of their income on, such as rent, prescription drugs, elder care, and child care, retains majority support over time and even when opposing arguments are presented."
"In four surveys since early November, Build Back Better is supported by at least 60 percent of all voters. Opposition to the legislation has remained well below 40 percent over the four surveys."
Monmouth University, 12/8/21:
"Turning to Washington, the president's large spending plans remain broadly popular. Support for the Bipartisan Infrastructure deal (BIF), which was signed into law last month, stands at 66%"
"Support for the Build Back Better (BBB) plan to expand access to health care, college, paid leave and other services remains fairly steady at 61%. Furthermore, 56% of Americans support the climate change funding part of the BBB bill (compared with 60% in November). Partisan support for each of these three spending elements stands at 92%-95% among Democrats and at 56%-67% among independents."
Quinnipiac University, 11/18/21:
"A majority, 57 – 37 percent, supports the roughly $1 trillion spending bill to improve the nation's roads, bridges, broadband and other infrastructure projects"
"A majority, 58 – 38 percent, supports the roughly $2 trillion spending bill on social programs such as child care, education, family tax breaks, and expanding Medicare for seniors."
"More than half of Americans (56 percent) say the wealthiest Americans pay less than their fair share in federal income taxes[.]"
Politico/Morning Consult, 12/8/21: 
"[F]ive of the top six priorities for voters were health measures, with funding for home health care for seniors and people with disabilities topping the list at 45 percent, followed by 41 percent who prioritized allowing Medicare to negotiate some prescription drug prices. Similar shares of Democrats and Republicans prioritized each measure."
"Biden's comments on lowering prescription drug costs will resonate with the entire electorate: 7 in 10 voters back the provision, including 4 in 5 Democrats and 3 in 5 Republicans."
  