
    "The call of this election is the call to unite in common cause and common purpose… as your president, that's how I will move us forward together."
Newark, NJ — Cory 2020 will launch a six-figure TV ad buy in Iowa today with a new, 60 second spot that tells the story of Cory Booker's career-long record of success in building uncommon coalitions. Cory has built these coalitions and brought people together in order to take on the biggest challenges in our country — challenges that have left too many people and too many communities behind.
The ad reminds Iowa caucus-goers that Cory is the Democrat who will help Americans recognize our common pain, ignite our spirit of common purpose, and mobilize a coalition big enough to defeat Donald Trump in November.
The ad calls back to Cory's years taking on and beating the Newark political machine and his Senate record bridging partisan divides in order to pass major legislation. It uses excerpts from remarks Cory has made throughout this presidential campaign — and his career. It will begin airing in the Des Moines and Cedar Rapids media markets on Monday, December 30th.
The spot, titled "He Will Win", can be viewed HERE.
The 60 second ad was produced by WIN, an innovative firm that takes political media and communication outside the standard confines of politics as usual. The WIN team working with Cory 2020 is comprised of strategic veterans Rick Fromberg and Rania Batrice and Chief Creative Officer Matt McLaughlin.
Below is a transcript of the spot:
There's a spirit in this country that is so powerful.
The spirit of the people who are willing to live every day in pursuit of the dreams that do not yet exist in this country.
It's a story of people constantly demonstrating to be the best of what it means to be an American.
In Newark there are many heroes to hold onto. People who humble me because they have found a way to have unyielding faith.
We face perilous times. The question is, will we show that same level of courage?
The call of this election is the call to unite in common cause and common purpose, because we know that our fates are united, that we have a common destiny.
And as your president, that's how I will move us forward together.
I'm Cory Booker and I approve this message.
  