
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman announced his endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney for President of the United States. Governor Heineman joins current Governors Matt Blunt (R-MO) and Don Carcieri (R-RI) in endorsing Governor Romney.
"In his campaign for the presidency, Mitt Romney has outlined the clearest vision to move our country forward. With exceptional leadership experience and outstanding values, Governor Romney is the only candidate who can bring true conservative change to Washington. I am proud to be a part of his team and look forward to joining him as he travels across this country discussing his strategy to build a stronger America," said Governor Heineman.
Making today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "Governor Heineman understands that our party is strong when we stand for a strong defense, strong economy and strong families. In just a few short years as Nebraska's chief executive, he successfully passed the largest tax relief package in the state's history. Through conservative principles, Governor Heineman is making Nebraska a better place to live, work and raise a family. I look forward to working with him as we advance our strategy for a stronger America."
Background On Governor Dave Heineman:
Governor Dave Heineman Was Sworn In As Nebraska's 39th Governor On Friday, January 21, 2005. He was elected to his first full term on November 7, 2006 by the largest margin in recent history. In May of 2006, he overcame a forty point deficit to win a historic primary. Prior to becoming Governor, he served more than three years as Lieutenant Governor and nearly seven years as State Treasurer. Since becoming Governor, he has worked with the Nebraska Legislature to pass the largest tax relief package in the history of the state and the most comprehensive jobs creation, economic incentive legislation since the 1980s. A native Nebraskan, Governor Heineman is a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point and served for five years in the U.S. Army. He is also a graduate of the Army's Airborne and Ranger Schools.
  