
    "It is America's destiny to be at the forefront of humanity's eternal quest for knowledge and to be the leader amongst nations on our adventure into the great unknown." - President Donald J. Trump
AMERICA WILL ONCE AGAIN REACH FOR THE MOON: President Donald J. Trump has signed a space policy directive instructing the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to pursue manned extraterrestrial exploration.

President Trump will enact the unanimously endorsed recommendations of the National Space Council to change the course of U.S. human spaceflight exploration.

On June 30, 2017, President Trump revived the National Space Council for the first time in 24 years. 


Space Policy Directive - 1 instructs NASA to return American astronauts to the moon. 
At its inaugural October meeting, the National Space Council unanimously agreed to lead commercial and international partners above and beyond previous U.S. space policy:

Return United States astronauts to the Moon for long-term exploration and utilization; and 
Pursue human exploration of Mars and the broader solar system. 


The Trump Administration will take full advantage of new space technology to improve U.S. space capabilities. 

AMERICA WILL HARNESS THE POWER OF PRIVATE INDUSTRY: By refocusing our space program on feasible goals, President Trump will create incentives for private industry that spur 21st century space capabilities.

The Moon is of interest to international partners and is within reach of America's private space industry.

The United States will work with other nations and private industry to return astronauts to the Moon, developing the technology and means for manned exploration of Mars and other destinations in our solar system. 


Under the new Space Policy Directive, the United States will help drive the burgeoning domestic space industry, bring new knowledge from the cosmos, and spur incredible technology. 

THE UNITED STATES SHOULD BE A LEADER IN SPACE: We are no longer the undisputed leader in human space exploration. 

On July 20, 1969, American astronaut Neil Armstrong became the first man to walk on the Moon, making "one giant leap for mankind." 
Apollo 17 was the last manned mission to the Moon, launched 45 years ago on December 7, 1942.

America, the only country to successfully send manned missions to the Moon, has sent 12 astronauts to walk on the Moon. 


In July 2011, the United States retired the Space Shuttle program, three decades after it began.

From 1981 to 2011, the five Space Shuttles flew 135 missions into space. 


After the Space Shuttle was retired, the United States has been forced to rely on Russian rockets, at the cost of $70 million per seat. 
In the coming years the United States will launch astronauts on an American-made rocket and crew system, the Space Launch System and Orion crew vehicle, and multiple American companies will provide the Pentagon with American engines and rockets to launch national security payloads.

  