
    On December 14, 2006, The President And Mrs. Bush Will Host The First-Ever White House Summit On Malaria In Washington, D.C. The White House Summit on Malaria will bring together international experts; corporations and foundations; African civic leaders; and voluntary, faith-based and non-profit organizations. The Summit's goals are to raise awareness of malaria and to mobilize a grassroots effort to save millions of lives in Africa. One American with just $10 can help save a life in Africa. A school, a church, or a team can help save a village. Together, Americans can help protect an entire continent.
The President's Malaria Initiative Is Saving Lives. President Bush announced the President's Malaria Initiative (PMI) in June 2005. A five-year, $1.2 billion program, PMI challenges the private sector to join the U.S. government in combating malaria in 15 of the hardest-hit African countries. PMI's goal is to cut malaria's mortality rate by 50 percent in these target countries, freeing these African nations and their citizens from the grip of debilitating disease.

Through Partnerships Working In The First Three Target Countries – Angola, Tanzania And Uganda – Aid From The American People Has Already Reached About Six Million Africans.In 2007, 30 million more will receive life-saving medicines, sprays, and nets as the program expands. Other target countries include: Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, and Senegal.



    PMI Has Helped Deliver Bed Nets In Zanzibar In Tanzania Where Malaria Is The Leading Cause Of Death. In early 2006, PMI and the Global Fund collaborated to distribute more than 230,000 insecticide-treated bed nets to the people of Zanzibar. Zanzibar has seen a startling decrease in its reported malaria cases and quicker recovery for those infected:

The number of confirmed malaria cases on Pemba Island dropped 87% from January to September in 2006 to 1,570 down from 12,531 over the same period last year, according to local health reports.
In Zanzibar, malaria was greatly reduced among children under age five after new U.S. and other assistance began, according to local health officials. The success in Zanzibar shows that malaria can be controlled in larger regions.



The White House Summit On Malaria Will:

Announce Eight New PMI Target Countries. The President will announce eight additional countries designated as PMI target countries: Benin, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Madagascar, Mali and Zambia.


Launch The Malaria Communities Program. The President's Malaria Initiative (PMI) will launch the Malaria Communities Program, a $30 million initiative to build independent, sustainable malaria-control projects in Africa by providing grants to African NGOs and religious groups to support their malaria-control work. These initiatives will protect children and families and will help citizens take charge of their own health.


Create "Volunteers For Prosperity" Program For Malaria. Many groups fighting malaria depend on the generosity of skilled professionals like doctors and nurses, who volunteer their services far from home. Through the President's Volunteers for Prosperity program, organizations involved in the President's Malaria Initiative can receive grants for highly skilled volunteers to contribute their efforts to combating malaria in Africa.


Designate April 25, 2007 As "Malaria Awareness Day." The more people know about this disease, the more quickly we can defeat it. President Bush will designate April 25, 2007, as "Malaria Awareness Day." African countries and other nations commemorate April 25 to raise global awareness of malaria, and to reaffirm their commitment to fighting this disease. The United States is proud to stand with them.

White House Summit On Malaria Themes

The Challenge Of Malaria In Africa. One child dies in Africa every 30 seconds from malaria. At least one million infants and children under five in sub-Saharan Africa die each year from the mosquito-borne disease. Older children and adults who do get malaria lose an average of six weeks at school or work from illness. This disrupts business and leaves poor families short of income, food, and medicine.


The Power Of Public-Private Partnerships. Mobilizing private sector support is a key component in controlling malaria in Africa. When governments partner with NGOs, corporations and foundations, faith-based and service organizations and private citizens, the combined effort can save lives, educate the public about malaria, and send a global message. Public-private partnerships enable the U.S. government and its other partners to maximize their effectiveness and support a comprehensive approach to control malaria. Organizations at the summit announced commitments to dedicate additional resources to put thousands of new boots on the ground and to help defeat malaria.


Growing The Grassroots. Powerful grassroots movements can raise awareness of malaria, and highlight ways that organizations and individuals can get involved in combating this preventable disease in Africa. With new enthusiastic efforts from Malaria No More and other organizations, America's corporations and foundations, NGOs and non-profit organizations, individuals and America's young people are being challenged to save lives and build a bridge between peoples.

Partnering Together To Fight Malaria
No Single Organization Or Entity Can Solve Global Health Issues Facing Africa. Groups like the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, ExxonMobil, the Global Fund, Malaria No More and Saddleback Church are rising to President Bush's challenge and mobilizing private sector support to defeat malaria in Africa.
White House Summit On Malaria Partners Include:

The Office of the Coordinator for the President's Malaria Initiative at the U.S. Agency For International Development
The Office of Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs at the U.S. State Department
Malaria No More

For More Information On This Initiative, Please Visit: www.whitehouse.gov/infocus/malaria.
To View The White House Summit On Malaria Live Webcast, Please Visit: www.fightingmalaria.gov
  