
    North Korea
Q. Mr. President, the IAEA has apparently rejected the North Korean response. Do you agree with that rejection?
The President. Well, what the IAEA has said is that they didn't think it was entirely adequate. But we have to go back and respond to them and we—at least they came forward, they reacted to our initiative. And we're consulting with the South Koreans now. We'll have a conversation with them and see what happens.
Q. Was it inadequate in your eyes——
The President. Well, obviously they didn't say, "We liked everything the United States said," and yes. So we were hoping that we could move more quickly, but I'm not entirely discouraged. We're talking to the South Koreans, and then we'll go back to the——
Multilateral Trade Negotiations
Q. Do you think the GATT agreement will be reached today in Brussels, Mr. President?
The President. I don't know. I just spoke with Ambassador Kantor right before the Prime Minister came in, and they've made some more progress. There are still a couple of sticking issues. We'll just see.
Q. On agriculture?
The President. I think they're doing quite well on agriculture. We'll have to see.
[At this point, one group of reporters left the room, and another group entered.]
Meeting With Haitian Leaders
Q. Mr. President, are you going to be meeting with President Aristide and Prime Minister Malval today? And what will you want to be discussing with them?
The President. I don't think we'll have a final decision on that until sometime after noon. So I can't say yet. But we'll let you know as soon as we know for sure.
Spain
Q. Do you forecast many differences between the social security system between Spain and the United States?
The President. Are there many differences?
Q. Yeah.
The President. Well, there are some, but I'm really looking forward to my conversation with the Prime Minister about it. All the countries, in Europe, Japan, and the United States, we're all having many of the same troubles. We're having troubles creating new jobs and growing the economy.
I think Spain clearly would benefit from any initiative we can all take to increase economic growth throughout the world. It's hard for any of us to grow unless the overall world economy is growing. And I really admire the reforms the Prime Minister has pursued, and I'm going to do what I can to support a high rate of growth in the world which would drive the unemployment rate in Spain down. I think it's very important.
Cuba
Q. Mr. President, the embargo?
Q. Do you bring that to your hand—something about the Cuban embargo?
The President. I'm sure we'll talk about Cuba.
Q. The end of the embargo, maybe?
The President. Not today, no.
  