
    THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to say for the people of our country and to the people of Egypt how delighted we are and honored to have Vice President Mubarak come here to visit with me personally and to deliver a very important message to me from President Sadat.
One of the most gratifying things about my own service as President of our country has been the close and personal relationship that has existed between me and President Sadat and Vice President Mubarak and the other leaders of Egypt. It's been the courage and the good vision of the future that has enabled the initiative by President Sadat in going to Jerusalem and in opening up the possibility of peace to be successful. Also, in this troubled time when the Middle Eastern region and the area around the Persian Gulf is a great challenge to the rest of the world and a threat to peace, the indissoluble ties between the United States and Egypt, based upon the peace treaty which has been consummated, gives a stabilizing effect that is valuable to us all.
I've expressed to President Sadat through Vice President Mubarak my deep appreciation, my admiration, and my commitment on behalf of the American people, I'm sure, speaking accurately for the next administration, that these ties of friendship and mutual purpose will continue, and the efforts for a comprehensive peace in the Middle East will also continue. This is a hope and a dream of mine, the leaders of Egypt and the leaders of Israel, and I'm sure the other neighbors of Israel in that region and indeed the entire northern part of Africa as well—desire for peace and stability for themselves and for the world.
So, to Prime Minister Mubarak, welcome. Thank you for this additional visit, and my best wishes to President Sadat and to the people of your great country.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I am very pleased to meet with President Carter once again and to convey to him President Sadat's message. I also conveyed to the President the appreciation of the Egyptian people for the cooperation and understanding we always found here. For 4 years the friendship and the cooperation between our two nations grew steadily. We look forward to continuing this warm relation with the American people and their leadership.
As you know, President Sadat and the entire Egyptian people value this friendship with the American people very highly. President Carter has made a great contribution to the cause of peace in the Middle East. We are determined to pursue the goal of establishing comprehensive peace in the region. We are certain that the American people will continue to lend us their support.
I have extended an invitation to President Carter on behalf of President Sadat to visit Egypt soon. He is held with the greatest esteem and affection. He laid a solid foundation for a historic transformation in the Middle East.
Our respect to the President; our admiration, of President Sadat, me, and the Egyptian people, to President Carter and his administration. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you again. It's a pleasure to have you here.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
  