
    Prime Minister Andreotti, I am delighted to welcome you and your party to Washington, D.C., our National Capital.
Mr. Prime Minister, I have long looked forward to this meeting since July, when you took office as President of the Council of Ministers. Since that time you have worked intensely and with great courage and determination on the difficult issues facing your nation and your government. I am extremely pleased that you have found time for this visit and for consultations on the broad range of interests shared by our two governments.
During the last 2 years the United States and Italy have consulted at the highest levels with greater frequency than ever before. President Leohe's state visit to the United States in 1974 was the first state visit of this administration. Our leaders have met at NATO summits and economic summits and at the European Security Conference. I remember with great warmth my own trip to your country a year and a half ago and the friendship extended to me on behalf of the American people by the Italian people and by your government.
We are friends. We are allies. We have worked together and solved problems together. We will do so in the future.
Few countries have so special a place in the hearts of the American people. The United States and Italy are committed to freedom and share a firm dedication to democracy. We are both committed to the strength of the North Atlantic alliance and to the reduction of tensions which threaten international peace and stability.
Americans value the constructive role of Italy in the world today and in the past. We deeply appreciate Italy's contribution to NATO, your contribution to a stronger Europe--working together with the United States--your contribution to the dialog with the developing nations, and your dedication to peace and international understanding.
Mr. Prime Minister, our two governments have made it a priority task to strengthen the North Atlantic alliance. The alliance has made progress in strengthening its defenses, standardizing equipment, and coordination of strategies and planning. Nevertheless, much more needs to be done.
All of us know that the defensive strength and the cohesion of our alliance are crucial to the balance of power in Europe that is so critical to European freedom and international security. Our alliance, of course, has a purpose beyond military defense. The United States and Italy both recognize that Western Europe unity is a pillar of world peace. We must reduce tensions and reduce the possibility of confrontation in Central Europe, where almost 2 million armed men face one another. We must promote mutually beneficial cooperation between Western and Eastern Europe.
The industrial democracies, if we are to be the masters of our own destiny, must work together, for we share basic, common interests on global issues-from defense to energy, the environment, trade, and relations with the developing countries of the world.
Mr. Prime Minister, our discussions on these many issues will be of great value to the United States not only in practical terms but to reaffirm our profound friendship. Few nations are linked as strongly as the United States of America and the Republic of Italy by history, culture, economics, and the emigration of peoples. Our friendship has deep roots that ensure its preservation.
Italy's contribution was one of the highlights of America's Bicentennial celebration. We especially welcomed, Mr. Prime Minister, the visit of Mrs. Vittoria Leone, the First Lady of Italy, when the La Scala Opera came here for its spectacular performance. The American people thank you for this wonderful presentation.
I look forward with great anticipation, Mr. Prime Minister, to our discussions today and tonight. As two democratic allies we have a large area of common ground and many common concerns.
I bid you and your party, on behalf of the American people, a hearty welcome to the United States of America.
  