
    Pool Reports by Cheryl Bolen, Bloomberg Law



Sent:
Reports:




 December 8, 2020 12:03

 In-town pool report #1 - lunch lid 
There is a lunch lid until 1:00 p.m.
It's been a quiet morning at the WH. Pooler was tested for Covid and is awaiting Trump remarks at 2:00 p.m. vaccine summit. 


 December 8, 2020 13:49

 In-town pool report # 2 
Pool gathered for the vaccine summit and was escorted over to EEOB at 1:48 p.m. The summit is in the South Court Auditorium.
Pooler expects attendee list from WH press office shortly. The summit is being livestreamed on www.whitehouse.gov/live and C-Span so check there for quickest quotes. 


 December 8, 2020 14:03

 In-town pool report #3 
South Court auditorium was about half full when pool arrived, with everyone wearing masks but lots of folks sitting next to each other or talking in close circles.
Some of the chairs have name cards on them. Pool passed HHS Secretary Azar in the foyer and looks like several public health officials are here like Brett Giroir.
On stage is a podium, small signing desk, and dark blue backdrop of American flag and Operation Warp Speed icons.
At the 2:00 p.m. mark, many attendees were still standing and talking m, then were directed to take their seats. 


 December 8, 2020 14:06

In-town pool report #4 
At 2:04 p.m. VP Pence walked into auditorium to applause, then video started.
>From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will give remarks at the Operation Warp Speed Vaccine Summit, followed by remarks from Vice President Mike Pence, Dr. Moncef Sloui, General Gustave Perna, Adam Boehler, and Admiral Giroir.
The participants will highlight the unprecedented efforts of Operation Warp Speed, explain the Food and Drug Administration's vaccine evaluation process, and discuss the critical role that state and local jurisdictions will play in distributing and administering life-saving vaccines to the American public.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpVice President Mike PenceJared Kushner, Assistant to the President and Senior AdvisorAmbassador Robert O'Brien, Assistant to the President and National Security AdvisorAmbassador Deborah Birx, M.D., White House Coronavirus Response Coordinator
Trump AdministrationSecretary Alex Azar, United States Department of Health and Human ServicesAdministrator Seema Verma, Center for Medicare and Medicaid ServicesDr. Jerome Adams, Surgeon General of the United StatesAdmiral Brett Giroir, Assistant Secretary for HealthDr. Robert Redfield, Director of the Centers for Disease ControlGeneral Gustave Perna, Chief Operating Officer of Operation Warp SpeedDr. Moncef Slaoui, Chief Advisor, Operation Warp SpeedAdam Boehler, Chief Executive Officer of the United States International Finance CorporationDr. Peter Marks, Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and ResearchPaul Mango, Deputy Chief of Staff, United States Department of Health and Human Services
External ParticipantsGovernor John Bel Edwards, LouisianaGovernor Bill Lee, TennesseeGovernor Greg Abbott, TexasGovernor Ron DeSantis, FloridaJon Roberts, CVS Health, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerRick Gates, Walgreens, Senior Vice President for Health Care Strategy and Executive Lead for COVID-19 Vaccine ProgramWes Wheeler, UPS, CEO of Healthcare LogisticsRichard Smith, FedEx, Regional Vice President of the Americas and Executive Vice President Shawn Seamans, McKesson, President of RxCrossroads and Executive Sponsor Enterprise COVID Vaccine Program Marc Casper, Thermo Fisher, CEO of Thermo Fisher 


 December 8, 2020 14:29

 In-town pool report #5 
President Trump took the stage at 2:06 p.m. and started his remarks at the podium, thanking members of the audience and from his administration.
Trump said if authorized, tens of millions of doses of vaccine would be available this month. Decisions about who would get the vaccine first will be up to governors. Trump urged seniors and first responders, health care workers should be first.
Trump said the executive order he was about to sign would prioritize the vaccine for Americans before it is shipped abroad.
Trump was reading his speech and appeared to keep close to script—he stayed on the topic of the pandemic and the vaccine.
At 2:22 p.m. Trump sat at the small desk and signed the order, then handed the first pen to Pence and Azar who were standing behind him.
At 2:23 p.m. Trump went back to the podium and asked for questions. Pooler believes Steve Holland asked about his message to Americans now, over the holidays. Trump touted the U.S.'s testing program and new tests coming.
AP reporter Zeke Miller asked about White House Christmas parties, and Trump said attendees wear masks.
Trump also said we'd have to see what the next administration is, and hopefully it would be the Trump administration. Trump said he hoped either legislators or judges would find election fraud.
The event ended at 2:28 p.m. and Trump waved and walked off stage. 


 December 8, 2020 14:38

 In-town pool report # 6 - correction 
The first question asked at vaccine summit was by Jeff Mason, not Steve Holland. Pooler was trying to guess from across the room and regrets the error.Pooler does not know the name of the reporter who asked the last question. 


 December 8, 2020 14:43

 In-town pool report #7 
The reporter who asked the last question at the vaccine event was NBC's Peter Alexander. 


 December 8, 2020 20:11

 In-town pool report #8 - signing off 
?The White House press office called a travel/photo lid at 8:10 p.m.After more than 11 years at the White House, this is your pooler's final report before retiring next week. It has been an honor and a privilege to serve the finest journalists in America.
And that's the way it is. 




Pool Reports by Niels Lesniewski, CQ Roll Call



Sent:
Reports:




 December 8, 2020 14:51

 Supplemental pool report #1 - vaccine summit continued 
With POTUS having departed the auditorium, a supplemental pool is place for the remainder of the vaccine summit.
Parties interested in the proceedings should continue to tune in to the live feeds, but I'll keep an eye out for events off-camera, as well as any opportunities to ask questions. 


 December 8, 2020 16:17

 Supplemental pool report #2 -- autographing a freezer 
During a break shortly before 4 p.m., officials including HHS Secretary Alex Azar and Adm. Brett Giroir were seen using a Sharpie to autograph what appeared to be a small lab freezer that had been on the stage as one of the props during a discussion led by Giroir with officials from UPS, FedEx, ThermoFisher and McKesson.
The full list of participants is available in White House pool report #4 sent earlier by Cheryl Bolen. 


 December 8, 2020 17:16

 Supplemental pool report #3 -- VP 
?Vice President Pence entered the auditorium at 5:15 p.m. He is the last expected speaker at the vaccine summit. 



  