
    Alexandria, Va. - December 8, 2015 - Today, Dr. Ben Carson, retired neurosurgeon and 2016 Republican presidential candidate, announced the addition of longtime foreign policy expert and political strategist George Birnbaum to his foreign policy team. Mr. Birnbaum will serve as a foreign policy advisor and will bring yet another seasoned voice to the campaign. He will work with Dr. Carson to present bold strategies to bolster America's presence in the world and confront the challenges facing the country in 2016 and beyond.
A former chief of staff to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Mr. Birnbaum has more than fifteen years of experience consulting with leaders across Europe and the Middle East. His work with three different Israeli Prime Ministers (Benjamin Netanyahu, Ehud Olmert and Ariel Sharon) has given him tremendous insight into Middle Eastern affairs, including the Israeli-Palestinian peace process and counter-terrorism policies.
"It is with pride and excitement that I join the Ben Carson for President 2016 team," said Mr. Birnbaum. "Having worked with several Israeli prime ministers, I have seen first hand how important the U.S.-Israel relationship is. Fundamental to that relationship is the President of the United States. Dr. Carson has a deep understanding of the challenges facing this country and a clear vision for her future. Dr. Carson will be an excellent leader for America, her allies and all those who cherish freedom."
"I am thrilled to count George among my trusted advisors on foreign policy issues," said Dr. Carson. "The challenges facing America today are immense. Whether defeating ISIS and other global terrorists or confronting Russian antagonism in Europe and the Middle East, I am committed to creating a stronger, more engaged United States, as well as rebuilding our vital and honored relationship with Israel. Mr. Birnbaum's expertise will be invaluable in our push to restore America's strength and prominence globally."
Mr. Birnbaum's full bio is available below.
George Birnbaum
Raised in Atlanta, George is the son of immigrants from France and Germany as well as the son and grandson of Holocaust survivors.
In 1998, George began working for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's campaign. He eventually served as Netanyahu's chief of staff, a position he held for a year and a half.
Since then, George has consulted with leaders throughout Europe and the Middle East. They include Prime Minister of Israel Ariel Sharon, Chancellor of Austria Alfred Gussenbauer, Prime Minister of Bulgaria Sergey Stanishev, Prime Minister of Romania Colin Taricaneau, Prime Minister of Kosovo Hashim Thaci and President of Serbia Boris Tadic. He helped elect Nir Barkat as Mayor of Jerusalem in 2008 and helped Avigdor Lieberman's Yisrael Beiteinu party become the 3rd largest party in Israel in 2009 — a position of strength that resulted in Mr. Lieberman's ascension to the position of Foreign Minister in Prime Minister Netanyahu's cabinet.
In 2010, George helped elect Prime Minister Peter Necas in the Czech Republic at a time when the free-market political party ODS was on the verge of losing. In the same year, he helped the center-right Fidesz party win a sixty percent majority in the Hungarian parliament, a record-setting achievement for any political party in any country since the founding of the European Union. In 2014, he helped re-elect Prime Minister Victor Orban in Hungary with a two-thirds majority, making it the first time in European history to re-elect a prime minister with such a large majority.
In 2013, George was integral in advising Prime Minister Netanyahu and Foreign Minister Lieberman of Israel to unite their two parties and run as a single party in the Israeli national elections. The strategy helped re-elect Prime Minister Netanyahu as Prime Minister.
Early in 2015, George worked on the presidential elections in Nigeria as well as the national campaign in Israel that saw Prime Minister Netanyahu re-elected to an unprecedented 4th term.
George has witnessed first-hand the effect of freedom and liberty in countries emerging from the former Soviet Union as well as the transformational power of free market economies.
Having worked with three Israeli Prime Ministers, Benjamin Netanyahu, Ehud Olmert and Ariel Sharon, George has unique insight and perspective into many of the important issues of the day such as the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, fighting terrorism and the Israel-Diaspora relationship.
  