
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with my desire that you be kept informed concerning the situation in Grenada, about which I reported to you on October 25, I am providing this further report on the presence of United States Armed Forces in Grenada.
Since then, the circumstances which occasioned the introduction of United States Armed Forces into Grenada have substantially changed. On November 2, the armed conflict in Grenada came to an end, and our task now, together with neighboring countries, is to assist the Grenadians in their effort to restore and revitalize their political institutions in a stable security environment.
Although it is still not possible to predict the precise duration of the temporary presence of United States Armed Forces in Grenada, our forces are continuing to work closely with other components of the collective security force in assisting the Grenadian authorities in the maintenance of conditions of law and order and the restoration of functioning governmental institutions to the island of Grenada.
All elements of the U.S. Marines and U.S. Army Rangers have now been withdrawn from Grenada; at this time, less than 2,700 U.S. Armed Forces personnel remain on the island. U.S. Armed Forces will continue to withdraw from the island as a part of a process whereby a peacekeeping force, composed of units contributed by friendly countries, takes over these responsibilities. I anticipate that this will be accomplished in the near future and that any members of the U.S. Armed Forces remaining in Grenada thereafter will have normal peacetime assignments, such as training, local security and the furnishing of technical services.
I am satisfied that the objectives of our operation in Grenada, including the protection of U.S. citizens, are being met successfully because of the valor and effectiveness of our forces. I ask for your continuing support as we strive to assist the people of Grenada in their efforts to restore peace, order, and human rights to their island.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
  