
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Manchester, NH Mayor Ted Gatsas. Gatsas, a former New Hampshire State Senate President, will endorse Governor Romney at Chez Vachon in Manchester on Monday.
"Ted Gatsas is an outstanding mayor and a dedicated public servant. As a successful entrepreneur, Ted understands the challenges facing small business owners, and he has supported pro-growth policies that will help them create jobs," said Governor Romney. "I am proud to have earned Ted's support and am honored to have him join my campaign to cut taxes, jump start our economy and restore fiscal sanity in Washington."
Announcing his support of Governor Romney, Mayor Gatsas said, "Mitt Romney has the skills and the executive experience that the next president will need to turn around our struggling economy. After spending 25 years in the private sector as a successful businessman, Mitt knows how to balance budgets, fix broken enterprises and create jobs. He is also the strongest Republican candidate with the best organization to take on President Obama in 2012," said Mayor Gatsas. "I am also impressed with the time and effort that he has invested in New Hampshire. Mitt is running the type of traditional grassroots campaign that Granite Staters expect from presidential candidates and he is working hard to earn the support needed to win the primary."
Background On Manchester Mayor Ted Gatsas:
Mayor Ted Gatsas Is A Lifelong Resident Of Manchester. Gatsas co-founded Staffing Network, an employee-leasing company that grew to be one of the largest employers in New England. Gatsas first took elective office in 2000 as the Manchester Ward 2 Alderman and served 5 terms (2000—2010).  He was also elected to the New Hampshire State Senate representing District 16 from 2000-2009. He served as President of the State Senate from 2004-2006. On November 3, 2009, Mayor Gatsas was elected as Manchester's 47th Mayor and was sworn in on January 5, 2010. He resides in Ward 2 with his wife Cassandra.
  