
    Mitt Romney today announced the endorsement of New Hampshire State Senate President Peter Bragdon (R-Milford). He joins Senate Majority Leader Jeb Bradley (R-Wolfeboro) and Senators Chuck Morse (R-Salem), David Boutin (R-Hooksett), Gary Lambert (R-Nashua), Tom DeBlois (R-Manchester), Jim Rausch (R-Derry), Jack Barnes (R-Raymond) and Russell Prescott (R-Exeter).
"Senate President Bragdon has consistently fought to reduce the size of government and control runaway spending in Concord. He has demonstrated a deep commitment to fiscal responsibility by helping to balance New Hampshire's state budget during challenging economic times without raising taxes," said Mitt Romney. "I am honored to have earned his support and look forward to campaigning with him across the Granite State in the final weeks before the primary."
Announcing his support, Senate President Bragdon said, "Governor Romney has the experience, skills and background required to address the economic challenges facing our country today. As a successful businessman and a fiscally responsible governor, Mitt knows how to balance budgets, cut spending and turn around struggling enterprises. He is head and shoulders above the rest of the Republican field and clearly the strongest candidate to take on President Obama in 2012. He is the right leader at the right time to lead our party and undo the damage caused by the failed Obama economic policies."
Background:
Peter Bragdon was elected to the New Hampshire State Senate in 2004. He became Senate President in 2010 and also serves on the Finance and Internal Affairs committees. In addition to his state service, Bragdon is active in local government, serving as a member of the Milford School Board since 1997. He has been elected chairman by his fellow board members 12 of his 15 years on the board, in recognition of his ability to bring members with diverse viewpoints together to solve major issues. Bragdon also taught high school math for a number of years and published a local newspaper.
  