
    President Bush Called For Mandatory Renewable Fuel Standard And Enhanced CAFE Standards In 2007 State Of The Union Address
"Tonight, I ask Congress to join me in pursuing a great goal. Let us build on the work we've done and reduce gasoline usage in the United States by 20 percent in the next 10 years. … To reach this goal, we must increase the supply of alternative fuels, by setting a mandatory fuels standard to require 35 billion gallons of renewable and alternative fuels in 2017 – and that is nearly five times the current target. At the same time, we need to reform and modernize fuel economy standards for cars the way we did for light trucks – and conserve up to 8.5 billion more gallons of gasoline by 2017. … America is on the verge of technological breakthroughs that will enable us to live our lives less dependent on oil. And these technologies will help us be better stewards of the environment, and they will help us to confront the serious challenge of global climate change."
— President George W. Bush, State Of The Union Address, 1/23/07
The Energy Bill Passed By Congress Contains A Renewable Fuel Standard And Fuel Economy Provisions That Respond To The President's "Twenty In Ten" Vision
President Bush Has Repeatedly Called On Congress Since January To Pass Energy Legislation That Sets A Mandatory Renewable Fuel Standard And Improves CAFE Standards
January 24, 2007: "I put out a mandatory fuel standard. … And to couple that in order to make sure we're 20 percent less dependent in 10 years, I also proposed to Congress that we change the fuel efficiency standards in our automobiles." (President George W. Bush, Remarks On Energy Initiative, Wilmington, DE, 1/24/07)
February 22, 2007: "[W]e set a big goal, really have – reduction of gasoline by 20 percent over the next 10 years. I wouldn't have done that if I didn't think it was achievable. Part of it is to change our CAFE standards on automobiles, which will encourage conservation. The other part is to change the … fuel mix across America." (President George W. Bush, Remarks During Panel On Cellulosic Ethanol, Franklinton, NC, 2/22/07)
March 20, 2007: "Congress needs to pass good bipartisan energy legislation, and they need to do it by the start of the summer driving season. … I do believe we ought to reform the CAFE standards in a way that's based upon size … in order to be able to encourage better mileage. But the big gains in this Twenty Ten program are going to come through by alternative fuels." (President George W. Bush, Remarks On Energy Initiatives, Claycomo, MO, 3/20/07)
March 26, 2007: "I would hope that Congress would move expeditiously on our plan to reduce gasoline usage by 20 percent over the next 10 years. It's in our national security interest that we do this, it's in economic security interest we do it, and all at the same time, it will help us be better stewards of the environment." (President George W. Bush, Remarks At Demonstration Of Alternative Fuel Vehicles, The White House, 3/26/07)
March 27, 2007: Congress "need[s] to pass meaningful energy legislation as soon as possible, all aiming at making sure that we promote technologies that, for the sake of our national security and for the sake of good environmental policy, we reduce the usage of gasoline." (President George W. Bush, Remarks At Demonstration Of Alternative Fuel Vehicles At U.S. Postal Service Facility, Washington, D.C., 3/27/07)
May 14, 2007: "I set an ambitious goal in my State of the Union: to cut America's gasoline usage by 20 percent over the next 10 years. I call this goal 20-in-10, and I have … sent to Congress a proposal that would meet it in two steps: First, this proposal will set a mandatory fuel standard that requires 35 billion gallons of renewable and other alternative fuels by 2017. … Second, the proposal would continue our efforts to increase fuel efficiency." (President George W. Bush, Remarks On CAFE And Alternative Fuel Standards, The White House, 5/14/07)
June 21, 2007: "I laid out a goal that said we're going to reduce our gasoline usage by 20 percent over 10 years as a part of our energy diversification strategy. … I also know we need to change our fuel economy standards just like we did for trucks, and I want to work with Congress to do that as well. … The current plan being debated in the Senate falls far short of the ambitious goal I laid out. … The Senate's proposed fuel mandate, for example, calls for just a 10 percent reduction in gasoline usage by 2017. We can do much better than that." (President George W. Bush, Remarks On Energy Initiatives, Athens, AL, 6/21/07)
September 28, 2007: "We've asked Congress to set a new mandatory – I repeat, mandatory – fuel standard that requires 35 billion gallons of renewable and other alternative fuels in 2017, and to reform fuel economy standards for cars the same way we did for light trucks. Together, these two steps will help us cut America's consumption of gasoline by 20 percent in 10 years. It's an initiative I've called '20 in 10.'" (President George W. Bush, Remarks At Major Economies Meeting On Energy Security And Climate Change, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
November 13, 2007: "When they were elected last November, majority leaders in Congress promised to pass an energy bill to reduce our dependence on oil. I consulted with members of both parties, and in my State of the Union address I proposed a plan to reduce America's gasoline consumption by 20 percent over 10 years. … America clearly needs legislation that expands the use of ethanol and biodiesel, promotes energy conservation, invests in advanced technologies like clean coal and nuclear power." (President George W. Bush, Remarks On The Budget, New Albany, IN, 11/13/07)
December 17, 2007: "[H]opefully this research and development in a relatively quick period will come up with … different alternative sources for ethanol. And I think it will. I really do. Otherwise, I wouldn't have put out the 20/10 initiative." (President George W. Bush, Remarks On The Economy, Fredericksburg, VA, 12/17/07)
In Two Letters To Congress, National Economic Council Director Al Hubbard Reiterated The President's Call For A Renewable Fuel Standard And New CAFE Regime
October 15, 2007: "The Administration submitted 'Twenty in Ten' legislation to Congress earlier this year. … Such a bill would:

"Contain an ambitious alternative fuel standard comparable to that proposed by the President in his 2007 State of the Union.
"Reform and strengthen the fuel economy standard for cars, and maintain separate, attribute-based standards for cars and light trucks, based on sound science, safety, and cost-benefit analysis." (National Economic Council Director Al Hubbard, Letter To House Speaker Nancy Pelosi And Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, 10/15/07)

December 3, 2007: "As part of his State of the Union Address this past January, the President announced 'Twenty in Ten,' a comprehensive vision for a more secure, cleaner energy future. …The President's proposed alternative fuel standard would go farther, faster than the draft legislative provisions now being circulated. … A new CAFE regime can result in more fuel savings with less regulation." (National Economic Council Director Al Hubbard, Letter To House Speaker Nancy Pelosi And Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, 12/3/07)
  