
    SANTA FE, NM-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson received the only "A" rating on a new influential report card that graded Presidential candidates' plans to address energy policy and climate change. The report card was issued by leading energy expert Terry Tamminen.
"Richardson is the only candidate whose greenhouse gas reduction measures are likely to exceed the reductions set forth in his plan," the report states.
It continues: "...his overall approach is the most comprehensive of any plan put forth to date, either in federal legislation or by other candidates for President."
"It is an honor to have my plan recognized as the best by this leading energy and climate expert," Richardson said. "America needs bold Presidential leadership to meet our energy and climate challenges. Americans want action, inspiration, an energy revolution.
"I will provide that leadership and inspiration. I will improve national security, strengthen America's economy, cut energy prices, create choice for consumers, and combat global warming with an aggressive, integrated, comprehensive policy straight from the White House.
"It's time for optimism, technological innovation, and exciting new policy. That's my approach."
Richardson describes his philosophy and ideas in a new book on energy policy: Leading By Example: How America Can Inspire an Energy and Security Revolution, published in November by John Wiley & Sons.
According to his web site, Tamminen's report card "is designed to objectively analyze each candidate's stated positions on climate change." It adds: "The Report Card provides a 'big picture' of each candidate's climate policy by comparing their greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets and timelines, along with any stated climate action plan that would achieve such targets."
The Report Card used S. 309, the Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act ("Sanders-Boxer Act") as a baseline to compare candidates' plans.
According to Tamminen's bio, "He was appointed as the Secretary of the California Environmental Protection Agency http://www.calepa.ca.gov/ in November, 2003, and Cabinet Secretary, the Chief Policy Advisor to the Governor, in December, 2004. He continues to advise Governor Schwarzenegger on energy and environmental policy. In April, 2007, he was named the Cullman Senior Fellow and Director of the Climate Policy Program of the New America Foundation, a non-profit, post-partisan, public policy institute."
You can read about Richardson's energy plan at: http://www.richardsonforpresident.com/issues/energy or in Leading By Example.
The Tamminen Report Card can be viewed at: http://www.terrytamminen.com/reportcard/grading.asp.
  