
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, the Cruz for President campaign responded to false attacks on Ted Cruz from the energy lobbying organization America's Renewable Future:
"We appreciate America's Renewable Future's focus on fairness and market competition and welcome their endorsement of Ted Cruz's Simple Flat Tax Plan which eliminates all energy subsidies, specifically the ones America's Renewable Future seems to find so offensive," communications director Rick Tyler said. "His plan eliminates all loopholes, stops corporate welfare, and specifically allows every company, including ethanol producers, to immediately expense all of their capital costs, treating everyone fairly, without subsidy. Ted Cruz believes the tax code shouldn't pick winners or losers in the market and that all industries should compete on a level playing field. America's Renewable Future appears to share this view, and so we look forward to their full-throated supported for Ted Cruz's tax plan that achieves these goals."

ICYMI: Iowa renewable fuels group releases 'fact-check' on Cruz
Des Moines Register
Iowa renewable fuels group releases 'fact-check' on Cruz
Jennifer Jacobs
December 2, 2015
Cruz on Tuesday asked Iowa radio stations to yank a "false" advertisement paid for by the ethanol-friendly advocacy group America's Renewable Future, arguing that it wrongly claims he'd hypocritically keep subsidies for Big Oil even though he wants to end support for ethanol.
On Wednesday, in response, the advocacy group released a "fact-check" on Cruz, a Republican presidential contender and U.S. senator from Texas.
"It catches Ted Cruz in a lie about his support for oil subsidies," Majda Sarkic, communications director for America's Renewable Future, told The Des Moines Register.
The fact-check says Cruz has spoken in favor of keeping tax deductions that other industries get when they expense certain costs, including the cost of drilling oil wells. Those are tax subsidies — and furthermore, they're subsides that are "widely-accepted as preferences exclusive for the oil and gas industry."
Cruz spokeswoman Catherine Frazier fired back: "Cruz has consistently supported ending subsidies across all energy sectors, and his tax plan would do just that."
His plan preserves a few tax breaks, but none for oil, she said.
"All that remains in terms of subsidies/exemptions" in his tax plan are the Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit, as well as existing deductions for charitable contributions and mortgage interest payments, she said.
"So to suggest that the senator hasn't promoted policy to back up his rhetoric is completely dishonest," Frazier said. "Cruz's tax plan also allows every company, including ethanol producers, to immediately expense all of their capital costs — treating everyone fairly, without subsidy."
  