
    MANCHESTER, NH — Bennet for America today launched its first television ad in New Hampshire as part of its integrated strategy to introduce Michael Bennet to the voters who are just now tuning into the race. The ad — "Opposite of Trump" — makes clear why Bennet is the best person to beat Donald Trump and lead the country forward.
Last week, the campaign announced it needs to raise $700,000 by January 16th to have the resources to compete in New Hampshire, including for the launch of this ad. Today, it made public that because it has hit $165,000 of its goal, it is immediately investing $60,000 in a week-long TV buy in the Granite State and an expanded digital campaign. The campaign will increase its ad buy over the coming weeks as it continues to raise, and intends to reach a six-figure buy.
"Voters are asking one question in this election: Who can beat Donald Trump?" said Bennet for America spokesperson Shannon Beckham. "To beat Trump, we need the opposite of Trump, and Michael represents that in every way. People who are exhausted by the daily circus in the White House are looking for a candidate who will return things back to normal and start to make progress for their families. When Granite Staters meet Michael, they walk away believing he is the leader we need to make that change, and this ad will ensure even more people see why he is the best candidate to take on Trump."
Earlier this month, Bennet announced his commitment to hold 50 town halls in New Hampshire during the final 10 weeks before the First in the Nation primary. With his tally at 21 town halls since then, Bennet is now tied for #1 among Democrats in New Hampshire Public Radio's tracker of events. Bennet will return to the Granite State for a seven-day trip starting December 30, including hosting the first event of 2020 at 12:01 AM on January 1st. The campaign has also announced new endorsements, including Paul LeBlanc, president of Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU), and State Reps. Joyce Fulweiler and Marjorie Smith.
Watch the ad here.
Read a transcript of the ad below.
To beat Donald Trump, we need the opposite of Donald Trump. That's what I am.
Trump has divided our country like no other president. I'll unite the country, and we'll fix it together.
Trump's the first president to take health care away from millions. I have a plan to cover everyone in three years and lower costs, without bankrupting the system.
Trump is a pathological liar. I'll tell you the truth, even when it's hard.
Trump doesn't care about your kids or mine. Every decision I make is for the kids I served as superintendent of the Denver Public Schools. I'll wake up every morning thinking about you and your family, and how to make your lives better.
So if you want a president who's focused on the next generation, and not just the next tweet, then give me a look. I'm Michael Bennet, and I'm running for president.
  