
    SIOUX CITY, IA-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today sharply contrasted his record of leadership with those of the other Presidential candidates during a conversation on education and jobs in Sioux City, Iowa.
"You know, every candidate in this race is asking for the biggest job promotion of his or her life," Richardson said. "So let us look at what the Senate has done in the last twelve months since my colleagues, Senators Biden, Clinton, Dodd, and Obama, took over the leadership of Congress.
"Did they get us out of Iraq? No. Did they scrap No Child Left Behind and reform education? No. Do millions of poor children have the health insurance that they need? No. Did they block an Attorney General nominee who would not say that waterboarding is torture? No. Have they done enough to stop this country from slipping into a recession? No. Are millions of Americans worried about holding onto their jobs and homes and preserving their quality of life? Yes.
"I know that we can do better, and I have done better. In the last twelve months, I have helped shut down North Korea's main nuclear reactor. We have brought back the remains of six American soldiers from that country which had been missing since the Korean War, including those of Corporal Clem Boody of Independence, Iowa, whose funeral I attended last week. I have extended health coverage to every child under the age of thirteen in my state. I have raised teacher salaries. I have cracked down on unscrupulous lenders. I have passed a landmark clean energy bill to create jobs and protect our air quality."
In his speech, Richardson looked ahead to the general election and beyond.
"I am looking forward to putting my record up against Mike Huckabee or Mitt Romney," Richardson said. "We need to put a candidate up against the Republicans who knows how to create jobs. Even more importantly, the next President better know how to. I can tell you from experience: bickering does not create jobs. Speeches do not create jobs. Republicans do not create jobs.
"I am sick of the Republicans painting Democrats as fiscally irresponsible. We created the New Deal. They created the raw deal. We created the Great Society. They created the Great Depression. We created the boom of the 1990's. Over the past seven years, the Republicans have had the worst record of job creation since President Herbert Hoover.
"It is time for a President focused again on working Americans. It is time for a new vision. This vision is not a Republican dream or a Democratic dream. It is not a black dream, a brown dream, or a white dream. It is not a poor dream or a rich dream. It is the American Dream."
To read the full text of Governor Richardson's speech on education and jobs, click here.
To read Governor Richardson's plan for American jobs and the economy, click here.
  