
    Charleston, SC -- Former criminal prosecutor in the Ninth Circuit Solicitor's Office and current South Carolina State Representative Peter McCoy has been named as Lowcountry Chairman for the South Carolina NEWT 2012 effort.
As Lowcountry Chairman, Representative McCoy will serve as a surrogate for the campaign and help direct political efforts throughout the Lowcountry.
Rep. McCoy represents District 115 which currently includes James Island and Folly Beach and will encompass Kiawah Island and Seabrook Island after the 2012 elections. He serves on the powerful Judiciary Committee and is a member of the South Carolina House Sportsment Caucus in the legislature.
No stranger to tough political campaigns, Rep. McCoy defeated an incumbent Democrat in the most watched Statehouse race in South Carolina in 2010.
Adam Waldeck, SC Newt 2012 State Director, welcomed Rep. McCoy to the team and said, "We are lucky to have someone of Rep. McCoy's caliber join us in the fight; the fight to help rebuild the America that we love.  When it gets down to day-to-day campaigning and working for the good of South Carolinians, there is no one more capable than Rep. Peter McCoy."
To his point, during Rep. McCoy's short time in the legislature, he has co-sponsored legislation to shrink the size and reduce the cost of state government, is a Club for Growth "Taxpayer Hero" and has co-sponsored multiple pieces of legislation to create jobs.  In addition he is a 2012 Business Advocate Award recipient for his 100% pro-jobs legislative record from the 2011 session and was chosen by the SC Speaker to represent South Carolina at the 2011 Legislative Leadership Conference.
In accepting his campaign role, Rep. McCoy said, "I look forward to helping Speaker Gingrich win on January 21st and securing the Republican nomination. Moreover, words can't describe how excited I am to watch a Newt/Obama debate. As a former prosecutor, I know that Newt will cross-examine Obama until Obama admits guilt for failing the American people for the past three years, especially since the president will not have a teleprompter to help him."
Representative McCoy was born in Charleston, is a lifelong South Carolinian, and is a small business owner with a private law practice.  He lives in Farmington on James Island with his wife, Jennifer Blanchard McCoy, a former Charleston County Public School teacher and now a criminal prosecutor, and their daughter, Mae Loflin McCoy.
  