
    Des Moines, IA -- Former Senator Rick Santorum today applauded the work of Patriot Outreach and other groups working with veterans, stating that if elected president he would make veterans issues a high priority in his administration.
Meeting with veterans who had gathered at the historic Fort Des Moines Military Museum, the senator commended Patriot Outreach for their work on behalf of those who have defended our freedoms and challenged his fellowRepublican presidential candidates to publicly make the same commitment that he had made.
Senator Santorum said: "If you desire to serve as commander-in-chief of America's military, then I challenge you to follow my example and commit to our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines -- as well as to all our veterans -- that America will keep its promises to those who wear the uniform. Our veterans have a higher rate of unemployment, a higher rate of homelessness, and a higher rate of suicide then most Americans, and this should concern all of us. As President, I will make veterans a high priority. This is not a Republican issue, this is not a Democratic issue, it is an American issue. And as President, I will ensure that those who have served our country will have whatever they need to re-adjust to civilian life."
Santorum continued: "I commend all of you in Patriot Outreach for your tireless efforts to bring help and healing to our veterans. Your work is invaluable. It is essential for the health of our nation."
Rick Santorum is the son of two Veterans Administration professionals, growing up on VA Grounds in West Virginia, Pennsylvania, andIllinois. Rick Santorum saw first-hand the need to honor our veteranswith the respect and dignity they have earned in defense of our freedoms. During his time in the United States Senate, Rick Santorum served on the Senate Armed Services Committee for eight years, where he fought to transition ourmilitary from a Cold War force to a military prepared to deal with the threats of the 21st Century.
  