
    The Clinton campaign today announced its Illinois Hispanic Leadership Council, a group of local Hispanic leaders who support Hillary Clinton.
Citing her as the most qualified and experienced candidate to put an end to the war in Iraq, provide healthcare for every American, and to make college affordable once again, this group of Hispanics are ready to mobilize support for Hillary in their state.
"Senator Clinton has an extensive record fighting for the issues that matter the most to Latino families," said Alderman Danny Solis. "As First Lady and as Senator, she has fought day in and day out, for investments in job training and child care, for an increase in college access for Hispanics, and to provide technical assistance to minority-owned businesses."
"Hillary Clinton has the strength and the experience to bring about the change that our country needs," said Solis. This country is facing serious challenges. The Latino community needs an agent of change in the White House, and that is the kind of President that Hillary Clinton will be, she will always stand up for us," he added.
"I am thrilled to have the support of this group of prominent Hispanic leaders from the state of Illinois," said Senator Clinton. "Too many Hispanic families feel that they are invisible to this president, but when I am president, no American will be invisible."
The Illinois Hispanic Leadership Council Includes:

Antonio Muñoz, State Senator
Martin Sandoval, State Senator, 1st District
Danny Solis, Alderman 25th Ward
George Cardenas, Alderman 12th Ward
Veronica Alaniz, Chicago Housing Authority
Alex Arroyo, Chairman Aurora Democratic Party
Jaime Viteri, Founder of the Chicago Latin Network
Martin Arteaga, Project Manager/Community Leader
Emma Lozano, Immigration Rights Activist
Carmen Velasquez, Healthcare Provider
Teresa Fraga, Pilsen Neighbors Community Council
Roxanne Nava, Assistant Director of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity
Carl Gallman, Director of IAMAW
Mellody J. Gomez, Educator
Charles Hernandez, Democratic Committeeman, Cicero Township
Sylvia Leonberger, Kane County Board Member
Diana E. Lopez, Attorney
Juanita Martinez, Educator
Juan Ochoa, CEO of Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Lilia Paredes, Vice President of the Latin American Council for Latin American Advancement
Lupe Perez, Southside Chicago Leader
Cynthia Robles, Member of the Latin American Council for Latin American Advancement
Augie Sallas, President of the Hispanic American Labor Council
Homero Tristan, Attorney
Jose Zuniga, Public Health Specialist and LGBT
Juan Rangel, President of the United Neighborhood Organization
Amelia Muñoz Tucker, RWDSU
Lizveth Mendez, Latino Affairs Communications Specialist

  