
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Romney for President announced that Chris Nelson will serve as the State Director for Governor Romney's Alaska statewide campaign. Nelson will organize grassroots and volunteer efforts, as well as spread Governor Romney's message for conservative change in Washington.
"Chris Nelson brings experience that is invaluable to our efforts in Alaska," said Governor Romney. "He shares my vision for a strong economy, strong military and strong families for America. He has extensive experience in Alaska politics and will strengthen our team as Election Day quickly approaches."
"Governor Romney is the candidate with the experience, vision and values to lead America," said Chris Nelson. "He will work to ensure the future allows for America to remain prosperous and a nation of strength for future nations. Alaskans can be proud to support Governor Romney because he is the only candidate from outside of Washington who can bring conservative change and build a stronger America."
Background On Alaska Romney For President State Director Chris Nelson:
Chris Nelson Is The Founder Of Christopher Nelson & Associates, A Political Consulting Firm Based In Anchorage. In 2004, he was selected as one of Alaska's 28 Delegates to the Republican National Convention. In addition to his professional campaign work, he has remained a committed Republican volunteer, serving as 21st District Chairman, Vice-Chairman, and Secretary for the Alaska Republican Party. He also served as Executive Director of the party's Victory '98 efforts. In 2004 and 2006, he chaired the committee which wrote the National Defense plank adopted in the Alaska Republican Party Platform.
Over the years, Nelson has suspended his business to serve in responsible positions in state government including Staff Director to the Joint Armed Services Committee of the Alaska Legislature, and Missile Defense Coordinator for the State of Alaska. As a consultant during the 1980s, he worked for Citizens for the Republic, President Reagan's political action committee. A retired Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army Reserve, he is a graduate of the U.S. Army Command & General Staff College, the Air Command & Staff College, and the John F. Kennedy Special Warfare School.
  