
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced his Montana Finance Steering Committee Co-Chairs. Jerome Anderson, Mark Baker, Todd Capser, Mark Lewis, and State Representative Bill Nooney will assist the Governor in building grassroots support and raising the resources necessary to compete in Montana and across the nation.
"I look forward to working with these Republican leaders to raise the resources needed to continue our campaign to bring conservative change to Washington," said Governor Romney. "With their help, we will make sure voters know my optimistic vision for the future of our nation. Together, we will work to make sure Montanans live in an America with a strong economy, strong military and strong families."
"Governor Romney has the experience, vision and values to lead America forward and tackle a new generation of challenges," said Mark Baker. "He is the candidate with a tested and proven record of keeping taxes low and cutting government spending, even in the bluest of blue states. Governor Romney is the Republican candidate that can defeat the Democrats in 2008 and bring conservative change to Washington."
These Finance Steering Committee Co-Chairs join previously announced Romney for President Montana Co-Chairs Governor Tim Babcock and Secretary of State Brad Johnson.
Background On The Montana Statewide Finance Steering Committee Co-Chairs:
Jerome Anderson – Jerome Anderson is a former state legislator and is currently a partner at Anderson & Baker Law Office in Helena, Montana. Additionally, he is on the board of the Montana Petroleum Association. He and his wife, Rita, reside in Helena.
Mark Baker – Mark Baker is a partner in Anderson & Baker Law Office. He previously served on the Montana Finance Committee for Bush/Cheney 04, and was Montana State Co-Chairman for Lawyers for Bush/Cheney 2000. He and his wife, Jennifer, live in Helena and have four children.
Todd Capser – Todd Capser is a former State Director for Senator Conrad Burns. Capser also served as Executive Director of the Rocky Mountain Technology Foundation in Billings, Montana. He and his wife, Erica, live in Billings with their two children.
Mark Lewis – Mark Lewis is the President of Jet Set Sports. Previously, Mark worked for NBC and General Electric as head of their Olympic sponsorship programs. Lewis also led one of the most successful fundraising and marketing programs in Olympic history. These efforts resulted in over $1.5 billion of revenue generation and culminated in the successful conclusion of the 2002 Olympic Winter Games in Salt Lake City, Utah. Mark is married to the former Dawn Allinger, a 1996 Olympian in the sport of Team Handball, and they live in Bozeman, Montana.
Bill Nooney – State Representative Bill Nooney is a third generation Missoulian and represents the people of House District 100. He began his professional career in 1978 with Hi-Noon Petroleum, a family-owned company based in Missoula, Montana. During his 26-year tenure with the company, he served as vice president of Hi-Noon and its related companies. He currently serves on the board of directors of The Montana Petroleum Marketers Association, the Board of the Northern Rockies Wildfire Contractors Association, Hi-Noon Petroleum and Noon's Food Stores. He and his wife have 5 children and reside in Missoula.
  