
    At the invitation of President George W. Bush, President Daniel T. arap Moi of Kenya and Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia met at the White House on Thursday, December 5, 2002.
The leaders reaffirmed their strong commitment in the global war on terrorism. They recognized the significant and unique challenges of fighting terrorism, which continues to pose a serious threat to the region and the world. To this end, the three leaders reaffirmed their commitment to work together and, with the international community, to eliminate terror networks and actively oppose those governments and organizations that support, harbor, or tolerate terrorist activities.
The leaders renewed their determination for lasting peace and security in the region and recognized that freedom and democracy comprise the foundation of these objectives. President Bush expressed his appreciation for the efforts of Kenya and Ethiopia in the peace process in Sudan and the reconciliation process in Somalia. He also indicated his confidence in a smooth election and transition process in Kenya, and the prompt and continuous progress in the Ethiopia-Eritrea peace process as prescribed * in the peace agreement.
The leaders called attention to the food crisis in the Horn of Africa, particularly in Ethiopia, where food shortages are affecting six million people and may eventually expose 14 million people to starvation. The United States will continue to provide food aid and other humanitarian assistance to alleviate the effects of the crisis and calls upon other donor nations to provide substantial emergency assistance. The leaders also agreed to take steps to prevent the recurrence of food emergencies in the region.
The leaders welcomed African development initiatives, such as the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), and called upon African countries to take advantage of opportunities provided by the African Growth and Opportunity Act. They recognized that long-term economic prosperity will require strong leadership at home to promote economic freedom, coupled with support from both local and international communities.
The leaders expressed concern over the devastating effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other infectious diseases in Africa and their impact on social, economic, and security sectors. Kenya and Ethiopia lauded the Bush Administration for its leadership in the global fight against these diseases and for being the largest, single contributor to the Global Fund to Fight HIV/ AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. They resolved to give high priority to the campaign to eradicate these diseases, and the United States reaffirmed its support.
  