
    Today, Edwards also kicks-off "Building a Better America" week to highlight five bold policies that will help restore the American Dream and ensure America meets the moral test of our generation
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – As momentum for the Edwards campaign grows in the early states, today the campaign receives the endorsement of Congressman Bruce Braley, the most senior Iowa Democrat to endorse a candidate during this campaign. Braley will announce his endorsement of Senator John Edwards at a community meeting in Waterloo, Iowa. Braley is supporting Edwards because he believes Edwards is the best candidate to take on the special interests, take back the White House and bring real change to our country.
Today, Edwards also kicks off "Building a Better America" week to highlight his proposals for restoring the American Dream. Edwards has challenged Americans to rise up and meet the great moral test of our time to ensure our generation leaves this country better for our children than it was when our parents gave it to us.
"I'm proud to endorse John Edwards for president," said Braley. "Throughout this campaign, on issue after issue, John has proposed bold ideas to end the power of special interests in Washington and restore our government to the American people. John is the only Democratic candidate who grew up in rural America, and he has most specific, most progressive and most far-reaching ideas. I truly believe he is the best Democratic candidate to lead us to victory in 2008. With his leadership, I believe we can make his vision of One America a reality."
"I am honored to receive Bruce's support," said Edwards. "He is a true leader and a strong voice on behalf of Iowa's families. Bruce is committed to ending the power of special interests and making sure all hard-working Iowans have the opportunity to work hard, get ahead, and leave their children a better future. I look forward to joining with Bruce to change our country."
Braley was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2006 and represents Iowa's first congressional district. He serves on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure where he is Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit. He also serves on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Committee on Small Business, and is the chairman of the Subcommittee on Contracting and Technology. Like Edwards, Braley worked hard to help pay his way through school. After earning a law degree, Braley worked as an attorney to protect workers and hold corporations accountable to their employees and consumers.
To highlight his plans to build a better America where every family has the opportunity to fulfill the American Dream, during "Building a Better America" week, Edwards will highlight five core proposals:


Universal Health Care: Edwards will create a true universal health care system that covers everyone in America, brings down costs, and creates more choices and security.
Good Jobs: Edwards will invest in the good jobs of the future by creating a new energy economy based on clean, renewable energy, rejecting failed trade deals in favor of new smarter trade policies, and eliminating tax incentives for corporations to invest overseas.
Excellent Schools: Edwards will invest in teachers with higher pay and a new National Teachers University, overhaul No Child Left Behind, and invest more to turn around struggling schools. His College for Everyone initiative will let everyone work their way through college.
Affordable Housing: Edwards will help families save for a downpayment with a new Get Ahead tax credit, create 1 million housing vouchers to let families live where they choose, build more economically integrated housing.
Strong Families: Edwards will work with states to offer eight weeks of paid leave to new parents and workers with serious illnesses in the family. He will also create a universal Great Promise program of early childhood education and more than double the child care tax credit.

For more information on Edwards' five core proposals for restoring the American Dream, please see the policy document included below.

Restoring the American Dream
The American middle class is struggling. Wages are stagnant even though the economy is growing while the cost of middle-class essentials like health care and child care continues to grow. Forty percent of economic growth over the past 20 years went to the top 1 percent of households. Families work 10 more hours a week than they did 20 years ago. The basic American bargain – that anyone willing to work hard can build a better life – is breaking down. Today, John Edwards outlined his plan to restore the American dream and meet the moral test passed by 20 generations before us: to leave a better future to our children than we inherited. [EPI, 2006; Census, 2007; DOL, 2007]
Universal Health Care
Forty-seven million Americans live without health insurance. All of us struggle with the skyrocketing costs and inconsistent quality of care in our health care system – a system that fails to ensure that even insured Americans get the care they need. Edwards will create a true universal health care system that covers everyone in America, brings down costs, and creates more choices and security.
Good Jobs
Approximately 25 million jobs are at risk of moving offshore within the next decades, according to the Economic Policy Institute. Edwards will invest in the good jobs of the future by creating a new energy economy based on clean, renewable energy, rejecting failed trade deals in favor of new smarter trade policies, and eliminating tax incentives for corporations to invest overseas.
Excellent Schools
America still has two school systems that are separate and unequal. Every year 200,000 qualified students cannot afford college. Edwards will invest in teachers with higher pay and a new National Teachers University, overhaul No Child Left Behind, and invest more to turn around struggling schools. His College for Everyone initiative will let everyone work their way through college.
Affordable Housing
Affordable housing in safe neighborhoods near good schools and good jobs is a key to opportunity. Homeownership is a cornerstone of the American Dream and helps families build wealth and security. Edwards will help families save for a downpayment with a new Get Ahead tax credit, create 1 million housing vouchers to let families live where they choose, build more economically integrated housing.
Strong Families
Two-third of mothers now work, but American workplace policies are badly outdated. The U.S. is one of only five countries in the world without paid maternity leave. Edwards will work with states to offer eight weeks of paid leave to new parents and workers with serious illnesses in the family. He will also create a universal Great Promise program of early childhood education and more than double the child care tax credit.
  