
    Columbia, S.C. — Herman Cain's South Carolina supporters are flocking to Michele Bachmann as they look for the constitutional conservative to get behind. Today, the Bachmann for President campaign announced 19 former Cain state leaders who have pledged their support for Michele Bachmann, including state representative Ralph Norman, Cain's most high profile supporter.
Representative Ralph Norman (York County) is known as one of the most conservative members of the S.C. House of Representatives. Just last week Norman was named a "Taxpayer Hero" by the S.C. Club for Growth. Today, he was named 5th District Chairman for Michele Bachmann's South Carolina campaign.
"We need a president with the specific ideas to reform our tax code, cut ridiculous spending programs and fight back against currency manipulators like China. We've suffered three long years under a president full of rhetoric. Now we must move past the rhetoric and elect a leader who has been a consistent conservative," Rep. Norman said.
Joining Norman are eighteen other Cain leaders, including Matt Gottlieb, former Herman Cain Richland County Chairman. "I hope voters won't fall for rhetoric and debate performances backed up by a wishy-washy record of supporting bank bailouts and man-made climate change. The best indicator of a person's future actions are their past actions. We need a president who has always been, and who always will be, a consistent conservative," Gottlieb said.
Bachmann said today, "Our phones are blowing up with former Cain supporters wanting to line up behind a true consistent conservative. I won't back down from my conservative beliefs. It is with our campaign that Cain supporters will find a home for their constitutional conservative agenda."
Herman Cain leaders joining South Carolina Team Bachmann include:

Representative Ralph Norman
Erin Ashley, Former Cain Pee Dee and Lowcountry Regional Field Director
Matt Gottlieb, Former Cain Richland County Chairman
Ken Uthe, Former Dorchester County Chairman
Benjamin Boado
George Burbach
Sue Burbach
Jay Kilmartin
Elizabeth Kilmartin
Ed Hartley
Bernard Domblesky
Chris Parker
Laura Sterling
Quinci Martel
John Goerlitz
Tyler Woods
Madeline Buchta
Scott McGee
Shela Morgan

  