
    Dear Mr. Gorrie:
I want to thank the National Security Resources Board and the interested Government agencies for the work they have done in answer to my request for advice regarding actions deemed appropriate in implementing the recommendations of the President's Materials Policy Commission. This evaluation by the Board, together with the individual comments submitted by the agencies concerned with materials and energy policies and programs, represents an important step in marking out the future role of the Federal Government in this important field.
The long-term trend toward scarcity and higher costs of materials for the Nation's rapidly expanding economy can be checked only through new and vigorous policies and actions. The American people, therefore, have an important stake in the development of sound programs in this area. For this reason I believe that the recent report of the Board should be made public at this time so that it may receive full consideration by all groups in the country--both public and private.
The work which the National Security Resources Board and the interested Government agencies have done in following up the report of the President's Materials Policy Commission should facilitate the orderly transfer of policy-making responsibilities in this area to the new Administration. Also this material should prove of significant help in the deliberations at the national conference on materials policy which, I understand, will be convened in Washington early next year.
This Nation will meet the great challenge of world leadership in the years ahead only if it has the vision and courage to adopt constructive programs for the expansion of our economy while strengthening our security. I am sure the report of the President's Materials Policy Commission and the work undertaken by the Federal agencies with a view to its implementation will be counted as important contributions in attaining that basic objective.
A copy of this letter is being sent to the head of each agency which participated with the National Security Resources Board in the development of your report.
Very sincerely yours,
HARRY S. TRUMAN
[Honorable Jack O. Gorrie, Chairman, National Security Resources Board, Washington, D.C.]
  