
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced that former Florida Right to Life President Robin Hoffman has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Hoffman will play an important role in sharing Governor Romney's message of protecting the sanctity of life and strengthening traditional American values with voters in Florida.
"I am very pleased Robin is supporting our campaign in Florida," said Governor Romney. "For nearly twenty years, she has been a steadfast advocate for defending human life. We both agree that strengthening our families, military and economy, protecting marriage and human life and preserving our freedoms are all vital for strengthening our country."
"As we face unprecedented domestic and global challenges, it has never been more critical to elect a viable conservative Republican nominee that can bring together social conservatives, fiscal conservatives and defense conservatives," said Hoffman. "Governor Romney is the one candidate that can unite all these elements of our party to lead us to victory in November. I am committed to working to share Governor Romney's vision of bringing true conservative change to Washington with voters across the Sunshine State."
As a former president of Florida Right to Life, a nonprofit, nonpartisan, grass-roots public service organization, Hoffman led efforts to protect and foster the most basic value of our society – life itself – through education and legislation.
Background On Robin Hoffman:
Robin Hoffman Is The Immediate Past President Of Florida Right To Life. She has been actively involved in the pro-life movement since 1988. Hoffman is also the past president of the St. Johns County Right to Life and currently serves as Treasurer for the local chapter. Hoffman served on the Florida Right to Life PAC committee for more than 10 years, and also lobbied on the organization's behalf. She has been actively involved in many campaigns including serving as a volunteer for the campaigns of Governor Jeb Bush. Hoffman resides in St. Augustine, Florida, and is the married mother of two children.
  