
    To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice and consent to ratification, a Protocol amending the Convention between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Norway signed at Oslo on December 3, 1971, which Protocol was signed at Oslo on September 19, 1980. I also enclose, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Department of State.
The Protocol modifies the existing convention between the United States and Norway. It takes into account changes in Norway's tax system during the years since the Convention was negotiated and otherwise brings it up to date.
In 1975, Norway amended its corporate tax in several ways to increase the burden of that tax on corporations deriving income from the extraction of offshore oil and gas. The 1975 legislation also added a special tax on income from submarine petroleum resources. Article I of the Protocol clarifies certain questions arising from these changes by providing foreign tax credits with respect to the corporate tax and the special tax, with a limitation for taxpayers subject to the special tax to the amount necessary to offset United States tax on the petroleum income from sources within Norway. This limitation is similar to that contained in the Third Protocol to the income tax convention between the United States and the United Kingdom.
The Convention does not provide specific rules to determine when a country has the right to tax income resulting from the exploration or exploitation of its continental shelf and its natural resources. Article II of the Protocol allows Norway and the United States to impose a tax on income derived from the exploitation or exploration of natural resources on their respective continental shelves after such activities have existed for more than 30 days in a twelve month period. With respect to income from employment in such activities, however, an exemption is provided for wages attributable to sixty days of personal services performed in the taxable year.
In addition, the Protocol modifies the rate of withholding tax at source on dividends and interest and allows the United States to tax gains from the sale of shares in companies whose assets consist principally of United States real property. It also contains other provisions, including a new provision on the tax treatment of entertainers and athletes and clarifies provisions on administrative cooperation.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to the Protocol and give advice and consent to its ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
December 2, 1980.
  