
    

   




As Commander-In-Chief, Governor Huntsman will offer a clear plan for Afghanistan that ends nation building and offers a sensible end point to this war. Governor Romney has been all over the map on Afghanistan and will abdicate leadership as Commander-In-Chief, instead leaving the strategic choices to the military alone.






Romney Claimed It Was "Time For Us To Bring Our Troops Home As Soon As We Possibly Can" Only Months After Claiming To Support A Longer-Term Presence In Afghanistan:
In June 2011, Romney Claimed It Was "Time For Us To Bring Our Troops Home" From Afghanistan. "Mitt Romney's hint in Monday night's Republican debate that he's eager to pull the plug on the war in Afghanistan left some of his GOP allies puzzled, Democrats sensing an opportunity, and his staff working to explain what he meant. ‘It's time for us to bring our troops home as soon as we possibly can — as soon as our generals think it's okay,' Romney said. ‘One lesson we‘ve learned in Afghanistan is that Americans cannot fight another nation's war of independence.'" (Ben Smith, "Mitt Romney's Afghanistan Remark Stuns GOP Pals," Politico, 6/14/11)
Just Months Earlier, Romney Had Claimed He Supported A Longer-Term Presence In Afghanistan And Noted That It Was His Desire To "Support The People Of Afghanistan And Not To Leave." "At one point, Romney said he supports a longer-term US presence in Afghanistan and asked Afghans for their own suggestions about how the United States can help overcome the raging insurgency and endemic corruption here. … ‘It is my desire and my political party's desire to support the people of Afghanistan and not to leave,' Romney said in response to a question about whether the United States was going to pull out of the country soon. ‘So we look to you to tell us the best ways that we can support you.'" (Farah Stockman, "Romney Discusses Democracy With Young Afghan Leaders," The Boston Globe, 1/14/11)
Gov. Huntsman Has Consistently Called For A "Safe But Rapid" Withdrawal From Afghanistan:
Gov. Huntsman Supports A "Safe But Rapid" Withdrawal From Afghanistan. HUNTSMAN: "The war in Afghanistan is an asymmetrical war, and our approach ought to adjust accordingly. Our troops have done everything we've asked them to. They've routed the Taliban, dismantled Al Qaeda, and facilitated democratic elections. Now it is time we move to a focused counter-terror effort which requires significantly fewer boots on the ground than the President discussed tonight. We need a safe but rapid withdrawal which encourages Afghans to assume responsibility, while leaving in place a strong counter intelligence and special forces effort proportionate to the threat." (Jon Huntsman For President, "Statement By Jon Huntsman On The President's Afghanistan Announcement," Press Release, 6/22/11)
  