
    Thank you all very, very much Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished Italian guests, ladies and gentlemen:
President Leone was the first state visitor that I had the high honor and rare privilege to welcome as President of the United States. Tonight we are once again celebrating the official visit of a very distinguished Italian leader, our guest tonight, Prime Minister Andreotti. These two visits symbolize the very close friendship of our two countries and the continuity of American support for a very trusted and valued ally.
Earlier this autumn we welcomed the visit of the Italian First Lady, Mrs. Vittoria Leone, who added her grace as well as her friendship to the already impressive Italian contribution to our Bicentennial. The performances of the La Scala Opera, the loan of the Venus de Medici to our National Gallery, Italian participation in the "Tall Ships" review and many other Bicentennial activities were symbols of what Americans have gained from our relationship. For this the American people are most appreciative and deeply in debt to the people of Italy and to your Government.
The gift that Mrs. Leone presented on behalf of the Italian people, a portrait of Thomas Jefferson, which hung for nearly 200 years in the Convent of Lodi, today hangs in the Oval Office in the White House complex. This is a treasured reminder of Italian-American friendship.
Mr. Prime Minister, for two centuries Italian culture has enriched the life of the United States with many, many unique contributions. Historians point out that Thomas Jefferson, in writing the Declaration of Independence, drew on the wisdom of his Italian friend, Filippo Mazzei, in the drafting of several very, now immortal phrases. As a matter of fact, our Capitol Building is enhanced by Italian art and Italian artisans. The very name America commemorates an Italian.
Along with Italy's cultural contributions came millions of American immigrants. America is very, very proud of its citizens of Italian origin. I happen to believe this is perhaps Italy's greatest contribution to America, and we are truly grateful for it.
We Americans have tried to reciprocate, Mr. Prime Minister, by showing the Italian people how much we value them as our friends. This was the spirit behind the Marshall plan, and it was demonstrated again last May when an earthquake struck in northern Italy, in Friuli. The response of the American people, our Congress, the executive branch, was immediate. Legislation was enacted in record time, and Senator Pastore was one of the initial authors of that legislation. That contribution has been helpful in the construction or reconstruction of schools and hospitals in that part of Italy. It has helped to rebuild the lives and the homes of those people who were unfortunately the victims of that earthquake.
Mr. Prime Minister, present conditions pose a very severe challenge to the industrial democracies of the West, many of which have suffered from recession, unemployment, inflation, and the abrupt and steep rise in energy costs.
As we noted this morning, Mr. Prime Minister, this is particularly a challenging time for Italy. But your government reacted vigorously and your government acted resolutely. I and, I believe, most Americans are tremendously impressed by your efforts and your successes. Under your continuing strong leadership I am confident that Italy can return to a balanced growth and economic vitality. This is important to Italy, but it is equally important to America-in part because of the vital interests we share as industrial democracies.
The American people have made clear their commitment to democracy and democratic methods. I am equally convinced that Italy will maintain its very strong commitment to the common goals that we share as partners in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization--a secure peace, democratic freedom, and economic well-being for all of our people.
Mr. Prime Minister, I know that you are an admirer of the great Roman statesman, Cicero--his words, and I quote, "When good men of like character are joined in friendship, there we find the noblest and the strongest union." In the discussions that we had this morning following your coming to the White House, we had an opportunity to reinforce my conviction that his words aptly describe the relationship between our two people.
It is with pleasure and a great deal of confidence, Mr. Prime Minister, that I express the continued best wishes of the American people as well as the continued full support of the United States of America, our Government, for your Government and the policies that it is following.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me in a toast to the Prime Minister of Italy, to the enduring friendship between our two countries, and to our mutual commitment to peace, freedom, and progress for all mankind.
  