
    We have been working every day to deliver for America's farmers just as they work every single day to deliver for us.President Donald J. Trump
SUPPORTING AMERICA'S FARMERS: President Donald J. Trump is signing the 2018 Farm Bill to support America's hardworking farmers.

President Trump is signing the 2018 Farm Bill Conference Report recently passed by a joint, bipartisan majority of Congress.
The Farm Bill provides critical funding for the United States Department of Agriculture and provides support, certainty, and stability to our Nation's farmers. The bill will:

Extend farm support programs and improve crop insurance
Maintain vital disaster programs to ensure our farmers and agricultural producers are well-prepared to weather market disruptions
Promote agricultural exports and opening of new markets for America's farmers
Expand rural broadband development and dedicate resources to fight the opioid crisis
Promote voluntary conservation, outdoor recreation, and better water infrastructure
Encourage forest management partnerships with States and localities


For the first time since 1990, a farm bill has been enacted the same year it was introduced.

REFORMING SNAP: The Administration is also proposing a new rule to promote responsible stewardship of taxpayer resources and economic independence for Americans.

Although the Farm Bill enhanced Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) program integrity, it missed an opportunity to close loopholes that trap Americans in poverty.
The Administration's new proposed rule includes commonsense measures that update the criteria States use to waive work requirements for able-bodied adults without dependents.

In 2016, almost 2.8 million Americans on the SNAP rolls were able-bodied adults, without dependents, who were not working.
With unemployment at a generational low, SNAP recipients who can work should.


The proposed rule will end the shameful practice of exemption hoarding that allowed States like California to bank hundreds of thousands of waivers over the years.
A significant portion of SNAP participants are children, elderly, or disabled, and we want to ensure they have access to the food they need.
While a permanent legislative solution would be preferred, the proposed rule represents important reforms to SNAP and is projected to save taxpayers $15 billion over ten years.

WORKING FOR RURAL COMMUNITIES: The Administration's actions are just the latest in President Trump's mission to put our rural communities back on track.

President Trump has overseen vital investment in rural infrastructure and expanded rural broadband by cutting red tape and catalyzing private investment.
The President has expanded access worldwide for American agricultural products.
President Trump authorized over $12 billion in aid to assist American farmers facing unjustified retaliatory tariffs imposed by other countries.
The recent roll back of Obama-era Waters of the United States (WOTUS) regulations will reduce regulatory compliance costs for rural communities and business owners.
President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law, expanding the estate exemption—a change so important to family farms across America.

  