
    Mitt Romney today announced the endorsement of Florida political leader Susie Wiles. Wiles will serve as a Co-Chair of Romney for President's Florida Advisory Council.
"On the issues that I have been fighting for in my campaign, Susie has been a leader and advocate in Florida and across the country for years," said Mitt Romney. "The addition of Susie to my Florida campaign adds to a growing and strong campaign team. With her support and the hard work of my Florida team, we will defeat President Obama, fix our nation's economy, stop the growth of government, and bring jobs back to Florida. I am proud to have her support."
Announcing her support, Susie Wiles said, "As this campaign has progressed, I have had an opportunity to observe each of the candidates and it is clear to me that one candidate stands out from the rest: Mitt Romney.  Governor Romney is a conservative businessman who knows what it takes to turn our economy around.  He has demonstrated the stability, intellect and integrity that Republicans are looking for in their standard bearer. And perhaps most importantly, he will take the battle to President Obama's doorstep and ensure that Barack Obama is a one term president."
Background on Susie Wiles:
Susie Wiles has been an advocate for conservative and philanthropic causes for years in Florida and across the country. Wiles was previously National Campaign Manager for Governor Jon Huntsman's presidential campaign. Wiles served as Florida Governor Rick Scott's successful 2010 campaign manager. She has served three Jacksonville mayors in various roles including Chief of Staff and Communications Chief. In addition to her service for Florida elected officials, Wiles worked in the White House under President Ronald Reagan and in the U.S. House on the staff of Congressman Jack Kemp. Wiles is a member of the Jacksonville Women's Network and also serves on the executive board of Preservation North Florida and on Republicans for Environmental Protection. She is a Governor's appointee to the executive committee of the Republican Party of Florida
  