
    Yesterday, Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to Charlotte, North Carolina to discuss how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will benefit North Carolinians. This visit was a part of her continued efforts to advocate for the Administration's policies that invest in our nation's infrastructure, take climate action, and advance environmental justice. Vice President Harris was joined by Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg and Congresswoman Alma Adams.
While in Charlotte, the Vice President received a tour of the public transit facility at the Charlotte Area Transit System's Bus Garage, met with transit workers, and delivered remarks about how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will upgrade North Carolina's infrastructure.
See below for coverage of yesterday's trip:
WBTV: 'America is moving again': VP Harris promotes infrastructure law in Charlotte[Sharonne Hayes and Brad Dickerson, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris came to the Queen City Thursday to talk about the White House's newly-signed infrastructure bill. […]
With a Charlotte transit bus behind her, Harris proclaimed that "America is moving again" after the passage of the infrastructure act."For millions of Americans, public transportation is part of their day every day," she said. Harris noted that N.C will receive $910 million for public transit over the next five years, money that will benefit places like the Queen City. "World-class cities like Charlotte deserve world-class transportation systems," Harris said.
Congress passed the $1 trillion plan on Nov. 6 and President Biden signed it on Nov. 15. WBTV previously reported North Carolina will get billions of dollars for roads, bridges, and high-speed internet access. According to the White House, over the next five years, N.C. will get more than $7 billion for highways to address more than 3,100 miles of roads in poor condition.
The Charlotte Observer: 'America is moving again.' In Charlotte, Harris touts infrastructure spending[Will Wright, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris visited Charlotte on Thursday to promote a newly-approved infrastructure spending plan — a key piece of legislation for President Joe Biden's administration and one that will bring billions to North Carolina.
Her visit also aimed to drum up support for the administration's next big priority: its $1.85 billion social policy bill. That would focus on reducing the cost of healthcare, child care and address climate change, among other things.
The infrastructure bill, she said, was "Part 1 of 2," with the Build Back Better social bill being the latter.
WWAY: VP Kamala Harris promote Biden's infrastructure package in North Carolina[WWAY News, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris went to Charlotte Thursday to pitch President Joe Biden's $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill to North Carolinians.
Harris was joined by Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg and Rep. Alma Adams, D-NC, assure state residents that the new infrastructure package will speed up long-neglected public works projects and create good-paying union jobs in the state.
She also toured the public transit facility at the Charlotte Area Transit System's Bus Garage and met with transit workers. There, she saw how Charlotte has emphasized making public transit more accessible for people who use wheelchairs, and how the city has used CARES act funds to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in public transportation.
Fox 8: VP Kamala Harris touts infrastructure law, tours electric vehicle operations Charlotte CATS bus garage[Ciara Lankford, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris visited Charlotte Thursday to promote the recently passed Infrastructure law that will provide $910 million for public transportation in North Carolina over the next five years. […]
Vice President Kamala delivered remarks on how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will upgrade the country's infrastructure and create jobs.
"We need to get to fixin' all of these things," she said. "We need to get this fixin' done."
WFAE: Kamala Harris, Pete Buttigieg tout $1.2 trillion infrastructure law in Charlotte visit[Steve Harrison, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris touted the Biden administration's $1.2 trillion infrastructure law during a stop in Charlotte on Thursday, saying robust transit systems help low-income workers. Harris and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg visited the Charlotte Area Transit System light rail maintenance facility on South Boulevard. Harris said the bipartisan law will include more than $900 million for transit systems in North Carolina.
"For millions of Americans, public transportation is part of their day — every day," Harris said. "And a bus stop within walking distance can make all of the difference versus a bus stop you have to walk for half an hour to get to."The new infrastructure law has billions for roads and bridges, transit, high-speed internet and passenger rail. It also has money to build charging stations for electric vehicles, and for "resilient infrastructure" that can withstand the impacts of climate change.
Spectrum News 1: 'Historic investment': VP Harris, Buttigieg visit N.C. to talk infrastructure[Charles Duncan, 12/2/21]
Harris was in Charlotte to talk about the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, a $1 trillion spending plan designed to upgrade the nation's highways, bridges and public transit, and help expand broadband access that the president signed into law last month.
"The bottom line is this: World class cities like Charlotte deserve world-class transit systems, and this law is going to help you build those systems," Harris said, speaking outside in front of a Charlotte Area Transit System electric bus.
WRAL: VP touts infrastructure plan's benefits in NC stop[Matthew Burns, 12/2/21]
North Carolina families will see a myriad of benefits from President Joe Biden's two-part plan to boost the nation's physical and human infrastructure, Vice President Kamala Harris said Thursday during a brief visit to Charlotte.
Harris, U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Gov. Roy Cooper and 12th District Congresswoman Alma Adams toured a transit facility in Charlotte before touting the benefits of the $1 trillion Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which was signed into law last month, and the proposed $2.2 trillion Build Back Better Act, which still must clear the Senate.
"America is moving again because, ultimately, that's what infrastructure is all about: Getting people moving," Harris said. "Infrastructure gives people what they need to get people where they need to go."
ABC 11: VP Kamala Harris visits Charlotte to spell out how infrastructure package can help North Carolina[Jonah Kaplan, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris arrived in North Carolina for the first time since her inauguration but was in a familiar campaign mode pushing the Biden administration's domestic agenda.
"This is a day that we are celebrating, as we will continue to do, the passage of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act." Harris said after touring a hybrid bus depot in Charlotte. "America is moving again because ultimately that's what infrastructure is all about - getting people moving."
Nearly $1T will be moving too, as the law which passed with bipartisan support will pour cash into repairing roads, bridges, tunnels, ports, highways, sewer lines, rail tracks, runways and everything in between.
"People rely on public transportation for all kinds of reasons: to get groceries, get to school on time, get to work on time, and get to church on time," the vice president added. "For millions of Americans, public transportation is part of their day, every day."
Roll Call: Harris and Buttigieg team up to pitch infrastructure[Niels Lesniewski, 12/2/21]
In her remarks, Harris pivoted to a sales pitch for the climate, social and economic reconciliation packed that has passed the House and is the topic of discussion in the Senate, framing it in part as an effort to bring costs down for families.
"It's not right that families have to choose to either buy groceries or pay for health care, to either fill up their tank or pay their rent, and so our Build Back Better Act will bring down health care and housing costs also," she said. "What we are doing with Build Back Better is saying we need to meet the needs of working families, and we must address the current and immediate needs while not neglecting the needs that are quickly becoming a crisis for us."
WSOC: VP Harris visits Charlotte, spells out how infrastructure law can help NC[WSOC, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris was in Charlotte on Thursday, along with U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, to highlight the new bipartisan infrastructure law and how it will upgrade infrastructure and union jobs in North Carolina.During her visit, Harris laid out the critical need for infrastructure upgrades in Charlotte and across the country. […]
Harris also checked out the city's transportation system, which stands to get a big boost under the new $1.2 trillion infrastructure law.
WBTV: Vice President Kamala Harris talks to WBTV News about infrastructure bill during visit in Charlotte[Jamie Boll, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris visited Charlotte Thursday with U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg. They were here to highlight the passage of the long talked about $1 trillion infrastructure bill.
It was a bill that was passed with support from Republicans, including three of the four GOP Senators representing the Carolinas. Only Tim Scott in South Carolina voted no.
  