
    Good evening.
Today I announced my candidacy for reelection, and so I speak to you tonight as President of the United States of America and also as a candidate. This is a paid political statement, but it is not a campaign speech.
Our American political system—one of the great miracles in the history of civilized human activity—runs on a schedule. My announcement could not be postponed. In just a few days, those who would enter early State primary contests must file as candidates, and then those of us who run for President must stand before the people for election.
During the campaign, we will take our record to you—what we have done in the past and what we propose for our Nation's future. We will be talking about a nation strong and at peace, about our demonstrated willingness to face tough problems with courage, about jobs provided for our people, and about restoring a sense of trust and confidence in our own Government.
With calm, strong, and effective leadership, with a prosperous and expanding economy, with inflation and energy shortages behind us, with people believing again, we can set our course for the kind of future about which we have all dreamed. I will discuss these themes with you, and I will do it effectively, but I will not do it tonight.
I was scheduled tomorrow to begin a week-long political tour to set the tone of the reelection campaign for 1980. It was also, to be frank about it, a money-raising trip. While there are certain clear advantages to campaigning as President, they are symbolic and historic rather than financial. The President, like all other candidates, needs campaign contributions.
My campaign travels must be, for a time, postponed. I must remain here, near the White House, because of the situation in Iran. While the crisis continues, I must be present to define and to lead our response to an ever-changing situation of the greatest sensitivity and importance.
I am proud—but not surprised—at the quiet unity of the American people over the past 4 weeks as we have faced this outrageous situation together. Not since Pearl Harbor, some 40 years ago, have we felt such a nationwide surge of determination and mutual purpose. But I must warn you that this crisis may not be resolved easily or quickly. It is possible that in the days ahead, our patience and sense of unity may waver as frustration builds up among us. I am determined to do everything I can to have the hostages released as soon as possible.
At the height of the Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln said, "I have but one task, and that is to save the Union."
Now I must devote my concerted efforts to resolving the Iranian crisis. The overriding fact is that 50 of our fellow Americans have been unjustifiably thrust into agony and danger, and I have a personal responsibility to get them out of that danger as fast as possible.
During this crisis I will, of course, continue to perform the many other tasks that are part of my job as President. And though I cannot yet campaign, myself, we will carry out our campaign duties as best we can under the circumstances. Vice President Mondale, my wife, Rosalynn, and members of my family, and other friends and supporters across the Nation will have to replace me until I can be on the campaign trail myself. Until then, I need your understanding, your help, and your support.
Thank you, and good night.
  