
    More than a dozen unions, nearly 6 million members now behind Hillary
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Service Employees International Union Locals 1199 and 32BJ. Combined, the two unions represent more than 400,000 members in the health care and property service sectors across the Northeast.
"Throughout her decades in public life, Sen. Hillary Clinton has been a consistent, leading voice for providing high-quality healthcare for all Americans," said George Gresham, President of 1199 SEIU United Healthcare Workers East. "The time has come to provide universal health care coverage for all Americans, and I'm confident that she is the best person to finally realize this noble goal. On behalf of our 300,000 members, I'm proud to endorse Sen. Clinton for the highest office in the land."
SEIU 1199 is the largest and fastest growing health care union in the country, with more than 300,000 members in Massachusetts, Maryland, New York and Washington, DC.
"Senator Hillary Clinton stands out as the most qualified and experienced candidate to lead our country," said Mike Fishman, President of Local 32BJ SEIU. "Her experience in the White House and Senate, her record on key labor issues, including employee free choice, and her strong support from rank and file members make Senator Clinton our union's clear choice for President."
SEIU 32BJ is the largest property service workers union in the country with more than 100,000 members in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and Washington, DC.
"I'm very proud to have the support of the hard-working men and women of SEIU Locals 1199 and 32BJ," Hillary Clinton said. "Together we will fight for economic security for all and universal health care that covers every American."
Clinton has been endorsed by more than a dozen unions totaling nearly 6 million members, including: Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union; International Associations of Machinists and Aerospace Workers; Transportation Communications Union; National Association of Letter Carriers; International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers; American Federation of Teachers; the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees; Sheet Metal, Air, Rail and Transportation Workers; Amalgamated Transit Union; and the Office and Professional Employees International Union; and the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts
  