
    Between October and November, unemployment claims fell in 40 states, with eight states reaching or matching their lowest levels since data was first collected in 1976. No states reported an increase in unemployment and in nearly every state, payroll figures increased.
These figures demonstrate the growing strength of the American economy and the Biden Administration's success in getting people back to work.
Thanks to the President's economic plan and his success in getting Americans vaccinated, the unemployment rate nationally has dropped to 4.2% since he took office -- the fastest single-year decline in history and a rate that independent forecasters projected we wouldn't reach until 2024. In addition, wages are up, nearly six million jobs have been created, and new unemployment claims have dropped to their lowest four-week average in over a half-century.
Read More Below:
Bloomberg: Unemployment Rate Falls in Nearly All States, 8 at Record Low[Reade Pickert, 12/17/2021]
The unemployment rate fell in nearly every U.S. state last month, including in eight states where it dropped to a record low.
Nebraska, with a jobless rate of 1.8%, had the lowest in the country, followed closely by Utah at 2.1%, according to Labor Department data out Friday. Arkansas, Georgia, Montana, Oklahoma, West Virginia and Wisconsin also posted record lows.
Meanwhile, payrolls increased in nearly every state in November, underscoring the continuing recovery of the nation's job market. While millions of Americans remain out of work or on the sidelines, the report emphasizes just how far employment has climbed back since the start of the pandemic.
[...]
The state data follows the national jobs report, which earlier this month showed that the U.S. unemployment rate fell to 4.2% in November and payrolls climbed less than expected. Job openings jumped in October to the second-highest on record while quits dropped for the first time since May, according to nationwide data released last week.
  