
    
  Nation's Pre-eminent Voice on Marriage & Family supports Cruz for President

HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Dr. James Dobson, one of the nation's most trusted spokesmen and advisors on marriage, child development and the family.
Dr. Dobson is the founder and president of Family Talk, where he produces a radio program heard on 1300 outlets around the world and on the Internet. Dobson has advised three presidents on matters pertaining to marriage and the family. He is the author of more than 30 books dedicated to preserving and equipping families, including classics such as Love Must Be Tough, Love for a Lifetime, When God Doesn't Make Sense, The New Dare to Discipline, Bringing Up Girls, Bringing Up Boys, and Your Legacy: The Greatest Gift.
"Ted Cruz's record on religious liberty, life, and marriage is second to none in this Republican field," Dobson said. "I have met with the senator on multiple occasions: he is brilliant, articulate, and informed. Shirley and I have been praying for a leader such as this, and we are confident that Ted Cruz has the moral and spiritual foundations to lead our nation with excellence. Speaking as private individuals, we urge conservatives and people of faith to join us in supporting his race for the presidency."
Dobson earned a Ph.D. in child development from the University of Southern California and holds 17 honorary degrees. In 2008 he was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame.
"Dr. Dobson has mentored and encouraged three generations of American families," Ted Cruz said. "Dr. Dobson's wisdom and common sense have inspired health and healing in millions of lives. He has rallied people around the world with a vision for happy marriages and beautiful home life. I am deeply grateful for Dr. Dobson's gift to the world – he has been a voice of hope and a guide to many of us, and I am thrilled to have his support."
Dr. Dobson is married to Shirley Dobson, the Chairwoman of The National Day of Prayer Task Force. Shirley and her team sponsor tens of thousands of prayer gatherings annually, in which millions of Americans participate in prayer for the nation. Together the couple authored Nightlight: A Devotional for Couples. They are the parents of two children and have two grandchildren.
*Titles and affiliations of Dr. James Dobson are provided for identification purposes only.
  