
    Greenville, SC - Newt 2012 announced today that William W. "Billy" Wilkins and his wife Debra D. Wilkins have committed to serve as the State Chairs for the South Carolina Newt 2012 presidential campaign. As Chairs, the Wilkins will help guide the South Carolina campaign and recruit support, both politically and financially, throughout the state.
 
Mr. Wilkins is partner at the Carolina based law firm of Nexsen Pruet, former Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and former Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission. He is most recently known for playing a pivotal role in Boeing's decision to locate in South Carolina.
"It is an honor and privilege to serve, along with my wife, as State Chairs of the South Carolina effort.  Under Newt's leadership as Speaker of the House the budget was balanced for the first time in a generation, welfare was reformed, and taxes were significantly cut.  Newt Gingrich has experience, knowledge, and a strong work ethic— just the kind of track record we need to reverse our stagnant economy and get America growing again."
 
Debra Wilkins, also with Nexsen Pruet, seconded Judge Wilkins statement and added, "Newt is the leader we need at this time.  He has strong conservative credentials as well as visionary ideas that will help transform and grow our economy.  In addition, he has proven that he is able to execute his ideas with remarkable results."
The Wilkins have served in volunteer leadership capacities throughout the state, country, and their profession. Mrs. Wilkins is a past member of the Board of Visitors of the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston, SC, and a past Board Member of the Upstate Affiliate of the Susan G. Komen for the Cure in Greenville, SC.  She was an organizer of Touchmark Bancshares, Inc. and Touchmark National Bank in Norcross, GA, and a founder and director of Coastal Carolina Bancshares, Inc. in Myrtle Beach, SC.
In addition to his distinguished legal career spanning four decades, Judge Wilkins holds the retired rank of Brigadier General, after serving 27 years in the U.S. Army (active and reserves) and in the South Carolina National Guard.  He spent two years on active duty, 14 years as a member of the Judge Advocate General Corps of the Army Reserves and 11 years as the State Judge Advocate for the S.C. National Guard.  He has received numerous decorations and awards, including the prestigious Legion of Merit for meritorious service.
  