
    Paul is steadily on the rise as his Republican competitors continue to flash and falter
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul polls a strong second place in a new poll commissioned by the influential Des Moines Register newspaper, revealing that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has steadily grown his support base in the first-in-nation voting state.
Paul garnered 18 percent among likely Republican caucus goers, close behind Newt Gingrich who earned 25 percent. With 16 percent of the vote, Mitt Romney was the only other candidate to attract double-digit support. Especially noteworthy is that Paul, with respect to Iowa poll results, has steadily gone from low, to middling to top-place showings.
"The rise of Congressman Paul's poll numbers reflects our hopes for strong, steady growth minus the media- and pundit-influenced volatility other candidates suffer. We want to continue growing our support base incrementally and maintain the faith and trust voters put in us as they carry us toward a respectable caucus finish," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"The Iowa team is plugging away using traditional retail politicking but we're buoyed by unconventional interest in, and support for, Ron Paul. We take today's poll news as a compliment but we do not take it lightly, as we're working hard in the weeks leading up to the caucus," added Drew Ivers, Iowa chairman for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign.
The Des Moines Register poll was conducted from November 27th to the 30th and is based on interviews with 2,222 registered Republican and independent voters in Iowa ages 18 or older, of which 401 are likely caucus goers. Questions asked of the 401 likely Republican caucus goers have a margin of error of +/- 4.9 percent. Other results based on smaller samples have a wider margin of error. Poll results are as follows:
Gingrich 25%
Paul 18%
Romney 16%
Bachmann 8%
Cain 8%
Perry 6%
Santorum 6%
Huntsman 2%
More detailed poll results will be released tomorrow, Sunday, December 4th, sometime in the morning.
  