
    
  What They're Saying...

"Christie Is Good. Speaks To Ordinary Americans. That Matters."
"Wow [Christie] Is Killing It With This Straight Talk To American People"
________________________________________
National Review's Rich Lowry: "I suspect that christie answer punched through"
The Washington Post's Robert Costa: "Christie isn't running tonight as a gregarious blue-state gov. He's running as a stern fmr US atty who has dealt with terrorist suspects."
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review's SalenaZito: "@ChrisChristie takes the national security to the household impact"
The Weekly Standard's Jim Swift: "Strong Christie. Good eye contact. Compelling message."
The Wall Street Journal's Daniel Nasaw: "Strong words from New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who in his opening statement says the Obama administration has "betrayed" the U.S."
National Review's Jay Nordlinger: "Christie going after the Dems: smart. (Anticipating the general.)"
National Review's Jim Geraghty: "So far I liked Christie's opening best, discussing the kids in the LA school system. Fresh, not canned."
London Policy Center's Derk Jan Eppink: "Chris Christie made a powerful opening statement. Keep eye on him; rising in New Hampshire and may get in top tier."
The Houston Chronicle's Brian M. Rosenthal: "Having watched all of these debates, I personally think Christie is a pretty good orator too."
Los Angeles Times' Mike Memoli: ".@GovChristie does the ripped-from-the-headlines opening statement on LA school closure. 'We will fight terrorists and win again.'"
National Review's Wesley J. Smith: "Opening statements go to @marcorubio and @GovChristie."
"Christie Sounds Very Reasonable On Homeland Security"
The Washington Post's Jennifer Rubin: "Christie slamming Hillary for tying herself to Obama"

"Christie just slamming both senators.. none of these guys ever made a decision"

Council on Foreign Relations' Max Boot: "Christie sounds very reasonable on homeland security"
National Journal's Josh Kraushaar: "Christie showing clear command on national security. Weaves personal story and draws sharp contrast w Obama"
Yahoo News' Hunter Walker: "Christie's attack on Congress is potent."

"Christie, Rubio, and Cruz are a lot better at this than their non-Trump rivals."

National Review's Rich Lowry: "Christie is always very good at belittling exchanges that the other candidates have"

"I imagine Christie scored with that answer"

Daily Caller's Jamie Weinstein: "Good answer by Chris Christie. He stole the NSA part of the debate with this answer"
Stuart Rothenberg: "Smart move by Christie. Action. Leadership. Bam!"
The Iowa Republican's Craig Robinson: "Classic @GovChristie one of the most talented politicians out there. #score"
The Washington Post's Ed O'Keefe: "BOOM: Christie: "If your eyes are glazed over like mine, this is what it's like to be on the floor of the United States Senate."
NBC News' Chuck Todd: "Christie has an 'edge' to him tonight. On national security, should play well with primary voters but needs to be careful of looking too hot"
Philadelphia Inquirer's Cynthia Henry: ".@ChrisChristie goes after U.S. senators, says they lack executive experience to lead"
Ari Fleischer: "As much as that was a good debate, Christie followed as a strong chief executive. Good move, good statement by Christie."
CQ Roll Call's Catalina Camia: "Christie just slammed the US Senate at #GOPDebate and got big applause @CQnow"
Fox News' Richard Grenell: ".@ChrisChristie is very good when he minimizes senators who just vote and showcases governors who have to manage programs."
MSNBC's Kasie Hunt: "Chris Christie demonstrating that he has some of the best natural political skills onstage tonight"
The Weekly Standard's Stephen Hayes: "Christie smart to take on Congress (always a good move), but the details of these intel programs really do matter."
Fox News' Bernard Goldberg: "Christie is good. Speaks to ordinary Americans. That matters. Let's see if it helps him."
ABC News' Rick Klein: "Christie wielding a powerful weapon against Cruz, Rubio, Paul: Not being in the US Senate."
Rupert Murdoch: "First half most applause for Rubio and Cruz, enough for Trump, Carson. Christie pushing hard, good debater."
Jon Thompson: "Smart for @ChrisChristie to focus on chief executive doers over Senate talkers. Govs take action!"
Huffington Post's Lauren Weber: "Chris Christie lands a blow on the D.C. crowd."
Daily Caller's Jamie Weinstein: "Good answer by Chris Christie. He stole the NSA part of the debate with this answer"
G.W.U. Institute for Public Diplomacy and Global Communication's Philip J. Crowley: "The contrast between Chris Christie and Ben Carson is striking. One is leading the conversation and the other is trailing behind."
Hot Air: "Christie tees off on the three Senators debating the minutiae of these bills, and says none of them had to 'make a tough executive decision in their lives.' Gets a huge cheer. Hard not to see that as a home run for Christie."
FiveThirtyEight: "At some point, this primary becomes about being electable. Chris Christie has helped himself on that end"
U.S. News' Boris Epshteyn: "Wow @GovChristie is killing it with this straight talk to American people #eyesglazingover"
The New York Times' Adam Nagourney: "Chris Christie is making the most of his return to the adult table so far -- in no small part because of the mini-Senate procedural debate."
CNN's Alex Castellanos: "GOP wants Pres big as our fears, strong as our adversaries. So far @GovChristie @marcorubio passing test. Jeb good moments"
NBC News' Luke Russert: "Christie attacks Senators for lack of executive decision making in light of terror threat. Good tactic. Decent debate for him so far"
The Washington Post's Chris Cillizza: "Debaters, ranked: 1. Rubio 2. Cruz 3. Christie"
CNN's Manu Raju: "Christie sharpens attacks against senators. Says the three 'spend their life debating' bills that go nowhere"
The Houston Chronicle's Vernon Loeb: "Christie is effective, describing the difference between a US atty and a senator, a member of the big debating club"
NBC News' Kailani Koenig: "Christie has been strongly echoing trail focus lately: terror, strong emphasis on time as fed prosecutor, mocking the U.S. Senate"
  