
    This week, leaders across the AA and NHPI community praised the Biden-Harris Administration's new White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI). The initiative, co-chaired by Secretary Xavier Becerra and U.S Trade Representative Ambassador Katherine Tai will focus on implementing a whole of government agenda to advancing equity, justice and opportunity for Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Island (AA and NHPI) communities across the country.
Click here to learn more about the initiative.
See below for what they are saying:
AA and NHPI Members of Congress
Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chairwoman Judy Chu: "From his very first days in office, President Biden demonstrated a commitment to helping the AANHPI community, taking action to address hate crimes and creating a new White House senior advisor position for AANHPI issues. Now, with the official launch of the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI), he is fulfilling one more promise to ensure more access to federal resources for these communities. First established by President Clinton, this initiative has helped elevate AANHPI issues throughout the federal government, and now I'm proud to see it expanding under President Biden to focus on health equity and pandemic response, two areas where AANHPIs are disproportionately at risk. I am pleased to see the Initiative re-establishing their federal interagency working group and their regional network to ensure that our communities all across the country see their voices and needs reflected throughout our federal government. Today's announcement is a reaffirmation of the President and Vice President's dedication towards solving issues that impact the AANHPI community, and I look forward to our future collaborations. I am also thrilled to congratulate U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai on her appointment as co-chair of WHIAANHPI. She and Secretary Becerra are very well aware of our communities' needs and have the experience and knowledge necessary to chair this Initiative. Finally, I proudly congratulate Krystal Ka'ai, former CAPAC Executive Director, on her role as the Executive Director of WHIAANHPI, where I know she will continue to elevate the AANHPI community and ensure our needs are heard and understood at the highest levels of government." [Statement. 12/9/21]
Congressman Ted Lieu: "As the fastest growing minority group in the nation, Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders make invaluable contributions to our country. Pleased @WhiteHouse & @HHSGov have officially launched @WHIAANHPI to help address issues facing #AANHPI communities." [Tweet, 12/10/21]
AA and NHPI State and Local Elected Officials
Northern Mariana Islands Governor Ralph Torres: "The Biden Administration's move to establish the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is extremely important for the territories as we battle the COVID-19 pandemic. I look forward to working with WHIAANHPI co-Chair HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra and incoming co-Chair U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Katherine Tai whose role may help to address the challenges facing trade and transportation in the Northern Mariana Islands (NMI). The initiative's newly established federal Interagency Working Group and Regional Network may be instrumental in moving the NMI's agenda forward through a whole of government approach. As I've experienced over the years, this is an effective approach when addressing policy issues, program development and ensuring access to critical federal resources that benefit our community; in this case Asian Americans and native Pacific Islanders living in the commonwealth." [Statement. 12/9/21]
California AG Rob Bonta: "Excited about this new @WhiteHouse effort to advance equity, justice, & opportunity for our #AANHPI communities. I look forward to continued partnership w/ CA's own @SecBecerra, as he co-chairs the #WHIAANHPI to improve access to gov't resources & protect the rights of all. [Tweet. 12/9/21]
Hawaii Senate President Ronald D. Kouchi: "Mahalo nui to President Biden and his administration for relaunching the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI). This whole-of-government approach to support AANHPI communities across the country will ensure we have a collective voice at the federal level. The appointment of Hawai?i natives, Krystal Ka?ai and Erika Moritsugu to key White House positions and the administration's decision to change the name of the Initiative to explicitly include Native Hawaiians is testament to President Biden's promise to elevate the voices of our most underrepresented communities. The Hawai?i State Senate looks forward to collaborating with WHIAANHPI and its federal partners to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for our AA and NHPI communities." [Statement. 12/9/21]
California Asian American & Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus: "Thank you President Biden for relaunching WHIAANHPI and for being a consistent leader for the AAPI community. Early on you stood with us against hate and passed the Hate Crimes Act. Now, you are ensuring a national voice for all AAPIs," said Senator Richard Pan (D-Sacramento) and Assemblymember Evan Low (D-Silicon Valley). "California is home to over six million AAPIs and has one of the largest AAPI Legislative delegations in the nation. WHIAANHPI has been a valuable partner and we look forward to continuing our efforts to address and advance the needs of the AAPI community." [Statement. 12/9/21]
Virginia Senator Ghazala Hashmi: "Delighted to see the re-launch of @WHIAANHPI, under the leadership of @SecBecerra and @AmbassadorTai. The new WHIAANHPI is charged with driving an ambitious, whole-of-government agenda to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for AANHPI communities." [Tweet. 12/9/21]
California Assemblyman Phil Ting: "Great to see the launch of the White House initiative ensuring federal resources are available to all Asian Americans, Native Hawaiian & Pacific Islander communities. @SecBecerra & @AmbassadorTai will lead efforts to #StopAAPIHate & advance equity, justice & more! @WHIAANHPI" [Tweet. 12/9/21]
California Assemblyman Evan Low: "Thank you  @AmbassadorTai & @SecBecerra for your vital leadership to #StopAsianHate by relaunching the @WHIAANHPI. We need to prioritize the health & safety of the #AAPI community through equity, justice & ending xenophobia stigma tied to #COVID19" [Tweet. 12/9/21]
Massachusetts Rep Tram Nguyen: "Thrilled to learn about the re-launch of @WHIAANHPI,led by @SecBecerra and @AmbassadorTai. This whole-of-government approach is needed for equity and justice for the many-faceted AANHPI community. Watch the announcement at 2:30pm ET here: hhs.gov/live.#WHIAANHPI" [Tweet. 12/9/21]
Kauai Mayor Derek S. K. Kawakami: "On behalf of the County of Kaua'i, I am thrilled to see the Biden Administration organize a national approach to combat anti-Asian bias and promote inclusion and opportunity for Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders. This initiative will ultimately promote inclusion and belonging for all Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities and we look forward to seeing them in effect. We are eager to work with the Biden Administration and Executive Director Krystal Ka'ai to implement our shared goals of advancing equity, justice, and opportunity for communities like Kaua'i and our entire state." [Statement. 12/9/21]
AA and NHPI Stakeholders
National Council of Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA): "The formal launch of WHIAANHPI and the relaunch of the Federal Interagency Working Group and Regional Network are important and essential steps in combating racism, xenophobia, and intolerance against AANHPIs. We deeply appreciate President Biden and Vice President Harris' efforts to engage with our coalition to reimagine this initiative. NCAPA also applauds the leadership of WHIAANHPI's Co-Chairs, U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai and Secretary of Health and Human Services, Xavier Becerra, and Executive Director Krystal Ka'ai. AANHPI communities must be a part of the recovery plan. We look forward to future collaborations with the Initiative to promote access and equity for AANHPI communities." [Statement, 12/9/21]
John Yang, President and Executive Director, Asian Americans Advancing Justice – AAJC: "We are excited to begin working with WHIAANHPI to ensure coordination between government agencies, national groups, and community organizations. Advancing Justice – AAJC also applauds the selection of WHIAANHPI's co-chairs Katherine Tai, the first woman of color to head the Office of U.S. Trade Representative, and Xavier Becerra, a former Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus member and ally to the Asian American community. With longtime Asian American rights champion and civil rights advocate Krystal Ka'ai as the Executive Director, we are confident that WHIAANHPI will fulfill its mission to better serve the AANHPI community." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Alvina Yeh, Executive Director, Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance (APALA): "We celebrate the launch of WHIAANHPI and look forward to working in collaboration with the White House. This is an important way to ensure our national agenda includes the priorities and needs of immigrant workers, low-wage workers, women workers, and other AAPI workers who are the backbone of our communities. Further, we congratulate the appointments of US Trade Representative Katherine Tai, the first woman of color to assume this position, and Executive Director Krystal Ka'ai, long-time community member as former Executive Director of CAPAC. It is critical that we invest in AAPI policy advocacy at the highest level." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Tavae Samuelua, Executive Director, Empowering Pacific Islander Communities (EPIC): "This is an exciting time and there are so many great possibilities that can come from this relaunch. Of course, we've been especially heartened to have Krystal Ka'ai's leadership as the first NHPI Executive Director ever since her appointment was announced earlier this year, and we look forward to working together to achieve better outcomes for all our communities." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Christine Chen, Executive Director, Asian Pacific Islander American Vote (APIAVote): "Today, we are excited by the official launch of the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI) under the Biden Administration. Since its creation during the Clinton Administration in 1999, WHAANHPI has been one of the most important platforms our communities have to ensure the needs of our communities are heard throughout the halls of the federal government, as well as to encourage AANHPIs to become civically engaged and get involved in public service. We are pleased WHIAANHPI is expanding to explicitly include Native Hawaiians, and that it re-establishes the interagency working group and regional network to ensure federal agencies work more effectively to serve the AANHPI community." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Norman Chen, CEO, The Asian American Foundation (TAAF): "Today's official launch of the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI) marks a significant boost to our nation's response to COVID-19 and the shared effort of creating a more equitable society. TAAF applauds HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra and Ambassador Katherine Tai, who we believe will do an exceptional job of leading his Initiative and driving necessary investments in our communities. For AAPI communities who have long been denied the chance to thrive in the way that all Americans deserve, this type of representation helps foster a much-needed sense of belonging." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Sung Yeon Choimorrow, Executive Director, National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum (NAPAWF): "I am excited to see Ambassador Tai and Secretary Becerra take on leadership roles dedicated to advancing a government-wide agenda for AA and NHPIs. From expanding language access to underscoring the importance of data disaggregation, I look forward to continuing our work together to improve the lives of AA and NHPI women and girls. Ambassador Tai is one of the highest ranking Asian American officials in the Biden Administration and the first woman of color to serve as the U.S. Trade Representative. Throughout his career, Secretary Becerra has been a longtime champion for AA and NHPI communities. By appointing two cabinet members to lead the Initiative, the White House is sending a strong signal on the importance of this work and the growing influence of AA and NHPI communities." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Chiling Tong, CEO/President, The Asian & Pacific Islander American Chamber of Commerce & Entrepreneurship (National ACE): "Our business community continues to face many challenges. AANHPI small business owners have battled both COVID-19 and a sharp spike in discrimination and violence. The relaunch of WHIAANHPI will play a significant role in protecting our community, allowing our small businesses to operate safely, and creating prosperity. Too often, Asian Americans, Pacific Islanders, and Native Hawaiians are seen as a monolith. WHIAANHPI's commitment to disaggregate data on AANHPIs will reveal the unmet needs of our community so we can find solutions. National ACE looks forward to working with WHIAANHPI to advance solutions that will help our economy move forward." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Juliet Choi, President and CEO, Asian & Pacific Islander American Health Forum (APIAHF): "We applaud the move of the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders to HHS and the announcement of the co-chairs, who have long supported community issues that matter to us. The relaunch of the Initiative, with tremendously qualified leaders at the helm, showcases the Biden-Harris administration's commitment to carry out its ambitious agenda to address longstanding concerns for AA & NH/PI communities." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Adam P. Carbullido, Director of Policy and Advocacy, Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations (AAPCHO): "AAPCHO applauds the Biden administration for formally launching WHIAANHPI within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). We also welcome Ambassador Katherine Tai as the Initiative's new co-chair. New and longstanding inequities in health, data disaggregation, language access, racial bias and discrimination, and other social determinants continue to challenge Asian Americans (AAs), Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (NH/PIs), requiring persistent and coordinated action across government. Community health centers and other community based organizations are important community leaders in addressing these disparities, and we encourage WHIAANHPI and its regional network to ensure strong and inclusive dialogue and engagement with them. AAPCHO and our member community health centers look forward to working with Secretary Becerra, Ambassador Tai, and Executive Director Ka'ai on behalf of AAs and NH/PIs across the nation." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Neil Makhija, Executive Director, Indian American Impact (IMPACT): "We're thrilled HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra and USTR Ambassador Katherine Tai are co-chairing and relaunching the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI). We look forward to working with the Initiative to advancing equity, justice, and opportunity for our communities, and ensuring that the American Dream is within reach for all Americans." [Tweet, 12/9/21]
Madalene Xuan-Trang Mielke, President and CEO, Asian Pacific American Institute for Congressional Studies (APAICS): "We applaud the move of the Initiative back to HHS and the expansion of the name of the Initiative to explicitly include Native Hawaiians. Our community has faced tremendous hardship over the past years, especially with COVID-19, and this move signals that the Biden-Harris administration is listening, and taking steps to address the key concerns for everyone in our community - including on issues like data disaggregation, tackling the model minority myth, and health equity. Our community has been under consistent attack from hateful, xenophobic, and frankly, racist rhetoric. There is a dire need for leaders who can champion us, and we give our full faith and support of the co-chairs and Krystal to lead the Initiative and represent our community fully." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Seema Agnani, Executive Director, National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development (National CAPACD): "We are thrilled that President Biden is launching WHIAANHPI, a critical body in advancing racial equity in our country and one that is inclusive of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities. Under the strong leadership of Secretary Xavier Becerra and Ambassador Katherine Tai, as well as Krystal Ka'ai, and based within the Department of Health and Human Services, WHIAANHPI will be very well positioned to advance a strong health equity policy agenda. We are confident they will lead WHIAANHPI to ensure low-income AANHPI neighborhoods and communities not only recover, but are able to thrive. We look forward to working with the commission and its leadership to meet this crucial moment in our history." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Kiran Kaur Gill, Executive Director, Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund (SALDEF): "WHIAANHPI has played a key role in national federal engagement with the Sikh American, Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander community over the years. We thank the Biden Administration for restructuring the Initiative to actively address the needs of the AANHPI community. The restructured Initiative, housed in Health and Human Services and with reestablished federal interagency and regional networks, will be in a better position to work with our communities. SALDEF congratulates HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra and U.S. Trade Representative Katharine Tai on their appointments as Co-Chairs of the Initiative. We are thankful for the continued leadership of WHIAANHPI Executive Director Krystal Ka'ai. The Sikh American community is well served by the leadership of these three individuals, who have long-standing relationships with and a deep understanding of the needs of our community. We look forward to working with the Initiative and its new leadership." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Quyen Dinh, Executive Director, Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC): "We applaud the Biden Administration for relaunching this vital initiative. At a time when many Southeast Asian Americans are grappling with the physical, mental, and economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and ongoing systemic injustices, this is an important opportunity for our voices to be included in the decisions that impact our lives. We appreciate the Administration for working with members of the National Council on Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA), including SEARAC, and are excited to be a part of the work ahead." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Zheng Yu Huang, President, Committee of 100: "Committee of 100 is pleased to see the Biden administration commit resources and leadership to the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI). For centuries now, the Chinese American and AAPI community has been seen as the perpetual foreigner, strangers in our own homeland. We at Committee of 100 look forward to working with WHIAANHPI Co-Chairs HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra and United States Trade Representative Ambassador Katherine Tai, and we commend the Biden-Harris administration for taking important steps in a long journey to bring real, positive change for the Chinese American and AAPI community." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Japanese American Citizens League (JACL): "JACL celebrates the formal re-launch of the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI) and the Federal Interagency Working Group (IWG) and Regional Network (RN). Previous iterations of the initiative existed under former administrations, however, we particularly wish to acknowledge the expanded inclusiveness of Native Hawaiians. We welcome the addition of Ambassador Katherine Tai as co-chair of the initiative and look forward to her leadership with co-Chair Secretary Becerra and Executive Director Krystal Ka'ai. JACL has valued our longstanding relationship with Secretary Becerra since his leadership in the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) and with Ms. Ka'ai when she served as executive director for CAPAC and look forward to continued collaboration. We celebrate Ms. Ka'ai's status as the first Native Hawaiian and Japanese American to serve in her role. We also recognize Ambassador Tai as the first woman of color to serve in her role as United States Trade Representative and as the highest-ranking Asian American in the Biden Administration." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Linda Ng, National President, OCA-Asian Pacific American Advocates: "We applaud the Biden-Harris administration for its deep commitment to support and elevate our communities. The launch of the White House Initiative on AANHPIs is a much-needed step that ensures the federal government has a comprehensive strategy to combat anti-Asian bias, address health and economic disparities, and provide aid as AANHPI families recover from the pandemic" [Statement, 12/9/21]
Julie Ajinkya, Senior Vice President & Chief Strategy Officer, APIA Scholars: "APIA Scholars has had a long history working with WHIAANHPI and wish to congratulate the leaders and celebrate the launch of this important initiative. We look forward to seeing the legacy of advocacy and critical work on behalf of the AANHPI community accelerated in the next year as we recover from the pandemic. Heartfelt congratulations!" [Statement, 12/9/21]
Priya Purandare, Executive Director, National Asian Pacific American Bar Association (NAPABA): "We celebrate the official launch of the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders, which comes at a crucial time for our communities who continue to face barriers to access and opportunity. The inclusion of Native Hawaiians is a welcome addition, reflecting the rich diversity of our country. We look forward to working with the Initiative to provide recommendations and improve their commitment to mitigate anti-Asian bias and advance equity across all sectors of our government." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Dr. Tung Nguyen, Chairman, AAPI Victory Alliance: "We are thrilled that the White House Initiative is being led by Secretary Becerra, Ambassador Tai, and Executive Director Ka'ai. As an organization that was started by former commissioners of the Initiative, we are keenly aware of its power in changing policies that affect the lives of AANHPIs, and we look forward to working with the Initiative leadership to synergize our work." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Rod Lew, Executive Director, Asian Pacific Partners for Empowerment, Advocacy, and Leader (APPEAL): "APPEAL would like to extend our deep gratitude for the launch of WHIAANHPI as a key voice within the Biden Administration. The purposeful inclusion of Native Hawaiians and the appointment of HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra, US Trade Representative Katherine Tai, and Executive Director Krystal Ka'ai shows steps towards ensuring equity. We are ready to continue the important work of bringing Asian American and Native Hawaiian & Pacific Islander voices to EVERY table." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Tim Hur, President, Asian Real Estate Association of America (AREAA): "The White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders is definitely a big step in the right direction. In our mission to promote sustainable AAPI homeownership, AREAA has always been a major proponent towards policy changes that would meet this end. AAPI individuals face unique barriers on the path to homeownership, and we support the administration's efforts to increase focus on these issues. Extending accessibility to the AAPI community is a crucial subject, and we look forward to the continued work of the Biden administration with members of the National Council on Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA)." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Kenrick Ross, Executive Director, National Queer Asian Pacific Islander Alliance (NQAPIA): "As an organization advocating on behalf of the country's rapidly growing and diverse LGBTQ+ Asian and Pacific Islander communities, NQAPIA applauds the launch of WHIAANHPI. We have already engaged with WHIAANHPI to highlight specifically LGBTQ perspectives and issues within AANHPI communities, including a landmark gathering of LGBTQ+API leaders during Pride Month, and we look forward to building upon that relationship." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Brendan Flores, National Chair, National Federation of Filipino American Associations (NaFFAA): "The Filipino American community appreciates the zeal and focus of the Biden Administration to assign senior leaders from different departments to address the concerns of AANHPIs. We pledge to continue to work with The White House initiative on efforts including:

To improve safety, access to justice, and violence prevention for AA and NHPI communities, including by preventing, reporting, addressing, and better tracking acts of hate and bias (such as acts of hate and bias at the intersection of gender-based violence)
To promote inclusion and belonging for AA and NHPI communities, including by expanding public education and knowledge of AA and NHPI people and their diverse cultures, languages, and histories
To identify ways to foster the recruitment, career and leadership development, retention, advancement, and participation of AA and NHPI public servants at all levels of the Federal workforce

We look forward to AANHPIs being an active part of the recovery of the economy, as they have been in addressing the health crisis of the pandemic. We also look forward to the reestablishment of the White House Commission on AANHPIs next year." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Anjuli Amin, Ph.D., President, Asian American Psychological Association (AAPA): "The Asian American Psychological Association (AAPA) supports and applauds the efforts of the Biden Administration to relaunch this initiative. We are hopeful that this will serve as an important step in the inclusion of AANHPI voices as we move towards healing our communities from the devastating impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and continued social injustices. We look forward to the continued work between the Administration and members of the National Council on Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA)." [Statement, 12/9/21]
Dr. Marielle A. Reataza, Executive Director, National Asian Pacific American Families Against Substance Abuse (NAPAFASA): "We applaud the Administration's launch of this initiative. While COVID-19 has hit all Americans with unprecedented challenges, we appreciate the Administration's recognition of the difficulties that are unique to Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders. Community-building and re-building are truly necessities during this time, and we look forward to the progress needed to serve and heal our communities." [Statement, 12/9/21]
ActToChange: "We're thrilled to see the launch of the @WHIAANHPI, co-chaired by Sec. Becerra & Ambassador Tai. With #AANHPI youth at an increased risk of #bullying, the launch of the Initiative sends a strong message that our youth and our voices matter. #ActToChange" [Tweet, 12/9/21]
Indiaspora: "Congratulations to HHS Sec. @XavierBecerra and USTR Amb. @AmbassadorTai! We look forward to working together with @WHIAANHPI to advance equity and increase representation of the Indian diaspora community on the national and global stage." [Tweet, 12/9/21]
United Chinese Americans: "Congratulations to you both! @AmbassadorTai @SecBecerra @WHIAANHPI @WhiteHouse @ErikaMoritsugu" [Tweet, 12/9/21]
  