
    
  Good turnout for Kasich town hall despite weather
  Kasich says he's the GOP opponent Democrats would least like to see in election
  By Josh McElveen

WMUR: Despite lousy weather conditions Tuesday in New Hampshire, Republican presidential candidate John Kasich drew a sizable crowd to his event in Nashua.
The Ohio governor has started to creep up in the polls of late, but he said he believes the big surprise will be on primary day when voters check the ballot and their conscience.
"I've got like 40 days left in this thing and I'm going to just have a ball," said Kasich.
The Nashua event was Kasich's 47th town hall meeting of the campaign in the Granite State. He said that over that time he has gotten a pretty good handle on what voters are thinking.
Throughout the race, Kasich has talked about his record and resume. He typically points to an economic revival in Ohio and before that, a balanced budget in Washington while he was in Congress.
And while he understands money is part of the game, he's says he's not selling anything.
"I think you think that the whole thing is a rip-off. That you don't have a voice. That there is somebody who's powerful or somebody else pulling the strings. And that you don't get a fair shot," said Kasich. "People give me money, God bless them. But you're hiring me as a CEO... My job is to go fix problems."
During a taping of CloseUP airing on Sunday, Kasich said he acknowledged he needs to be a story coming out of the primary, and while he avoids personal attacks on the current front-runner, he's convinced polls don't reflect what people want.
"I just don't think America is to the point where people want to go in and vote for somebody who is that much of a divider. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think so," Kasich said.
Kasich is also convinced he's the candidate who Democrats would least like to see in the general election, as a candidate who has managed to earn support by putting problem-solving over party affiliation.
"As president, I can see him saying, ‘What are the issues of my country that I need to help for everybody to benefit?'" said Dan Moriarty, Nashua alderman.
Kasich will wrap up a two-day trip to New Hampshire with town hall meeting No. 48 in Keene Tuesday night.
He will return to the Granite State early next week.
  