
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate John William Loyd to be the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Oklahoma. Loyd has served with the U.S. Marshal's service since 1987 and is currently a Criminal Investigator. He was a Police Officer with the Muskogee Police Department from 1979 to 1987, and previously served as Deputy Sheriff in the Muskogee County Sheriff's Department. Loyd is a graduate of Oklahoma City University.
The President intends to nominate William Smith Taylor to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Alabama. Mr. Taylor has been employed by the Office of the Attorney General of the State of Alabama as a law enforcement liaison official since 1995. From 1969 to 1995, he served with Jackson Police Department in Jackson, Alabama, where he rose through the ranks to Chief of Police. Taylor is a graduate of Choctaw County High School in Butler, Alabama.
The President intends to nominate Brian Michael Ennis to be United States Marshal for the District of Nebraska. He is presently a Deputy U.S. Marshal for the District of Oklahoma and has served in the U.S. Marshal's office in Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C. in the past. From 1988 to 1991, Ennis was a Security Protective Cadet in the Department of Defense, National Security Agency. He is a graduate of Keystone Oaks High School in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Chester Martin Keely to be United State Marshal for the Northern District of Alabama. Keely has served with the City of Mountain Brook Police Department since 1969, and was promoted through the ranks to Chief of Police. He is a graduate of Samford University and Birmingham School of Law.
The President intends to nominate David Donald Viles to be United States Marshal for the District of Maine. Viles has been Deputy Safety Director with Pottle's Transportation since 1999. From 1979 to 1999, he served with the Maine State Police, rising through the ranks to Lieutenant Colonel. Previously, he was a Patrolman with the Madison Police Department and a Deputy Sheriff with the Somerset Sheriff's Office. Viles is a graduate of Carrabec High School in North Anson, Maine.
  