
    To the Congress of the United States:
It was just three years ago that I signed into law the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. Since that time, we have made significant progress toward our goal of a safe and healthy workplace for every worker in America.
Today, I am submitting the second President's Report on Occupational Safety and Health, outlining the activities which have taken place under that new Act in calendar year 1972. The achievements of that year indicate that the goals of the Act are becoming realities.
For example, many States have developed or are now in the process of developing their own occupational safety and health plans in accordance with the Act. As these plans are approved and carried out, enforcement will begin to shift from the Federal Government to the States with no loss in effectiveness.
Because public cooperation is vital to the success of the program, I am gratified by the support which has been extended to this program by the news media, by the professions, and by the general public. I am particularly pleased to note the cooperation and support which industry and labor organizations have given to these efforts.
The breadth and complexity of the Occupational Safety and Health Act have inevitably made it the focal point for controversy and criticism. I believe, however, that such criticism can be helpful as we work to improve our programs and as we modify and update its standards and regulations.
This year's report includes preliminary data from the first occupational injury and illness survey conducted under the new record-keeping procedures required by the Act. This data will be helpful in providing a basis upon which to judge the effectiveness of our efforts to reduce work related injuries, illnesses and fatalities.
This report also reflects the added emphasis which has been placed on occupational health during the past year. Research in this area has increased in response to a growing awareness of the tragic toll taken by employee exposure to toxic substances and unhealthful physical environments.
Also included is the first report of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission, a wholly independent agency created by the Act to adjudicate citations and proposed penalties issued by the Department of Labor when they are contested by employers and employees.
This detailed account provides a useful overall view of the program and its accomplishments in 1972. It offers, too, a glimpse of what lies ahead as we work to assure safe and healthful working conditions for all of our country's working men and women.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
December 20, 1973.
  