
    
  Nation's Oldest Right to Life Organization Supporting Thompson

McLean, VA - Today Fred Thompson received the endorsement of the Virginia Society for Human Life, the oldest right to life organization in the country and the state's affiliate of the National Right to Life Committee. This represents the ninth state right to life organization that has followed the lead of the National Right to Life Committee in endorsing Senator Thompson for President.
"Fred Thompson is a stellar candidate for President of the United States," said VSHL President Brenda Fastabend. "Fred Thompson's one hundred percent pro-life voting record compiled during his eight years of service in the U.S. Senate, speaks volumes for his integrity and statesmanship. In the eyes of Virginians who care about the dignity and sanctity of human life and the most basic freedom upon which our nation was founded, the right to life, Fred Thompson is a leader of great promise for the office of president."
Virginia Society for Human Life, Inc., is a voluntary and non-denominational organization united in the belief that the human being in his innate dignity and worth should be safeguarded by law at every stage of biological development. Through education and legislative activity, the Society's purpose is to promote measures which will insure protection for all innocent human life.
"I'm blessed and honored to have the endorsement of the Virginia Society for Human Life for President of the United States," said Senator Thompson. "Virginia Society for Human Life is the oldest right to life organization in the country, and they know I stood with them yesterday, I stand with them today, and will stand with them tomorrow. VSHL and right to life organizations coast to coast who have endorsed by candidacy know I have the ability to win this election. They know I believe in the sanctity of life and as President I will do all that I can to do to protect life."
Fred Thompson is pro-life. He believes in the sanctity of human life and that every life is worthy of respect. He had a 100% pro-life voting record in the Senate and believes Roe v. Wade was a bad decision that ought to be overturned. He consistently opposed federal funding to promote or pay for abortion and supported the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act, the Child Custody Protection Act, and President Reagan's Mexico City policy. While Fred Thompson supports adult stem cell research, he opposes embryonic stem cell research. He also opposes human cloning.
  