
    RELATING TO THE TRANSFER OF CERTAIN EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT
AND OTHER PERSONNEL FUNCTIONS
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1970 (5 U.S.C. App. II), Section 202 of the Budget and Accounting Procedures Act of 1950 (31 U.S.C. 581c), and Section 301 of Title 3 of the' United States Code, and as President of the United States of America, in order to transfer certain functions from the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to the United States Civil Service Commission, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The following functions which heretofore have been performed by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, either alone or in conjunction with the United States Civil Service Commission, are hereby reassigned and delegated to the United States Civil Service Commission:
(a) Providing overall Executive Branch leadership, regulation, and guidance in executive personnel selection, development, and management including:
(1) Devising and establishing programs and encouraging agencies to devise and establish programs to forecast the need for career executive talent and to select, train, develop, motivate, deploy and evaluate the men and women who make up the top ranks of Federal civil service;
(2) Initiating and leading efforts to ensure that potential executive talent is identified, developed and well utilized throughout the Executive Branch and;
(3) Ensuring that executive training and motivation meet current and future needs.
(b) Studying and reporting on issues relating to position classification and the compensation of Federal civilian employees, including linkages among pay systems, and providing reports on average grade levels, work-years and personnel costs of Federal civilian employees.
(c) Providing primary Executive Branch leadership in (1) developing and reviewing a program of policy guidance to departments and agencies for the organization of management's responsibility under the Federal Labor Relations program; and (2) monitoring issues and trends in labor management relations for referral to appropriate Executive Branch officials including the Federal Labor Relations Council.
SEC. 2. Section 1 of Executive Order No. 11541, as amended, is further amended by adding thereto the following new subsection:
"(d) The delegation to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget of the following executive development and personnel functions (which have been transferred to the Civil Service Commission) is terminated on December 4, 1977: (1) Providing overall Executive Branch leadership, regulation, and guidance in executive personnel selection, development and management.
(2) Studying and reporting on issues relating to position classification and the compensation of Federal civilian employees, including linkages among pay systems, and providing reports on average grade levels, work-years and personnel costs of Federal civilian employees.
(3) Providing primary Executive Branch leadership in (i) developing and reviewing a program of policy guidance to departments and agencies for the organization of management responsibility under the Federal Labor Relations program; and (ii) monitoring issues and trends in labor management relations for referral to appropriate Executive Branch officials including the Federal Labor Relations Council.".
SEC. 3. Executive Order No. 11491, as amended, is further amended by amending Section 25(a) to read as follows:
"The Civil Service Commission, in conjunction with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall establish and maintain a program for the policy guidance of agencies on labor-management relations in the Federal service and shall periodically review the implementation of these policies. The Civil Service Commission shall be responsible for the day-to-day policy guidance under that program. The Civil Service Commission also shall continuously review the operation of the Federal labor-management relations program to assist in assuring adherence to its provisions and merit system requirements; implement technical advice and information programs for the agencies; assist in the development of programs for training agency personnel and management officials in labormanagement relations; and, from time to time, report to the Council on the state of the program with any recommendations for its improvement."
SEC. 4. Section 5 (a) of Executive Order No. 11636 of December 17, 1971, establishing an Employee-Management Relations Commission as a committee of the Board of the Foreign Service, is amended by deleting: "The representative of the Office of Management and Budget shall be the Chairman of the Commission" and substituting therefor "The representative of the Civil Service Commission shall be the Chairman of the Commission".
SEC. 5. The records, property, personnel, and unexpended balances of appropriations, available or to be made available, which relate to the functions transferred or reassigned by this Order from the Office of Management and Budget to the United States Civil Service Commission, are hereby transferred to the United States Civil Service Commission.
SEC. 6. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall make such determinations, issue such orders, and take all actions necessary or appropriate to effectuate the transfers or reassignments provided by this Order, including the transfer of funds, records, property, and personnel.
SEC. 7. This Order shall be effective December 4, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
December 5, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:59 p.m., December 5, 1977]
  