
    Mitt Romney today announced additional members of his Virginia leadership team. The additional members join Lieutenant Governor Bill Bolling, Delegate Chris Peace and Delegate Barbara Comstock as members of Mitt Romney's leadership team.
"Virginia is on the most business friendly states in America and these Virginia leaders understand we have to make jobs our number one domestic policy priority," said Mitt Romney. "The Virginia Founding Fathers understood the principles of free enterprise, hard work, and innovation and I am pleased these Virginia leaders are standing with me to bring the common sense of our Founders back to the nation's Capital. I am committed to getting our economy moving again and creating jobs across the country. With the help of my hardworking leadership team, Virginia can be a leader in our nation's economic recovery."
Announcing additional members of Mitt Romney's Virginia leadership team, Romney for President Virginia Chairman and Lieutenant Governor Bill Bolling said, "The team Mitt Romney has assembled in Virginia has been working hard to spread his pro-growth message, reaching out to voters and laying the groundwork for victory in November. These additional members of our team will strengthen our efforts in the state. Virginians expect our next president to reverse the failed policies of Barack Obama and enact policies that will get our economy growing again. Mitt Romney has demonstrated throughout this campaign that he understands how the real economy works, and he has put forth a detailed plan to create jobs. That's the kind of leadership our nation desperately needs, and we are proud to support him."
Mitt Romney's Virginia Campaign Chairs:

State Chairman Lieutenant Governor Bill Bolling
State Co-Chair Delegate Chris Peace
State Co-Chair Delegate Barbara Comstock
State Co-Chair Delegate Tag Greason
State Co-Chair Delegate Dave Albo
State Co-Chair Delegate Jackson Miller
State Co-Chair Delegate John Cosgrove
State Co-Chair Delegate-elect Mark Dudenhefer

Mitt Romney's Virginia Steering Committee:

Tom Foley - 1st Congressional District Chairman
Jack Wilson - 4th Congressional District Chairman
Linwood Cobb - 7th Congressional District Chairman
Mike Ginsberg - 8th Congressional District Chairman
David O'Kelley - 2nd Congressional District State Central Committee Representative
Jane Ladd - 3rd Congressional District State Central Committee Representative
Bill Flanagan - 4th Congressional District State Central Committee Representative
Wayne Ozmore - 4th Congressional District State Central Committee Representative
Dolores Switzer - 5th Congressional District State Central Committee Representative
Fred Anderson - 6th Congressional District State Central Committee Representative
Marie Quinn - 7th Congressional District State Central Committee Representative
Adam Tolbert - 9th Congressional District State Central Committee Representative
Brian Plum - Republican Party of Virginia Treasurer
Brandy Dyke - State Central Committee Representative
Anna Lee - State Central Committee Representative

  