
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Johnathan Bragg of Virginia, to be a Member of the Railroad Retirement Board as Employee Representative, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring August 28, 2019, and an additional five-year term expiring August 28, 2024.
Mr. Bragg currently serves as the National Vice President for the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen (BRS). He was elected to that position in 2011 and was reelected by acclamation in 2014 and 2018. Mr. Bragg held a variety of national offices with the BRS including the union's Director of Research, a position that works jointly with the Federal Railroad Administration to craft railroad safety regulations. Prior to becoming a national officer, Mr. Bragg served as the Chairman of Teamsters Local 89 from 2005 to 2008. A native of Hinton, West Virginia, Mr. Bragg began his railroad career 18 years ago with CSX Transportation as a freight conductor and later a signalman. As a career railroader, Mr. Bragg has gained an invaluable level of experience, knowledge, and understanding of the needs of rail workers, retirees, and their families. He attended Lord Fairfax Community College and currently resides in Strasburg, Virginia.
Thomas Jayne of Missouri, to be a Member of the Railroad Retirement Board as Carrier Representative, for the reminder of a five-year term expiring August 28, 2023.
Mr. Jayne has been senior general attorney with BNSF Railway Company since 2011. Before joining BNSF, he was a partner at Thompson Coburn LLP, where he represented multiple Class I railroads in various legal and regulatory matters. He has worked extensively on numerous issues relating to railroad law, and has worked with the Railroad Retirement Board on issues concerning, among other matters, the appropriate interpretation of the Railroad Retirement Tax Act and the Railroad Retirement Act. A native of Kirksville, Missouri, Mr. Jayne is a graduate of Westminster College and University of Missouri School of Law.
  