
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:

Beatrice Hanson, Director, Office of Victims of Crime, Department of Justice
Daniel Becker, Member, Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute
James Hannah, Member, Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute
Gayle A. Nachtigal, Member, Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute

President Obama said, "These talented individuals have proven experience in their fields and I am grateful that they have agreed to serve in my administration. I am confident they will succeed in their new roles and I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Beatrice Hanson, Nominee for Director, Office of Victims of Crime, Department of Justice
Bea Hanson is currently the Chief Program Officer for Safe Horizon, a crime victim assistance organization and non-profit agency located in New York City. She oversees a staff of more than 600 professionals who provide services to more than 350,000 people annually impacted by violence. Ms. Hanson joined Safe Horizon (formerly named Victim Services) in 1997 as the Director of Emergency Services. She went on to oversee the agency's domestic violence, homeless youth, and child abuse programs, before being promoted to her current position in 2004. Ms. Hanson is an executive committee member of the Board of the New York City Chapter of the National Association of Social Workers. She has also served as adjunct faculty at the Hunter College School of Social Work and the Fordham University Graduate School of Social Services. Prior to joining Safe Horizon, Ms. Hanson was the Director of Client Services for the New York City Gay and Lesbian Anti-Violence Project. She received a B.A. from the University of Michigan and a M.A. in Social Work from the Hunter College School of Social Work. In 2010, she is scheduled to receive a Doctorate in Social Work from the Social Welfare Program at the City University of New York.
Daniel Becker, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute
Daniel Becker has served as State Court Administrator at the Administrative Office of the Courts for the State of Utah since 1995. In that capacity, he is responsible to the Utah Supreme Court and Utah Judicial Council for the administration of the state court system. From 1984 to 1995, Mr. Becker worked for the North Carolina Administrative Office of the Courts serving in the positions of: Deputy Director (1993-1995); Court Services Administrator (1986-1993); and Assistant to the Director (1984-1986). He also held the position of Trial Court Administrator for the Fourteenth Judicial District of North Carolina, and Assistant Director of Operations for the Georgia Administrative Office of the Courts. Mr. Becker was the recipient of the 2006 Warren E. Burger Award for Excellence in Judicial Administration. He holds a B.A. and M.P.A. from Florida Atlantic University.
James Hannah, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute
Chief Justice Jim Hannah is currently serving as Chief Justice of the Arkansas Supreme Court. He was first elected as an Associate Justice in 2000 and re-elected as Chief Justice in 2004 and 2008. Prior to serving on the Arkansas Supreme Court, he served as a Chancery/Probate Judge in the 17th Judicial District from 1979 to 1999. Chief Justice Hannah maintained a private law practice for ten and a half years before he was elected to the trial bench. While in private practice, he also served as the city attorney for Searcy, Arkansas, as city attorney for several communities in White County, as city judge, as deputy prosecuting attorney for Woodruff County and as the White County Juvenile Judge. Chief Justice Hannah has served on the Board of the Arkansas Judicial Council as the President. He has served as Chairman of the Arkansas Judicial Resources Assessment Committee, Legislative Committee, and Retirement Committee. He has also served on the board of the Conference of Chief Justices and is currently serving as Co-Chair of the Committee of Families and Courts. In addition, he sits on the U.S. Supreme Court Judicial Conference Committee on Federal-State Jurisdiction and the Arkansas Supreme Court Committees on Technology, Child Support, and Foster Care. Chief Justice Hannah received a B.S.B.A. from the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, and a J.D. from the University of Arkansas School of Law.
Gayle A. Nachtigal, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute
Judge Gayle A. Nachtigal is currently a Circuit Court Judge in Washington County, Oregon. She has been a judge since 1991 serving as the Presiding Judge from 1996 to 2002. She is currently the Lead Judge on the Criminal Court Assignments. Judge Nachtigal is also involved in the American Judges Association where she served as Secretary, First and Second Vice President, and President. From 1999 to 2005, Judge Nachtigal served on the board of the National Center for State Courts. She currently serves on their Court Consulting Advisory Board. Judge Nachtigal has also previously served on the Oregon Judicial Conference Judicial Conduct Committee and the Court Technology Committee, as well as on the Oregon Uniform Trial Court Rules Committee. She received a B.L.S. from Bowling Green State University and a J.D. from Lewis and Clark Law School.
  