
    America's Armed Forces are more powerful than ever and growing even stronger.
REBUILDING OUR MILITARY: President Donald J. Trump is delivering on his pledge to rebuild our Nation's military.

Today, President Trump is signing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year (FY) 2020, authorizing a historic $738 billion in defense spending.
The legislation continues President Trump's rebuilding of our military, authorizing significant investment in vital equipment for our forces, including:

F-35, F/A-18, and F-15EX combat aircraft
UH-60M Blackhawks, AH-64 Apaches, MH-47G Chinooks, CH-53K King Stallions
Abrams tanks and Stryker combat vehicles
Virginia-class submarines, Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, a guided missile frigate, amphibious ships, and more.



SUPPORTING OUR TROOPS AND THEIR FAMILIES: President Trump is fulfilling his promise to support and enhance quality of life for our military members and their families.

The NDAA provides the Administration requested 3.1% pay raise for our troops, the largest such raise in a decade.
$5.3 billion is being authorized for disaster recovery at military installations across the country.
This bill supports military families by improving military education and child care.
The NDAA repeals the requirement that Department of Defense survivor benefits be reduced by Veterans Administration compensation benefits.
The bill supports our civilian workforce by providing up to 12 weeks of paid parental leave to nearly all Federal employees to help recruit the best and brightest for years to come.

BUILDING A FORCE FOR THE FUTURE: The President is modernizing our military, ensuring that it is ready to confront future threats.

The bill establishes the Space Force as the sixth branch of the Armed Services— marking the first time a new branch of the military will have been established since 1947.

This is a major priority for the President and will help ensure continued American dominance in space.


The NDAA supports the President's nuclear modernization efforts.
The NDAA includes critical investments in artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, 5G, and hypersonic weapons that are essential in creating a more ready, lethal, and modern force.

READY TO DEFEND AGAINST ALL THREATS: President Trump is ensuring our forces are fully prepared to defend against any and all threats.

The NDAA includes vital reforms to help improve the combat readiness of our military and make the Pentagon more efficient, while helping our forces become more agile.
The NDAA makes critical new investments in our military's operations and maintenance accounts to improve readiness.
Acquisition reforms included in the NDAA will strengthen and secure our Nation's industrial base, while improving Department of Defense access for innovators and small businesses.

  