
    New York, New York – Today, Mike Bloomberg 2020 announced that former Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter has been named National Political Chair to the campaign. Mayor Nutter served as the Mayor of Philadelphia for two terms from 2008-2016, and prior to that spent nearly 15 years on the Philadelphia City Council. He also served as President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors from 2012-2013.
Mayor Nutter will advise the campaign on policy development and strategy, and serve as a national surrogate on behalf of the campaign, recruiting key voices to join the campaign and traveling to field offices and events, speaking to constituents and press about why Mike Bloomberg is uniquely qualified to unite and rebuild the country at a time when it is more divided than ever.
"Mike Nutter knows that real leadership means delivering results for the people you serve, and I'm honored to have his support," said Mike Bloomberg. "We share a belief in the power of government to unite people and get big things done. Mike was an innovative mayor who made one of America's biggest cities stronger and safer, and I've always appreciated his candor and counsel. While all the other Democratic candidates are focused on other states, we are building a campaign that can win critical battleground states — including Pennsylvania — and we are excited to have Mike on our leadership team."
The announcement comes ahead of Mike Bloomberg's visit to Philadelphia on Saturday to open the first field office in Pennsylvania.
"Mike Bloomberg is my kind of leader," Mayor Nutter said. "He cares about the drug crisis, gun violence, the environment, and access to high-quality healthcare for all Americans. But more than that – he's proven he can get things done on these issues for decades — as an entrepreneur, mayor and through his philanthropic efforts. Mike is a man with a plan. He's a doer. He won't let us down."
During his mayoral tenure, Mayor Nutter lowered crime, improved educational attainment rates, made Philadelphia the greenest city in America, and attracted new businesses and residents to the city. He led an ethical and transparent government focused on providing high quality, efficient, and effective customer service. He brought the homicide rate down to a 50-year low, boosted high school and college degree rates, added hundreds of miles of bike lanes, launched the first low-income friendly bike share system in the country, and actively recruited businesses to open in Philadelphia. As President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, he strengthened federal-city relationships and promoted the development of effective national urban policy.
In 2011, Esquire magazine named Mayor Nutter to its Americans of the Year list and later in 2014, he was named Public Official of the Year by Governing magazine. During his tenure, Philadelphia received more than 150 awards for innovative programs, good government practices, and excellence.
Since leaving office, Mayor Nutter has remained active in public policy, civic engagement, education, and government across the country. He has been tapped by academic institutions to serve in a number of leadership and fellowship capacities including Columbia University, University of Chicago, University of Pennsylvania, and the Harvard Kennedy School Institute of Politics. In 2019, Mayor Nutter was tapped to serve on the Board of Directors of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, the Council on Criminal Justice, and the Sandy Hook Promise Foundation.
  