
    Returns for 23rd trip to the Granite State, delivers remarks on importance of Democrats, Republicans and Independents working together to fix the broken system in Washington
Manchester, New Hampshire – Today, as Senator John Edwards returned to New Hampshire for his 23rd trip to the state, the campaign unveiled a new television ad in the state called "Power." In the ad -- the eighth to run in New Hampshire since this summer – Edwards says he will "stand up for people whose voices are ignored" and "work every day to restore the American Dream."
Today in New Hampshire , Edwards discussed the importance of individuals from all parties rising up to fix the broken system in Washington. "If there is one thing Republican, Independent and Democratic voters can agree on it's that the system in Washington is broken and that corporate greed has gotten its way at the expense of the middle class and American jobs," Edwards said. "My campaign is a call across party lines to rise up together and say enough is enough."
The ad goes up as Edwards returns to the state today for door knocking in Nashua, town hall events in Conway and Laconia, and organizing conventions in Manchester and Salem. Organizing conventions are a tool the campaign uses to energize volunteers and turn them out to canvass and phone bank on behalf of John Edwards.
In anticipation of our GOTV effort, the Edwards campaign has opened five new field offices around the state to accommodate the overwhelming number of volunteers turning out to work for the campaign. Last week alone, volunteers for the Edwards campaign made 75,000 phone calls to their friends and neighbors in New Hampshire to talk about John Edwards' bold plans to bring about real change in our country. That's the strongest volunteer call week the Edwards campaign has had yet this cycle and our operation only continues to grow. The campaign also identified more supporters last week than any prior week during the cycle.
The full ad can be viewed at: http://johnedwards.com/ads/power. A higher quality version can be downloaded here: http://johnedwards.com/watch/power/press.
A full transcript of "Power" and excerpts from Edwards' remarks are included below.
Full Transcript of "Power:"
What will our next president do with the enormous power that comes with the office?
I will restore America's moral authority in the world, confront people who exploit their power for personal advantage, stand up for people whose voices are ignored – just like
I've done all my life – be honest about the challenges we face and the choices we have, keep the promises I make, work every day to restore the American Dream.
Because I know that the power that comes with the presidency comes from you.
I'm John Edwards, and I approved this message.

Excerpts from Edwards' Remarks Today in New Hampshire:
"If we're going to build the America we believe in, it can't just be one party taking action. The problems we face don't care whether you are a Democrat, Republican, or Independent.
"If we are going to change America, if we are going to rise above the culture of greed and corruption that has taken over Washington, if we are going to pass on a better life to our children, then we must fight and work together - Democrats, Independents, Republicans - against those in Washington who stand in the way of real change.
"When a plant closes, they don't just ship the Democrats' jobs overseas. When you get denied health care, they don't ask you if you are a Republican. When your family can't afford to send your child to college, no one's checking to see if you're an Independent.
"If there is one thing Republican, Independent and Democratic voters can agree on it's that the system in Washington is broken and that corporate greed has gotten its way at the expense of the middle class and American jobs. My campaign is a call across party lines to rise up together and say enough is enough.
"The system in Washington wasn't broken by one party. It happened because of a growing culture of indifference and corporate greed that has infected America. The politicians in Washington all but ignore the serious challenges facing America's middle class - or worse, believe they can make deals with the very people, like lobbyists, who want to stand in the way of the bold change America needs.
"This culture affects both parties, and to fix it, Americans from both parties will have to unite. I welcome everyone - Democrat, Republican, or Independent - who is willing to fight on the side of the American people. Because the truth is we have an epic battle ahead of us and one person - even the president - won't be able to win it alone."

  