
    Pool Reports by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




December 6, 202208:32 EST

In-town pool report 1 - Deese will join gaggle
Good morning, I'm your in-town pooler today - seeing POTUS off from the South Lawn en route JBA, then Phoenix, and watching his return late tonite. He'll be visiting TSMC, a Taiwanese company investing in the manufacture of cutting-edge chips, per WH guidance.
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre – joined by Director of the National Economic Council Brian Deese – will gaggle on board AF1 en route Phoenix.
That should be audible here, timing TBD https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Here's the full sked:
EST
8:15 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call TimeJoint Base Andrews Overhang
8:45 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed Press
8:50 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
9:25 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Joint Base AndrewsSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 9:15 AM – Palm Room Doors)
9:45 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Phoenix, ArizonaJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
MST
12:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Maricopa County, ArizonaLuke Air Force Base, Maricopa County, ArizonaOpen Press
1:30 PM THE PRESIDENT tours TSMCTSMC, Phoenix, ArizonaOut-of-Town Pool
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT discusses how his economic plan is leading to a manufacturing boom, rebuilding supply chains, and creating good-paying jobs in Arizona and across the countryTSMC, Phoenix, ArizonaOpen Press
4:05 PM THE PRESIDENT departs en route Luke Air Force Base, Maricopa County, ArizonaTSMC, Phoenix, ArizonaOut-of-Town Pool
4:45 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Luke Air Force Base, Maricopa County, Arizona en route Joint Base AndrewsLuke Air Force Base, Maricopa County, ArizonaOut-of-Town Pool
EST
10:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base AndrewsJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
10:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route the White HouseJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
10:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 10:30 PM – Palm Room Doors)



December 6, 202209:33 EST

In-town pool report 2 - Potus gaggles
Potus emerged from WH at 9:25, he gaggled w the reporters:
Topics:
Border- was asked why he wasn't going to the border. Said there were more important things going on
Same sex marriage: re pushback on the legislation over religious objections. He said: "I disagree"
Power outages in NC, who was behind it? Said he didn't know
Africa summit- he said he's looking forward to it
Hard to hear, Will get exact quotes
M1 lifted off at 9:31



December 6, 202209:54 EST

In-town pool report 3 - gaggle quotes
POTUS gaggled outside South Lawn portico for a little over 1 minute. From the broadcast audio playback:
Q. Why go to a border state and not visit the border?
"Because there are more important things going on. They're going to invest billions of dollars in the new enterprise in the state." (reference to the major Taiwanese investment in chips manufacturing plant in Phoenix, where he is heading)
q. Power outages in NC -
"I don't know."
Q. Any idea who's behind it?
'No, we don't know yet. I'm running that down, I got a brief this morning."
Q. Catholic Bishops object to same-sex marriage bill. What's your response to that?
"I disagree"
Q. Africa Summit
"I'm looking forward to it."



December 6, 202211:39 EST

In-town pool report 4 - gaggle at 12:30 ET
For awareness: the WH website says the Jean-Pierre/Deese gaggle on board AF1 will start at 12:30 ET.
Audio will be here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsPNFb5n0Os



December 6, 202220:50 EST

In-town pool report 5 - bad weather call
We have a bad weather call, so pool is in vans en route JBA. POTUS will motorcade back to WH.



December 6, 202222:07 EST

In-town pool report 6- rolling from JBA
Motorcade is rolling from JBA at 10:06 pm



December 6, 202222:11 EST

In-town pool report 7 - travelers in motorcade
From the press office:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsBrian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic CouncilKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryKeisha Lance Bottoms, Senior Advisor to the President for Public EngagementReema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & Senate LiaisonKimi Gahan, Special Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Council Legal Advisor & Associate CounselCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMegan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter



December 6, 202222:32 EST

In-town pool report 8 - WH arrival/lid
Motorcade pulled into WH south driveway at 10:29 pm. Pool did not see POTUS. Travel/photo lid called at 10:31
Good night!




 
Pool Reports by Ken Thomas, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




December 6, 202209:52 EST

Travel Pool Report #1 - Departure
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews, where the rain has largely subsided for the moment. The temperature is 42 degrees F.
President Biden is traveling today to Phoenix for a visit to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.'s complex in Arizona. The company plans to build a second semiconductor facility in Arizona and said it will increase its investment there to $40 billion. Mr. Biden will be traveling with Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and some members of Arizona's congressional delegation.
Marine One touched down at 9:44 a.m. ET. Mr. Biden was dressed in a dark suit and carrying a white note pad in his left hand as he emerged from M1. He was greeted by Colonel William McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing. They walked together and chatted briefly.
The president did not stop to take questions from reporters and boarded Air Force One at 9:48 a.m. ET.
The White House says the president was joined on Marine One by: Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff; Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations; Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council; and Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary.
We will be wheels up shortly for Luke Air Force Base in Maricopa County, Arizona. White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, along with National Economic Council Director Brian Deese, will gaggle during the flight. Time TBD.
Here is the list of travelers according to the White House:
Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of CommerceSenator Mark KellyRep. Raúl Grijalva (AZ-07)Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-03)Rep. Tom O'Halleran (AZ-01)Rep. Greg Stanton (AZ-09)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsBrian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic CouncilKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryKeisha Lance Bottoms, Senior Advisor to the President for Public EngagementT.H. Gabby Giffords, Former member of the House of RepresentativesReema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & Senate LiaisonKimi Gahan, Special Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Council Legal Advisor & Associate CounselCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMegan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter



December 6, 202212:36 MST

Travel pool #2 - arrival
Air Force One wheels down at Luke Air Base in Arizona at 12:26 pm



December 6, 202212:54 MST

Travel Pool Report #3 - Air base greetings
President Biden, wearing aviator sunglasses on a mild, sunny day here in Arizona, deplaned at 12:35 p.m. local at Luke Air Force Base in Maricopa County, Arizona. He shook hands with Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey and the two spoke out of earshot from the pool.
Mr. Biden then greeted Brigadier General Jason M. Rueschhoff, Commander, 56th Fighter Wing; Chief Master Sergeant Jason Q. Shaffer, Command Chief Master Sergeant, 56th Fighter Wing; Colonel Van Brunt, Commander, 944th Fighter Wing; and Chief Master Sergeant Catherine Erin Buchanan, Command Chief, 944th Fighter Wing.
Mr. Biden was followed by Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, who greeted Mr. Ducey warmly, and members of the Arizona congressional delegation who exchanged hellos. Sen. Mark Kelly, wearing a Navy ballcap, was joined by his spouse, former Rep. Gabby Giffords.
At 12:41 p.m. the motorcade was rolling for the TSMC plant in Phoenix.



December 6, 202213:29 MST

Travel Pool Report #4 - TSMC arrival
President Biden's motorcade arrived at the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. site in Phoenix at 1:25 p.m. after an uneventful, roughly 45-minute drive along a highway dotted by green cacti. Small, scattered groups of pro-Trump and pro-Biden groups gathered a few miles from the site.
One of the plant's buildings is adorned with massive U.S. and Arizona flags, along with a banner that reads, "A Future Made in America: Phoenix, Arizona."
The construction project is massive, with a series of blue, red and gold cranes stretched out across the sprawling site. (We are told that one of the crane's is the world's largest."
The president will be taking a tour of the chip plant shortly.



December 6, 202214:17 MST

Travel pool report #5 - TSMC tour
President Biden started his tour of the TSMC site at 1:43 p.m., joined by CC Wei, CEO of TSMC, Dr. Mark Liu, chairman of TSMC, and Aaron Butler, President of the Arizona Building and Construction Trades Council.
"Hey guys, how are you?" Mr. Biden said to a group of workers, many who were wearing white hard hats and yellow reflective vests. They were all standing inside a cavernous facility, where hard-hat wearing workers could be spotted in the distance working on a chip cleanroom. The group included Dieuanh Phan, the manufacturing manager of TSMC, and members of UA Pipefitters Local 469.
It was difficult to hear the president at times inside the building, but he thanked the workers and asked how many people were employed at the site. It's an active construction site here and your pooler spotted a light gray film of dust on the bottom of the president's black loafers.
The president then walked over to a second site, which offered a vista of a massive red crane, which the pool was told was one of the largest in the world. "Beautiful," the president said, marveling at the site. At one point, he appeared to speak to one of the crane operators. The group included Lacey Sue Suastegui, senior project manager of TSMC, and business agents and members of UA Pipefitters Local 469. He wrapped up his tour at 1:53 p.m.
Prior to the president's arrival, your pooler spotted Apple CEO Tim Cook chatting with NEC Director Brian Deese, while Gov. Doug Ducey was in conversation with Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and Sen. Mark Kelly.
Earlier in the day, the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. announced plans to build a second semiconductor factory at the site and increase its investment there to $40 billion.
TSMC, the world's largest contract-chip maker, had previously announced at $12 billion investment plan, including its first factory in Arizona that the president will be touring. The facility will produce 4-and-5 nanometer chips.
Construction on the second factory at the site is slated to begin in the coming year and the company said production would begin in 2026.
The president's remarks are coming up shortly and they will be carried at whitehouse.gov/live.



December 6, 202214:35 MST

Travel Pool Report #6 - Remarks
President Biden began his remarks at the TSMC site at 2:16 p.m.
He wrapped up his speech, which were open press, at 2:32 p.m.



December 6, 202215:41 MST

Travel Pool Report #7 - CEO meeting/photo line
The pool is holding in a bus at the TSMC facility while President Biden meets with CEOs from several companies.
The White House said the CEO participants in the meeting include:
Morris Chang, Founder, TSMCTim Cook, CEO, AppleJensen Huang, CEO, NVIDIAMark Liu, Chairman, TSMCSanjay Mehrotra, CEO, MicronLisa Su, CEO, Advanced Micro Devices (AMD)Peter Wennink, CEO, ASML
The White House said the meeting also includes Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, National Economic Council Director Brian Deese and Keisha Lance Bottoms, Senior Advisor to the President for Public Engagement.
Earlier, the president participated in a photo line at the site. This is the list of participants, according to the White House:
Morris Chang, Founder of TSMCDoug Ducey, Governor of ArizonaSenator Mark Kelly (AZ)Rep. Raúl Grijalva (AZ-07)Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-03)Rep. Tom O'Halleran (AZ-01)Rep. Greg Stanton (AZ-09)Arizona Secretary of State and Governor-elect Katie HobbsKate Gallego, Mayor of Phoenix, ArizonaArizona House Minority Leader Reginald Bolding (District 27)Arizona State Senator Christine Marsh (District 28)Arizona State Senator Raquel Teran (District 30)Arizona State Representative Andrés Cano (District 3)Arizona State Representative Lorenzo Sierra (District 19)Governor Stephen Roe Lewis, Gila River Indian Community, ArizonaRicardo Leonard, Vice President of Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community, ArizonaJonathan Nez, President, Navajo Nation, Arizona



December 6, 202215:47 MST

Travel Pool Report #8 - Motorcade rolling
At 3:43 p.m., President Biden's motorcade is rolling from the TSMC facility.



December 6, 202216:33 MST

Travel Pool Report #9 - Leaving Arizona
President Biden's motorcade pulled into Luke Air Force Base in Maricopa County at 4:25 pm after a nearly 45-minute drive from the chip facility.
He boarded Air Force One at 4:29 pm, stopping briefly to wave before entering the aircraft.
We will be wheels up momentarily.



December 6, 202216:39 MST

Travel Pool Report #9a - travelers
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of CommerceSenator Mark KellyRep. Raúl Grijalva (AZ-07)Rep. Tom O'Halleran (AZ-01)Rep. Greg Stanton (AZ-09)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsBrian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic CouncilKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryKeisha Lance Bottoms, Senior Advisor to the President for Public EngagementReema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & Senate LiaisonKimi Gahan, Special Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Council Legal Advisor & Associate CounselCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMegan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter



December 6, 202222:08 EST

Travel Pool Report #10 - Biden: "We're going to win Georgia."
Air Force One was wheels down at Joint Base Andrews at 9:48 p.m. ET. There were no visitors to the press cabin, where the TVs aired CNN's coverage of the Senate runoff election in Georgia. By the time of our arrival, no winner had been declared in the race by the AP and networks.
We have light rainfall and blustery conditions here at Andrews, with a temperature of 50 degrees F.
President Biden walked down the staircase of AF1 at 10:03 pm.
Asked for his reaction to the Senate race, he shouted to the pool, "We're going to win. We're going to win Georgia." He then boarded the Beast.
We have a bad weather call so Mr. Biden will be motorcading back to the White House.
Handing off to the in-town pool.
Good night.




  