
    Member families valuing education freedom hail from Linn, Kossuth and Dallas counties
ANKENY, Iowa — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today additional families joining the "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition. Today's featured members reside in Linn, Kossuth, and Dallas counties, all Iowa.
The first additions are Marion residents Matt and Sarah Banowetz, who have been homeschooling their four children for five years.
"As a homeschooling mother, I support Ron Paul for President because of his 'hands-off' views that allow freedom for parents to school their children as they see fit with minimal government regulations. I also support his proposal of a $5,000-per-child tax credit to be used for schooling — books, computers, etc.," said Mrs. Banowetz.
"Homeschooling can be difficult and I want to know that my government has my back when it comes to providing an excellent education for my children. I believe that Ron Paul sees the value of homeschooling — and having a President who sees the value of this hard-fought educational option would be an asset to our country," added Mrs. Banowetz.
Laurie and Thomas Hammer of Algona are parents of two and have taught at home for six years. They expressed their reasons for supporting Dr. Paul, stating, "Our family values our privilege to homeschool and we want to protect that God-given right and many other rights for generations to come. There is only one candidate who will fight for real liberty and freedom and that is Dr. Ron Paul. Our country needs someone who not only has read the Constitution, but will abide by and fight for what our founding fathers intended."
The Ron Paul team asked Kevin Waycaster, a 14-year homeschool father of Waukee why he decided to support Dr. Paul this election, and he responded succinctly:
"A true leader is someone who is willing to take a nation and its people to where they should be. Ron Paul is that leader. As health care has become a major issue, who is better qualified to deal with the matter, a doctor or a bureaucrat?"
As a first basic step, those interested in joining the growing ranks of the "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page by clicking here. If residing in the Hawkeye State families may inquire with Meghann Walker, Director of Iowa Voter Outreach for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign, atmeghannw@ronpaul2012.com.
For more information on Ron Paul's stance on education freedom, click here.
  