
    (Palm Beach, FL) - President-elect Donald J. Trump today announced the appointment of Jason D. Greenblatt to serve as Special Representative for International Negotiations.
Mr. Greenblatt currently serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of The Trump Organization where, for the past two decades, he has represented President-elect Trump and his family in diverse legal and business affairs, concentrating on all aspects of domestic and worldwide real estate development and other businesses. In addition, Mr. Greenblatt served as one of the President-elect's principal advisors on the U.S.-Israel relationship during the campaign.
"Jason is one of my closest and most trusted advisors," said President-elect Trump. "He has a history of negotiating substantial, complex transactions on my behalf, as well as the expertise to bring parties together and build consensus on difficult and sensitive topics. His talents lend themselves perfectly to the role I have asked him to play, assisting on international negotiations of all types, and trade deals around the world."
"I am deeply grateful and humbled by President-elect Trump's decision to appoint me to represent the United States in international negotiations. I have known President-elect Trump for two decades and firmly believe that he is a leader with tremendous vision, skill and talent. It is an exceptional honor for me to join President-elect Trump and the incredible team he is assembling as they set out to change the world for the better and Make America Great Again. My philosophy, in both business and in life, is that bringing people together and working to unite, rather than to divide, is the strongest path to success. I truly believe that this approach is one that can yield results for the United States in matters all over the world. I look forward to serving on President-elect Trump's team, and helping to achieve great outcomes for our country."
Mr. Greenblatt received his J. D. degree in 1992 from the New York University School of Law. Following law school, Jason worked for Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson before joining the Trump Organization. Jason is a frequent lecturer and public speaker about a variety of topics. Jason has been an Adjunct Professor of Management at Yeshiva University where he taught a course entitled "Real Estate 101: The Anatomy of a Real Estate Deal." Jason also founded a website whose purpose is to promote bonding between parents and their teens and which is designed to teach teens the importance of giving back to society and other life lessons.
  