
    Pool Reports by Philip Wegmann, RealClearPolitics 



Sent:
Reports:




December 21, 202210:32

In-Town Pool Report #1: Good Morning
It is cold at the White House. It is Wednesday. I am your in-town print pool reporter. Good morning.
Today promises to be eventful. If you need something, say something. Let me know how I can help. The cliff-notes schedule, per last night's guidance from White House, is below.
President Biden is slated to welcome President Zelenskyy to the White House at 2:00ET. They are scheduled to hold a bilateral meeting in the Oval at 2:30. Joint press conference is planned for 4:30.



December 21, 202210:44

In-Town Pool Report #2: Lunch Lid Until 1:00PM
Just now, White House called a lunch lid until 1:00PM.



December 21, 202212:49

In-Town Pool Report #3: Zelenskyy Landed
"President Zelenskyy has landed in the U.S. and events this afternoon are currently tracking on time," A White House official tells your pooler.



December 21, 202214:02

In Town Pool Report #4: Two Minutes Until Arrival
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



December 21, 202214:10

In-Town Pool Report #5: Zelenskyy Arrival
President Biden emerged from the White House shortly after 2:00pm holding the hand of the First Lady.
He wore a dark blue suit.
Ukrainian President Zelenskyy arrived soon after and was greeted by both.
He wore a green sweatshirt and heavy boots.
Neither responded to shouted questions as they entered the Southern Portico.
An honor cordon stood at attention, presenting both the U.S. and Ukrainian colors on either side of the red carpet. Earlier, Rufus Gifford, U.S. chief of protocol, chatted with assembled staffers as all awaited the arrival.



December 21, 202214:29

In-Town Pool Report #6: Oval Office Bilateral
Presidents Biden and Zelenskyy entered the Oval and pool entered the Oval Office after them at 2:15. Both were seated and Biden spoke first.
"I'm delighted you could make the trip," Biden said. He added that Russian president Putin js "escalating his assaults on civilians" and trying to "use winter as a weapon."
"We will support Ukraine pursuing a just peace," he added.
"You are the man of the year," Biden told Zelenskyy of Time Magazine's decision to put him on cover.
Zelensky said he wanted to come to the United States earlier. He offered "all my appreciations from my heart and from the heart of all Ukrainians." He thanked Biden, Congress, and "ordinary people" in US for their support. He also awarded Biden a medal.
They did not respond to shouted questions. Pool is inquiring about details of the medal given. Pool was escorted out circa 2:23.
White House passes along the following:
"The President is holding a bilateral meeting with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine."
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentThe Vice PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of DefenseT.H. Merrick Garland, Attorney GeneralT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsGEN Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffT.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of the United States Agency for International DevelopmentT.H. Bridget Brink, Ambassador of the United States to UkraineT.H. Victoria Nuland, Under Secretary of State for Political AffairsT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilT.H. Rebecca Lissner, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice PresidentMr. Trey Lyons, Director for Eastern Europe and the Caucasus, National Security Council
Ukraine ManifestH.E. Volodymyr Zelenskyy, President of UkraineMr. Andriy Yermak, Head of the Office of the President of UkraineMr. Oleksandr Kubrakov, Vice Prime Minister on the Reconstruction of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of Communities, Territories and InfrastructureH.E. Dmytro Kuleba, Minister of Foreign AffairsMr. Roman Mashovets, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of UkraineH.E. Andriy Sybiha, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of UkraineH.E. Ihor Brusylo, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of UkraineH.E. Oksana Markarova, Ambassador of Ukraine to the United StatesMr. Sergii Nykyforov, Press Secretary to the President of UkraineMr. Dymtro Lytvyn, Advisor to the Head of the Office of the President of UkraineMr. Yariskav Brisiuck, Deputy Chief of Mission



December 21, 202215:04

In-Town Pool Report #6A: Additional Details on Ukrainian Medal of Merit
"I want to give you something. One guy is a real hero--a real captain," Zelenskyy said, "and he asked me to pass his award to President Biden. He will understand."
Opening a medal case, the Ukranian president continued, saying of the Ukranian soldier, "he is a captain for HIMARS battery. Yes, he's very brave, and he said 'give it to a very brave president.' And I want to give that [to[ you. That is a cross for Military Merit."
"Well, underserved but much appreciated," Biden replied as he accepted the medal. Then he asked Zelenskyy for the name of the captain so that he could contact him and give "a command coin." After, Zelenskyy continued, relaying more words from the soldier, "'he said that many his brothers this system saved.'"
---
Point of personal privilege: Your print pooler wants to say thank you to Emily Goodin and Nikki Schwab for helping to grab clear audio.



December 21, 202216:41

In-Town Pool Report #7: Biden Gives Command Coins to Zelenskyy
Still waiting on press conference to begin. Stirrings have started. Meanwhile, White House passes on the following background about the medal Zelenskyy gave Biden as well as the command coins Biden gave to Zelensky.
---
President Zelenskyy gave President Biden a Ukrainian military medal (The Cross for Military Merit). This particular medal was awarded earlier this year to a Ukrainian officer for outstanding feats on the battlefield.
The officer met earlier this week with President Zelenskyy in Bakhmut and asked him to give his medal to President Biden as a token of his profound gratitude. The officer also wrote President Biden a letter expressing Ukraine's appreciation for America's assistance that helped keep many people in Ukraine alive.
After press departed the Oval, President Biden gave President Zelenskyy two command coins. One is for the Ukrainian hero that wanted the President to have his medal and one is for President Zelenskyy



December 21, 202216:43

In-Town Pool Report #8: Two Minutes
Two-minute warning given ahead of press conference.



December 21, 202217:24

In-Town Pool Report #9: Press Conference Concludes
Presidents Biden and Zelensky concluded their press conference at 5:20. They took four questions—two from American journalists and two from their colleagues. The briefing was livestreamed.
Pool is being held in East Room as Zelenskyy departs White House.



December 21, 202217:44

In-Town Pool Report #10: White House Calls Lid
White House called a lid at 5:24PM.




 
Pool Reports below by Kethevane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




December 21, 202212:35

Foreign pool report #1 - Background on Zelenskyy visit to Washington
Hello all,
I'll be your foreign pooler for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's visit to the White House.
This will be Zelenskyy's first trip outside of Ukraine since the Russian invasion.
Meetings/Calls:
According to a senior administration official, the visit was first discussed during a call on Dec 11, a formal invitation was sent on the 14th and the visit itself confirmed just Sunday.
This will be their 2nd one-on-one meeting, following Zelenskyy's visit on September 01, 2021.
They have since held dozens of calls. The last one was on December 11.
Zelenskyy also met with VP Harris in Germany, just days before the Russian invasion. This was his last official trip outside Ukraine.
Priorities for bilat:
Zelenskyy tweeted the following as he was headed to the US:
"On my way to the US to strengthen resilience and defense capabilities of Ukraine. In particular, POTUS and I will discuss cooperation between the US and Ukraine. I will also have a speech at the Congress and a number of bilateral meetings."
Per Ukrainian Embassy, topics for the bilateral will include "weapons, energy, sanctions, support for peace formula and tribunal."
Schedule:
According to several reports and flight trackers Zelenskyy landed at JBA around midday.
He will have a bilateral with POTUS at 2:30 followed by a press conference around 4:30pm. He is also set to meet with the National Security team.
At 7:30pm, he will be addressing a joint meeting of Congress.
Per Ukrainian embassy, the speech is expected to be about 20mn long.
He addressed Congress virtually back in March.
Bio:
Volodymyr Zelenskyy is 44 years old. He has been President of Ukraine since May 2019. He was elected in the 2nd round with more than 73% of the vote against incumbent Petro Poroshenko.
During his campaign, he had vowed to end Ukraine's conflict with Russia, but tensions escalated in 2021, leading to the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. He has remained in Ukraine until now, winning domestic and international praise for his leadership during the war.
He was named 2022 TIME Person of the year.
Before turning to politics, Zelenskyy was a popular comedian, starring in the TV series "Servant of the People" form 2015-2019, in which he played the role of President of Ukraine.



December 21, 202214:12

Foreign pool report #2 - arrival
President Zelenskyy arrived by car at 2:03pm. This is the first time he is seen outside of Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion.
He was greeted by POTUS & FLOTUS. Many questions were shouted but neither President responded. Biden put his hand on Zelenskyy's shoulder and they walked into the White House.
Zelenskyy is wearing his usually military colored outfit, no suit.
The 2 leaders will be walking over to the oval office any minute for their bilateral.



December 21, 202214:40

Foreign pool report #3
Biden & Zelenskyy walked around the Rose Garden, Zelenskyy greeted the pool with a "Hello everybody" and headed into the oval office.
Pool was ushered in at 2:16pm. POTUS spoke first followed by Zelenskyy who spoke in English.
As always, please check against tape.
"It's a great honor for me to be here"
Zelenskyy said he wanted to come earlier but couldn't because of the "difficult situation" but said that the fact he was now here meant that "the situation is under control because of your support."
He said there were a lot of topics to discuss but that first he wanted to express his "strong appreciation" for US support and for Biden's leadership. He also thanked Congress.
"Thanks from our ordinary people to your ordinary people, Americans. I really appreciate."
Zelenskyy mentioned he was in Bakhmut yesterday and a captain of a HIMAR battery asked him to pass on his award to President Biden: "He said 'Give it to the very brave President'" and that it had helped save many lives.
The award is the cross for military merit according to Zelenskyy, who handed over the award to POTUS and said the name of the captain was Pavlo.
Biden responded: "Undeserved but much appreciated" and said he would give the Captain a Command Coin.
Pool was ushered out at 2:23pm



December 21, 202217:25

Foreign pool report #4 - presser
Zelenskyy remarks per official translation (check against tape)
This visit is "historic" for the relations between US & Ukraine
"I wanted to thank President Biden for his candid support."
The main issue is to strengthen Ukraine for the next year.
"I have good news returning home" (referring to Patriot system)
"Regardless of changes in the Congress I know there will be strong bipartisan & bicameral support."
"Russia needs to be held accountable for everything it does to our country"
"Glory to Ukraine!"
Q&A
Zelenskyy's message to Americans (in english): "we have the same values… I wish you peace… I wish you to see your children alive"
"I really want to win… actually no, I am sure"
"I don't know what just peace is" "for me it's no compromises regarding sovereignty, freedom and territorial integrity of Ukraine…payback for the damages inflicted by (Russia)"
A Ukrainian journalist asked whether the US could just send all military capabilities now instead of step by step. Biden turned to Zelenskyy and said "his answer is yes" which was met with laughter from both the press and Zelenskyy, who said "I agree" with a big smile.
Among those attending presser on the Ukrainian side are Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Ambassador to the US Oksana Markarova.
Full story behind the medal of merit from the WH:
President Zelenskyy gave President Biden a Ukrainian military medal (The Cross for Military Merit). This particular medal was awarded earlier this year to a Ukrainian officer for outstanding feats on the battlefield.
The officer met earlier this week with President Zelenskyy in Bakhmut and asked him to give his medal to President Biden as a token of his profound gratitude. The officer also wrote President Biden a letter expressing Ukraine's appreciation for America's assistance that helped keep many people in Ukraine alive.
After press departed the Oval, President Biden gave President Zelenskyy two command coins. One is for the Ukrainian hero that wanted the President to have his medal and one is for President Zelenskyy.




  