
    DES MOINES, IA - Secretary Madeleine Albright, US Senator Bob Menendez (NJ), Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones (OH) and former Governor Tom Vilsack (IA) preview Hilary Clinton's campaign message going into the Des Moines Register debate tomorrow.
Scripts:
Madeleine Albright, former Secretary of State and principal of the Albright Group
Albright: "Tomorrow at the Democratic debate in Iowa, voters will hear how Senator Clinton is the Democratic candidate with the experience needed to change direction in Iraq. She has a plan to start bringing the troops home quickly, responsibly and most importantly, safely."
[Click here] for Secretary Albright's actuality.
US Senator Bob Menendez is from New Jersey, one of the 20 states with primaries scheduled for February 5th.
Menenedez: "At the Democratic debate in Iowa, voters will once again see that Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience necessary to make change happen. And she's got the record to prove it. She led the effort to provide health care to 6 million low-income children and has fought tirelessly to provide the life-saving body armor and equipment for our troops fighting overseas."
[Click here] for Senator Menendez' actuality in English.
[Click here] for Senator Menendez' actuality in Spanish.
US Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones represents Cleveland and the 11th Congressional district in the battleground state of Ohio.
Tubbs Jones: "Hillary Clinton's experience and ability to change the direction of our country is what voters in Iowa and other battleground states like Ohio, where I'm from, are looking for. Just look at her record. She's spent her life fighting for change."
[Click here] for Congresswoman Tubbs Jones' actuality.
Governor Tom Vilsack is the former Governor of Iowa and the Clinton Campaign National Co-chair.
Vilsack: "Tomorrow at the Democratic debate, Hillary Clinton will show voters in my home state of Iowa and across the country that she has the agenda to bring about the change America needs by withdrawing troops out of Iraq quickly and safely, providing healthcare to ALL Americans and returning our economy to prosperity."
[Click here] for Governor Vilsack's actuality.
  