
    Mitt Romney today announced the endorsement of Tennessee Congressmen Jimmy Duncan, Diane Black and Phil Roe.
"I am honored to receive the support of these great conservative leaders," said Mitt Romney. "They share my vision of lower taxes, reduced spending, and a balanced budget. Each of them understands the danger our country is facing, and I look forward to working with them to put America back on the right path."
Announcing his support, the dean of the Tennessee delegation, Congressman Jimmy Duncan said, "Citizens in both the Volunteer State and across the nation are suffering from unemployment, and in 2012, we must elect a leader who can help get more folks working again. Mitt Romney is that leader. With his background as a conservative businessman, I believe strongly that Governor Romney is the best candidate to defeat President Obama, turn the economy around, and lead America into prosperity once again."
"Mitt Romney has a skill set that uniquely qualifies him to lead the United States at this critical time in our history," said Congresswoman Diane Black. "From his experience in the private sector to his accomplishments as the governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney knows how to balance a budget and create jobs. I am proud to offer him my support."
"I am supporting Mitt Romney because he is the proven, conservative leader who will focus on strengthening our economy, getting spending under control, reducing the debt, and putting Americans back to work. He knows how to run a business, and he understands how to create jobs and help small businesses succeed," said Congressman Phil Roe. "As a physician, I'm also pleased that Governor Romney is committed to repealing the President's deeply flawed heath care plan that will put Washington bureaucrats between patients and their doctors. I am proud to support Mitt Romney for President."
Background on Congressmen Black, Duncan, and Roe:

Congressman Jimmy Duncan was elected to the U.S. House in 1988. He serves The 2nd District Of Tennessee. Duncan serves on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee where he is Chairman of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee. He also serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources.


Congresswoman Diane Black was elected to the U.S. House in 2010 and serves the 6th District of Tennessee. Black was elected Freshman Class Representative to the Republican Policy Committee. She serves on the House Ways and Means Committee, Oversight and Human Resources Subcommittees on Ways and Means, and the House Budget Committee.


Congressman Phil Roe was elected to the U.S. House in 2008 and serves the 1st District of Tennessee. Roe serves on the House Education and Workforce Committee and chairs its Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions, and serves as a member of the Veterans Affairs Committee and its subcommittees on Oversight and Investigations and Health. He is a physician and has delivered nearly 5,000 babies.

  