
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Dennis Cluff Merrill of Oregon, to be the United States Marshal for the District of Oregon. Merrill has served in the Portland Police Bureau since 1975 in various positions, including Supervisory Sergeant, Investigations Branch Assistant Chief, and most recently, Captain in the Human Resources Division. He has commanded the 82nd Brigade based in Lake Oswego, Oregon since 1998, as a Brigadier General in the Oregon Army National Guard. Merrill is a graduate of Portland State University.
The President intends to nominate Nehemiah Flowers of Mississippi, to be the United States Marshal for the Southern District of Mississippi. Flowers worked as the Executive Assistant to Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi from 1973 to 2001. From 1968 to 1973, he was director of Public Affairs of WLBT-TV in Jackson, Mississippi. Flowers has a bachelor's in Business Administration from Belhaven College.
The President intends to nominate Eric Eugene Robertson of Washington, to be the United States Marshal for the Western District of Washington. Robertson has been a member of the Washington State Patrol since 1985, first as a Trooper from 1985 to 1995, then as an Investigator and Detective from 1995 to 1998. He is presently the Director of Government and Media Relations. In 1995, Robertson was elected to the Washington House of Representatives, where he served until 1998.
The President intends to nominate Michael Wade Roach of Oklahoma, to be the United States Marshal for the Western District of Oklahoma. He has served in the Oklahoma City Police Department since May of 1977, most recently as a Major in the Operations Bureau. Roach has an associate's degree from El Reno Junior College.
The President intends to nominate David Glenn Jolley of Tennessee to be the United States Marshal for the Western District of Tennessee. Jolley has been a Special Agent with the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation since 1983. He graduated from the FBI National Academy in Quantico, Virginia, and has a BS in Criminal Justice Administration from Middle Tennessee State University.
  