
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 15
The President spoke by telephone with the Shah of Iran prior to his departure from Lackland A.F.B., Texas, for Panama.
December 16
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
December 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—a group of Chassidic rabbis from New York;
—James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and other administration officials to review the fiscal year 1981 budget.
December 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mr. Moore;
—a group of Democratic Party State chairmen and vice chairmen;
—Mayor George Athanson of Hartford, Conn.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a Christmas reception in the afternoon for members of the U.S. Secret Service and their guests on the State Floor of the White House.
December 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Ambassador Donald F. McHenry, U.S. Representative to the United Nations;
—Mr. Moore;
—a group of VISTA volunteers, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, to mark the 15th anniversary of the Federal volunteer service program;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Mr. Mclntyre and other administration officials to review the fiscal year 1981 budget.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a Christmas reception for members of the Cabinet and their guests in the Residence.
December 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative Stephen J. Solarz of New York and constituents from his congressional district;
—Mr. Moore;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont;
—members of the Congressional Coal Caucus.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on administration policies and programs given for community and civic leaders from Illinois in the East Room at the White House.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1977 annual report of the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Council on the Arts.
December 21
The President met at the White with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Mr. McIntyre and other administration officials to review the fiscal year 1981 budget,
—former professional football player Roosevelt Crier;
—Mr. Mclntyre and other administration officials to review the fiscal year 981 budget.
The President left the White House a stay at Camp David.
  