
    The Biden-Harris Administration is hitting the ground running to deliver results from President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to the American people.
Yesterday, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced funding from the law that states, Tribes, and territories will receive to create good-paying, union jobs upgrading America's water infrastructure and expand access to clean drinking water. EPA Administrator Michael Regan also sent a letter to America's governors about partnering to ensure resources reach historically disadvantaged communities and address drinking water disparities.
See below for what Americans are reading about what the law will deliver:
Associated Press: EPA outlines $7.4B for water infrastructure headed to states"[T]he EPA says it is urging governors, mayors and other local administrators to prioritize sending money to historically underserved communities that have long faced challenges in accessing clean water.' 'It's no mystery as to who needs those resources the most,' said EPA Administrator Michael Regan, who recently visited low-income, largely minority communities in the South that have endured industrial contamination and water shortage problems. Of the $7.4 billion headed to states, tribes and territories, $2.9 billion will help pay for the replacement of lead pipes and service lines, and $866 million is meant for addressing per- and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) contaminants in water."
Reuters: U.S. EPA allocates billions in water funding from infrastructure law to states"The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on Thursday released over $7 billion to state governments and tribes to upgrade drinking and waste water systems, the first allotment of clean water funds that was approved in the bipartisan infrastructure bill signed into law last month. The $1 trillion in infrastructure spending features what the EPA describes as the 'single-largest investment in U.S. water infrastructure ever.' 'Billions of dollars are about to start flowing to states and it is critical that EPA partners with states, Tribes, and territories to ensure the benefits of these investments are delivered in the most equitable way,' said EPA Administrator Michael Regan."
CNN: EPA urges states to target billions in new water infrastructure funding to historically underserved communities"In a letter to governors Thursday, EPA Administrator Michael Regan stressed that as the agency evaluates states' plans for the funding, it 'strongly urges states to maximize the potential to remove barriers and prioritize the distribution of grant funds to disadvantaged communities.' 'Every state in America has disadvantaged communities -- rural, urban, suburban -- that have deeply rooted water challenges, whether it is too much, too little or poor-quality water," Regan noted in his letter. "These communities have never received their fair share of federal water infrastructure funding. Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, states have an unprecedented opportunity to correct this disparity … Moving forward, the EPA's strategy to address lead in drinking water will prioritize communities with the highest lead levels and those with environmental-justice concerns. I urge you to join us in this commitment," Regan wrote to governors."
WJBK (Fox Detroit): $50B investment will address contaminants in US drinking water, EPA announces"On Thursday, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced funding that U.S. states, Tribes and territories will receive in 2022 through the Biden administration's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to address key challenges like lead in drinking water and other contamination. According to the EPA, the funding, provided through EPA's State Revolving Fund (SRF) programs, will 'create jobs while upgrading America's aging water infrastructure.' In a letter sent to governors Thursday, the EPA Administrator Michael Regan encouraged states to maximize the impact of water funding from the law to 'address disproportionate environmental burdens in historically underserved communities across the country.'"
Des Moines Register: Iowa gets millions from infrastructure bill to upgrade water plants, limit lead and 'forever chemicals'"The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency says Iowa will receive more than $110 million from the new federal infrastructure bill to upgrade aging water infrastructure and tackle toxic 'forever chemicals.' The funding, announced Thursday, will help Iowa communities replace aging water and wastewater treatment plants and help remove lead from drinking water. 'This is great for our state,' U.S. Rep. Cindy Axne, a Democrat and the only member of Iowa's House delegation to vote for the legislation, told the Des Moines Register. 'We have pipes that are really old and that are not working for this state. And in fact, a recent study showed that, you know, three of every four young children in Iowa have some detectable level of lead in their blood and this is one way we can tackle that health issue for our children.'"
Missouri Times: Missouri to receive $147M for water infrastructure "Missouri will receive more than $147 million in funding for its water systems next year from the federal infrastructure package, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The funds will go to the State Revolving Fund, earmarked to create jobs, address drinking water contamination, and upgrade the state's water infrastructure. EPA Administrator Michael Regan urged Missouri to focus its allocation on environmental struggles faced by underserved communities."
WDSU (NBC Baton Rouge): EPA to allocate over $101 million to improve Louisiana drinking water infrastructure"Senator Bill Cassidy announced today that the Environmental Protection Agency will allocate Louisiana $101,243,000 this fiscal year for drinking water infrastructure improvements across the state. This marks the first major investment of funds Louisiana will receive from the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act … 'Ensuring that our citizens have access to clean and safe drinking water has always been among my top priorities and this allocation of federal dollars from the IIJA could help many more communities across Louisiana,' Gov. John Bel Edwards said. 'I'm grateful to Senator Cassidy, Congressman Carter and President Biden for their hard work on making this happen.'"
Vermont Business Magazine: Vermont gets $63 million for clean water and wastewater revolving loan funds"US Senator Patrick Leahy (D) and Vermont Governor Phil Scott (R) on Thursday announced that Vermont will be receiving $63,041,000 in funding for drinking water systems and wastewater treatment as a result of the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act signed by President Biden late last month. The funds will go into the State's revolving loan funds for drinking water and wastewater. Those funds are loaned or granted to municipalities for constructing, improving or expanding public drinking water and wastewater systems."
KMEG (CBS Sioux City): South Dakota getting millions from EPA for water infrastructure improvements"The state of South Dakota is getting millions of dollars from the Federal Government to improve water infrastructure. The Environmental Protection Agency announced South Dakota will receive more than $63 million from the recently-passed Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for water infrastructure projects. Some of that money is expected to go to the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System, which is nearing the completion of a more than a decade-long effort to provide water to small communities in southeast South Dakota and northwest Iowa."
  