
    
She isn't afraid to talk about the importance of el respeto.
It's no secret that Hillary is loving her role as grandma. And she was thrilled to learn that next summer, her granddaughter Charlotte will have a sibling to play with.?
She's always happy to talk about her "beautiful, perfect" granddaughter, she's an eager volunteer for babysitting duty, and whenever she travels around the country, she makes sure to bring back a gift for Charlotte—sound familiar?
Here are seven more ways Hillary is just like your grandmother.?
She worries about children everywhere ...


  " You shouldn't have to be the granddaughter of a former president to be able to live up to your God-given potential in America. You should be able to be the granddaughter of a factory worker or the grandson of a truck driver—and every day as your president, I'm going to get up trying to figure out what more I can do to make sure every person, and particularly every child, has a chance to do just that."Hillary Clinton

She knows what's best ...


  The science is clear: The earth is round, the sky is blue, and #vaccineswork. Let's protect all our kids. #GrandmothersKnowBest— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 3, 2015

She reacts this way when people le faltan el respeto ...?

She reads to you before bedtime ...?

I believe getting off to a good start should be our children's birthright, part of the basic bargain that we have with each other as a nation. Every child should have the tools and the skills to thrive in tomorrow's economy.—Hillary

She isn't afraid to talk about the importance of el respeto (especially when it comes to women) ...


  " Mr. Trump insults and dismisses women. ... And, you know, whenever he is pressed about the things he says about women, he says he loves women. In fact, to quote him, he cherishes us. Well, if it's all the same to you, Mr. Trump, I would rather you stop cherishing women and start respecting women."Hillary Clinton



She likes to highlight accomplishments ...

and she had one word for Donald Trump ...?

Everybody loves abuela—even this guy.?

  