
    "We will get rid of the redundancy and duplication that wastes your time and your money."- President Donald J. Trump
SURPASSING GOALS FOR FY 2017: The Trump Administration has far exceeded its promise to eliminate regulations at a 2:1 ratio and impose no lifetime net regulatory costs.

Agencies have issued 22 deregulatory actions for every one new regulatory action.

This 22:1 ratio far exceeds President Trump's promise to eliminate two rules for every one new rule. 
In total, agencies issued 67 deregulatory actions while imposing only three new regulatory actions. 


Federal agencies achieved $8.1 billion in lifetime net regulatory cost savings, the equivalent of $570 million per year.

These savings go beyond the Administration's goal of imposing no lifetime net regulatory costs in FY 2017. 
In contrast, the previous administration imposed between $5.7 billion and $15.2 billion in annualized regulatory costs in its final eight months in office. 



EVEN GREATER SAVINGS IN 2018: The Trump Administration is committed to producing even greater regulatory cost savings in FY 2018.

Federal agencies are committed to cutting more than $9.8 billion in lifetime costs for regulations finalized in FY 2018.

This $9.8 billion in savings would amount to $686.6 million per year. 



REGULATORY PLAN FOR FY 2018: Today, the Trump Administration is releasing its first full Regulatory Plan and Unified Agenda of Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions. 

The Regulatory Plan and Unified Agenda of Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions gives a detailed look at the Administration's plan to continue rolling back regulations. 
Agencies plan on achieving even more regulatory rollbacks in FY 2018 compared with FY 2017, and plan to issue at least three deregulatory actions for every one new regulation. 
In this Administration, agencies have withdrawn or delayed 1,579 planned regulatory actions.

635 regulations were withdrawn. 
244 regulations were made inactive. 
700 regulations were delayed. 


For the first time, the Federal regulatory database will identify whether regulations are anticipated to be net regulatory or deregulatory. 
Reginfo.gov will now provide a list of inactive regulatory actions, not released in previous administrations.

  