
    (LOS ANGELES, December 19, 2019) –– Tonight, presidential candidate for the Democratic nomination Tom Steyer took the debate stage for the third time, emphasizing the need for real structural reform to solve our climate crisis, to make our economy more fair and more just, and to defeat Donald Trump.
Tonight, Steyer said that the 2020 presidential election will come down to the economy. "We shouldn't tear each other down," Steyer said. "We need to actually go after this corrupt president and beat him on the economy – where he thinks he's king and where, in fact, he's a fraud and a failure."
Steyer reiterated that his track record and experience as a successful, self-made businessman, makes him the Democrat most equipped to not only beat Donald Trump, but also overwrite the Republican lie that economic growth comes at the cost of economic justice. "I don't consider it a success if I do really well and no one else in America does well," said Steyer. "I know that long-term, fair, growth depends on a just economy with shared prosperity... And I know how to build that prosperity."
On climate, Steyer differentiated himself from other Democratic candidates. "I'm the only person here who will say unequivocally [climate] is my number one priority," said Steyer. "I know we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice... Our biggest crisis is our biggest opportunity. We can do this and create millions of middle-class union jobs across the United States of America," build a just economy, protect low-income communities, fossil fuel workers and communities of color.
Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg to make climate a higher priority, because "the people in his generation understand that the [climate] crisis is something that we have to act on right now... that this is the greatest opportunity to rebuild America," and that it's time to deliver real American leadership in solving our climate crisis.
We can't get universal health care, comprehensive climate policies, or a fair and just economic system without bold, structural changes to our system. Tonight, Steyer called on the need for Congressional term limits – because in order to fix our broken system, we need new people in charge, with new ideas.
Steyer concluded by highlighting the need for teamwork –– to pass progressive policies, to solve our climate crisis, and to beat Donald Trump in 2020: "The question is how are we, together, going to beat this corrupt and criminal President. How are we going to stand up for the people of the United States."
  