
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), an advisory committee on environmental quality, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the President's Commission on Environmental Quality ("Commission"). The Commission shall comprise not more than 25 members to be appointed by the President. One of the members shall be the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality. The remaining members shall be individuals from the private sector who have experience in various aspects of environmental and natural resources matters. The Chairman of the council on Environmental Quality shall serve as Chairman of the Commission and shall report directly to the President.
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission, through the Chairman, shall advise the President on matters involving environmental quality.
(b) The Chairman may, from time to time, invite experts to submit information to the Commission and may direct the members to investigate and report to the Commission on specific environmental issues of national consequence.
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the Commission such information with respect to environmental and natural resources matters as the Commission requires for the purpose of carrying out its functions.
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Commission. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service -5707).
(c) Any expenses of the Commission shall be paid from the funds available for the expenses of the Council on Environmental Quality.
(d) The Office of Administration shall, on a reimbusable basis, provide such administrative services as may be required.
Sec. 4. General. Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Council on Environmental Quality in accord with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
George Bush
The White House,
December 12, 1990.
  