
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four people, appoint one person and designate one person to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Gregory B. Cade, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the United States Fire Administration at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Cade currently serves as Fire Chief and Emergency Services Coordinator of the City of Virginia Beach Fire Department. Prior to this, he served as Fire Chief of the City of Hampton, Virginia, Division of Fire and Rescue. Earlier in his career, he served as Bureau Chief at Prince George's County Fire Department. He received his associate's degree from Prince George's Community College and his bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland at College Park.
The President intends to nominate Sam Fox, of Missouri, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belgium. Mr. Fox currently serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Harbour Group. He is a former member of the United States Naval Reserves. Mr. Fox received his bachelor's degree from Washington University in St. Louis.
The President intends to nominate Stanley Davis (Dave) Phillips, of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia. Mr. Phillips currently serves as Chairman of Phillips Industries, Inc. He served as Secretary of Commerce for the State of North Carolina and most recently he served on the National Board of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC.
The President intends to nominate Jill E. Sommers, of Kansas, to be Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Ms. Sommers previously served as Head of U.S. Regulatory Affairs at the International Swaps and Derivatives Association. Earlier in her career, she was Associate Director of Government Affairs at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Ms. Sommers received her bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas.
The President intends to appoint Maria Cino, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission, for the life of the Commission.
The President intends to designate Robert M. Couch, of Alabama, to be Acting General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
  