
    (New York, NY) – President-elect Donald J. Trump today announced his selection of Lt. Gen. Keith Kellogg, USA (Ret.) as Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary of the National Security Council and Dr. Monica Crowley as Senior Director of Strategic Communications for the National Security Council.
"The United States is an exceptional country and these are two exceptional individuals who have agreed to fulfill the President-elect's pledge of putting America first once again," said Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn, USA (Ret.), National Security Advisor-designate. "I am honored to have General Kellogg and Dr. Crowley on the National Security Council team."
"General Kellogg and Dr. Crowley are two outstanding individuals whose decades of combined experience and unique skill sets will be invaluable to advance the Trump Administration's agenda to protect our great nation and advance U.S. interests throughout the world," said Deputy National Security Advisor-designate KT McFarland. "I am so pleased that they will be joining our growing team at the National Security Council."
General Kellogg is a decorated veteran of the United States Army, serving from 1967 to 2003, including two tours during the Vietnam War, where he earned the Silver Star, Bronze Star with "V" device and Air Medal with "V" device. He served as the commander of the 82nd Airborne Division from 1997 to 1998 and prior to his retirement, General Kellogg was the Director, Command, Control, Communications and Computers for U.S. forces under the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
From November 2003 to March 2004, General Kellogg served as the Chief Operations Officer for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq. In this role, Kellogg oversaw the efforts to form the new Iraqi military after it was disbanded, as well as the reconstruction of the country's infrastructure. Following his service with the CPA, Kellogg was awarded the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service.
Since retiring from the Army in 2003, General Kellogg has gone on to have a successful business career in the private sector.
"I am honored to not only be a part of this historic administration but also to be serving with General Flynn and KT McFarland, who are widely respected as some of the most experienced and strategic national security minds," said Kellogg. "Together, with the incredibly talented Dr. Crowley, the NSC will help lead President-elect Trump's national security agenda."
Dr. Crowley, a renowned scholar who holds a Ph.D. in international relations from Columbia University, is a foreign affairs and political analyst for the Fox News Channel. She is also a New York Times bestselling author and a columnist and online opinion editor of The Washington Times.
Previously, Dr. Crowley served as Foreign Policy Assistant and Communications Director to former President Richard Nixon from 1990 until his death in 1994. She was named "Woman of the Year" by the Clare Booth Luce Institute at the Conservative Political Action Conference in 2010 and received the "Excellence in Journalism Award" from the Women's National Republican Club in 2014.
"I am deeply honored, humbled and grateful to be asked by the President-elect to join the extraordinary national security team he is assembling," said Crowley. "With vision, courage and moral clarity, he is committed fully to re-establishing America's singular place in the world. He is also committed to selecting the best people for the jobs of keeping the American people safe and the country secure. It will be a great privilege to serve with them."
  