
    
  State's National Right to Life Affiliate Supporting Thompson for President

McLean, VA - Today Fred Thompson received the endorsement of the Minnesota Citizens Concerned for Life, the Minnesota affiliate of the National Right to Life Council.
"MCCL has joined NRLC and many state affiliates in endorsing Fred Thompson," said Minnesota Citizens Concerned for Life Executive Director Scott Fischbach. "His record and his positions on issues affecting life have earned Thompson our support for president."
The National Right to Life Committee is the nation's largest pro-life group with affiliates in all 50 states and more than 3,000 local chapters nationwide. National Right to Life works through legislation and education to protect those threatened by abortion, infanticide, euthanasia and assisted suicide. MCCL is Minnesota's oldest and largest pro-life organization with more than 70,000 member families and 240 chapters across the state.
"I'm blessed and honored to have the endorsement of Minnesota Citizens Concerned for Life for President of the United States," said Senator Thompson. "Right to life organizations across the country continue to vote to endorse my candidacy because they know I have stood with them yesterday, I stand with them today, and will stand with them tomorrow. They know I have the ability to win this election. They know I believe in the sanctity of life and as President I will do all that I can to do to protect life."
Fred Thompson is pro-life. He believes in the sanctity of human life and that every life is worthy of respect. He had a 100% pro-life voting record in the Senate and believes Roe v. Wade was a bad decision that ought to be overturned. He consistently opposed federal funding to promote or pay for abortion and supported the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act, the Child Custody Protection Act, and President Reagan's Mexico City policy. While Fred Thompson supports adult stem cell research, he opposes embryonic stem cell research. He also opposes human cloning.
  