
    Pool Report by Daniel Strauss, The New Republic 



Sent:
Reports:




December 9, 202120:15

SGOTUS pool report: DNC fundraiser
The Second Gentleman participated tonight at a DNC fundraiser at the home of Edward "Smitty" Smith in the Bloomingdale neighborhood of Washington D.C. SCOTUS began speaking at 6:39 p.m.
SGOTUS started by describing how his history with Smith and his time at DLA Piper. He then noted that he is teaching "at Georgetown and so I'm keeping a little toe in the water." He thanked some of the other DLA Piper guests and others in attendance.
Some quotes:
"Don't you all agree we need more women in senior leadership at law firms" which sparked applause from the audience.
"I'm only here because the country elected Kamala Harris..."
"It's good to have those moments with her....so yes I support her very publicly but I get it back and that's why we're able to do this and do it together and see some joy....we get to do this every day. We get to be at the forefront of saving democracy and helping our country."
SGOTUS noted that many of those in attendance were donors during the campaign. "And that was tough, during COVID....I got to see the country in a way I never got to see it. What did I see though? I saw a nation in pain....I got to see what was really going on in the country and you can't unsee what you see out there and this administration knows that..."
"We need to elect Stacy Abrams in Georgia."
"We won this election. We won this election fair and square."
"We've done a lot since we've taken over in January. Remember what it was like back then? It was terrible....we were just getting out of [a] post insurrection...."
Emhoff said the American Rescue Plan lifted TK children out of poverty...
"We've got the Build Back Better Agenda, hopefully that will pass soon..."
Emhoff warned about an "assault on democracy...it's all happening in front of us in slow motion and we've got to have a sense of urgency. The administration does and will continue to speak out on it....We need to get our folks out there fired up about it...this is an issue for all of us..."
"Every morning I get up and say what can I do to help the vice president as a husband. I start there...I am mission driven. I am mission driven that every day I am thinking about what can I do to save democracy. What can I do to be part of the solution..." at that applause erupted.
"It's a good story. We've had a great year as an administration and we can't get lost at that...there is a professionalism -like this is an administration is doing everything the right way....it's just. a group of smart, hard working people..."
"The other thing I'll say about them is that you get to have these amazing moments together. We get to talk behind the scenes and then after...."
Pool was escorted out just as he started to take questions.
The crowd count was approximately 30 people per the DNC.




  