
    Building on momentum in Iowa and New Hampshire, Edwards expands base of support in February 5th states across the country, citing particular strength in traditionally "red" states
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, the John Edwards for President campaign announced key leaders and advisors in nine states that will hold presidential primaries and caucuses on February 5th. These current and former elected officials join the campaign's team of state advisors in all 22 February 5th states, who are already working to help the campaign build on momentum coming out of the nation's first contests in Iowa and New Hampshire.
The announcement comes as the Edwards campaign highlighted the strength of its organization in February 5th states all across the country, including:

State advisors in all 22 February 5th states
Endorsements from seven labor unions that together represent more than 1.5 million members in February 5th states
Endorsements from a majority of State House and Senate Democratic legislators in North Dakota and Oklahoma
706 One Corps chapters, the local service arm of the Edwards campaign, in February 5th states
Statewide grassroots organizing calls held with advisors and supporters in all 22 February 5th states this month.

"There is no question John Edwards is surging in Iowa and New Hampshire," said Edwards' national campaign manager Congressman David Bonior. "And that momentum is only going to keep growing, as we head into Nevada, South Carolina and the February 5th states. With the help of the labor community and others, including the list of experienced leaders we are announcing today, the Edwards campaign has built a strong national organization with a wide base of support. We are well-positioned to capitalize on the momentum coming out of strong finishes in the four early primary states and turn it into victories for John Edwards in the February 5th states."
"I am honored to join Senator Edwards' team of advisors in February 5th states," said former Georgia Congressman Ben "Cooter" Jones, who has campaigned for Edwards in both Iowa and New Hampshire. "Poll after poll shows John Edwards to be by far our strongest Democratic candidate in the general election. I'm not supporting John Edwards because of polls, but those same surveys show that John Edwards can win in the so-called 'red states' and that's exciting to me. His strength at the top of the ticket will help other Democrats on the ballot in the South and in the Heartland. John Edwards transcends the 'Blue State-Red State' paradigm. He will make the Democratic Party a truly national party once again."
In addition to adding to its list of key leaders and advisors, the Edwards campaign announced that it had held statewide grassroots organizing calls in all 22 February 5th states this month.
The Edwards campaign also has strong support from seven labor unions in February 5th states which have endorsed John Edwards and together represent more than 1.5 million members in those states. Edwards has earned the endorsement of: the United Steelworkers of America; the United Mine Workers of America; the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America; the Transport Workers Union; Service Employees International Union (SEIU) state councils in 12 states, including California, Minnesota, Idaho and Massachusetts; the Arizona Communications Workers of America; and the UNITE HERE Chicago and Midwest Joint Board, which represents members in Minnesota, Illinois and Missouri.
The key leaders and advisors in February 5th states the Edwards campaign is announcing today includes:
Arizona
U.S. Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ)
AZ State Senator Leah Landrum Taylor; Chair, AZ Legislative Black Caucus
California
CA Board of Equalization Chair Betty Yee
CA Senate Assistant President Pro Temp Leland Yee
CA State Senator Darrell Steinberg
CA State Senator Gloria Negrete McCleod
CA Assemblyman Anthony Portantino
CA Assemblyman Dave Jones
CA Assemblyman Pedro Nava
Former CA Assembly Speaker / L.A. City Councilmember Herb Wesson
Former CA Assembly Majority Leader Mike Roos
Former CA Board of Equalization Chair Conway Collis
Former U.S. Rep. / Former CA Senate President John Burton
Georgia
GA Senate Dem. Leader Robert Brown
GA House Dem. Leader DuBose Porter
Former GA Governor Roy Barnes
Former GA Lt. Governor Mark Taylor
Former U.S. Rep. Ed Jenkins (GA)
Former U.S. Rep. Ben "Cooter" Jones (GA)
Minnesota
U.S. Rep. Jim Oberstar (MN)
MN House Majority Leader Tony Sertich
MN House Asst. Majority Leader Aaron Petersen
Former MN State Senator Ted Mondale
Missouri
MO Senate Democratic Caucus Chair Frank Barnitz
MO House Democratic Whip Connie Johnson
MO House Democratic Caucus Chair Ed Wildberger
MO State Senator Wes Shoemyer
MO State Senator Tim Green
Former MO Lt. Governor Joe Maxwell
North Dakota
ND Agriculture Commissioner Roger Johnson
ND Senate Minority Leader David O'Connell
ND House Minority Leader Merle Boucher
New Jersey
NJ Senate Majority Leader / Former NJ Governor Dick Codey
NJ Senate Deputy Majority Leader Joe Vitale
NJ State Senator Stephen Sweeney
NJ State Senator Nick Scutari
New Mexico
Former NM Attorney General Patricia Madrid
Oklahoma
OK Labor Commissioner Lloyd Fields
OK Senate President Pro-Temp Mike Morgan
OK House Democratic Leader Danny Morgan
  