
    WASHINGTON — Sen. Bernie Sanders on Monday returns to Iowa for a three-day swing through the western part of the state. The trip kicks off with a town meeting in Sioux City and includes stops in Storm Lake, Carroll, Harlan, and Council Bluffs and Red Oak. Sanders will discuss a wide range of issues, including his plan to combat climate change, his college affordability plan, income and wealth inequality and getting big money out of politics.
Here is the itinerary:
Monday, December 217 p.m. Sioux City Town Meeting, Boys Club of Sioux City, 823 Pearl St, Sioux CityInformation for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Tuesday, December 2210 a.m. Storm Lake Town Meeting, Buena Vista University, Harold Walter Siebens School of Business, Storm LakeInformation for the public: Doors open at 9:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.12:30 p.m. Carroll Field Headquarters Opening, Bernie 2016 Carroll Field Office, 820 West 8th Street, CarrollInformation for the public: Doors open at noon. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.4 p.m. Harlan Town Meeting, C. G. Therkildsen Activity Center, 706 Victoria Street, HarlanInformation for the public: Doors open at 3 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.7 p.m. Pottawattamie County Economic Forum, Iowa Western Community College, Kanesville Gym and Arena, 2700 College Road, Council BluffsInformation for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Wednesday, December 2310 a.m. Red Oak Town Meeting, Red Oak Public Library, 400 N. 2nd St, Red OakInformation for the public: Doors open at 9:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.Noon Council Bluffs Meeting with Precinct Captains, Barley's, 114 W. Broadway, Council BluffsInformation for the public: This event is for precinct captains.
  