
    ART (local time)
First Lady Melania Trump accompanied her husband to Buenos Aires, Argentina for the 2018 G20 Summit.
On Friday, November 30, Mrs. Trump attended a spousal luncheon hosted by the First Lady of Argentina, Juliana Awada at Villa Ocampo, the former home of Argentine writer Victoria Ocampo who founded the Argentine Women's Union in the 1930s. While at Villa Ocampo, the First Lady participated in a reception in the gardens followed by a luncheon in the dining room.
In the afternoon, Mrs. Trump and the President met with the United States Ambassador to the Argentine Republic, Edward Prado, and his wife, Maria Prado, for an Embassy meet and greet with staffers and their families, thanking them for their hard work and service to the United States.
In the evening, the First Lady and President attended a performance at Teatro Colón hosted by the President of the Argentine Republic, Mauricio Macri and his wife, Juliana Awada. Following the performance, Mrs. Trump and the President attended a dinner with the other G20 Leaders and spouses.
On Saturday, Mrs. Trump attended the spousal program at MALBA – the Buenos Aires Museum of Latin American Art. The Museum houses a collection of 400 pieces. The First Lady joined the other partners for a presentation by the First Lady of Argentina who spoke on the importance on Argentina's National Plan on Early Childhood. Mrs. Trump signed a chair designed by a local artist at the end of the presentation, showing support for Argentina's early childhood programs. Following the presentation, Mrs. Trump attended a partner's lunch before departing.
"Thank you to the First Lady of Argentina for hosting a wonderful weekend of events and a chance for many of us to come together in appreciation of Argentina's history and culture," said First Lady Melania Trump. "I very much enjoyed visiting the historic Villa Ocampo as well as meeting with some of Argentina's most prominent artists. Thank you to Mrs. Awada, for sharing more about your platform — early childhood. Thank you to both President Macri and Ms. Awada for the wonderful hospitality."
  