
    Mitt Romney today announced the endorsement of California Congressmen Jerry Lewis, Ken Calvert and Brian Bilbray.
"I am proud to earn the support of three great leaders in California," said Mitt Romney. "I am looking forward to working with them to move this country forward and ensure Californians and all Americans get working again."
Announcing his support, Congressman Lewis said "Mitt Romney has the conservative credentials to lead our economy out of this recession. His experience in the business world gives him a keen understanding of our economy and of job creation. He is the best prepared to take on President Obama and turn around our economy."
Announcing his support, Congressman Calvert said, "Governor Romney will be a steady and reliable commander of the ship of state and is the right man to manage critical but tight defense budgets and lead an American and global recovery. Governor Romney's private and public sector experience make him the best equipped candidate to defeat President Obama in 2012."
"Governor Romney's leadership and experience are what this country needs right now. President Obama's failures are wreaking havoc on the economy and we need a leader who can fix the fiscal mess we are in and create jobs," said Congressman Bilbray. "I also believe that Mitt Romney will be the best candidate to secure the border and put a halt to illegal immigration."
Background on Congressmen Lewis, Calvert and Bilbray:

Congressman Lewis represents California's 41st district and serves on the House Appropriations Committee. He formerly served as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee during the 109th Congress and now currently serves on the Subcommittee on Defense.


Congressman Calvert represents California's 44th district and serves on the House Appropriations Committee. He also currently serves on the Subcommittee on Defense, the Interior and the Environment Subcommittee and the Legislative Branch Subcommittee.


Congressman Bilbray represents California's 50th district and is chairman of the Immigration Reform Caucus. He also currently serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee with subcommittee appointments to Oversight and Investigations, Communication and Technology, and Energy and Power.

  