
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, former Michigan First Lady Michelle Engler announced her endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney. Michelle Engler served for nine years as the founding Chair of the Michigan Community Service Commission and serves on the board of America's Promise.
"Michelle Engler, along with her husband, has been a good friend to both Ann, me, and the entire Romney family. She is beloved by the people of Michigan for all that she did for the state during her time as First Lady. Her charitable efforts for breast cancer research, education and food for the hungry have left a lasting mark on the state," said Governor Romney. "I am proud to have her on my team, and look forward to working with her to strengthen families in Michigan, and across our nation."
Michelle Engler said, "Governor Romney's commitment to better health care, better schools and stronger families is a testament to his character and indicative of how he will lead our nation. There is no other candidate who understands the challenges Michigan faces and will do more to help put Michigan back on track. I enthusiastically support Mitt Romney in his campaign to be our nation's next President and look forward to helping him win in Michigan on his way to winning the nomination."
Michelle Engler will serve as Honorary Michigan Chair of Women for Mitt.
Background On First Lady Michelle Engler:
Michigan First Lady Michelle Engler Has Served For Nine Years As The Founding Chair Of The Michigan Community Service Commission. Married to Governor John Engler, she is a lawyer and member of the Michigan and Texas State Bar Associations. Appointed by Colin Powell, Michelle Engler serves on the board of America's Promise- the Alliance for Youth. She also serves on the board of directors of the Connect Michigan Alliance and the national Points of Light Foundation. In 2002, Habitat for Humanity of Michigan awarded her and Governor Engler the honor of 'Public Leader of the Year.' Michelle Engler has also received the Karmanos Cancer Institute's Award for Leadership, the Salvation Army of Detroit's Other Award, and the prestigious William Booth Award from the Grand Rapids Chapter. In 2001, President George W. Bush appointed Michelle Engler to the Federal Home Mortgage Corporation and was re-appointed in 2002. John and Michelle Engler are the proud parents of teenage triplets Hannah, Madeline and Maggy.
  