
    President Medici, Mrs. Medici, our distinguished guests from Brazil, and our distinguished guests here from the United States:
Mr. President, because of this inclement weather, it may seem to some that this is not the most fortunate time for a visit, but I want you to know that I believe that your visit to our country could not have been at a more important time from the standpoint of both countries.
As you know, I will be leaving for a trip to Peking and one to the Soviet Union. Prior to that time, I consider it vitally important to have discussions with our closest friends in at least the largest countries. The consultations with nations of Europe, with Japan, with Canada last night, and now with Brazil Brazil, the largest country in South America--are part of that consultative process.
The fact that you could be here now in our country will provide the opportunity that I have looked forward to, to discuss with you these visits that I will be making and, also, to have other discussions of importance to our two countries. I look forward to getting your views on hemispheric relations because, as the eyes of the world inevitably are on various trouble spots around the world far away, and on the trips, for example, that I shall be taking to other parts of the world, we in the United States of America know that our closest friends and our closest neighbors are in this hemisphere, and we welcome you as a close friend and a close neighbor for so many years from Brazil.
Mr. President, finally, I look forward to our talks because of the enormous success that you have had during your term of office in building the economy of Brazil, in the progress that has occurred during that period. Those who have written about it have called it "the Brazilian miracle." We congratulate you, and we want you to know that all of the people of this country, as we look to our great neighbor to the south, extend our very best wishes to all the people of your great country.
Thank you for coming at this time so that we could meet.
  