
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




December 2, 202111:10

POTUS Pool Report #1: briefing begins 
The White House press briefing has started. As Jen mentioned at the top, the in-town pool will be leaving soon to depart for NIH in advance of the president's visit today. A separate, supplemental pool will cover POTUS' departure from the White House in M1.



December 2, 202113:02

POTUS Pool Report #2: Bethesda arrival 
Marine One arrived at the Walter Reed landing zone in Bethesda at 12:54 pm. President Joe Biden stepped off the helicopter and entered a black SUV. Pool was positioned across the street and did not have a clear view.
The press is back in vans, and the motorcade is rolling.



December 2, 202113:14

POTUS Pool Report #3: NIH arrival/awaiting speech
At 1:02 PM pool arrived at the Natcher building at NIH. It did not see the president arrive. Pool is currently holding in the auditorium where the president will deliver his remarks.
A podium has been set up in front of a light blue step and repeat background with white lettering & the NIH logo printed across it.
Eight large American and presidential flags are also on the stage. Two of each are on either side of the podium. Two large screens are also positioned on the wall above the stage.
Reporters are currently seated five to six rows back from the stage.
While the president's remarks are set to livestream, pooler will send any relevant color from inside the auditorium.



December 2, 202113:16

POTUS Pool Report #4: Biden in a COVID briefing 
The White House provides the following background information on President Biden's current whereabouts:
The President is receiving a briefing from his COVID Response Team and NIH health officials, including NIAID Director and Chief Medical Advisor to the President Dr. Anthony Fauci.
Also participating in the briefing:Dr. Francis Collins, Director, National Institutes of Health (NIH)Dr. Lawrence Tabak, Principal Deputy Director, National Institutes of Health (NIH)Dr. Julie Ledgerwood, Chief Medical Officer and Chief of the Clinical Trials Program, Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID)Jeff Zients, Coordinator of the COVID-19 ResponseNatalie Quillian, Deputy Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response



December 2, 202113:42

POTUS Pool Report #5: remarks & Fauci 
At 1:36 PM, the president began his remarks. Just before he entered the room, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Collins, Jeff Zients and other officials entered the auditorium.
Fauci told pool that the briefing was "good."
Did you talk about travel restrictions? "No. We spoke more about science," Fauci replied.
Moments later, President Biden took the stage. He is speaking now.



December 2, 202114:43

POTUS Pool Report #6: government shutdown question
President Joe Biden concluded his remarks at 2:03 PM. As he was near the exit, he took a shouted question on the potential for a government shutdown.
First he said, "no," and called it a "silly question" then he said the following:
"I don't believe that will happen" he said. He offered that he spoke with Sens. McConnell and Schumer, and that a plan is in place, unless someone decides "to be totally erratic."
Will send full quote ASAP. As soon as the president left the room, pool was led out and into vans, where it is currently holding and struggling to get a cell signal (apologies for the delay).
Additional color: Health officials are socially distanced seats, with two to three empty seats in between each of them, and at least one empty row in most cases immediately behind them.
A note on the beginning of the president's speech: pool had no warning that Biden was about to take the stage. He began speaking several minutes ahead of schedule. The only indication that the briefing had concluded was that health officials entered the room and took their seats.



December 2, 202114:33

POTUS Pool Report #7: government shutdown quote
Motorcade is rolling at 2:23 PM away from NIH and back to the Walter Reed landing zone.
Pool has listened to its audio of the exchange with President Biden repeatedly and here's what what we heard:
Q: Will there be a government shutdown on Friday?
A: "No."
Q: How will you prevent it?
A: "How could you ask such a silly question?"
"Look, I don't believe that will happen We have everything in place to be able to make sure there is not a shutdown, unless some individual...I spoke with Mitch McConnell, I spoke with Schumer, there is a plan in place unless somebody decides to be totally erratic, and I don't think that will happen. So I don't think there will be a shutdown. Thank you."



December 2, 202114:41

POTUS Pool Report #8: departing in M1
President Biden held at NIH for several minutes before boarding Marine One at 2:29pm. He was standing behind an SUV for much of htat time, so the pool's view was mostly blocked.
Marine One lifted at 2:33 pm with the president aboard.
Pool is departing separately from NIH in vans for the White House, where a supplemental pool will capture President Biden's arrival. In-town pool next expects to see the president at the National Christmas Tree Lighting.



December 2, 202115:22

Lunch lid until 4:30 pm 
The White House says there is a lunch lid in place until 4:30 pm.



December 2, 202117:44

POTUS Pool Report #9: awaiting POTUS at tree lighting
The press pool is seated in chairs on a riser behind the VIP section at the tree lighting.
At 5:37 pm the vice president, wearing a red top and what appeared to be a black jacket, and her husband, in a black tie and black jacket, entered the event and took their seats in the front.
Kristin Chenoweth began a performance of "The Man With The Bag" moments after they arrived. While she was performing, at 5:40 pm, the president's motorcade could be seen in the distance leaving the White House.
Before her performance, pre-taped Christmas music was playing, including the Mariah Carey classic, "All I Want for Christmas Is You."
A note about this event: a park ranger informed the press pool that a mask mandate is in effect for this outdoor event.



December 2, 202118:01

POTUS Pool Report #10: tree lighting
At 5:44 PM the rapper and host of the event, LL Cool J, announced the arrival of the president and first lady.
Pool had a hard time seeing from a distance, but they did not immediately appear -- and the entertainer had to announce the president and first lady a second time at this made for television event that is not airing live.
Jill Biden could be seen from afar in a red coat jacket and black scarf. The president wore a suit and overcoat.
"For our safety, I am going to stand over here and social distance. I don't want to cough on you," LL Cool J told the first couple.
He stood several feet away from them on the other side of a podium that appeared to be behind bullet-proof glass.
Biden then asked attendees to count down from 5 to the lighting of the tree.
The National Christmas Tree turned on with gold and red lights and bulbs with a silver star on top at the end of the countdown.
"I like that job," POTUS said.
LL Cool J replied, "It's a great job."
As they exited the stage an instrumental version of Joy to the World played.
The first couple could be seen greeting VP Kamala Harris and Doug Emhoff before taking their seats.
Billy Porter gave a performance next. Event is ongoing.
Some color: red bows and Christmas lights served as trim around the stage. Stacks of red and white boxes wrapped as gifts are also on stage. The stage is covered in red carpet. Behind and to the sides of the stage are rows of lit Christmas trees.



December 2, 2021
[APP Note: Report #11 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


December 2, 202118:45

POTUS Pool Report #12: performances ongoing
Several musical guests have performed since the last pool report, including Chris Stapelton & H.E.R. They sang a duet rendition of "This Christmas." Patti LaBelle also performed "It's the Most Wonderful Time of the Year"with the Howard Gospel Choir providing background vocals.
"YES! God bless you!" she said at the end. LaBelle added that the president and VP are taking us to a "great, great place."
Throughout the musical performances, the first and second families sat in the front row but pool could not see them very well from its vantage point.
It is a windy but enjoyable 62 degrees F outside on this atypically warm December evening.
Here are some photos from the tree lighting. I'll add more later when WiFi improves.
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/38zmrz102qezy3v/AADjVbLiStTbM3sAN49HN8RYa?dl=0



December 2, 202119:01

POTUS Pool Report #13: POTUS remarks 
At 6:45 PM Deb Haaland, the secretary of the Interior, took the stage.
She noted that this the event us taking place in a national park.
Shw also said: I'm grateful to join you on the ancestral homelands of the Anacostia and in Piscataway people.
At 6:47 she welcomed the Bidens to the stage.
POTUS opened with his my name is Joe and I am Jill's husband line. He also wished Haaland a happy birthday and said she was making him look good.
Of LL Cool J he said, "He looks like he can still play."
POTUS added: I'm not talking about instruments. I'm talking about football or something man. Anyway...
He brought up those who had lost lived ones because of the virus or some other cruel twist of fate or accident and thanked service members.
"We are a great nation because of you the American people," he said. "We have so much ahead of us."
"So merry Christmas America. May God bless you all and may God bless our troops."
He concluded his remarks at 6:51 and left as the event wrapped. Pool is walking back to the White House separately.



December 2, 202119:03

POTUS Pool Report #14: Travel/Photo Lid 
At 7:01 PM the White House declared a travel/photo lid. Have a good night, everyone!




 
Pool Reports below by Shelby Talcott, The Daily Caller 



Sent:
Reports:




December 2, 202112:34

Supplemental In-Town Pool Report #1: Gathering 
Good afternoon, I’ll be your supplemental pooler for POTUS departure/arrival here at the White House. He’s traveling to the NIH in Maryland, where he’ll give remarks on the administration’s plan to fight COVID-19 through winter.
Your pooler has been COVID tested and is gathering for departure, which is scheduled for 12:45pm.



December 2, 202112:49

Supplemental In-Town Pool Report #2: Departure 
POTUS exited the Oval Office at 12:43pm. His mask appeared to be in hand. He waved at the pool but did not stop to take shouted questions.
POTUS boarded M1 at 12:44pm and it lifted off at 12:48pm.
Passing back to in-town pool until arrival.
Passing along from WH:
Traveling with the President on Marine One:

Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jeff Zients, Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Natalie Quillian, Deputy Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting




December 2, 202114:37

Supplemental In-Town Pool Report #3: Gathering 
Pool is gathering again at the WH ahead of POTUS return from the NIH, which is scheduled for 2:45pm.



December 2, 202114:51

Supplemental In-Town Pool Report #4: Arrival 
M1 landed back at the WH at 2:42pm. POTUS disembarked shortly afterwards at 2:45pm, wearing a mask. Pool had been gathered over on the Oval Office side and scrambled upon realizing the President was heading into the WH residence.
Biden did not appear to acknowledge the pool at first and stopped for a few minutes to chat with two females and two young girls standing outside the building. He posed for a photograph with them and then continued chatting.
A man in a military uniform came up to the ground for a moment before backing up again (but still remaining engaged in the conversation).
POTUS then responded to one shouted question as he walked away: "how are you feeling?"
"I'm feeling great," Biden responded before entering the residence at 2:49pm.
Will inquire as to who POTUS chatted with.



December 2, 202114:56

Supplemental In-Town Pool Report #5: Oval Office entry 
Pool waited for a bit, as POTUS took the longer route, walking through the Colonnade and ultimately ending up entering the Oval Office around 2:51pm.
Still waiting for info on the group POTUS spoke with.



December 2, 202115:14

Supplemental In-Town Pool Report #6: Details On Group 
Below from WH are details on the group Biden met with upon arrival:
Standing outside of the Residence was the family of a Marine One pilot who was conducting his last flight in service.
That’s all from me, passing back to in-town pool.




  