
    Mitt Romney today announced members of his West Virginia Steering Committee.
"I am honored to have the support of so many West Virginia leaders," said Mitt Romney. While every state's economy is suffering under President Obama, West Virginia's is one of the few under active attack by Obama. As president, I will make domestic energy production a critical priority for our economic recovery. West Virginia's coal resources are a tremendous asset to the state and to the nation and I will encourage their development."
State Senator Donna J. Boley announcing her support said, "President Obama's attempts to restart our economy for the last three years have failed. His liberal, over-reaching policies are simply not working. We need a conservative, experienced leader who understands how the economy works and has actually created jobs. As Governor, Mitt Romney balanced the budget without raising taxes. He spent 25 years in the private sector turning around failing businesses and successfully turned around the 2002 Olympic Winter Games. I am proud and excited to support Mitt Romney for President." Boley is a veteran Legislator and former WV Republican National Committeewoman.
Bill Phillips will lead the Romney WV Team.  Serving as Co-Chairs will be Donna Gosney, Republican National Committeewoman; Delegate Bob Ashley, a member of the WV Legislature; Thomas O'Neill, Vice Chairman of the WV Republican Party; Wendy McCuskey, Romney State Director in 2008; and Senator Boley.
John H. McCutcheon, II, a senior advisor to Governor Romney in 2008 and State Bush Director in 2000, will assist Phillips who directed the 2000 Bush presidential campaign in WV.
West Virginia elected officials and leaders endorsing Mitt Romney:

Patricia Adams (Buckhannon) — Adams is a member of the WV Republican State Committee.  She also serves as chair of the Upshur County Republican Committee.
Jack Adams (New Milton) — Adams is Chairman of the Doddridge County Republican Party and a Member of the WV Republican State Committee.
Steven Allred (Julian) — Allred served a WV Commissioner of Labor.
Delegate Bob Ashley (Spencer) — Ashley is a longtime member of the WV House of Delegates and was Co-Chair of Governor Romney's WV campaign in 2008.
Patrick Bennett (Collier) — Bennett is an attorney and was Brooke County Romney Chair in 2008.
Senator Donna Boley (St. Marys) — Boley serves in the WV State Senate and is a former WV Republican National Committeewoman.
Mary Boltz (Beverly) — Boltz is a Member of the WV Republican State Executive Committee.
Mark Browning (Charleston) — Browning is an attorney in Charleston and is the former President of the Kanawha County Bar Association. 
Norma Clise (Romney) — Clise is a lifelong Republican activist in Hampshire County.
Roger Dahmer (Franklin) — Dahmer is Chairman of the Pendleton County Republican Committee.
William Drennen (Fairmont) - Drennen is a Fairmont insurance executive and worked on the WV Romney campaign in 2008.
Delegate Allen V. Evans (Dorcas) — Evans is a Member of the WV House of Delegates.
Beverly Evans (Dorcas) — Evans is Chair of the Grant County Republican County Party.
Jack Fincham (Brenton) — Fincham is Chair of the Wyoming County Republican Party.
Delegate Marty Gearheart (Bluefield) — Gearheart serves in the WV House of Delegates and is Vice Chairman of the WV Republican Party.
Sara S. Geis   (Short Gap) — Geis is a leader in her community serving on local boards, dedicated to youth and families.
Donna Gosney (Madison) — Gosney is WV Republican National Committeewoman and was Co-Chair of Governor Romney's WV 2008 campaign.
Mike Greer (Bridgeport) — Greer is a four term member of the WV Legislature and member of the WV Public Service Commission.
Todd Gunter (Charleston) — Gunter is a member of the Kanawha County Republican Executive Committee.
Priscilla Haden (Charleston) — Haden is a prominent education leader who is known for her efforts to return teaching of civics to the classroom.
Robert J. Hannen (Wheeling) — Hannen is an attorney in Wheeling.
Roger Hanshaw (Clay) — Hanshaw an agricultural executive and Parliamentarian to the WV Republican State Committee.
Paul Hartling (Hurricane) — Hartling is Chairman of the WVGOP County Chairs Committee and Chairman of the Putnam County Republican Party.
Mike Hastings (Daniels) — Hasting is a Raleigh County businessman and a lifelong Republican activist.
Ira Haught (Harrisville) — Haught is an attorney and former Chairman of the Ritchie County Republican Committee.
William Higginbotham (White Sulphur Springs) — Higginbotham is a Vice Chairman of the WV Republican State Executive Committee.
Donna Hines (Weston) — Hines is a personal investment manager and financial planner.
Estill Hughes (Cowen) — Hughes is Chairman Webster County Republican Chairman and serves of the WV Republican State Committee
Carolyn Jackson (Elkins) — Jackson is Chair of the Randolph County Republican Committee.
Frank Jorgensen (Summersville) — Jorgensen is a Nicholas County business executive.
Mayor Dottie Kellison (Marlinton) — Kellison is former Mayor City of Marlinton.
Katie Kennedy (Harpers Ferry) — Kennedy is a homemaker and active in the local community theater.
Jeffrey Loudin (Elkins) — Loudin is a hotel executive and former Republican Chairman in Randolph County.  He was Executive Assistant to the 2008 WV Romney staff.
Conrad Lucas (Huntington) — Lucas is Chairman of the WV Young Republicans and serves as General Counsel to the WV Republican Party.
Lawrence Lyon (Madison) — Lyon is Chair of the Boone County Republican Party.
Jerry Mays (Martinsburg) — Mays is the current Chair of the Berkeley County Republican Party and was Romney Chair in 2008.
Linda Maze (Harrisville) — Maze was County Clerk in Ritchie County for several years.
J. B. McCuskey (Charleston) — McCuskey is a Charleston attorney and served on the 2008 WV Romney Committee.
Wendy McCuskey (Charleston) — McCuskey is president of the Associated Builders & Contractors of West Virginia. 
Delegate James M. McCutcheon (Parkersburg) - McCutcheon served in the WV House of Delegates.  He is a lifelong Republican activist and served on the Bush Finance Committee in WV.
John H. McCutcheon, II (White Sulphur Springs) — McCutcheon served as a Senior Advisor to Governor Romney's WV statewide campaign in 2008 and was Executive Director for the Bush for President Campaign in WV in 2000. 
Karen McCoy (Hillsboro) - McCoy is a Member, WV Republican State Executive Committee.
Mayor Andy McKenzie (Wheeling) — McKenzie is Mayor of Wheeling and previously served in the WV State Senate.
Jack Merinar (Bridgeport) — Merinar is a partner in the law firm of Steptoe-Johnson.
Amanda Mesler (Weirton) — Mesler is an attorney in Weirton and serves as is a Member of the WV Republican State Executive Committee.
Greg Morris (Bridgeport) - Morris is a former Deputy Chief of Staff to the Secretary of U. S. Department of Health & Human Services.
Senator David Nohe (Vienna) — Nohe serves in the WV State Senate and as Mayor of the City of Vienna.
Thomas O'Neill (Buckhannon) — O'Neill is a Buckhannon attorney serves as Vice Chairman WV Republican State Executive Committee and played a key role in the WV Romney 2008 campaign.
Bill Phillips (Elkins) — Phillips served as Chief of Staff to former Governor Cecil H. Underwood and Senior WV Advisor to Governor Romney.  He chaired the WV Bush for President Campaign in 2000.
Chris Phillips (Philippi) — Phillips is a Barbour County businessman and Romney Chair 2008.
Jenny Phillips (Elkins) — Phillips served as WV USDA State Director for Rural Development in the Bush administration and is known for her advocacy and support of rural communities. 
Mayor Carolyn Rader (Ripley) - Rader is Mayor of Ripley and Member of the WV Republican State Executive Committee.
Lisa Ramey (Harts) — Ramey serves as Chairman of the Lincoln County Republican Executive Committee.
Jim Reed (Clay) — Reed is WV Republican National Committeeman.
Rick Rice (Buckhannon) — Rice was President, WV Association of County Commissioners & WV County Officials Association.  He held the position of State Director USDA Rural Development in the Bush administration.
Jamie Ridgeway (Morgantown) — Ridgeway is Vice President of Operations for March Westin Company, Inc.
Joey Robinett (Fort Gay) — Robinett is a practicing attorney and worked on the Romney campaign in 2008 as a college student.
Robert Ryan (Charleston) — Ryan is an attorney in Charleston and serves as Counsel to WV Romney for President Committee.
Jeanne Scott (Huntington) — Scott has managed local and regional Republican campaigns.
Councilman Mark Scott (Elkins) — Scott serves on the Elkins City Council and is a Vice Chairman WV Republican State Executive Committee.
Senator Tom Scott, MD (Huntington) — Scott is a former State Senator and physician.
Terry Shorr (Charleston) — Shorr has been a longtime Romney activist and served on the 2008 WV Romney Steering Committee.
Don Smith (Kingwood) — Smith is Chairman, Preston County Republican Party.
William Snyder (White Sulphur Springs) — Snyder is a Greenbrier County businessman and former Vice Chairman of WV Republican State Executive Committee.
Mark Sorsaia (Hurricane) — Sorsaia is Putnam County Prosecuting Attorney & former candidate for Governor.
Delegate Debbie Stevens (Parsons) — Stevens served in the WV House of Delegates.
Judy Guye Swanson (Elkins) - Swanson is a three term Elkins Mayor and has served as a Randolph County Commissioner.
Dallas Thacker (Huntington) — Thacker is a Huntington businessman and Member of the WV Republican State Committee. . 
David Tyson (Huntington) — Tyson is a former Chairman of the WV Republican Party.
Kimberly Waldron (Morgantown) - Waldron serves on the Monongalia County Republican Executive Committee.
Wayne Weber (New Martinsville) — Weber is a Christian counselor and previous candidate for a WV State Senate.
Herb White (Sutton) — White is Chair of the Braxton County Republican Party.
Shane Wilson (Morgantown) — Wilson is Vice Chairman of the WV Young Republicans and founded the Underwood Institute.
Deborah Wolfe (Huntington) — Wolfe is a former Mrs. American.
Mayor Kim Wolfe (Huntington) — Wolfe is Mayor City of Huntington and former Sheriff of Cabell County.
Duane Zobrist (Lewisburg) — Zobrist is a Greenbrier County businessman and civic leader. 

  