
    Turnout far exceeds organizers' plans for 650 attendees maximum as more than double attend

  

ANKENY, Iowa — More than 1,350 mostly-young supporters greeted 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul at a "Youth for Ron Paul" (YFP) rally held at Iowa State University (ISU). Turnout far exceeded event organizers' estimates considering a similar event will be held tomorrow night at the University of Northern Iowa, a mere one and a half hours drive away. In addition, YFP organizers were given just a week to organize both Hawkeye State rallies.
"Expectations often run high yet I was still blown away by the energy in the room. With less than a month until the caucuses, students will play a pivotal role in the outcome, and this will only help Ron Paul," said Edward King, National Youth Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
"This many students would only show up for Ron Paul — no other Republican candidate," added Ani DeGroot, Midwest Regional Director for YFP.
The rally took place at ISU in the Memorial Union Great Hall, located at 2229 Lincoln Way in Ames. It was expected to attract a maximum of 650 attendees, but campaign staff soon realized that the Great Hall was not enough. In response, the team directed overflow into the Oak Room and South Ballroom.
The ISU event is the first of two YFP events the 12-term Congressman from Texas will hold during a far-reaching three-day visit to Iowa that concludes Saturday night with the ABC News / Republican Party of Iowa Debate.
Tomorrow's event, which is free and open to supporters of all ages, will be at the University of Northern Iowa (UNI) in the Commons — Slife Ballroom, located at 1224 West 23rd Street in Cedar Falls. Doors will open to the public at 6:30 p.m. To enter 30 minutes early and secure a spot near the front of the room, RSVP for the UNI event featuring Dr. Paul at http://ronpaulatuni..
Youth for Ron Paul (YFP), an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign, launched on Wednesday, September 7th and since its inception more than 15,300 people signed up to get involved, forming 307 chapters in 46 states.
To learn more and sign up for Youth for Ron Paul, please visit: www.YouthForPaul.com and "like" the Facebook page found at: www.Facebook.com/YouthForPaul.
  