
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Fayetteville, AR, and in the afternoon, the President traveled to Little Rock, AR.
December 10
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
December 11
In the early afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hafiz al-Asad of Syria.
December 12
In a morning ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Francois Bujon de l'Estang of France, Cheick Oumar Diarrah of Mali, and Jalbuugiin Choinhor of Mongolia.
In the afternoon, the President had telephone conversations with Senate majority leader Bob Dole and Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich on budget negotiations.
Later, the President met with Democratic and Republican Senators to discuss Bosnia.
The President announced his intention to nominate A.E. Dick Howard to the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas L. Baldini as Commissioner of the International Boundary Commission, United States and Canada.
December 13
In the afternoon, the President met with a bipartisan group of Governors to discuss Medicaid.
In the evening, the President traveled to Paris, France.
December 14
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Princeton Lyman to be Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick Davidson, Speight Jenkins, and Townsend D. Wolfe III to the National Council on the Arts.
The President announced his intention to nominate George W. Black, Jr., to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Roslyn A. Mazer to be Chair of the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel.
The President announced his intention to appoint Col. Warren L. Freeman to be the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard.
The President announced his intention to nominate Pascal D. Forgione, Jr., to be Commissioner of the National Center for Education Statistics.
December 15
The President announced that Ugo Fano and Martin Kamen are the recipients of the 1995 Enrico Fermi Award.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas J. Scotto and Patrick J. Sullivan, Jr., to the National Commission on Crime Control and Prevention.
  