
    THANK you very much. It is getting to be a habit of mine, but for that reason a privilege no less valued, to appear before the assembled Mayors of our country with a word of welcome. I assure you that it is, on my part, an honor to be able to occupy such a position, to extend to you the greetings of this Government--the administration--as you meet in conclave to discuss problems among yourselves, and those problems that are either common to the municipality and the Federal Government, or have at least a common impact upon the two echelons of government.
I think one reason that I am always so delighted to meet with Mayors, you typify especially one of those concepts of government in which I so fervently believe: decentralization.
I believe there are many things wrong with centralization of authority and responsibility, and I have always been struck also by that observation of a rather wise old fellow once who said, "Centralization is the refuge of fear."
And the more I ponder over those words, the more I see what he meant and the more I am convinced that that is exactly what it is.
We centralize things in ourselves, or in an individual, or a centralized authority, because we fear that our associates--often of our own choosing-are not capable of carrying out those responsibilities. And so we create great blocks in progress due to the inability of one human or one organism of government to do all those things which a people need to have done.
So I always have a special feeling of satisfaction in meeting with Mayors who, as the executive heads of our municipalities, do represent that great element in our governmental structure which means local authority and local responsibility.
I think there is another reason, in these days, that gives special meanings to meetings such as yours. When our Constitution was founded, of course, the great division that was expected to persist--when the Constitution was written, I should have said--the great governmental division that was to exist was visualized as that between the Federal Government and the State. And, of course, that is still important. It is not only important, but I think it has been abused in some ways; we have a very splendid Commission studying those proper relationships, and I believe you are to hear tomorrow from Mr. Kestnbaum, its head.
But in these latter days, a special relationship arising in the national security function of the Government has arisen directly between the city and the Federal Government. That is because the city, presumably the special or favored target of some of the modern weapons of war which are capable of such destruction as to appall the imagination, are after all moving to the front line much faster than is a rural area which would not be a favored target for such weapons. And since the Federal Government is charged with the national defense, there is instantly created between the city and the Federal Government--indeed, between the Mayor of the city and the Chief Executive of the United States--a relationship which up until that moment, apparently, was either unimportant or did not exist at all.
Of such things we in the Federal Government are acutely aware and for that reason are delighted that you come here to meet with our people who are studying these things all the time in order that we may devise ways and means, in this critical problem, for the safety of our country, and particularly for the protection of the cities in case of emergency.
I do not mean, by any manner of means, to belittle or minimize those other great problems that we have in common, functions in which each branch of government is absorbed--in education, in combatting juvenile delinquency, in the health of our people, in child welfare, prevention of crime. All of these things are common responsibilities, and they in themselves would constitute and give to us ample reasons for meeting and consulting together, for out of these consultations should come some clear understanding of the capacities of each echelon of government to do its own job, to fit best with the other echelon, and indeed to further the basic concept of democracy, which is the solution of group problems by cooperation, not by coercion.
So, for all these reasons I am delighted that you are here and again meeting with our people on these serious and ever present questions.
On the more personal side, I hope that through the people you meet-General Clay discussing the highway problem, our Secretary of State explaining to you something of the world situation--I hope through these personal contacts you will feel closer to your Federal Government, more privileged, more ready to submit your ideas in particular lines when you believe they would be helpful in the solution of problems. I hope that there will be friendships growing up that will be helpful to us all, as each of us in all echelons of government struggles to do his part in furthering the best interests of the people of the United States.
For yourselves, I do most sincerely hope that while you are here you will find your work informative and interesting, and very, very enjoyable so that you will come back again.
For the privilege of appearing before you, my thanks and gratitude.
  