
    "As long as I am President, the servicemen and women who defend our nation will have the equipment, the resources, and the funding they need to secure our homeland, to respond to our enemies quickly and decisively, and, when necessary, to fight, to overpower, and to always, always, always win." - President Donald J. Trump
A BUDGET THAT SUPPORTS AMERICA'S INTERESTS: President Donald J. Trump has signed into law a defense budget that will support our national security and America First policies.

The Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) supports a topline defense funding level of $692 billion that goes in the direction sought by President Trump. The NDAA:

Authorizes funding to ensure the continued defeat of ISIS; 
Provides legislative authority to implement President Trump's South Asia strategy; 
Authorizes critical missile defense capabilities to confront the threat posed by North Korea; and 
Takes concrete steps to rebuild our readiness and build the needed capabilities to continue to deter our adversaries and assure our allies. 


The NDAA authorizes $626 billion of the base budget resources for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy, providing an additional $66 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. 
The NDAA is vital to rebuilding, modernizing, and preparing our Armed Forces for the future so that our military remains the world's preeminent fighting force and we can continue to ensure peace through strength. 

FUNDING OUR TROOPS: President Trump calls on Congress to eliminate the defense spending limits included in the sequester and support America's troops.

The President calls on Congress to raise the Budget Control Act National Defense spending cap and, once and for all, stop the endless budget cuts to our military. 
The NDAA authorizes a 2.4 percent pay raise for our troops, providing a significant improvement in quality of life for the members of our military. 
The NDAA authorizes $146.2 billion for military personnel, including costs of pay, allowances, bonuses, death benefits, and permanent change of station moves. 
Congress must now pass defense appropriations legislation to complement the NDAA. 

REBUILDING OUR MILITARY: The budget realizes the President's call to rebuild our military and make it the great and powerful force it once was.

The NDAA lays the groundwork for a larger, more capable, and more lethal joint force consistent with a new National Defense Strategy, authorizing:

Increases to the Army's end strength of 7,500 and to the Marine Corps end strength of 1,000, helping to reduce stress on the force; 
$26.2 billion for shipbuilding, including multi-year procurements of Virginia class submarines, which can save money for the Government and increase both our capacity and capability to deter threats and maintain control of the sea; 
$10.1 billion to procure 90 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft that will ensure our dominance of the air domain; and 
$2.2 billion for Army ground combat vehicles and provides authority to modernize our Army and Marine Corps with best in the world capabilities. 


The Trump Administration is committed to reversing the effects of under investment and the Fiscal Year 2018 NDAA provides several key authorizations:

Increases funding authority to support military facilities; and 
Increases authority for Navy depot maintenance and afloat readiness, while also authorizing additional funds for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force operation and maintenance accounts.



  