
    [As prepared for delivery.]
Thank you. Jo Ann, you and AARP have not only been tireless advocates for older Americans—you are changing how we think about aging and living better, longer lives. Thank you for your partnership and leadership. 
I'm so grateful to all of you for being with us today—because this time of year is busy, to say the least. 
I know you probably have holiday shopping to do: cards to address or cookies to bake. Perhaps you're wrapping up end-of-the-year work or planning parties for the people you love.
It's not easy, is it? Sometimes the holidays feel like a full-time job, on top of volunteering, or organizing, or your real full-time job! 
But we do that work because it makes the magical moments of this season possible: when our homes fill with the aromas of our favorite family recipes, when we see big smiles on little faces as they open that perfect present, when we have the chance to look around our full table, a clamor of laughter and love, and just feel grateful.
These moments seem even more precious now, knowing what it's like to lose them to a deadly disease that's kept us apart. 
Which is why the most important thing you can do to prepare for the holidays is get your updated COVID vaccine. 
And if you get it now, you'll be protected in time for winter holiday gatherings. 
This updated vaccine offers the best protection for you and your family against the version of the virus we're facing today. 
It reduces the risk of catching or spreading the disease—and helps protect you from ending up in the hospital or worse. 
It's free, and available all over the country! 
I know you're busy, but this is important! I just got mine, too. So join me, because your president and I care about you and we want to make sure you stay healthy. 
Go to Vaccines.gov today to find an appointment near you. 
Now, I know some of you might have questions. 
So, I invited Dr. Jha and Dr. Fauci—two of our nation's top COVID experts—to be with us and answer your questions. And let me say that we're especially lucky to have Dr. Fauci, who is leaving his current role at the NIH soon to begin the next chapter of his career. 
I'm going to have to run, but I am glad to leave you in the capable hands of our doctors.
  