
    
  Deyoe joins Speaker of the House Kraig Paulsen, Bruce Rastetter and other Iowa leaders

For Immediate Release:
Thursday, December 10, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Citing Governor Christie's strong executive experience leading conservative reforms in a blue state, Iowa State Representative Dave Deyoe endorsed Chris Christie today for president.
"In Iowa, we have the unique opportunity to see, meet, and interact with most all of the Presidential candidates. As we move into the final stage of the Caucus campaign, it's become clear to me that Iowa Republican's choice for President should be Governor Chris Christie," said Deyoe. "Governor Christie has the deep executive experience in dealing with national security threats, gained during his time as US Attorney and Governor of a large state, that our nation needs right now. He's been through the tough legislative process in a blue state and come out victorious almost every single time, achieving meaningful conservative reforms for the people of his state. In times like these, our nation needs a tested, mature, and experienced leader in the Oval Office. Governor Christie fits the bill in all respects, and I will be supporting him at my Caucus in Nevada on February 1st. I encourage all Iowans to do so as well."
Representative Deyoe currently serves on the Agriculture, Appropriations, Economic Growth, and Environmental Protection committees, and is the chair of the Economic Development Budget committee.
He attended school in Ames and Nevada, where he graduated in 1979. From there he went on to attend Iowa State University where he graduated in 1983.
Dave has worked as a farmer in Story county, on the family farm near Nevada. He attends the Nevada United Methodist Church where he has sat on the Budget Committee and the Staff/Parish Relations Committee. He is associated with the local Rotary, Farm Bureau and Pork Producers Organizations. He was awarded the Iowa Master Pork Producer Award in 1993. He also volunteers as the Secretary/Treasurer of the Nevada Community School Foundation.
View Christie's full Iowa leadership team here.
  