
    GOVERNOR GEORGE BUSBEE. Hello, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Hi. How is it going?
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Everything is going wonderfully well.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have had two great transportation achievements in Georgia in one day.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Well, let me say, Mr. President, that we have with us on the platform your Secretary of Transportation on this, the most historic day in the history of transportation for our State.
And the audience is aware of the fact that today we are opening the first highway corridor from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, through Georgia. But what they are unaware of is the fact that you have just made possible on the same day the direct flight from Atlanta to London. So, I would like to announce that at this time.
Bert Lance is standing here, too, and he said also he sold his stock today. So, this is a real great day here in Georgia now. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's been a wonderful occasion for all of us to see such a fine completion of the most important interstate route in the Nation. And this is an achievement, I think also, George and those who are listening, for a proper interrelationship between those who are concerned about the beauty and the quality of life in Georgia, who also want a good transportation system.
Dr. Eugene Odum,1 working with Bert Lance and me several years ago, resolved some very difficult environmental questions. And you and the Department of Transportation in Georgia have brought it to a very rapid conclusion. And I think the whole Nation is going to benefit from this superb route through the most beautiful regions of the country.
1Dr. Eugene P. Odum, director of the Institute of Ecology at the University of Georgia.
Brock Adams has done a good job in forming a close working partnership with the Governors throughout the country, and I know it's a time of celebration for the whole State.
I am very glad that we finally got another joint project on which you and I were able to work, and that is direct international airline flights from Atlanta into Europe. And I believe that Georgia and Atlanta, under your superb leadership, is really making great progress.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Mr. President, let me say that Senator Nunn had asked me--he is on the platform with us--to express his appreciation. Senator Talmadge could not be with us, but I know that he and the Congressmen on the platform today join with me in thanking you for making this day possible in Georgia.
And we are also delighted to have you back in Georgia for what I hope will be a very merry Christmas today.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, George.
One of the things that is extraordinary about the completion of 1-75 is that under the good work of seven different contractors, the highway has been completed in 3 years, which is one year ahead of the original work schedule. And it's going to mean a lot to people trying to go to and from Atlanta in the holiday season to have 1-75 open.
And I am very proud of what you have done, what the Department of Transportation has done in Georgia, and we look forward to concluding the other interstate highway systems as rapidly as we can.
But Tom Moreland 2 and Bert Lance made good partners for you and me. And, of course, the Congress has worked also as a part of that close partnership.
2 Thomas D. Moreland, commissioner of the Georgia Department of Transportation and State highway engineer.
I am very glad to be back in Georgia, and I hope that you will extend to everyone there my thanks for a wonderful welcome back home, for the good support I've had in the first year as President. And I'm very proud to have a home where friendship and harmony exist in the State government. And we have benefited greatly in the White House from this strong support from back in Georgia.
So, good luck to you, George, and my congratulations to all those who were involved in this rapid completion of a superb connector link now up and down our entire Nation. I know that it will help the people in Florida, in the Midwest, and all those in between.
So, congratulations again. Merry Christmas to everybody. I'm very proud of the work you've done.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Good day, Mr. President, and Merry Christmas.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, George; same to you.
  