
    By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
During the past four years the United States has embarked on a new era of economic growth and prosperity. Millions of new jobs have been created, inflation is at its lowest point in 20 years, and the purchasing power of the average family has risen by close to 8 percent. But along with this new prosperity have come new challenges to American business. In the early years of our expansion our economy moved forward, while much of the rest of the world's lagged. The resulting strength of the dollar lowered the price of imports, making them more attractive to Americans, who then had extra money to spend. At the same time, it raised the prices buyers overseas had to pay for American goods. It is ironic that the very health and vitality of the United States economy led to our importing more than we export.
Already there are signs that this problem should lessen in the near future. American industry is rising to the challenge, producing more efficiently than ever before. The dollar is in better balance with major foreign currencies, and, even more important, our trading partners are taking a new look at what they can do to quicken their economies and rely less on the great locomotive of American prosperity. Now is the time, therefore, for consumers both here and abroad to take a fresh look at what America has to offer. American technology and management are second to none, and the skill and resourcefulness of the American worker are the envy of the world. Not only does "Made in the U.S.A." symbolize excellence of quality and design, but our products are now available at more competitive prices.
It is not only American products that merit a second look. Our commitments to freedom of enterprise, individual responsibility, and restraints on government power and taxation—some genuinely "made in America" ideas—have resulted in an economic renaissance in this country that stands as an example of hope for people everywhere. A world in which state-imposed barriers to commerce are removed, and in which all individuals are free to reach their greatest potential, will be a world in which all nations can bloom and prosper.
The Congress, by Public Law 99-568, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim December 1986 as "Made in America Month."
Now, Therefore, I Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim December 1986 as "Made in America Month." I invite the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities to celebrate the excellence of American products.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:31 p.m., December 9, 1986]
  