
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Presidential Task Force on Project Economic Justice. These are new positions.
J. William Middendorf II will be designated Chairman upon his appointment. He is United States Ambassador to the European Economic Community. Previously he was Ambassador to the Organization of American States. He was born September 22, 1924, in Baltimore, MD.
Walter Bish is president of the Independent Steelworkers Union in Weirton, WV. He was born October 12, 1946, in E. Liverpool, OH, and now resides in Weirton, WV.
Robert Dickson Crane is president of Native American International in Vienna, VA. He was born March 26, 1929, in Cambridge, MA, and now resides in Vienna, VA.
Richard A. Derham is Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development in Washington, DC. He was born May 29, 1940, in Seattle, WA, and now resides in Washington, DC.
Steve H. Hanke is assistant professor of economics at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. He was born December 29, 1942, in Macon, GA, and now resides in Baltimore, MD.
Norman G. Kurland is president of Norman Kurland & Associates in Arlington, VA. He was born April 27, 1930, in Bridgeport, CT, and now resides in Arlington, VA.
John McClaughry is president of the Institute for Liberty and Community in Concord, VT. He was born September 15, 1937, in Detroit, MI, and now resides in Concord, VT.
Paul W. McCracken is the Edmund Ezra Day university professor of business administration, School of Business Administration, University of Michigan. He was born December 29, 1915, in Richland, IA, and now resides in Ann Arbor, MI.
Michael Novak is the George Frederick Jewett chair in religion and public policy at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, DC. He was born September 9, 1933, in Johnstown, PA, and now resides in Washington, DC.
Malott White Nyhart is vice president and member of the executive committee of the Nyhart Co., Inc., in Indianapolis, IN. He was born July 6, 1950, in Indianapolis, where he currently resides.
Carlos M. Perez is president of Banana Services, Inc., in Coral Gables, FL. He was born May 28, 1932, in Arte Misa Pinar del Rio, Cuba, and now resides in Coral Gables.
Norman A. Weintraub is chief economist and director of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters in Washington, DC. He was born May 24, 1936, in Springfield, MA, and now resides in Alexandria, VA.
  