
    Mayor Hardie Davis, Jr. and Bloomberg met in Augusta Today
AUGUSTA, GA. – Today, Mayors for Mike announced that the mayors of Augusta, Georgia; Gary, Indiana; Tacoma, Washington and Huntington, West Virginia all are endorsing Mike Bloomberg for President, reflecting a range of communities across the country. Bloomberg's national campaign seeks to reach Americans in states not frequently visited by other Democratic candidates.
Mayor Hardie Davis, Jr. of Augusta, Georgia: "The tone in Washington is toxic and it's spreading across the country. Mike Bloomberg is a refreshing leader, a unifier, who understands that we have more in common than what divides us. Mike Bloomberg is a leader who is not afraid of tough issues and challenging conversations. He creates coalitions and builds bridges to establish lasting, common-sense solutions that work. That's what we need in local, state and federal government. We need a strong, proven leader in the White House and that's why Mike has my support."
Bloomberg met with Mayor Davis today in Augusta and toured The Lucy Craft Laney Museum of Black History. Mayor Davis' leadership has been recognized by peer mayors across the country. He is President of the African American Mayors Association and serves as a Trustee of the U. S. Conference of Mayors.
Mayor Victoria Woodards of Tacoma, Washington: "I proudly endorse Mike Bloomberg based on his experience leading America's largest city and his commitment to strengthening our nation and all its communities. That's the kind of leader our country needs more than ever."
Woodards has demonstrated a lifelong track record of public service. She served as president of the Tacoma Urban League and as director of community development for the Tacoma Rainiers. Her past civic engagement work has also included leadership positions with the Tacoma Metropolitan Parks Board, the Washington State History Museum, and the Washington State Commission of African American Affairs.
Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson of Gary, Indiana: "I am pleased to add my voice to the people who understand how good Mike Bloomberg's leadership would be for our country. His experience in business and government and practical approach to problem-solving has been immensely helpful in communities like Gary and would translate well in cities, towns and villages across the country. Mike's track record of addressing economic development, gun violence, climate change and public health has benefited many Americans and make him a logical choice for President."
Freeman-Wilson has served as the mayor of her hometown Gary, Indiana, since 2012 when she became the first woman to lead the city of Gary and the first African-American woman mayor in the state of Indiana. Prior to her role as mayor, Freeman-Wilson served as the Indiana Attorney General, the Director of the Indiana Civil Rights Commission and the presiding judge of the Gary City Court. Freeman-Wilson just completed her term as the President of the National League of Cities.
Mayor Steve Williams of Huntington, West Virginia: "I have experienced first hand and the residents of my city have witnessed directly the effect of the leadership of Mayor Bloomberg. We have been able to implement innovative solutions to improve the quality of life of our citizens because of Mayor Bloomberg's support and guidance. I have been proud to work with the Mayor and his organization to set standards that the rest of the nation will be able to emulate."
Williams' career in public service began with leading the city's economic development department, and not long after, he was named the youngest city manager in Huntington's history. He has also served in the West Virginia House of Delegates, where he spent much of his time working to reform the higher education and medical education systems in West Virginia.
  