
    Pool Reports by Matt Viser, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




December 18, 202211:52

Out of town pool report #1 / rolling
Pool has been tested and swept, and at 11:51am just joined the motorcade as POTUS departs his neighborhood.
For those watching at home — or like your pooler and most in the van, on phones — the movement occurs as the thrilling World Cup enters its final minutes of regular time, all tied up.



December 18, 202211:59

Out of town pool report #2 / church
After a quick ride, POTUS and FLOTUS arrived at St Joesph’s on the Brandywine Church.
As noted yesterday, this is the 50th anniversary of the tragic car crash that killed POTUS’ wife and daughter.
A number of family members were here, including his son Hunter, who was carrying his son Beau and walking with his wife Melissa Cohen. Several of POTUS’ grandchildren were also with him, including Maisey and Naomi.



December 18, 202213:01

Out of town pool report #3 / mass and gravesite
POTUS and his family emerged from church at 12:48pm, about 50 minutes after they entered for mass. The White House described it as "a private family memorial mass at St. Joseph on the Brandywine Roman Catholic Church."
They walked out of the church together and headed toward the area where several members of the family are buried, including POTUS' wife Neilia and baby daughter Naomi, who were killed on this day in 1972 while out Christmas tree shopping. His son Beau, who died of brain cancer in 2015, is also buried there.
Hunter, who was also in that car in 1972 and with his brother Beau survived, was among those at the church with his father.
Two younger kids, who appeared to be POTUS grandchildren Maisy and Hunter, each carried a large wreath with white flowers in them. They had a stand, as if to place at each of the graves.
Pool was moved back to the van as the family continued over to the graves and we are holding nearby.



December 18, 202213:26

Out of town pool report #4 / return to residence and lid
Motorcade started rolling at 1:11pm, meaning the Biden family would have been at the gravesites for about 20 minutes following the memorial mass.
With the helpful work of photogs, we were able to identify many of those who went into the church or emerged afterward, which involved a large contingent of Bidens. It included POTUS’ daughter Ashley and his son Hunter, as well as grandchildren Naomi, Finnegan, and Maisy (Hunter’s children) and Natalie and Hunter (Beau’s children).
Melissa Cohen and Hunter’s two year old son Beau were also spotted, as was Naomi’s new husband Peter Neal.
A quick and uneventful motorcade got us back to the residence at 1:15pm.
And three minutes later, we have a lid.




  