
    Largest-yet coalition rollout representing 13 counties follows recent veterans-themed rally
ANKENY, Iowa — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today the names of 25 Iowans joining the active "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
The announcement occurs on the heels of a similar recent 20-veteran announcement, a 'Salute to Veterans' rally in Des Moines, and a Des Moines Register op-ed by Ron Paul addressing veterans issues, all in the last week.
Surpassing the recent record-setting rollout for this coalition, the additional members reside in Butler, Cass, Cedar, Cerro Gordo, Jackson, Jasper, Linn, Pocahontas, Polk, Scott, Warren, Washington, and Woodbury counties, all Iowa.
Support for the Ron Paul 2012 campaign in the Hawkeye state continues to benefit from the backing of veterans such as the ones speaking out today. Reasons for Dr. Paul's substantial support from voters who are veterans include his dedication to veterans while in Congress, highlighted in an ad here, and the fact that he is himself a former Air Force flight surgeon.
Representing 13 counties, information about each veteran is provided in the following sequence: Name and residence, rank, branch, conflict/assignment, years of service.
Butler County
Dean Dietz of Dumont, Specialist, US Army, Vietnam, 1 year.
Cass County
Richard Marriott of Atlantic, Seaman Apprentice, US Navy, Desert Storm/USS Theodore Roosevelt.
Cedar County
Adam Kofoed of West Branch, Specialist, US Army, South Korea, 3 years.
Ashley Hayes of West Branch, Private First Class, US Army, South Korea, 1.5 years.
Cerro Gordo County
Nate Johnson of Mason City, Airman First Class, US Air Force, 1 year.
Jackson County
Charles Meyer of Maquoketa, Sergeant, US Army, Afghanistan, 5 years.
Jasper County
Don Seibert of Monroe, Specialist-5, US Army, Vietnam (two tours), 3 years.
Linn County
David Ward of Cedar Rapids, Petty Officer Third Class, US Navy, Japan, 6 years.
Duane Weltha of Marion, Staff Sergeant, US Air Force, Saudi Arabia, 4 years.
Pocahontas County
Norma Halverson of Laurens, US Air Force, 5.5 years.
Polk County
Michael Berry of West Des Moines, Major, US Army, Germany/Korea/Panama/Honduras/Guatemala/Poland/Kuwait/Iraq, 27 years.
Jonas Cutler of West Des Moines, Corporal, US Marines, Gulf War, 4 years.
Terry Hout of Des Moines, Specialist-4, US Army, Vietnam, 2 years.
Ryan Lewellin of Des Moines, Corporal, US Marines, Iraq, 6.5 years.
Charles Janzen of Windsor Heights, Private First Class, US Army, 2 years.
Ron Richards of Des Moines, Senior Airman, US Air Force, 4 years.
John Lindley of West Des Moines, US Army, Iraq, 4 years.
Matthew Gray of Des Moines, Specialist, US Army, Iraq & Afghanistan, 5 years.
Gabe Lanz of Des Moines, Specialist, US Army, Iraq & Afghanistan, 8 years.
Scott County
Donald Collins of Davenport, Specialist, US Army, Germany, 10 years.
Warren County
Delbert Edwards of Indianola, US Navy, Battleship New Jersey, 4 years active 9 years reserve.
Crystal McIntyre of Indianola, US Army, 8 years.
Washington County
Steve Lord of Ainsworth, Corporal, US Marines, Japan/Thailand/Okinawa, 3.5 years.
Woodbury County
Marco Linares of Sioux City, Sergeant, Iowa Army National Guard, Afghanistan, 4 years.
Pastor Al Milligan of Danbury, Specialist-4, US Army, West Germany, 3 years.
As a first basic step, those interested in joining the "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page by clicking here. Those residing in the Hawkeye State should email Iowa Voter Outreach Director Meghann Walker at meghannw@ronpaul2012.com.
  