
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 12
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Tel Aviv, Israel, arriving in the evening.
December 13
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton had breakfast with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel and his wife, Sarah, in the Presidential Suite at the Jerusalem Hilton Hotel. Later, the President greeted U.S. Cabinet members and Members of Congress in the Aqua Restaurant at the hotel.
Later, the President met with Prime Minister Netanyahu in the Cabinet Room at Mr. Netanyahu's office complex.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton visited the grave of assassinated Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin at Mount Herzl in Jerusalem.
Later, the President met with President Ezer Weizman of Israel in the Jerusalem Room at Beit Hanassi.
December 14
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Gaza City, Gaza. Upon their arrival, they toured the main terminal of Gaza International Airport with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority and his wife, Shua.
In the afternoon, the President met with Chairman Arafat in the Cabinet Room at Mr. Arafat's office complex.
In the early evening, the President returned to Jerusalem, Israel.
December 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Bethlehem. Later, the President and Hillary Clinton toured the Church of the Nativity with Chairman Arafat and his wife, Shua.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton participated in a Christmas tree lighting at the Church of the Nativity. Later, they traveled to Masada, where they toured the historic site.
In the late afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Tel Aviv. In the evening, they returned to Washington, DC.
December 16
In the morning, the President met with the national security team concerning the situation in Iraq.
In the afternoon, the President met with Representative Amo Houghton concerning the upcoming vote on the articles of impeachment.
The President announced his intention to appoint Anita Ray Arnold, Robert B. Barnett, Anita (Buffy) Cafritz, and Kenneth M. Duberstein to the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
December 17
In the morning in the Oval Office, the President was briefed on the military operations in Iraq by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Henry H. Shelton, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, and the national security team. Later in the day, the President had separate telephone conversations concerning the ongoing operations in Iraq with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, King Hussein I of Jordan, and President Jacques Chirac of France, as well as Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, House Majority Leader Bob Livingston, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle, and House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt.
The White House announced that the President released $102.2 million of emergency supplemental funding included for the Army Corps of Engineers in the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, to carry out critical dredging activities and other repairs needed to maintain safe channels at navigation projects in Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi, Florida, and Puerto Rico that were damaged by Hurricane Georges and other tropical storms.
December 18
In the morning, the President met with Representative Christopher Shays.
In the afternoon, the President met with Chancellor Viktor Klima of Austria in his capacity as President of the European Council and President Jacques Santer of the European Commission in the Cabinet Room.
In the evening, the President met with members of the Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS in the Cabinet Room.
The President announced the recess appointment of William Clyburn, Jr., as a member of the Surface Transportation Board. Mr. Clyburn was nominated on September 2, 1997. The President intends to resubmit his nomination when the 106th Congress convenes.
The President announced the recess appointment of Albert S. Jacquez as Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation at the Department of Transportation. Mr. Jacquez was nominated to the Senate on September 29, 1998. The President intends to resubmit his nomination when the 106th Congress convenes.
  