
    Bellone is First County Executive in New York State to Endorse Bloomberg
New York – Today, Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone announced his support of Mike Bloomberg for President. Bellone is the first county executive in New York state to endorse Bloomberg. In a statement, he said:
"I am proud to endorse Mike Bloomberg for President because our country needs to get back in the business of getting things done. As the mayor of the largest city in the country, Mike earned a reputation as a problem solver who took on the tough fights — and won. This moment in our nation calls for a leader who can bring people together to address the real challenges we face here at home and abroad. We need someone who can win key suburban counties like Suffolk County that swung from Obama to Trump. Mike is the best candidate to lead our country forward."
Steve Bellone was first elected Suffolk County Executive in 2011 and represents nearly 1.5 million residents in the largest county in New York State. As a leader, Steve has made historic progress in reforming government, protecting water quality, and helping make Suffolk one of the safest places to live across the country.
Steve has embarked on a bold agenda to make county government more efficient by implementing innovative solutions that deliver more with less. Among his many accomplishments include spearheading the launch of Suffolk311, a non-emergency government and information services center inspired by the initiative that Mike Bloomberg first developed during his time as Mayor in New York City to better provide city services and information to residents across the five boroughs.
Steve has also become a statewide environmental leader due to his work with improving water quality and coastal resiliency. In the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, he led the effort to establish the Suffolk County Coastal Resiliency Initiative. The initiative helped secure hundreds of millions of dollars in federal and state grant funding to connect thousands of parcels to sewers. The actions help reduce nitrogen pollution that damages natural coastal defenses against severe storms and flooding. Today, it is the largest sewer infrastructure project in Suffolk County since the 1980s and the most substantial investment in water quality infrastructure for the Long Island region in a generation. Also, Steve launched the first-of-its-kind program in New York State to help homeowners afford to install advanced wastewater systems that reduce nitrogen pollution. Thanks to Steve's leadership, Suffolk County has also been designated as a climate-smart community by New York State and nationally recognized for its policies that encourage solar use and installation.
Steve is a graduate of North Babylon High School and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree at Queens College in 1991. He enlisted in the US Army in 1992 and served as a communications specialist stationed at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri. While in the Army, he was awarded commendations for meritorious service and earned a Master's Degree in Public Administration by attending night classes at Webster University. Bellone earned his Juris Doctorate from Fordham University and was admitted to the New York Bar in 1999.
  