
    Members of Congress
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): "We're living through the greatest economy in our lifetime with record unemployment and rising wages. #USMCA will ensure the prosperity continues."
House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn (D-SC): "The U.S. Mexico Canada Agreement (USMCA): -Will boost the economy -Support workers -Protect the environment -And improve access to affordable prescription drugs It's a win for Americans and a model for future trade agreements."
House Minority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA): "Republicans pushed for a deal on #USMCA for months while Pelosi wasted time on her impeachment sham. We finally have an agreement. Passing @realDonaldTrump's strong trade deal will be a major boost for our economy and a huge win for American workers. No more delays. Let's vote!"
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA): "This trade deal will help create even more jobs and make us stronger as a country. I applaud President Trump and U.S. Trade Representative Lighthizer for their hard work and commitment."
House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Kevin Brady (R-TX): "I've been working to pass #USMCA since day one – now that @realDonaldTrump has reached a deal w/ Congress, we must pass USMCA without delay. It's time to unlock the benefits of this agreement for U.S. workers, farmers, tech workers, and our local businesses. A win for America!"
Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-LA): "The USMCA will directly benefit Louisiana's farmers and manufacturers, allowing them to build on the success of our national economy. I look forward to this legislation passing."
Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO): "The best economy in 50 years has been defined by good regulatory policy and good tax policy. Today, President Trump adds to those two areas the importance of good trade policy. I've been proud to support this agreement and hope to see it ratified as quickly as possible."
Sen. Deb Fischer (R-NE): "Pleased to hear that @realDonaldTrump's administration & House Democrats have reached a deal on #USMCA! This is a major step toward finalizing this important trade agreement for NE ag, business & manufacturing."
Sen. John Hoeven (R-ND): "With our farmers and ranchers challenged by severe weather and unjustified retaliatory tariffs, USMCA will provide important certainty regarding our two biggest trading partners and significant benefits for U.S. agriculture. Now that the House has agreed to advance USMCA, Congress should move quickly to get it in place for the good of our country."
Sen. Kevin Cramer (R-ND): "Advancing #USMCA represents a win for North Dakota and the American people, and it will help our standing as we work to secure more trade deals around the world. I urge my colleagues to support it and to help make this deal become law."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "I applaud President Trump and U.S. Trade Representative Lighthizer for their persistence and their determination to finalize this historic new trade agreement. I encourage all of my colleagues in the House and Senate to approve USMCA."
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC): "This is an accomplishment that all of us, Republicans and Democrats, should be proud of. Congratulations to President @realDonaldTrump and his team for their efforts on the USMCA."
Sen. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN): "The USMCA is a win for Tennessee workers, manufacturers, farmers and ranchers. It will benefit every industry in the United States economy, raise real GDP by over $68 billion, and create around 176,000 jobs."
Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "More Promises Made, Promises Kept! I'm proud to stand with President @realDonaldTrump as he fights to get better trade deals for Alabama and American workers."
Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR): "#USMCA will be one of the best improvements to an outdated trade deal that our country has ever seen. The President made it a central component of his platform when he ran for office & he has delivered. Ag-producers and all Americans are thankful for his work."
Rep. French Hill (R-AR): "@realDonaldTrump has successfully negotiated a replacement for the ‘94 NAFTA trade agreement. #USMCA will be great for ARKANSAS #jobs—our farmers, ranchers, & manufacturers. Canada & Mexico are our #1 trading partners. Congrats to POTUS & #USTR Ambassador Lighthizer!"
Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-AR): "#USMCA is a trade deal that will increase new economic growth by $68 BILLION. Enough stalling – it's time to give hardworking Americans the trade deal they've been asking for!"
Rep. Steve Womack (R-AR): "#USMCA is a win for Arkansas & US! Canada & Mexico are two of #AR3's top trading partners & this trade deal will support economic growth and opportunity. This was a top priority for @POTUS @USTradeRep @HouseGOP, and I look forward to a vote on this historic agreement."
Rep. Josh Harder (D-CA): "This is a major victory for everyone involved. Our farmers – especially dairy folks – have the access they need to markets in Canada and Mexico. Our workers have the labor protections we need to keep jobs here at home."
Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-FL): "International trade is critical to my home state of Florida, where exports and imports support 2.3 million jobs. Leveling the playing field for Florida and the rest of the nation, as well as increasing access to foreign markets, is essential to growing the U.S. economy and creating good-paying jobs."
Rep. Michael Waltz (R-FL): "Thanks to President @realDonaldTrump, @SpeakerPelosi has finally agreed to bring #USMCA to the House Floor. Continuing the $15B (and growing) two-way trade market between Florida & our top two trade partners is a win for America & for Florida. No more delays — let's vote!"
Rep. Drew Ferguson (R-GA): "The American people will finally see the benefits of the #USMCA trade agreement. Led by @realDonaldTrump, I am proud of what @USTradeRep, Ranking Member @RepKevinBrady, & my @WaysandMeansGOP colleagues have done to get the agreement to this point."
Rep. Cindy Axne (D-IA): "I am pleased that the USMCA is ready. I have long been an advocate for getting this agreement done so our farmers and manufacturers can have certainty in our two largest markets."
Rep. Darin LaHood (R-IL): "The announced agreement on #USMCA is great news! I applaud @realDonaldTrump & @USTradeRep for negotiating a strong agreement."
Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN): "#USMCA is a win for #Hoosiers! After months of delay, we are finally moving this forward. USMCA helps our manufacturers, farmers, tech workers & our local businesses build a stronger economy!"
Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN): "With this final agreement to modernize North American trade, the president is delivering on his promise to level the playing field for American workers and farmers and to keep our economic momentum going."
Rep. Ron Estes (R-KS): "Today's agreement on USMCA is great – and far overdue – news for our country. President Trump has delivered on another promise and crafted a free and fair trade deal that will create jobs, boost GDP and wages, and open new markets for our farmers, ranchers and manufacturers."
Rep. Mike Johnson (R-LA): "President @realDonaldTrump has never delivered a better deal for America's workers and Louisiana's economy than the #USMCA."
Rep. Jim Hagedorn (R-MN): "As the first member of the MN delegation to support #USMCA, I am thrilled a bipartisan agreement has been reached to facilitate a House vote and finally deliver this much-needed and well-deserved win to our #MN01 workers, businesses, farmers and families."
Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN): "I have been pushing for months to get this deal to the finish line, and this announcement is great news for farmers, businesses and workers, in Western Minnesota and nationwide."
Rep. Trent Kelly (R-MS): "Republicans advocated for #USMCA for months while @SpeakerPelosi pushed the impeachment sham. No more delays. It's time to vote and pass USMCA!"
Rep. Ted Budd (R-NC): "Fantastic news for North Carolina! The #USMCA will: – Create 150,000+ new jobs – Eliminate barriers facing U.S. exports – Triple our access to the Canadian dairy market Big time win for our country."
Rep. Don Bacon (R-NE): "Great news! The #USMCA agreement has been reached! This modernized trade deal will benefit Nebraska and our AG economy, raise our exports, increase jobs, and boost wages!"
Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE): "Coming to an agreement on USMCA is a tremendous step forward, and I applaud @POTUS and @USTradeRep for their diligent work in getting a beneficial trade deal for our nation."
Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY): "After months and months of tireless work, I am proud to support the negotiated USMCA. This trade agreement is a win for North Country farmers and workers, the North Country economy, and America as a whole."
Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY): "The deal is a huge win for President Trump, but more importantly, it's a big win for the American worker."
Rep. Steven Horsford (D-NV): "This week, a historic agreement has been reached between the leaders of the House Democratic majority and Ambassador Lighthizer. It is well past time that Congress considered a hemispheric trade agreement between the U.S., Mexico, and Canada that reflects the modernization of our economy."
Rep. Troy Balderson (R-OH): "This is a BIG WIN for Ohio! … After more than a year of delay, I'm glad to see bipartisan support for USMCA!"
Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH): "After months of delays and excuses from the Dems, a #USMCA deal has finally been reached. This is a win for the American people and the American worker."
Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH): "This is a WIN for #OH5. After waiting for + a year, Congress will soon consider the #USMCA that'll create thousands of #jobs!"
Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-OH): "After months of delay, Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats have finally agreed to bring #USMCA up for a vote. I thank President Trump and Ambassador Lighthizer for their tireless work to support the 428,400 Ohio jobs that depend on trade with Canada and Mexico."
Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK): "I am eager to vote on the agreement, which strengthens and modernizes the terms of trade with our North American neighbors. I certainly expect swift and bipartisan passage in both chambers of Congress, and I very much look forward to finally releasing the benefits secured by President Trump to millions of American manufacturers, entrepreneurs, farmers and ranchers."
Rep. Frank Lucas (R-OK): "Today's announcement that negotiations around USMCA have concluded is excellent news for trade in North America."
Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK): "Bringing the #USMCA to a vote is long overdue, but I am glad that we are finally moving forward. Nancy Pelosi claims that it's Democrats who secured this deal, but let's be clear: @realDonaldTrump is the one who delivered this win for our country."
Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR): "The agreement reached between @realDonaldTrump & House Democrats on USMCA is welcome news for OR's businesses, farmers & ranchers. This trade agreement modernizes our trade policies w/ Mexico & Canada, where OR businesses export $3.7 billion in goods, supporting 7,421 jobs in OR."
Rep. Fred Keller (R-PA): "I congratulate President @realDonaldTrump and @HouseGOP leadership in reaching a deal on the #USMCA. The new trade deal is a huge win for Pennsylvania farmers and manufacturers."
Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA): "Promises made, promises kept! USMCA is a big win & will further boost America's economy. Thank you to @POTUS @realDonaldTrump for replacing NAFTA with a deal that puts American workers, farmers, manufacturers & businesses first!"
Rep. Dan Meuser (R-PA): "The #USMCA now looks like it will finally come to the House floor for a vote next week. This agreement, as negotiated by @realDonaldTrump, is a huge win for America & #PA09."
Rep. Dusty Johnson (R-SD): "#USMCA is the win our producers need and we finally have a deal. The administration fought for this 21st century trade deal for over a year and I'm glad it's getting the support it deserves."
Rep. Scott DesJarlais (R-TN): "The trade deal the President negotiated will be the best thing House Democrats do with their time this Congress! The Speaker owes Donald Trump a big ‘thank you.'"
Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN): ".@realDonaldTrump and @HouseGOP saw the need for an updated trade deal, engaged in hours of negotiations, and delivered on our promise to the American people for a 21st-century trade deal that puts American workers first. Dems should take notes on how to get things done."
Rep. Mark Green (R-TN): "Proud that @POTUS @realDonaldTrump has brought @HouseDemocrats to the table and delivered a major bipartisan victory on #USMCA for America's workers and businesses."
Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX): "Today's announcement of a deal on USMCA is news America's farmers and ranchers have been waiting over a year for. I appreciate the work of President Trump and Ambassador Lighthizer in delivering on the promise of an improved trade agreement with Canada and Mexico."
Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX): "We have a final agreement on the #USMCA, a much-needed update to NAFTA! This trade agreement is projected to raise GDP by nearly $70 billion and create upwards of 200,000 jobs. The USMCA is good for my district, for the state of Texas, and for our country as a whole."
Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX): "Great news for Texas, the United States of America and the rest of the world. #USMCA"
Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX): "After more than a year, we are finally going to vote on #USMCA on the House floor. This is a huge win for Texas business owners, farmers, ranchers and so many more."
Rep. Roger Williams (R-TX): "#USMCA has always been a victory for Texas and our nation, and I'm ready to vote ‘yes' for Texans."
Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA): "The announcement of an agreement on USMCA is an important and positive step forward."
Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-VA): "The new #USMCA agreement will expand export markets & bring greater long-term stability to farms, businesses, and workers across Virginia. I thank the administration officials, House negotiators, and trade representatives who have worked persistently to reach this point."
Rep. Bryan Steil (R-WI): "USMCA is a win for Wisconsin, for our dairy and manufacturing industries, and for middle class families. After months of delay, we are finally moving ahead with USMCA. #USMCAnow"
State Officials
Governor Doug Ducey (R-AZ): "Arizona's annual trade with our North American trade partners totals $20.2 BILLION. It's time Congress gets this deal done so #Arizona and the American people can begin to realize the expanded job growth and opportunity that will come with it… I urge all members to do the right thing and vote ‘yes' on #USMCA."
Governor Kim Reynolds (R-IA): "Today's announcement represents a positive step forward for Iowa's entire economy. USMCA is a strong, balanced, and modern trade agreement that will create opportunities for Iowa families, farmers, manufacturers, and small businesses by expanding markets for our world-class exports. I want to thank President Trump, Ambassador Lighthizer, and the entire administration for their steadfast leadership on this issue."
Governor Larry Hogan (R-MD): "By creating jobs, strengthening economic ties, and establishing a more level playing field for American workers and businesses, agreements like the USMCA are essential to ensuring future prosperity for our nation and for the State of Maryland. I will continue to work closely with federal and state leaders to ensure the USMCA is swiftly ratified."
Governor Mike Parson (R-MO): "We have strong bi-partisan support across the Midwest for USMCA. This common sense trade agreement will help Missouri farmers and our agribusiness community. Politics should be put aside to lock in this deal for the future of American agriculture."
Governor Doug Burgum (R-ND): "We're deeply grateful to the Trump administration for its tireless work on this agreement, and we urge House leadership to put it to a vote quickly so it can advance to the Senate for approval and be implemented as soon as possible. This deal will provide market certainty at a time of extreme hardship for our farmers and ranchers, who are among the most productive in the world and can compete with anyone on a level playing field."
Governor Pete Ricketts (R-NE): "Congratulations to President @realDonaldTrump on securing bipartisan support for his historic USMCA deal. The President and his team have tirelessly worked to build bipartisan support for it in Congress."
Governor Chris Sununu (R-NH): "At long last, I am pleased by today's news that Congress has reached a deal with the Trump Administration to bring the USMCA forward for the vote that it has long deserved. The USMCA means greater access for New Hampshire businesses to the markets of two of our state's top trading partners."
Governor Mike DeWine (R-OH): "Great to see #USMCA is moving forward and the U.S. House of Representatives has scheduled a vote. This trade agreement will boost our economy and benefit #Ohio businesses as they export to Canada and Mexico."
Governor Greg Abbott (R-TX): "Great day for America as USMCA moves forward. The agreement announced this morning is good news, and I look forward to the House and Senate working diligently to pass USMCA by Christmas."
Lieutenant Governor Tim Griffin (R-AR): "The announcement to move forward on #USMCA is exciting news for #AR businesses & #ArkAg products. I applaud the work of our federal delegation & @realDonaldTrump. This was one of @POTUS' top priorities & it means free & fair trade & expanded markets for our businesses."
Lieutenant Governor Jon Husted (R-OH): "Glad to see Congress plans to finally move forward on ratifying the #USMCA. This is a fair trade deal that will be good for Ohioans."
Secretary of Agriculture Mike Naig (R-IA): "We are one step closer to passing the United States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement. With USMCA supporting 325,000 American jobs, it's time to pass #USMCANow"
House Speaker Robin Vos (R-WI): "I joined legislative leaders from 15 states in urging Congress to pass the #USMCA. We sent a letter to Congressional leadership asking them to act as soon as possible. Each of our states approved a resolution supporting the new trade deal. #USMCAnow."
Senate President Del Marsh (R-AL): "The USMCA is good for everyone. I am glad that members from both sides of the aisle were able to come together and agree that this is the best deal to ensure that the strongest economy of our lifetime continues to grow."
Senate President Larry Obhof (R-OH): "Today I joined legislative leaders from around the U.S. urging Congress to pass #USMCANow. #USMCA is a better deal for our workers, farmers & small businesses."
California State Senator Shannon Grove (R-CA): "Today I joined legislative leaders from across the US to urge Congress to set partisan politics aside & pass the #USMCANow! This 21st century agreement is critical to workers, farmers, small business & our economy."
Cabinet Members & Administration Officials
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue: "President Trump and Ambassador Lighthizer are laying the foundation for a stronger farm economy through USMCA and I thank them for all their hard work and perseverance to get the agreement across the finish line."
Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross: "This is the largest trade deal in the history, not just in the U.S., but as far as I can tell, of the whole world."
United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer: "Thanks to President Trump's leadership, we have reached an historic agreement on the USMCA. After working with Republicans, Democrats, and many other stakeholders for the past two years we have created a deal that will benefit American workers, farmers, and ranchers for years to come. This will be the model for American trade deals going forward."
United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations Amb. Kelly Craft: "13 months. 3 countries. Countless hours. Billions of dollars. Congrats @realdonaldtrump and @USTradeRep Robert Lighthizer on #USMCA!"
Advocacy & Policy Organizations
American Automotive Policy Council President Former Missouri Governor Matt Blunt: "We are pleased that Democratic leaders in the House and the Trump administration have reached an agreement to support the USMCA, which will pave the way for U.S. congressional passage of this vital trade pact."
American Beverage Association President and CEO Katherine Lugar: "The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement is a critical step towards strengthening our workforce, country and neighbors. The beverage industry employs more than 264,000 hard-working Americans, contributes $189 billion in direct economic impact and provides $20.8 billion in wages and benefits. On behalf of America's leading beverage companies, we applaud the Administration and Congressional leaders for their commitment to creating a more prosperous outlook for our industry and the communities we serve – and we urge Congress to swiftly consider and pass this trade agreement."
American Chemistry Council President and CEO Chris Jahn: "We commend Ambassador Lighthizer and Speaker Pelosi for their dogged pursuit of a trade agreement that will benefit U.S. businesses, workers, and consumers. ACC looks forward to reviewing the proposed changes closely to ensure chemicals manufacturers will continue to thrive under the new agreement."
American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy Duvall: "We urge members of Congress to swiftly approve the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. … This is an opportunity for Congress not only to help U.S. farmers and ranchers turn the corner on trade, but also show that Washington can still get things done on a bipartisan basis."
American Trucking Association President and CEO Chris Spear: "Now with a clear path to USMCA's ratification, this is an historic victory for truck drivers, motor carriers and the entire American economy,"
Association of American Railroads President and CEO Ian Jefferies: "As the backbone of the North American supply chain, freight railroads applaud today's announcement, which provides much-needed certainty with our two largest trading partners. Congress should move with haste to ratify USMCA before the end of the year and provide an economic shot in the arm to U.S. businesses."
Association of Equipment Manufacturers President Dennis Slater: "This is good news for equipment manufacturers, the 1.3 million men and women of our industry, and the entire U.S. economy. We look forward to Congress ratifying the agreement and President Trump signing it into law."
BSA|The Software Alliance: "Today's announcement is welcome news to the software industry, and businesses of all sizes across the economy who rely on data to succeed and grow. The USMCA establishes a gold standard for rules on digital trade. Congressional action on the USMCA is critical to securing American leadership in the digital economy into the future."
Business Roundtable Trade and International Committee Chair Tom Linebarger: "Business Roundtable appreciates the hard work of the United States Trade Representative and the House Democratic USMCA Working Group to reach an agreement that can move USMCA forward."
Corn Refiners Association President and CEO John Bode: "Today's announced agreement on USMCA puts America one step closer to strengthening our farm and agriculture economy and securing vital market access for U.S. farmers, ranchers and agri-businesses. With Mexico and Canada representing the two largest markets for refined corn products totaling more than $900 million in yearly exports, we urge Congress to swiftly pass this deal that is critical to the success of American businesses, farmers and workers."
Farmers for Free Trade Co-Executive Director Angela Hofmann: "This is welcome news and a relief for American farmers. Now it's time to get the bill passed before politics can get in the way. Farmers and ranchers will be watching closely to ensure that their members of Congress are standing up for American agriculture."
General Motors: "General Motors is pleased to see the USMCA agreement moving forward on a path toward approval. We view the agreement as vital to the success of the North American auto industry and have long supported efforts to modernize it in a way that strengthens the industry and positions it to be a global leader."
International Dairy Foods Association President and CEO Michael Dykes: "What a great day for U.S. dairy and all of American agriculture. With a smooth path ahead for the USMCA agreement, America's dairy industry anticipates a bright future and continued growth through exports to Canada and Mexico. Once ratified, the new USMCA deal also delivers peace of mind for our businesses, removing the handcuffs of uncertainty that have constrained business decisions over the past two years as the deal was negotiated."
National Association of Home Builders Chairman Greg Ugalde: "NAHB commends President Trump and House Democrats for working together in a bipartisan spirit to reach an agreement on approving the USMCA trade deal, which represents a win for the U.S. economy, a win for American jobs and a win for housing affordability. Many of the products that go into American homes come from Mexico or Canada. By moving swiftly to ratify the USMCA, Congress will help to address the nation's housing affordability crisis."
National Association of Manufacturers President and CEO Jay Timmons: "Manufacturers support the USMCA, and we are encouraged that the administration and House Democrats have forged a path forward, with the support of Canada and Mexico as well."
National Chicken Council President Mike Brown: "On behalf of America's chicken producers, I want to thank President Trump for his leadership and for the tireless work of the administration, including Agriculture Secretary Perdue and U.S. Trade Representative Lighthizer. After a year of negotiations, the time to act is now. We encourage swift Congressional consideration and passage of USMCA before Christmas."
National Corn Growers Association President Kevin Ross: "NCGA appreciates the bipartisan efforts between Speaker Pelosi, Ambassador Lighthizer and the House working group to reach an agreement. I urge lawmakers to pass USMCA and help us close out 2019 with a win for America's farmers and the U.S. economy."
National Council of Textiles President and CEO Kim Glas: "We are happy to hear a deal has been reached that should help pave the way for USMCA to move forward and we will continue to work for Congressional passage on a clean bill."
National Milk Producers Federation President and CEO Jim Mulhern: "Passing USMCA would be boon to America's dairy farmers… USMCA will expand trade opportunities with our most valuable partners and secure immediate benefits for our rural communities, adding an estimated $548 million to dairy-farm revenues in its first six years after implementation."
National Retail Federation President and CEO Matthew Shay: "Retailers are very encouraged by this positive step forward to approve the USMCA, which will provide key updates to the landmark North American Free Trade Agreement and promote long-term economic growth. The USMCA takes many important steps to modernize the agreement to reflect today's global and digital economy. This agreement could not come at a better time and provides certainty for U.S. retailers that rely on the North American market, including those that operate in Canada and Mexico. It also ensures American families can continue to have access to a wide range of high-quality products at prices they can afford. We applaud the leadership of both President Trump and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi for their commitment to reach a new and improved deal. We look forward to having this cross the finish line and continue the strong momentum in the consumer economy."
National Turkey Federation: "The USMCA is a win for the U.S. turkey industry, and with today's announced agreement we're one step closer to ratification. It's taken a great deal of hard work to reach consensus on the USMCA, and we thank President Trump, Ambassador Lighthizer, Secretary Perdue, Speaker Pelosi and congressional leaders in both parties who have gotten us to this point."
SBE Council President & CEO Karen Kerrigan: "USMCA is vitally important to the growth and success of the U.S. economy. Small business America looks forward to taking advantage of expansion opportunities under USMCA and new agreements moving forward that will open global markets to their goods and services."
Trade Works For America Co-Chair Phil Cox: "Look, this is a win if you're in the agricultural sector, the auto sector, if you're in manufacturing – this is a win for you."
United States Chamber of Commerce CEO Thomas J. Donohue: "The U.S. Chamber welcomes the news that the Trump Administration and House Democrats have reached agreement on a path forward for USMCA. … We are optimistic this development will open the door to final approval of USMCA on a bipartisan basis by the end of the year, which will especially benefit American farmers, manufacturers, and small businesses."
United States Dairy Export Council President and CEO Tom Vilsack: "Finalizing USMCA will bolster international confidence in the U.S. as a serious negotiating partner and build momentum for other trade agreements in key markets abroad. Without this crucial trade agreement, Made-in-America dairy and agriculture products could be left behind in the new year."
United States Travel Association: "The #USMCA will be a HUGE win for America's travel industry, our economy and U.S. workers across the country. Thank you, @POTUS, for negotiating a new fair-trade agreement for all of America."
  