
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals and his intention to appoint one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Raymond L. Orbach to be Director of the Office of Science at the Department of Energy. Orbach is currently the Chancellor of the University of California Riverside and Professor of Physics and served as Provost of the College of Letters and Science at the University of California from 1982 to 1992. Orbach has held numerous visiting professorships at universities around the world including the Imperial College of Science and Technology in London, the Ecole Superieure de Physique et Chimie Industrielle de la Ville de Paris, France and Tel Aviv University. He received an undergraduate degree from California Institute of Technology and a Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley.
The President intends to nominate Kathleen P. Utgoff to be Commissioner of Labor Statistics at the Department of Labor. From 1995 to 1999, Utgoff was the Vice President and Director of the Center for Naval Analyses where she was responsible for CAN research infrastructure, logistics/maintenance/readiness, manpower, personnel, training, medical issues and environmental analysis. She was Chief Economist and Partner at Groom and Nordberg, a Washington, D.C. law firm specializing in life and health insurance, pensions and international tax issues from 1989 to 1995, and she was Executive Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 1985 to 1989. Utgoff was a Senior Economist at the Council of Economic Advisors from 1983 to 1985, and an Economist at the Center for Naval Analysis from 1974 to 1983. She holds an undergraduate degree from California State University at Northridge and a Ph.D. from the University of California at Los Angeles.
The President intends to nominate David Murtaugh to be United States Marshall for the Northern District of Indiana. Murtaugh has served with the Tippecanoe County Sheriff's Office since 1977, where he was promoted through the ranks to Sheriff and served as Deputy Coroner from 1979 to 1994. From 1992 to 1993, he was Intermittent Deputy U.S. Marshall in South Bend, Indiana. Murtaugh holds an Associate Degree from Vincennes University in Vincennes, Indiana.
The President intends to nominate Ronald R. McCubbin to be United States Marshall for the Western District of Kentucky. McCubbin has served with the City of Louisville, Division of Police since 1987, and was promoted through the ranks to Detective. Before joining the police department, he was an Emergency Medical Technician with the City of Louisville Division of Emergency Medical Services. McCubbin is a graduate of Louisville Central High School.
The President intends to nominate William Carey Jenkins to be United States Marshall for the Middle District of Louisiana. Jenkins has been Deputy U.S. Marshall for the Middle District of Louisiana since 1990, and was Deputy U.S. Marshall for the Eastern District of Louisiana from 1987 to 1990. Jenkins served with the East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's Office from 1980 to 1987. He is a graduate of Central Private High School in Baton Rouge.
The President intends to nominate Dwight MacKay to be United States Marshall for the District of Montana. MacKay has been the State Director of the Office of U.S. Senator Conrad Burns since 1996, and he served in the Senator's state office from 1991 to 1995, as well. He was the Yellowstone County Commissioner from 1983 to 1991, and from 1971 to 1982, MacKay was employed by Yellowstone County, first as a Deputy Sheriff, then as a Probation Officer and finally as the Director of the Adolescent Crisis Unit. He is a former member of the Montana Army National Guard and holds a bachelor's degree from Rocky Mountain College.
The President intends to nominate James D. Dawson to be United States Marshall for the Southern District of West Virginia. Dawson has been employed by the U.S. Marshall's Service for the Southern District of West Virginia since 1987, where he has been promoted through the ranks to Supervisory Deputy U.S. Marshall. From 1976 to 1987, he was Deputy Sheriff in the Nicholas County West Virginia, Sheriff's Department. Dawson is a graduate of Bluefield State College.
The President intends to appoint Peter Charles DeShazo for the personal rank of ambassador during his tenure of service as Head of the United States Delegation to the Inter-American Council for Integral Development. DeShazo is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service who is currently serving as Deputy U.S. Permanent Representative to the Organization of American States and the principal U.S. Representative to the Inter-American Council for Integral Development. In previous foreign service assignments, Mr. DeShazo directed the Office of Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs of the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, and served in embassies in Tel Aviv, Caracas and Panama City. He received a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College and a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin at Madison.
  