
    THE PRESIDENT. I hope all of you had a merry Christmas.
It's a great pleasure for me to announce that I've asked Jim Mcintyre, James McIntyre, to serve as permanent Director of the Office of Management and Budget. I have known Jim Mcintyre for 7 years. He's a professional in every sense of the word, a dedicated career public servant. He's had long experience in establishing policy, in long-range planning, in preparation of budgets, in the management of government, in reorganization, in zerobase budgeting, and, as you know, he has served here as the Deputy Director of OMB for a while and now in the last few months as the Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
He has been successful in putting together the fiscal year 1979 budget, leading a very able and professional staff, I think, in a superlative way. He's worked harmoniously with me and he's worked well with the Members of Congress and with the Cabinet members as well.
I am very proud of Jim Mcintyre. This is a thankless job, but it's one that he has undertaken in a very dedicated fashion, and I have complete confidence in him.
Jim, I want to congratulate you on the 1979 budget. We will be printing it up after our last meeting tomorrow. Our goal is to have the Federal budget be adequate, but to reduce the percentage of the gross national product of our country that goes into the Federal Government from the taxpayers and which is dispensed by the Government itself. And we have made a good start in that direction.
I think when the fiscal year '79 budget is analyzed, there will be many well-deserved accolades coming to Jim Mcintyre.
Jim, I thank you and congratulate you on this appointment.
MR. McINTYRE. Thank you, Mr. President.
Mr. President, I want to thank you for the confidence and the trust that you have shown in me.
In recent weeks, we at OMB have pulled together the President's budget. As we've worked on his and other proposed programs and initiatives, my respect and admiration for President Carter's leadership, his intellect, and his diligence to duty and country has been reinforced.
As I look forward to continuing to serve the President and the country at OMB, I am both cautious and confident. Having worked at the agency for almost a year, I realize the size and scope, the responsibilities and the challenges. I also realize that at times we at OMB wouldn't win any popularity prizes, especially at the budget time. But I am confident that I can carry out the President's initiatives and directives.
A major reason for my confidence stems from the highly capable and effective staff at OMB. Our Executive Associate Directors, Bo Cutter and Harrison Wellford, their staffs, our congressional support through Herky Harris, Bob Dietsch and our Public Information Office, and all of the people at the agency have been of invaluable help to me and to the President. I take comfort that they will be there ready to help again.
I also feel confident that I can work with the Congress. While serving as Acting OMB Director, I have made a special effort to meet with a long list of Senators and Representatives, and I look forward to continuing our cooperation.
Next month we will send Congress the Federal budget for fiscal year 1979, the year which begins next October 1. It is President Carter's first full budget, and it will reflect his priorities. It will show the country the President's determination to be fiscally responsible, but it will also show that he will not neglect the country's domestic needs and problems. Thus, while the budget can be described as tight, it also can be described as responsive-responsive to the problems of our environment, our youth, the disadvantaged, and the unemployed. It will reflect the President's determination to make our Government work more effectively. All of us at OMB look forward to working with the Congress in implementing the President's budget.
Mr. President, I will always do my best to carry out OMB's assignments and responsibilities and your own directives. I appreciate your confidence in me. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. You have got a good boss.
  