
    
  Rubio Says One Thing on the Campaign Trail and Does Another In Office
  Ted Cruz Releases a New Iowa Ad Highlighting Rubio's Gang of Eight Leadership

HOUSTON, Texas — This week Senator Marco Rubio's record of supporting amnesty has once again come to light, and he has finally admitted he continues to push for amnesty as he did as a leading member of the Gang of Eight in 2013.  More troubling for Republican voters is the pattern that has emerged on the issue of immigration – one in which Rubio attempts to appeal to conservatives on the campaign trail but then lines up with the Washington establishment when the time comes to cast his vote.
This pattern of behavior spans back to his time as a candidate for U.S. Senate in 2010 when Marco claimed, "I will never support, never have and never will support any effort to grant blanket legalization amnesty to folks who have entered or stayed in this country illegally." (Interview: Conservative Republican Alliance, April 26, 2010) [VIDEO] And as Marco pointed out to Charlie Crist in 2010, "earned path to citizenship is basically code for amnesty." [VIDEO]
But in Washington, far from the watchful eyes of the voters who elected him, he joined  Senators Chuck Schumer and John McCain in the backrooms of the U.S. Senate to write a bill that creates a "path to citizenship for up to 11 million illegal immigrants" — amnesty – exactly what he promised he would not do.
And even on the Senate floor, when his fellow Republicans offered amendments to require strict border security, construction of a border fence, Congressional oversight, and a common-sense screening program for immigrants from countries that export terrorism, Rubio rejected each of them in order to protect the reckless deal he cut with Obama and liberal Democrats.

Rubio claims he is for border security but when given the chance he voted against Iowa Senator Chuck Grassley's amendment to require the border be secure before granting Rubio's own proposed amnesty. (2013 RC#148)
When given the chance to protect America's national security by prioritizing the building of a border wall, Rubio voted against an amendment from Senator Thune that would have required the completion of 700 miles of border fence before any illegal aliens could get a green card. (2013 RC#151)
Rubio talks tough about protecting America yet he voted against Senator Vitter's amendment that would have required the full completion of the US VISIT program, an anti-terror initiative recommended by the 9/11 Commission. (2013 RC#152)
Rubio voted against Rand Paul's amendment that would have created a "Student Visa National Security Registration system to add increased security screening of students coming from countries known to be incubators of extremism and exporters of international terrorism." (2013 RC#154)

It is clear Marco Rubio said one thing to get elected and promptly broke his promise once in office.  How can voters trust what he says now?
Today, the Cruz campaign has released another television ad, "Border," in Iowa that highlights Marco Rubio's lead role in pushing the Gang of Eight amnesty bill – a measure that Ted Cruz helped fight against and ultimately defeat.
Watch the ad here:


  