
    On Wednesday, December 22, 2010, the President signed into law:
S. 30, which makes it illegal to cause any caller identification service to knowingly transmit misleading or inaccurate caller identification information with the intent to defraud, cause harm, or wrongfully obtain anything of value.
S. 1275, which establishes a National Foundation on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition as a nonprofit corporation to promote participation by private organizations in the activities of the President's Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition, and to promote private donations to support those activities.
S. 1405, which redesignates the Longfellow National Historic Site in Massachusetts, as the Longfellow House-Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site.
S. 1448, which authorizes 99-year leases on land held in trust for five Indian Tribes in the State of Oregon.
S. 1609, which authorizes the Department of Commerce to approve a single fishery cooperative for the longline catcher processor subsector in the Bering Sea/Aleutian Islands Pacific cod fishery upon the request of licensees holding at least 80 percent of the licenses issued for that subsector.
S. 1774, which makes Hotaru Nakama Ferschke eligible for an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent resident.
S. 2906, authorizes 99-year leases on land held in trust for the Kalispel Tribe and the Puyallup Tribe of Washington State.
S. 3199, which reauthorizes and expands authorized research and public health activities related to the early detection, diagnosis, and treatment of hearing loss in newborns and infants.
S. 3794, which authorizes the General Services Administration to transfer Federal surplus property to State agencies for distribution to certain veterans-related organizations.
S. 3860, which requires reports on the management of Arlington National Cemetery.
S. 3984, which authorizes appropriations for museums and libraries through FY 2016, and extends programs administered by the Institute of Museum and Library Services.
S. 3998, which extends through March 30, 2012, a pilot program for certain volunteer organizations that serve children to have fingerprint checks on applicants for positions as volunteers or employees processed through the Fingerprint Identification System of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
S. 4005, which authorizes the U.S. Government to apply for, and Federal courts to issue, restraining orders at any time before or after the initiation of forfeiture proceedings by a foreign nation in order to preserve the availability of property in the United States subject to civil or criminal forfeiture under foreign law.
S. 4010, which makes Shigeru Yamada eligible for an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent resident.
H.R. 1061, which provides for the transfer of Federal and non-Federal land to the United States to be held in trust for the Hoh Indian Tribe of Washington State.
H.R. 2941, which Reauthorizes Johanna's Law to increase public awareness and knowledge with respect to gynecologic cancers.
H.R. 4337, which modifies rules related to the tax treatment of regulated investment companies, including rules related to capital loss carryovers, dividends and other distributions, and excise taxes.
H.R. 5591, which designates the airport traffic control tower located at Spokane International Airport in Spokane, Washington, as the Ray Daves Airport Traffic Control Tower.
H.R. 6198, which makes technical corrections to the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005.
H.R. 6278, which allows the District of Columbia to use Heritage Island and a portion of Kingman Island within the Anacostia River for recreational, environmental, or educational purposes in accordance with the Anacostia Waterfront Framework Plan and the Comprehensive Plan of the District of Columbia.
H.R. 6473, which extends through March 31, 2011, authorities to collect taxes that fund the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, make expenditures from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, and make grants to airports under the Airport Improvement Program.
H.R. 6516, which makes technical and conforming changes to the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2010.
  