
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
December 3
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
December 5
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--senior White House staff members;--the Cabinet;
--Vice President Walter F. Mondale;--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget.
December 6
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., and other administration officials to discuss elementary and secondary education reauthorization legislation;--Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and Dr. Brzezinski;--James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget;--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget.
December 7
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;
--Senator Walter Huddleston of Kentucky.
The White House announced that, at the invitation of the President, Vice President Mondale will visit Strategic Air Command Headquarters at Offutt Air Force Base in Omaha, Nebr., aboard the U.S. Air Force National Emergency Airborne Command Post, on December 8. He will receive a briefing and a tour of SAC Headquarters similar to the one the President received during his visit in October. He will be accompanied by Charles W. Duncan, Jr., Deputy Secretary of Defense, and Gen. George S. Brown, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
December 8
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--Secretary Califano, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison, to discuss social security legislation;--Mrs. Carter, for lunch;--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget.
The President transmitted to the Congress the annual report of the Commodity Credit Corporation for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1976, and the transition quarter ended September 30, 1976.
December 9
The President met at the White House with:--Secretary Blumenthal, Secretary of Commerce Juanita M. Kreps, Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall, Richard N. Cooper, Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Dr. Schultze, Mr. Mcintyre, and Mr. Eizenstat;--Dr. Brzezinski;--Henry Howell, 1977 Democratic candidate for Governor of Virginia;--a group of editors, publishers, and broadcasters (transcript will be printed next week);--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget;--Mark Chona, Presidential Adviser to President Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia.
The President attended a briefing on the Panama Canal treaties, given for leaders of senior citizens organizations in the Roosevelt Room.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md. He was accompanied by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota.
  