
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
December 17
The President returned to the White House from a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
December 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale; —the National Security Council.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a Christmas reception in the morning for members of the Secret Service and their families on the State Floor of the White House.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a Christmas reception in the evening for members of the White House staff on the State Floor of the White House. December 19
The President met at the White House with:
Dr. Brzezinski:
—a group of administration officials to discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget;
—the Energy Coordinating Committee; the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
December 20
The. President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—a group of administration officials to discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget;
—Adm. Startsfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—a group of Democratic mayors to discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget;
—a group of Governors to discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a Christmas reception in the afternoon for members of the Residence staff and their families on the State Floor of the White House.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a Christmas reception in the evening for members of the White House press corps on the State Floor of the White House.
December 21
At the President's direction, Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher will lead a mission to Taiwan to discuss arrangements regarding the maintenance of commercial, cultural, and other relations between the American and Taiwanese peoples. This mission will coordinate, with the Taiwanese authorities, the general framework within which these unofficial relations are to be conducted after January 1, 1978. The mission to Taiwan will include Adm. Maurice Wiesher, USN, Commander in Chief, Pacific;
Herbert Hansell, Legal Adviser of the Department of State; Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Roger Sullivan; Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs Michael Armacost; and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce W. Dean Moran. The delegation will arrive in Taipei on December 27 and leave Taipei on December 29.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Arizona as a result of severe storms and flooding, beginning about December 17, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
December 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
`—a group of administration officials to discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget.
The President left the White House for a trip to Atlanta and Plains, Ga.
  