
    H.R. 530, which makes Tanya Andrea Goudeau eligible for lawful permanent residence and considered to have satisfied the requirements applicable to adopted children born outside the United States for automatic acquisition of citizenship;
H.R. 2457, the Castillo de San Marcos National Monument Preservation and Education Act, which authorizes funds for an educational center for the Castillo de San Marcos National Monument;
H.R. 2619, the Kilauea Point National Wildlife Refuge Expansion Act of 2004," which authorizes the expansion of the Kilauea Point National Wildlife Refuge on the island of Kauai, Hawaii;
H.R. 3632, the Intellectual Property Protection and Courts Amendments Act of 2004, which prevents and punishes counterfeiting of copyrighted copies and phonorecords;
H.R. 3785, which directs the exchange of certain land in the Everglades National Park, Florida;
H.R. 3818, the Microenterprise Results and Accountability Act of 2004, which amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to improve the results and accountability of microenterprise development assistance programs;
H.R. 4027, which authorizes the Commerce Department to make certain NOAA-administered real Property in Florida available to the University of Miami for development of a Marine Life Science Center;
H.R. 4116, the American Bald Eagle Recovery and National Emblem Commemorative Coin Act, which requires the Department of the Treasury to mint and issue coins in commemoration of the recovery of the bald eagle and the 35th anniversary of the enactment of the Endangered Species Act, and provides support to the American Eagle Foundation of Tennessee through surcharges on the coins;
H.R. 4548, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005," which authorizes appropriations for fiscal year 2005 for intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System;
H.R. 4569, which requires the Department of Agriculture to develop a national plan for the control and management of the tree disease Sudden Oak Death;
H.R. 4657, the District of Columbia Retirement Protection Improvement Act of 2004, which amends the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 to improve the administration of Federal pension benefit payments for District of Columbia teachers, police officers, and fire fighters;
H.R. 5204, which modifies current law concerning payments to children's hospitals for graduate medical residency training programs;
H.R. 5363, which authorizes a cost-of-living salary adjustment for the Federal Judiciary for 2005;
H.R. 5382, the Commercial Space Launch Amendments Act of 2004," which promotes the development of the emerging commercial human space flight industry;
H.R. 5394, which amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the taxation of arrow components;
H.R. 5419, which amends the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act to facilitate the reallocation of spectrum from governmental to commercial users; to improve, enhance, and promote the Nation's homeland security, public safety, and citizen activated emergency response capabilities through the use of enhanced 911 services, to further upgrade Public Safety Answering Point capabilities and related functions in receiving E-911 calls, and to support in the construction and operation of a ubiquitous and reliable citizen activated system; and to provide that funds received as universal service contributions under section 254 of the Communications Act of 1934 and the universal service support programs established pursuant thereto are not subject to certain provisions of title 31, United States Code, commonly known as the Antideficiency Act, for a period of time;
S. 1301, the Video Voyeurism Prevention Act of 2004," which prohibits video voyeurism in the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States;
S. 2657, the Federal Employee Dental and Vision Benefits Enhancement Act of 2004," which requires the Office of Personnel Management to establish supplemental dental and vision benefits programs for Federal employees, annuitants, and their dependents;
S. 2781, the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004," which expresses the sense of the Congress regarding the conflict in Darfur, Sudan, to provide assistance for the crisis in Darfur and for comprehensive peace in Sudan;
S. 2856, which limits the transfer of certain Commodity Credit Corporation funds between conservation programs for technical assistance for the programs.
  