
    DES MOINES, Iowa — U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Tuesday returns to Iowa for a three-day swing through the state. The trip kicks off with a town meeting in Muscatine and includes stops in Davenport, Burlington, Keokuk, Ottumwa, Knoxville and Des Moines. Sanders will discuss a wide range of issues including getting big money out of politics, combating climate change and making college affordable.
Senator Sanders' itinerary:
Tuesday, December 29
4 p.m. Muscatine Town Meeting, Muscatine High School, 2705 Cedar Street, Muscatine
Information for the public: Doors open at 3 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
7 p.m. Davenport Town Meeting, Mississippi Valley Fairgrounds, 2815 W. Locust St, Davenport
Information for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Wednesday, December 30
12:30 p.m. Meet & Greet at Burlington Field Office, 1525 Mt. Pleasant St, Burlington
Information for the public: This event is invitation only.
Press coverage will be pooled.
3:30 p.m. Keokuk Town Meeting, Keokuk Middle School, 2002 Orleans Ave, Keokuk
Information for the public: Doors open at 2:30 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
7 p.m. Ottumwa Town Meeting, Bridge View Center, 102 Church St, Ottumwa
Information for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Thursday, December 31
10 a.m. Knoxville Town Meeting, Northstar Elementary School, 407 W. Larson St, Knoxville
Information for the public: Doors open at 9:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
7 p.m. New Year's Eve Party with Bernie, Renaissance Des Moines Savery Hotel, Savery Ballroom, 401 Locust Street, Des Moines
Information for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. and event runs from 7 to 9 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Press interested in covering these events should email iapressreg@berniesanders.com.
  