
    GOP lawmaker from East Wenatchee to speak, reiterate support at state office grand opening
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — Washington State Rep. Cary Condotta (R- East Wenatchee) has publicly endorsed Ron Paul for the presidency, and will reiterate his support for the Champion of the Constitution at an event next week.
In endorsing the 12-term Congressman from Texas, Rep. Condotta praised Dr. Paul for being the most resolute on economic policy, a trait sorely needed during this period of government-imposed economic weakness.
"We have heard way too much about hope and change, when all we have done year after year is elect candidates with basic variations on the same game plan," said Rep. Condotta.
"America became successful because Americans were unafraid to step out with bold, principle-based concepts that set us on a path to prosperity. It is once again time to be bold and principled. Ron Paul is the only candidate that offers that possibility," added Rep. Condotta.
The North Central Washington city of Wenatchee has approximately 110,000 residents in the metro area, making it the largest city in Chelan County. Support from Wenatcheeites such as Rep. Condotta will prove priceless leading up to the March 3, 2012 state Republican caucuses.
Rep. Condotta graduated from Central Washington University with a degree in economics and business. Always interested in politics, Condotta started a radio talk show in 2000 titled "Return to America" based on the ideas of Ron Paul. The show succeeded and in 2001 led to Condotta's election to the Washington State House of Representatives. Now in his fifth term, Rep. Condotta is an outspoken supporter of Ron Paul and the principles for which he stands.
Rep. Condotta will reiterate his endorsement before a crowd of Ron Paul supporters at 4:30 p.m. PST on Thursday, December 15that the Ron Paul Washington headquarters, located at 13600 NE 20th Street, Bellevue, WA 98005. Doors open at 4:00 p.m.
Also that evening, Washington campaign staff will sign up supporters for volunteer and caucus training, distribute promotional materials, watch the GOP debate live, and involve volunteers in contacting voters. Soft drinks and appetizers will be served initially, and pizza will be ordered during the debate time.
"We're gratified to have the endorsement of Rep. Condotta, whose promotion of economic liberty is in the tradition of Ron Paul. Rep. Condotta's participation in our grand opening event promises the make an already-promising evening even more memorable," said Washington State Executive Director Pedro Serra.
To join Rep. Condotta's mission to support the principles of Ron Paul, join him on Facebook by clicking here. Join the official Washington for Ron Paul group on Facebook by clicking here.
Media wanting to cover the Washington grand opening event should send an email to RSVP@RonPaul2012.com.
  