
    Des Moines, IA -- The Obama campaign announced today that Congressman Dave Loebsack (D-IA) is endorsing Senator Barack Obama for President. A former political science teacher at Cornell College in Mt. Vernon, Congressman Loebsack was an upset winner last year in Iowa's Second Congressional District which encompasses much of Southeastern Iowa.
"In a field of strong candidates, Barack is the strongest," said Congressman Dave Loebsack. "What impresses me about Barack is his commitment to changing the way business is done in Washington. He understands that to pass universal health care, make energy independence a reality, and meet the other challenges we face, we need leadership that can bring all Americans together around a shared purpose."
"Obama is energizing, organizing, and mobilizing ordinary Americans to get involved in their democracy in a way I haven't seen in a long time," said Loebsack. "And he's building the kind of grassroots movement that will not just make him the most electable Democrat in a general election, but will help him enter the White House with a mandate for change that Washington can't ignore."
Loebsack is currently serving his first term in the U.S. House of Representatives. He serves on The House Education and Labor Committee and The House Armed Services Committee.
"I'm honored to have Congressman Loebsack's endorsement," said Senator Barack Obama. "Dave has been fighting tirelessly to change the same old partisan, divisive politics in Washington that's blocked progress for the people of the Second District. And by working at the grassroots level, he's helped build a real movement for change in Iowa."
Obama has received strong support from leaders in Iowa. To date, Senator Obama has received 19 endorsements from Iowa state legislators including Rep. Ako Abdul-Samad, Rep. Deborah Berry, Sen. Bob Dvorsky, Rep. Elesha Gayman, Sen. Bill Heckroth, Rep. David Jacoby, Rep. Pam Jochum, Rep. Helen Miller, Sen. Rich Olive, Rep. Donovan Olson, Rep. Tyler Olson, Rep. Janet Petersen, Rep. Brian Quirk, Sen. Tom Rielly, Rep. Mark Smith, Sen. Bolkcom, Rep. Paul Shomshor, Sen. Steve Warnstadt, and Sen. Frank Wood. Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, State Treasurer Mike Fitzgerald, and former Iowa Democratic Party Chair Gordon Fischer have also endorsed Senator Obama's campaign for change.
  