
    Steyer's ad campaign will air on local markets in all four early primary states 

Click the image above to watch the ad
(SAN FRANCISCO, December 4, 2019) — Yesterday, presidential candidate Tom Steyer launched a new ad campaign highlighting the moment in which he distinguished himself as the only candidate vowing to make climate his number one priority during the last DNC debate. The ad will run on local markets for two weeks from December 3 to December 17 in the early primary and caucus states of Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, and South Carolina.
The new "Save the World, Do it Together" ad reveals how Steyer is the only candidate pledging to address the climate crisis with the urgency it deserves and declare it a national emergency on day one of his presidency. Steyer has been combating the climate crisis by taking on big corporations for the last decade and now has the strongest climate plan of any presidential candidate.
"I've spent a decade fighting, beating oil companies, stopping pipelines, stopping fossil fuel plants, ensuring clean energy across the country," Steyer said in the ad. "We can do this, and create literally millions of good-paying union jobs — we can use it to rebuild and reimagine what the United States is. How are we going to pull this country together? We take on the biggest challenge in history, we save the world and do it together."
The new ad campaign comes as Steyer secured a spot on the December Democratic National Committee debate yesterday by surpassing the threshold for the required number of donors.
See below for the full script: 
I'm the only person on this stage who will say that climate is the number one priority for me.
It's a state of emergency, and I would declare a state of emergency on day one.
If we're waiting for Congress, it's not going to get done.
Congress has never passed an important climate bill, ever.
This is a problem which continues to get worse.
I know that we have to do this. I also know we can do this.
I've spent a decade fighting, beating oil companies, stopping pipelines, stopping fossil fuel plants, ensuring clean energy across the country.
We can do this, and create literally millions of good-paying union jobs.
And we can use it to rebuild and reimagine what the United States is.
How are we going to pull this country together?
We take on the biggest challenge in history, we save the world and do it together. You think that'd pull America together? I do.
  