
    ATLANTA, GA —  More than 60 federal, state and local officials joined Gov. Nathan Deal at the Georgia State Capitol today to endorse former House Speaker and Georgia Congressman Newt Gingrich for the Republican nomination for President of the United States. 
At a press conference hosted by Deal at the North Steps of the Capitol, the officials joined business leaders and grassroots supporters to call on Georgians to vote for Gingrich in the upcoming Republican Presidential Preference Primary to be held on "Super Tuesday" — March 6, 2012.
"With this contest less than 90 days away, we wanted to throw our support behind the only candidate we see qualified to take on Barack Obama and turn this nation around," said Senate President Pro Tempore Tommie Williams (R-Lyons). "Hands down that person is Newt Gingrich."
State Senator Barry Loudermilk (R-Cartersville) was among 33 members of the Georgia Legislature offering an endorsement today.
"We need a president who makes creating jobs his first priority," Loudermilk said. "Newt Gingrich has a record of turning around the economy. And he will return many powers back to the states, something Georgians desperately want to see in a president."
Among the state and local officials announcing they are endorsing Newt Gingrich today are:

Georgia Congressmen Austin Scott, Lynn Westmoreland, Tom Price, Jack Kingston and Phil Gingrey.
Former Georgia Congressmen Mac Collins and Bob Barr.
Georgia Senate President Pro Tempore Tommie Williams (R-Lyons).
State Senators Judson Hill (R-Marietta); Jack Murphy (R-Cumming); John Albers (R-Roswell); Barry Loudermilk (R-Cartersville); Butch Miller (R-Gainesville); Steve Gooch (R-Dahlonega); Rick Jeffares (R-Locust Grove); and Bill Jackson (R-Appling).
Former state Senators Bart Ladd (R-Dunwoody); Chuck Clay (Marietta); John Wiles (R-Marietta) and John Douglas (R-Social Circle).
State Representatives Sharon Cooper (R-Marietta); Joe Wilkinson (R-Sandy Springs); Brooks Coleman (R-Duluth); Harry Geisinger (R-Roswell); Charlice Byrd (R-Woodstock); David Casas (R-Lilburn); Josh Clark (R-Buford);  Matt Dollar (R-Marietta); Buddy Harden (R-Cordele); Brett Harrell (R-Snellville); David Knight (R-Griffin); Judy Manning (R-Marietta); Sean Jerguson (R-Holly Springs); Paul Battles (R-Cartersville); Paulette Rakestraw-Braddock (R-Dallas); Andy Welch (R-McDonough); Carl Rogers (R-Gainesville); Tom Weldon (R-Ringgold); Lee Anderson (R-Grovetown); Penny Houston (R-Nashville); Rick Jasperse (R-Jasper); Jason Shaw (Lakeland); Jason Spencer (R-Woodbine); Ron Stephens (R-Savannah);  and Roger Williams (Dalton).
Former state Representative and state Department of Transportation Member Jeff Lewis.
Public Service Commissioners Stan Wise and Lauren "Bubba" McDonald.
Insurance Commissioner Ralph Hudgens.
Hall County Commission Chairman Tom Oliver; Hall Commissioner Ashley Bell; Hall Commissioner Craig Lutz.
Harrelson County Commission Chairman Allen Poole.
DeKalb County Commissioner Elaine Boyer; DeKalb School Board member Paul Womack.
Dawson County School Board Chairman Will Wade.
Roswell City Councilwoman Becky Wynn; Roswell Mayor Pro Tem Jerry Orlans.
Gwinnett County Sheriff Steve Cronic.
Eddie Driggers, Chairman, Heart of Georgia Airport Authority; and John Clements, Vice Chairman, Heart of Georgia Airport Authority.
Alan Curtis, Chairman, Cochran Airport Authority.
Others endorsing include: Charles Loudermilk, chairman of the Board, Aarons, Inc.

  