
    Nashville, Tennessee — Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg visited Nashville today to open the Tennessee headquarters for his 2020 campaign. The office is the campaign's first field office in Tennessee.
Nashville Mayor John Cooper and Bloomberg sat down for coffee prior to the opening. They discussed highlights from Bloomberg's health care policy that he released earlier in the day.
The Nashville headquarters is located in Saint Cloud Corner at the corner of 5th Avenue on Church Street. Twelve staffers are focusing on building campaign and field operations across the state of Tennessee, with a staff that will continue to grow in the coming weeks.
"Unfortunately, of all 50 states, Tennessee has one of the highest rates of uninsured Americans. We've just got to do something about that," said Bloomberg at the office opening. "This is a country that is wealthy, this is a country that we think is compassionate. And to leave people without the ability when they don't feel well to go to a doctor, or if there is something really wrong to get treatment, is just something that we should never tolerate. This morning in Memphis, I announced a health care plan which I think is practical, I think has a decent chance of getting it through Congress, because if you don't have those two things it's just pie in the sky and we're wasting our time and it's just hot air."
Bloomberg announced his new health care policy in Memphis, outlining achievable reforms that will increase access to coverage and reduce costs for all Americans. Bloomberg will create a public insurance option, similar to Medicare, that everyone will be able to enroll in.
"The Affordable Care Act was actually a major achievement that took us in the right direction, and President Obama deserves an awful lot of credit for that," said Bloomberg. "But now we have to finish the job, and we have to make sure that every person in America has access to coverage and affordable care."
Tennessee is one of several key states voting on Super Tuesday. Bloomberg is leading a uniquely national campaign to win the Democratic nomination and defeat President Trump in November. The campaign will continue to open field offices across the country in the next few weeks.
Bloomberg's Tennessee team will be led by State Director Courtney Wheeler. Wheeler is a veteran political strategist in the state and was the campaign manager for Karl Dean's gubernatorial run last year.
  