
    LAS VEGAS, NV – In the fifth Republican primary debate, Presidential Candidate Ted Cruz discussed the need to secure the border in order to safeguard our nation and protect our citizens.
Ted Cruz has outlined a detailed immigration plan to secure the border, end Obama's amnesty, and protect Americans. As he writes in a Conservative Review op-ed, Cruz's plan safeguards American jobs and protects against terrorists who seek to commit atrocities on American soil.
"I have stood with millions of Americans who understand the dangers of a porous national border, the foolhardiness of President Obama's amnesty, and the lunacy of accepting tens of thousands of Syrian refugees. Americans see the crushing economic consequences of low-skill labor flooding our job market every day. But the atrocities in Paris and Beirut spur us to fight even harder to protect not only American workers, but also vital national security interests," Cruz writes.
He continues, "A porous border tempts terrorists to set foot in our homeland. A lax visa entry-exit system invites enemies—like the 9/11 hijackers—to hide in our communities. More than 340 'sanctuary cities' and jurisdictions lure murderers and crooks to roam our streets. And a leader who refuses to enforce the rule of law creates a void that criminals and evildoers are eager to fill, as we have witnessed again and again on the world stage....
"It's past time to secure the border, to make the law mean what it says, and to ensure that our own immigration system does not open the door to economic hardship, crime, or terrorism. We know how to strengthen our immigration system and how to once again put American interests first. We simply lack the political will to get it done. As president, I will not waste a day. I will immediately rescind all of the Obama administration's lawless executive actions on immigration. I will stop Obama's amnesty. I will restore the rule of law. And I will dedicate time and resources to protecting Americans' jobs and security."
  