
    WASHINGTON, DC – President Obama today nominated Judge Timothy S. Black and Gloria M. Navarro for the District Court Bench for the Southern District of Ohio and the District of Nevada, respectively. Black is currently a United State Magistrate in the Southern District of Ohio. Navarro serves as Chief Deputy District Attorney for Clark County.
"Timothy Black and Gloria Navarro embody the evenhandedness, intellect, and spirit of service that Americans expect and deserve from their federal judges," said President Obama. "I thank them for their continued willingness to serve and know that they will dispense justice with unwavering integrity and impartiality."
Judge Timothy S. Black: Nominee for the Southern District of OhioJudge Timothy S. Black has served as a United States Magistrate Judge in the Southern District of Ohio since 2004. Judge Black previously sat as a Hamilton County Municipal Court Judge (1994-2004) and practiced as a civil litigator with the firm of Graydon Head & Ritchey in Cincinnati (1983-1993). Since 2004, Black has been co-convener of the Round Table, a partnership between the Black Lawyers Association of Cincinnati and the Cincinnati Bar Association. He is a founder and was previously co-convener of the Hamilton County Domestic Violence Coordinating Council. The Cincinnati Bar Association recognized Black for his community work in 2009 with the Themis Award, its highest honor for extraordinary service to the law and the community. Judge Black received his A.B. in 1975 from Harvard University and his J.D. in 1983 from the Salmon P. Chase College of Law, Northern Kentucky University.
Gloria M. Navarro: Nominee for the District of Nevada
Gloria M. Navarro has served as Chief Deputy District Attorney for Clark County since 2005, where she represents the county in civil litigation. Ms. Navarro previously served as Deputy Special Public Defender (2001-2004), representing defendants charged with capital and other serious crimes, and had her own private practice in Las Vegas (1996-2001). She has won awards for pro bono service and access to justice from organizations such as the Nevada State Bar, and she is a former president of the Latino Bar Association. Ms. Navarro received her B.A. in 1989 from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and her J.D. in 1992 from Arizona State University.
  