
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Gary Blumenthal, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Anne Rader, term expired.
Gwendolyn E. Boyd, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring August 11, 2014, vice Donald J. Sutherland, term expired.
Chester Alonzo Finn, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Kathleen Martinez, term expired.
Sara A. Gelser, of Oregon, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2011, vice Patricia Pound, term expired.
Peggy Goldwater-Clay, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring June 5, 2012. (Reappointment)
Marie Collins Johns, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration, vice Jovita Carranza, resigned.
David T. Matsuda, of the District of Columbia, to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration, vice Sean T. Connaughton, resigned.
Ari Ne'eman, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Robert Davila, term expired.
Dongwoo Joseph Pak, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Tony J. Williams, term expired.
Carol Jean Reynolds, of Colorado, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Lisa Mattheiss, term expired.
Fernando Torres-Gill, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2011, vice Graham Hill, term expired.
Jonathan M. Young, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Katherine O. McCary, term expired.
  