
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 1
The President declared a major disaster for the Marshall Islands of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands as a result of sea wave action and flooding, beginning on or about November 26, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
December 2
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
December 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale; Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles to discuss the 1984 summer Olympics to be held in Los Angeles, Calif.;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and other administration officials to review the fiscal year 1981 budget.
In reaction to the terrorist attack on a Navy school bus near San Juan, P.R., which resulted in the death of two U.S. sailors and the injury of several others, the White House announced, on behalf of the President, that this was a despicable act of murder; that the full resources of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice will be available as needed to help identify and bring to justice those responsible for a senseless act of terrorism; and that such actions are not consistent with the beliefs of the vast majority of Puerto Ricans, whatever their political views.
December 4
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinskl:
—the National Security Council.
December 5
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Ambassador Sol M. Linowitz, Personal Representative of the President to the Middle East peace negotiations;
—a group of leaders of the American Islamic community to assure the group, and through them to assure American Muslims, that the United States is not hostile towards Islam as a religion; to emphasize the need for Americans of all faiths to stand behind efforts to gain the release of the hostages; and to give the President an opportunity to listen to the group's advice and opinions on the situation in Iran;
—Members of the House of Representatives.
December 6
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Secretary of Energy Charles W. Duncan, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the President, Mr. Schultze, and Mr. Mclntyre;
—Mr. Moore;
—the board of directors of the National Farmers Organization;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President.
December 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Donovan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Members of the House of Representatives to discuss the energy security corporation legislation;
—a group of Governors and State legislators to discuss the fiscal year 1981 budget.
The President participated in a briefing on the administration's programs and policies given for civic and community leaders from Virginia in the East Room at the White House.
  