
    The Clinton campaign announced today that it plans to increase its already groundbreaking outreach efforts to women in Iowa. The campaign is launching more than twenty women's caucus training sessions and bringing in a large number of surrogates specifically to discuss Hillary Clinton's 35-year commitment to the challenges facing women in Iowa and across the country.
She enjoys the support of many prominent women across Iowa including Elaine Baxter, Bonnie Campbell, Ruth Harkin, Andy McGuire, Sally Pederson, and Christie Vilsack, and the full 250 members of her Iowa Women's Leadership Council. In addition, several prominent women from around the country will be campaigning on Hillary's behalf this weekend including Senator Barbara Mikulski, Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin, and "Hillaryland" members Ann Lewis, Lissa Muscatine, Melanne Verveer, Leecia Eve and Ann Stock. Ellen Malcolm, founder and president of EMILY's List, was also in the state earlier this week meeting with women voters.
"Women are enthusiastically joining Hillary's campaign, because they know she has been fighting for women and children for over 35 years," said Senator Mikulski. "As President, she will protect a woman's right to choose, ensure all Americans have quality, affordable health care, and support families with increased access to family leave and child care."
Women are expected to be the majority of Democratic caucus goers this year, with some estimates as high as 59% of the total vote. The Clinton campaign has enlisted Hillary's network of personal friends, colleagues, and leaders to fan out across Iowa to organize its supporters. For example, in addition to the "Take Your Buddy To Caucus" events, the campaign is also hosting caucus training sessions for women, many of whom are first time caucus goers. The campaign's Iowa Women's Leadership Council members are playing a critical role in organizing the trainings.
"The choice for the women of Iowa is clear. Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to make real change happen," said Bonnie Campbell, former Attorney General of Iowa and Mid-West Co-Chair of Hillary's campaign. "From ending the war in Iraq to helping families struggling with the housing crisis, Hillary Clinton has a plan to move America forward and women in Iowa trust her leadership in these challenging times."
Many of the training sessions will be anchored by a member of "Hillaryland," the name given to the group of women who have worked for Hillary throughout her years as First Lady and Senator.
Lissa Muscatine, Hillary's former speechwriter and Hillaryland member will be in Iowa on Saturday and Sunday. "It's important for women to know that Hillary doesn't just talk a good game when it comes to standing up for women, she has the record to prove it. I know firsthand, because she hired me knowing that I was pregnant with twins," said Muscatine. "Later, I found out that Hillary had insisted that the White House pick the best candidate - pregnant with twins or not. '˜If we can't make it work for women in the White House,' she told her senior staff, '˜how can we expect employers anywhere else to make it work for women who are pregnant or have children at home?' Hillary made sure it worked for me."
  