
    The President today announced the selection of six prominent public sector representatives to serve as members of the anti-inflation program's Price Advisory Committee.
The President announced on September 28 that an advisory panel would be named in order to broaden public participation in the design and implementation of the voluntary price standard. Panel membership was enlarged from five to six to ensure greater public input.
A Pay Advisory Committee, with six representatives each from the business, labor, and public sectors, was named on October 16. That panel, which is chaired by Harvard University economist John T. Dunlop, has been meeting regularly to discuss possible changes in the voluntary pay standard.
The Price Committee will advise the Council on Wage and Price Stability on the development of policies to encourage anti-inflationary price behavior. The policies are intended to slow the rate of inflation and assure equitable distribution of the burden of restraint. The Committee may recommend modifications of the price standard, new or revised interpretations of the standard, or make any other recommendations on the standards that it considers necessary to assure fairness and equity.
The Committee's first meeting is scheduled for Thursday, December 13, , 1979, at 10 a.m. in Room 2008, New Executive Office Building. The Chairman will be announced at the first meeting.
The following persons will serve as members of the Price Advisory Committee:
ROBERT ATWOOD, a partner in the international accounting firm of Deloitte Haskins & Sells. He is currently director of the firm's national affairs office in Washington.
BARBARA BERGMANN, professor of economics at the University of Maryland.
CAROL SCHWARTZ GREENWALD, visiting associate professor of business administration at Harvard Business School and former commissioner of banks of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
STANLEY RUTTENBERG, president of the consulting firm of Ruttenberg, Friedman, Kilgallon, Gutchess & Associates and former Assistant Secretary of Labor.
JOHN SHEAHAN, professor of economics at Williams College and author of "Wage-Price Guidepost."
ALBERT T. SOMMERS, chairman, senior vice president and chief economist of the Conference Board.
  