
    "Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz called the infrastructure bill 'one of the most important pieces of legislation' Congress has passed in the last several decades."
Yesterday, President Biden kicked off a nationwide tour to showcase how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will deliver concrete results that improve the lives of American families. His first stop was to Dakota County Technical College in Rosemount, Minnesota to underscore how the college and similar institutions are training the next generation of workers who will rebuild America.
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will invest $4.5 billion in Minnesota to repair roads and bridges, expand affordable high-speed internet access, replace lead pipes to deliver clean water, and more. The law is a blue-collar blueprint for America that will create good-paying, union jobs.
See excerpts from the articles below:
The Star Tribune: Biden makes first Minnesota stop as president to highlight infrastructure law[Hunter Woodall and Brianna Bierschbach, 11/30/21]
"Prior to the president's remarks, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz called the infrastructure bill 'one of the most important pieces of legislation' Congress has passed in the last several decades.
"Former Democratic New Orleans mayor Mitch Landrieu, recently picked by Biden as senior advisor and infrastructure coordinator, said in a phone interview that Minnesota has '661 bridges and over 4,000 plus miles of highway in poor condition and some of the funding that's coming down to you guys should be coming down sooner rather than later.'
"[Congresswoman] Craig said she is honored to welcome Biden to her district, adding that the event 'demonstrates that we're working tirelessly to make good on our promises, and that we're committed to working on a bipartisan basis to get it done.'
"'A little over one year ago, Minnesotans voted for President Biden in the hope he could break through the partisan nonsense in D.C. and get things done. Despite being in office for less than a year, President Biden has already delivered for Minnesotans everywhere,' DFL Party Chairman Ken Martin said ahead of Biden's visit."
Minnesota Reformer: Infrastructure law is 'blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America' Biden says in Minnesota[Ricardo Lopez, 11/30/21]
"Biden toured the college and spoke with students who are training for jobs that could be created by the infrastructure package. He said the law he signed on Nov. 15 will help fund much-needed repairs to roads and bridges, noting the 2007 Interstate 35W bridge collapse in Minneapolis. 'We're going to rebuild this economy from the bottom up,' Biden said. 'I'm tired of this trickle-down economy. I'm tired of it. This is a blue collar blueprint to rebuild America.'"
KARE 11 (NBC Minneapolis): 'We have to build a foundation for success': President Joe Biden visits Minnesota to discuss Infrastructure Law[Samantha Fischer, 11/30/21]
"'It would not be possible without the Minnesota Congressional congregation,' Biden said. He went on to thank Klobuchar for knowing how to 'work across the aisle and make progress.
Here's what this is all about: rebuilding America — investing in America — and we're doing it as we continue to battle the pandemic,' Biden said."
Minnesota Public Radio News: Infrastructure czar talks funding for MN as Biden visits Rosemount[Cathy Wurzer, 11/30/21]
"Mitch Landrieu, a former mayor of New Orleans, was tapped by Biden to oversee the implementation of the infrastructure law. He told host Cathy Wurzer about the billions Minnesota can expect as part of the package. That includes $4.5 billion for highways, $800 million for public transportation, and hundreds of millions more for bridges, broadband internet, electric vehicle support and clean water. Considerations of climate and equity will be foundational to the way the money will be spent, Landrieu said."
CNN: Biden sells infrastructure law in Minnesota[Kate Sullivan and Maegan Vazquez, 11/30/21]
"The President first visited a two-year community college in Rosemount, Minnesota, called Dakota County Technical College, to make the case for his infrastructure law, which he has stressed will create jobs that will not require a four-year college degree. He specifically highlighted how the law will fund the state's lead pipe replacements, improve broadband access for Minnesotans, and improve the state's roads and bridges. 'This law makes significant investments in our roads and bridges — the largest investment in nearly 70 years. ... So many of the 661 bridges, nearly 5,000 miles of highway here in Minnesota, just Minnesota, that are in poor condition,' Biden said. 'Those decaying roads cost Minnesota drivers and extra $543 in gas, repairs and longer commute times. Every family.'"
  