
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, columnist and national security expert Andrew C. McCarthy endorsed Ted Cruz for President, saying Cruz "understands that the most immediate enemy the United States confronts on the world stage is Islamic supremacism." McCarthy, a former assistant U.S. attorney who led the 1995 terrorism prosecution against Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, said only one candidate "can be depended on to face down Washington" and "[t]hat candidate is Senator Ted Cruz."
"Reinvigorating American principles will require taming Washington. It calls for restoring the Constitution as a vital limit on government, not a relic...or an obstacle," McCarthy wrote in a recent column. "Ted Cruz gets this. Many Republicans talk the talk — we hear it in every election season, right up until it is time to stop campaigning and start governing. Senator Cruz walks the walk. That is why I believe he should be the next president of the United States.
"Cruz understands that the most immediate enemy the United States confronts on the world stage is Islamic supremacism, which ignites jihadist violence through its state sponsors, terror networks, and activist organizations. The senator has not just fought against President Obama's disastrous Iran deal, which enriches the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism while making it a threshold nuclear power. Cruz has concurrently pushed for the designation, at long last, of the Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist organization."
McCarthy defended Cruz against recent attacks from others who have questioned Cruz's positions on national security.
"Speaking of imaginations run wild, noticeably absent from [Max] Boot's critique of Cruz is the word 'Libya.' That, you may recall, is where Senator Rubio and other Beltway Republicans decided it would be a fabulous idea to collude with President Obama and then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to help Islamic supremacists oust the regime of Moammar Qaddafi. Up until the moment Washington switched sides, Qaddafi had been supported by the Bush administration, the Obama administration, and the bipartisan Beltway clerisy as a critical American counterterrorism ally."
He continued: "Today, Libya is a failed state: a jihadist sanctuary where Americans have been murdered, where Western nations and institutions have fled after repeated attacks, and where, in Sirte, the Islamic State now controls a 'colony' just 400 miles from Italy.
"When Ted Cruz says 'the enemy of my enemy is not necessarily my friend,' he is saying we should resist in Syria a repetition of the Libya debacle, which begins with resisting the temptation — in Washington, the obsession — to presume that the Middle East teems with secular democrats."
He finished, "The office of the president is mandated to uphold our Constitution, pursue our interests, and protect our homeland. Ted Cruz's extraordinary gifts give me confidence that he will execute these solemn duties faithfully and effectively. I am proud to support him."
  