
    SACRAMENTO, CA – Mike Bloomberg 2020 announced today that Chris Masami Myers will join the campaign as California State Director. Chris joins the team after serving as Executive Director of the California Democratic Party, a position he's held since December 2018. He was previously Executive Director of the California Democratic Party from 2015-2017, overseeing the 2016 presidential primary, and has also worked as Research Director and Managing Director of the state Party. In July of 2017, Chris was appointed by Governor Jerry Brown as Chief Deputy Director of the California Workplace Development Board.
"There is simply no one in California today who can rival Chris' knowledge of our state's politics and nominating process. We are incredibly lucky to have Chris lead our efforts in California, where one in nine national delegates are up for grabs on Super Tuesday," said Kyle Layman, California Senior Advisor for Mike Bloomberg 2020. "We are building the strongest state operation in California primary history, and I'm proud to welcome him to our team."
Mike Bloomberg 2020 has hired now more than 200 initial hires in more than 20 states across the country with more to come. In California, the state with the most delegates, the campaign has already hired more than two dozen staffers, less than four weeks from the campaign's launch. These staffers are deployed across the Golden State, and the campaign will further expand its footprint in California in the months ahead of Super Tuesday.
"I am incredibly proud of the work we have done to build a more inclusive and robust California Democratic Party – and I know that the foundation we laid will serve California Democrats for years to come," said Chris Masami Myers. "Despite California's diversity and its impact on our national conversation, past presidential campaigns have taken us for granted. Mike is the candidate that Democrats need to beat Donald Trump in November, and I'm proud to join a campaign that reflects our values and that will take Mike Bloomberg's message to every corner of California."
  