
    For Immediate Release:
Monday, December 14, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Today, former New Hampshire VFW State Commander, Vietnam War veteran, and U.S. Marine Corps veteran Sergeant Major Paul Chevalier (ret.) announced his endorsement of Governor Chris Christie for President.
"Governor Christie is the commander-in-chief America needs in the war against terrorism," said Chevalier, who served as the New Hampshire chair of Veterans for McCain in 2000 and 2008. "As US Attorney in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks, Chris Christie worked with the Department of Justice and Department of Homeland Security to review terrorist surveillance, monitor threats against the homeland, and prosecute terrorists. After eight years of absent leadership in Washington, the world needs a strong, tough, and tested executive like Governor Christie to defend American values and restore our role as the leader of the free world."
"I'm honored to have the support of one our country's great heroes," said Governor Christie. "Sergeant Major Chevalier's record of public service and tireless work on behalf of our veterans is unparalleled. He is a tremendous leader and will be instrumental in our efforts as we continue to campaign across the country."
Sergeant Major Chevalier's active duty military career spanned the years of 1954 - 1985 and included three tours in Vietnam. Chevalier earned many decorations including Meritorious Service Medal, Navy-Marine Corps Commendation Medal with Combat V(2), Combat Action Ribbon, Vietnam Service Ribbon with 7 Bronze Stars, Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry, and Vietnam Campaign Ribbon. In 1976, he was promoted to Sergeant Major. At the time of his retirement, Chevalier was a Brigade Sergeant Major serving as Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Commanding General of the 2nd Marine Amphibious Force (FWD).
Chevalier also credited Governor Christie's record of standing up for veterans and his commitment to providing veterans with the benefits they earned through their service to our nation.
"Governor Christie saved the Vets4Warriors peer support hotline after Washington cut off funding," added Chevalier. "He worked with leaders of both parties to fund the program so that veterans throughout the country could call the veterans staffing the hotline in New Jersey to receive the support they need after years of dedicated military service."
The Vets4Warriors Peer Support Line is staffed entirely by veterans and allows veterans and active duty military personnel anywhere in the country to call and receive support from New Jersey veterans. Since its inception in December 2011, Vets4Warriors has made over 130,000 veteran contacts and has continuously employed over 40 New Jersey veterans.
Chevalier also praised Christie's leadership style, stating, "Governor Christie has proven that he is a leader who will always put politics aside to get the job done and do what is best for our veterans. He worked with leaders of both political parties, major employers, and trade unions to pass important jobs legislation so that veterans could be trained and hired after completing their service. We need his experience as a leader who can bring people together to tackle major problems like reforming the VA system."
Since his military retirement, Chevalier has been an active community leader in New Hampshire. A life member of Portsmouth Emerson Hovey VFW Post 168, he has served four times as Post Commander as well as VFW District 7 Commander, the State Commander of the New Hampshire VFW, and VFW State Legislative Chairman. Chevalier has also served as President of the Central Veterans Council of Portsmouth, a member of the Board of Directors of the NH Veterans Home, and member of the NH State Cemetery Council.
In May, Chevalier introduced Governor Christie before his remarks entitled "America's Leadership Role in the World" at Prescott Park in Portsmouth, NH. Chevalier has since attended several of Governor Christie's three dozen town hall meetings at VFW halls and taverns throughout the state.
View the full New Hampshire endorsement list here.
  