
    Memorandum for the Administrator of the Environmental Protection AgencySubject: Determination Under Section 110(f) of the Clean Air Act
Governor Atiyeh of the State of Oregon petitioned me on December 22, 1979, for a determination under Section 110 (f) of the Clean Air Act that a regional energy emergency exists in Oregon of such severity that a temporary suspension of the federally promulgated new source construction and permitting prohibition under Section 110 and Part D of the Clean Air Act and appropriate provisions of Oregon's State Implementation Plan is necessary to help alleviate potentially high levels of unemployment caused by possible curtailments of electricity supply to the region. After considering the information and views provided to me by Governor Atiyeh, the Secretary of the Department of Energy, and the Administrator of EPA, I am hereby making the requested determination, subject to the conditions listed below:
(1) This determination applies only to the Harborton facility discussed in the Governor's petition.
(2) This determination expires on February 7, 1980. I will rescind this determination before that date if the potential energy shortage is substantially eased in the interim.
(3) Oregon's Department of Environmental Quality will monitor the air quality impact of operating the Harborton facility and will require the termination of its operation if air quality levels approach the primary ambient air quality standards. In no case would this declaration permit excesses of the health related primary ambient air quality standards.
(4) The Governor calls for a statewide electricity conservation effort. The State will submit to EPA and DOE biweekly reports on electricity consumption levels in the State, including the effects of its electricity conservation program. This determination is made in full recognition of Oregon's excellent record in the area of energy conservation.
(5) The operation of the Harborton facility will not result in a reduction in the electric energy output of other fossil fuel fired generating facilities in the State of Oregon.
(6) PGE will make maximum practicable effort to purchase available electric power from other regional utilities. State regulatory authorities will seek to remove regulatory impediments to power purchase by PRE and allow timely recovery of prudently incurred purchased power costs.
This determination shall be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:56 a.m., December 31, 1979]
  