
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual and his intention to appoint twenty-three individuals to serve in his administration.
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual and his intention to appoint twenty-three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate James R. Mahoney to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere. Mahoney is an Environmental Management Consultant, and from 1991 to 1999, he was Senior Vice President of The IT Group, Inc., a domestic and international environmental business based in Washington D.C. and Los Angeles. Mahoney was Director of the National Acid Precipitation Assessment Program in the Executive Office of the President from 1988 to 1991. He was General Manager of the Environmental Industries Group of The Bechtel Group in San Francisco, and he was Co-founder and Senior Vice President of Environmental Research and Technology, Inc. in Concord, Massachusetts. Mahoney received an undergraduate degree from LeMoyne College and a Ph.D. in Meteorology from Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to appoint the following twenty-three individuals to serve as members of the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities. First Lady Laura Bush is the honorary chair of the Committee.
Adair Wakefield Margo of Texas who, upon appointment, will serve as Chair
Rebecca Smith Beach of Iowa
Deborrah Kaye Allen of California
William Edward Strickland of Pennsylvania
Jeannette Naylor Cope of Washington, D.C.
Phillip Roman of California
Alice Clement Carrington of Texas
Dixie Carter of Tennessee
Lionel Chetwynd of California
William Paul McCormick of Oregon
Emilio Estefan of Florida
James Farmer of Michigan
Jaime Fonalledas of Puerto Rico
Ralph Henry Kirshbaum of New York
John Mason of Nevada
Raymond D. Nasher of Texas
Emily Malino Scheuer of Washington, D.C.
Mercedes B. Paz-Slimp of California
Caren Prothro of Texas
Cindy Lynn Sites of Connecticut
Elizabeth Myerberg Dubin of Maryland
Laurie Ann Green Firestone of California
Roxane Gatling Gilmore of Virginia
Ralph McInerny of Indiana
Burton John McMurtry of California
Henry Moran was appointed by President Bush to serve as the Committee's Executive Director. Before joining the Committee, Moran was Executive Director of the Mid-American Arts Alliance where he served for over 20 years, as well as Executive Producer for MA Productions. Moran has chaired or served on eleven different National Endowment for the Arts advisory panels under six Presidential administrations. He is a graduate of the Chicago Art Institute's Goodman School of Drama and holds an MBA in corporate strategic planning.
  