
    The Clinton campaign today announced its Washington Steering Committee, made up of community leaders from across the state who will mobilize grassroots support for Hillary leading up to Washington's February 9th caucus.
"No one is better prepared to end the war in Iraq, move us towards energy independence and provide universal health care than Hillary Clinton," said King County Executive and Washington Co-Chair Ron Sims.
"Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to bring about the real change this country needs said," said former Washington Governor and State Co-Chair Gary Locke.
"We can't choose our President by looking in the rearview mirror. Hillary is the only candidate with the ability to bring the kind of change we need to our national energy policy and immediately begin repairing America's standing in the world the first day she is in office," said Congressman and Washington Co-Chair Jay Inslee.
The campaign has named legislative district directors in each of Washington's 49 legislative districts, who are actively building a volunteer network to support Hillary in the state's upcoming caucuses.
"I'm honored to have such strong support in Washington," Clinton said. "With the help of these community leaders, we'll bring our message of change across the state."
HILLARY'S WASHINGTON STEERING COMMITTEE INCLUDES:

Co-Chair, Congressman Jay Inslee
Co-Chair Gary Locke, Former Governor of Washington
Co-Chair Ron Sims, King County Executive
Cathy Allen, Democratic Activist, Seattle
Stan and Alta Barer, Community Leaders, Seattle
Nancy Biery, Consultant, Seattle
Brian Bonlender, Chief of Staff, Rep. Jay Inslee, Yakima
Maura Breuger, Democratic Activist, Bainbridge Island
Larry Brown, Legislative and Political Director, IAM 751, Seattle
Katherine Cheng, Community Activist, Seattle
Martha Choe, Former Seattle City Councilmember
Rick Desimone, Former Chief of Staff, Senator Patty Murray, Tacoma
Pam Eakes, Founder, Mothers Against Violence in America, Mercer Island
Jeff Gombosky, former Spokane State Representative, and Melissa Gombosky
Jim Kainber, Former Executive Director, Washington Democratic Party, Olympia
Joe King, Former Speaker of the House, Vancouver
Sharmila Kotelawala, District Director, Rep. Jay Inslee, Mountlake Terrace
Laurie McDonald Jonsson, Business Leader
Lorrie McKay, Community Activist, Seattle
Linda Mitchell, President, National Women's Political Caucus of Washington, Seattle
Aaron Reardon, Snohomish County Executive, Everett
George Scarola, Legislative Policy Director, League of Education Voters, Seattle
Delee Shoemaker, Former Senior Staff, Gov. Locke, Seattle
Sandra Schroeder, President, American Federation of Teachers-Washington, Tukwila
Christian Sinderman, Democratic Activist, Seattle
Whitney Williams, Democratic Activist, Seattle
Grace Yuan, Attorney, Seattle

  