
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Kevin Wolf, Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Export Administration), Department of Commerce
•      Timothy McGee, Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Observation and Prediction), Department of Commerce
•      Theodore W. Tozer, President, Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development
President Obama said, "It gives me great confidence that such dedicated and skilled individuals have decided to join my administration as we work to address the many challenges American families are facing. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced today his intent to nominate the following individuals:
Kevin Wolf, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Export Administration), Department of Commerce
Kevin Wolf is a partner in the Washington, D.C. office of Bryan Cave LLP. Since joining the firm in 1993, his practice has covered most aspects of the law and policy of international trade, but has focused on the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), the antiboycott regulations, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and multilateral trade controls. He is active in various export control and sanctions committees and a regular speaker at international trade and corporate compliance conferences. From 1996-1997, he was the Assistant Special Counsel to the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. He has B.A. degrees from the University of Missouri-Columbia, an M.A. from the University of Minnesota's Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs, and a J.D. from the University of Minnesota Law School.
Timothy McGee, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Observation and Prediction), Department of Commerce
Rear Admiral Timothy McGee retired from the U.S. Navy last year after thirty years of service, most recently as Commander of the Naval Meteorology and Oceanography Command (CNMOC) in Stennis, Mississippi. As CNMOC, he successfully addressed management and personnel challenges in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Admiral McGee has also served as Chief of Staff for the Director of Operations and Infrastructure at the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, Assistant Chief of Naval Research, Associate Director of Operations at the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy, and Commanding Officer of the Naval Oceanographic Office. He has been awarded the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit Medal, the Bronze Star, the Defense Meritorious Service Medal and the Meritorious Service Medal. In addition, he was presented with the Naval Postgraduate School Distinguished Alumni Award in May 2006. Admiral McGee graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1978 and earned a Master's degree in Meteorology and Oceanography (with a certification in Hydrographic Science) from the Naval Postgraduate School in 1986.
Theodore W. Tozer, Nominee for President, Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development
Ted Tozer has been the Senior Vice President of Capital Markets at National City Mortgage, now a part of The PNC Financial Services Group, since 1989. His responsibilities have included pricing, hedging, loan delivery, loan sales, and new product design. Previously, he served in various roles at BancOhio Mortage Company and BancOhio National Bank. Mr. Tozer has also served as chairman of the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) of America Secondary and Capital Markets committee from 2002 – 2004. During his time as Chairman, he also served on the MBA Residential Board of Governors and worked with the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) in the overhaul of the GNMA II program. He served on the Board of Directors of the Ohio Mortgage Bankers Association from 1999 – 2001. He is a graduate of Indiana University with a B.A. in Accounting and Finance.
  