
    THE President of the United States of America, Richard Nixon, and the President of the Council of State of the Socialist Republic of Romania, Nicolae Ceausescu.
--having met in a cordial, constructive and friendly atmosphere, which provided the opportunity for a useful and comprehensive exchange of views,
--having discussed United States-Romanian relations, the principles underlying those relations, and the principal international problems of current concern in a spirit of full and mutual respect reflecting the interests of the American and Romanian peoples in closer contacts,
agreed on the following statement.
They expressed the conviction that all nations, whatever their size, political, economic or social systems or level of development, should contribute to a durable world peace, founded on freedom, equality, justice and respect for human rights.
The two Presidents noted with satisfaction the favorable development of relations and the good results achieved following President Nixon's state visit to Romania in 1969 and his subsequent meeting with President Nicolae Ceausescu in Washington in 1970. They agreed on the desirability of expanding and further developing relations between their two countries on a solid and lasting basis for the mutual benefit of the American and Romanian peoples.
I
The two Presidents solemnly reaffirmed that the bilateral relations between the United States of America and the Socialist Republic of Romania are founded on the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, and, consistent with these, especially on the following closely interrelated principles:
the right of each state to existence, independence, and sovereignty;
the juridical equality of all states irrespective of their size, level of development, and political, economic and social systems;
the right of each state freely to choose and develop its political, social, economic, and cultural systems;
refraining from the threat or use of force in violation of the United Nations Charter, respect for territorial integrity, and inviolability of frontiers;
non-intervention, direct or indirect, for any reason whatever, in the internal affairs of any other state;
the duty of states to settle their international disputes by peaceful means;
cooperation in various fields of international relations in order to promote international peace and security and economic and social progress.
II
The two Presidents expressed their determination to develop the relations of the two countries in a spirit of esteem, respect and mutual advantage. They agreed to take measures as appropriate to encourage the expansion of trade as well as industrial, scientific and technical cooperation, in particular, such forms of collaboration as joint ventures and joint research between enterprises and institutions of the two countries. They also agreed to take appropriate measures to develop friendly relations between the two peoples, by creating conditions for better mutual knowledge of their spiritual and material values, by expanding and deepening contacts and exchanges in such fields as science, technology, culture, arts, education, information, and tourism by relations between institutions, organizations, associations, and enterprises, as well as by contacts between the citizens of the two countries. They will contribute to the solution of humanitarian problems on the basis of mutual confidence and good will.
III
The two Presidents expressed their determination to act for the strengthening of the role of the United Nations in the maintenance and consolidation of international peace, the development of cooperation among all nations, and the promotion of the norms of international law in relations among states.
They stressed the importance of achieving effective measures of disarmament conducive to the strengthening of international peace and security.
They agreed to continue their support for the achievement of security and cooperation in Europe, noting that the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the negotiations on Mutual Reduction of Forces and Armaments and Associated Measures in Central Europe should contribute to this end. They agreed that the process of building European security would produce closer relations among the participants and make a positive contribution to world peace. They further agreed that the development of good neighborly relations among Balkan countries will contribute to cooperation, security, and relaxation of tensions in Europe.
Noting that international relations are in a period of intense change, the two Presidents welcomed the continuing progress toward relaxation of tensions and toward an era of negotiation rather than confrontation. They welcomed the new opportunities for increasing participation by all interested states in the resolution, by negotiation, of controversial problems for the further improvement of international relations.
They expressed their satisfaction with the agreement concerning the reestablishment of peace in Vietnam and their hope that it will be implemented to contribute to peace and stability in Indochina.
They expressed their concern with the recent outbreak of the conflict in the Middle East and emphasized the importance they attach to current efforts to achieve a just and lasting peace. They expressed themselves in favor of the settlement of the conflict by peaceful means in the spirit and on the basis of the Security Council Resolution of November 22, 1967. They stressed the need to proceed without delay to the negotiations called for by the Security Council Resolution of October 22, 1973 and to the convocation of the peace conference.
IV
The two Presidents expressed their conviction that the continued development of friendly relations between the United States of America and the Socialist Republic of Romania, based on equality, mutual respect and due consideration for their respective interests, serves the cause of international peace and cooperation.
Stressing the value of personal contacts, they reaffirmed their commitment to deepen and expand relations between the two countries by consultations at various levels as well as through normal diplomatic channels.
Washington, December 5, 1973
RICHARD NIXON,
President of the United States of America
NICOLAE CEAUSESCU,
President of the Council of State of the Socialist Republic of Romania
  