
    PRESIDENT and Mrs. Gerald Ford of the United States of America visited the Republic of Indonesia from December 5 to December 6, 1975, at the invitation of President Suharto. Accompanying the President and Mrs. Ford were Miss Susan Ford and Secretary of State Kissinger. The visit followed upon the informal July 1975 visit of President and Mrs. Suharto to the United States where they were entertained at Camp David by President and Mrs. Ford.
President and Mrs. Ford were the guests of honor at a State dinner given by President and Mrs. Suharto on December 5.
President Ford and President Suharto met on December 6 for a cordial and frank exchange of views on international, regional and bilateral issues of interest to the two governments. Secretary of State Kissinger, Foreign Minister Malik and Minister/Secretary of State Sudharmono participated in the meeting.
During this exchange of views President Ford expressed the intention of the United States to continue to provide substantial aid to Indonesia in support of Indonesia's development efforts.
Reflecting the many areas of interest shared by the two countries in Southeast Asia and elsewhere, President Ford and President Suharto agreed to an expanded dialogue between the two governments through periodic consultations at the ministerial level. Such consultations will be held as required, alternating between Washington and Djakarta at the level of the Foreign Minister of Indonesia and the Secretary of State of the United States with the host presiding over meetings.
Further consultations on specific issues as agreed by the two Foreign Ministers will be held between Ministers and other senior officials of the two governments. The process will be inaugurated with a meeting between Foreign Minister Malik and Secretary Kissinger in Washington in spring of 1976.
The two Presidents concluded that their meeting and their decision to establish an expanded dialogue at the ministerial level marked an important further step in developing increasingly close and friendly ties between the Governments and peoples of Indonesia and the United States.
President and Mrs. Ford and the members of the American party expressed their deep appreciation for the gracious hospitality shown them by President and Mrs. Suharto and by the Government and people of Indonesia.
Djakarta, December 6, 1975.
  