
    The President today announced his intention to appoint/designate the following individuals to serve on a 15-member bipartisan National Commission on Social Security Reform. Alan Greenspan will serve as Chairman.
Establishment of the Commission fulfills a pledge made by the President in September to create a bipartisan task force to work with the President and Congress to reach two specific goals:
—To propose realistic, long-term reforms to put social security back on a sound financial footing, and
—To forge a working, bipartisan consensus so that the necessary reforms can be passed into law.
Robert A. Beck, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Prudential Insurance Co. of America, Newark, N.J. He is a member of the President's Export Council.
Mary Falvey Fuller, vice president, finance, Shaklee Corp., San Francisco, Calif. Previously she was senior vice president and director, Blyth Eastman Dillon & Co., Inc., New York, N.Y.
Alan Greenspan chairman and president, Townsend-Greenspan and Go., Inc., New York, N.Y. He is a member of the President's Economic Policy Advisory Board.
Alexander B. Trowbridge, president, National Association of Manufacturers, Washington, D.C. He is a member of the President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives.
Joe D. Waggonner, Jr., consultant, Bossier Bank & Trust Co., Plain Dealing, La. He represented the Fourth Congressional District of Louisiana during the 87th to 95th Congresses.
Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker, in consultation with Senate Minority Leader Robert Byrd, selected the following individuals to serve on the Commission:
William Armstrong, United States Senate (R-Colo.), chairman of the Subcommittee on Social Security of the Senate Finance Committee.
Robert Dole, United States Senate (R-Kans.), chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.
John Heinz, United States Senate (R-Pa.), chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging.
Lane Kirkland, president of the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations.
Daniel Patrick Moynihan, United States Senate (D-N.Y.), ranking minority member of the Subcommittee on Social Security of the Senate Finance Committee.
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, in consultation with House Minority Leader Robert Michel, selected the following individuals to serve on the Commission:
William Archer, United States House of Representatives (R-Tex.), ranking minority member of the Subcommittee on Social Security, House Ways and Means Committee.
Robert M. Ball, was Commissioner of Social Security in 1962-73. He is senior scholar, Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Sciences.
Barber Conable, United States House of Representatives (R-N.Y.), ranking minority member, House Ways and Means Committee.
Martha E. Kegs, former Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services. She served in the 94th and 95th Congresses.
Claude D. Pepper, United States House of Representatives (D-Fla.), chairman, House Select Committee on Aging.
  