
    CONFORMING THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY AND CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT
AND DISABILITY SYSTEMS
By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 292 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (90 Stat. 2472; 50 U.S.C. 403 note), and as President of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Director of Central Intelligence, hereafter referred to as the Director, shall maintain the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System and the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund, hereafter referred to as the Fund, in accordance with the following principles:
(a) None of the moneys mentioned in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended (78 Stat. 1043, as amended; 50 U.S.C. 403 note), shall be assignable, either in law or equity, except under the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, or subject to execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process, except as otherwise may be provided by Federal laws.
(b) An individual entitled to an annuity from the Fund may make allotments or assignments of amounts of such annuity for such purposes as the Director in his sole discretion considers appropriate.
(c) No payment shall be made from the Fund unless an application for benefits based on the service of the participant is received by the Director before the one hundred and fifteenth anniversary of the participant's birth.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (c) of this Section, after the death of a participant or annuitant, no benefit based on the service of such person shall be paid from the Fund unless an application therefor is received by the Director within 30 years after the death or other event which gives rise to title to benefit.
(e) Sums deducted from salaries pursuant to Section 273 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (78 Stat. 1053; 50 U.S.C. 403 note) shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Fund.
SEC. 2. The provisions of this Order are effective as follows:
(a) The provisions of Sections l(a) and 1 (b) are effective as of December 23, 1975.
(b) The provisions of Sections l(c) and 1 (d) are effective as of December 31, 1975.
(c) The provisions of Section 1 (e) are effective as of October 1, 1976 and shall apply to annuitants serving in appointed positions on and after that date.
SEC. 3. The Director of Central Intelligence is authorized to prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this Order.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
December 1, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:52 a.m., December 2, 1977]
  