
    New Hampshire State Rep. Garrett Muscatel is 101st New Hampshire Endorsement for Booker
Manchester, NH — New Hampshire State Representative Garrett Muscatel (Hanover) -- the youngest openly LGBTQ state legislator in the country -- today announced he is endorsing Cory Booker for president. Earlier this week, Booker announced that he's earned 100 endorsements from Granite State leaders -- more than any other 2020 candidate.
"Cory Booker is an inspiring, experienced candidate and is uniquely capable of both energizing young voters we need to win this election and getting results as president," said State Rep. Garrett Muscatel. "I've had the chance to get to know Cory as he's campaigned in our state, and it's clear he deeply understands issues affecting my generation. From LGBTQ rights to voting rights to climate change, Cory offers not just bold policy prescriptions but a track record of building diverse coalitions to make change. I'm proud to endorse Cory for president because he is the right leader at this decisive moment that will determine what our country looks like for decades to come."
Muscatel, 20, was elected in 2018 and represents Grafton County District 12. He is the youngest openly LGBTQ person ever elected to office in the United States. Muscatel is a senior at Dartmouth College and one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit challenging SB3, legislation that makes voting more difficult for college students, veterans and others.
Booker has a long history of advocacy for voting rights, and in April he proposed a comprehensive new Voting Rights Act. The plan would end partisan gerrymandering, implement universal voter registration, and make Election Day a national holiday, among other changes.
Further, Booker's long record of standing up for LGBTQ Americans includes being the first candidate to call attention to the murders of black transgender women on the debate stage and refusing to officiate any wedding as mayor of Newark until all couples could legally wed.
In addition to Muscatel, Booker has earned the backing of three state senators, 17 additional state representatives, the state's longest-serving mayor, and dozens of key activists across New Hampshire. Last month, New Hampshire State Representative Gerri Cannon (Somersworth) -- one of the first openly transgender state legislators in the Granite State and one of just four nationwide -- endorsed Booker.
  