
    To: Interested Parties
From: Mark Daley
Date: December 6, 2007
Re: Iowans for Hillary Campaign "By the Numbers" November Update
Iowans for Hillary demonstrated the growing strength and depth of its organization throughout the month of November. The month began with Senator Clinton "turning up the heat" at the Jefferson Jackson Dinner in Des Moines and continued with two strong debate performances. The "Caucusing is Easy" video showed Iowans how easy it will be to stand up for Hillary, and one of the video's stars, President Clinton, traveled the state to make the case for Hillary. Take a look at Iowans for Hillary's November "numbers":


  Iowans for Hillary "By the Numbers" November Update


36 billion: Gallons of corn ethanol, cellulosic ethanol, biodiesel and other biofuels that would be produced under Hillary Clinton's energy plan by the year 2022.
700 million: Dollars that would be allocated to autism research under Hillary Clinton's plan to fight the condition.
15 million: Americans that would be left uninsured by Barack Obama's health care plan.
5 Million: Green-collar jobs that would be created under Hillary's proposed energy plan.
193,000: College students who would receive a new $3,500 tax credit under Hillary's plan to make college more affordable.
150,896: Friends of Hillary Clinton on MySpace.
100,000: Iowans that would be left uninsured by Barack Obama's health care plan.
6,000: Noisemakers distributed to Hillary Clinton supporters at the Jefferson-Jackson Dinner in Des Moines.
865: Parking spaces reserved for supporters of Hillary Clinton at the Jefferson-Jackson Dinner in Des Moines.
532: Iowa veterans who have joined Veterans for Hillary.
250: Members of Team Hillary, Hillary for President's Women's Leadership Council.
243: People who attended the "Caucusing is Easy" movie premiere and MSNBC debate watch party.
150: Pounds of turkey consumed by Iowans for Hillary staff on Thanksgiving.
128: Events attended by surrogates on behalf of Iowans for Hillary during November.
79: Hillary supporters appearing in "Caucusing is Easy" video.
33: Surrogates who visited Iowa on behalf of Senator Clinton.
19: Endorsements from Iowa legislators including Iowa State Senator Rob Hogg, State Representative Todd Taylor and State Representative Beth Wessel-Kroeschell – more than any other candidate.
10: New Iowans for Hillary field offices opened in Iowa.
0530: Time that Clinton campaign staffers started blanketing Veterans Memorial Auditorium with Hillary for President signs for the Jefferson-Jackson Dinner.
6: Large boxes full of food donated to Iowa homeless shelters for Thanksgiving.
4: "Organizing for Change" events with President Bill Clinton in Iowa.
1: Number of buddies you should recruit to caucus with you for Hillary Clinton.
0: Americans not covered by Hillary Clinton's health care plan.

  