
    Four-term Mayor Highlights Booker's Strong Record as Mayor of Newark and Commitment to Local Government
Columbia, SC — Mayor Terence Roberts of Anderson, SC, today endorsed Cory Booker for president. Roberts, who has been mayor since 2006, highlighted Booker's strong record as the former mayor of Newark, NJ and his commitment to supporting strong Democratic leaders in local government.
"The experience Cory brings to the table — from his years of work helping the people of New Jersey's largest city as mayor to his relentless drive to improve the lives of all Americans as senator — make him the strongest candidate in this race," said Mayor Terence Roberts. "As a mayor of one of South Carolina's growing cities, I know the importance of having someone with mayoral experience as our Commander-in-Chief. The battles we fight on a local level, the challenges mayors take on every day, give us an understanding of the needs of our communities that other elected officials don't often have. As president, Cory will help grow our Democratic Party, work to invest in cities like Anderson, and help local leaders tackle issues we are facing on the ground here in South Carolina. I'm proud to endorse him in this race and urge others to join him in this fight."
Roberts was first elected mayor in 2006 and has since served four consecutive terms as the mayor of Anderson. Under Roberts' leadership, Anderson has grown and expanded, as more businesses — local and national — have invested in its growing community.
In addition to Roberts, Booker has 43 other endorsements across South Carolina, including fellow Mayors Terrence Culbreath of Johnston; Gregrey Ginyard of Jenkinsville; Samuel E. Murray of Port Royal; Julie Nelson of Manning; and Harold Thompson of Union.
Booker has spent more time in the Palmetto State than any other current presidential candidate; visiting the state 14 times and holding nearly 60 public events in the state. Mary Geren, an Anderson resident and former congressional candidate, joined the Booker campaign as a regional organizing director in March. Last month, Booker's South Carolina campaign announced that more than a hundred women community leaders have endorsed Booker as part of their "Women for Cory" rollout.
  