
    MANCHESTER, N.H. – Executive Councilor Andru Volinsky of New Hampshire's 2nd District — the highest-ranking elected state Democratic leader and a progressive beacon in New Hampshire politics — is endorsing Sen. Bernie Sanders for president. Volinksy will share the announcement with voters today at a town hall in Lebanon alongside Senator Sanders, part of Sanders' three-day End Corporate Greed Tour in New Hampshire.
Like Sen. Sanders, Volinsky has demonstrated a lifelong commitment to public service and defending against injustice — from fighting to save the pensions of New Hampshire's public sector union workers to returning over $100 million in overpaid healthcare premiums back to New Hampshire's cities and towns. Volinsky has proven to be a consistent advocate for New Hampshire's schools and property taxpayers for decades, having led the Claremont School Suit legal team that overturned the unfair way that New Hampshire funds its schools. As an attorney, Volinsky has represented victims of workplace discrimination and people injured by big corporations, and has defended against the death penalty throughout the South and before the US Supreme Court.
"The people of New Hampshire, and across our nation, deserve a president who will put working families first. We need a president who will stand with the people as we face the major issues of our time, from confronting climate change with the Green New Deal to making sure no family is left behind by leading on Medicare for All," said Executive Councilor Andru Volinsky. "I believe this election requires a movement; a powerful culmination of honest conversations between people that unite our shared values in the face of overwhelming division stoked by Donald Trump, Chris Sununu, and their acolytes. That is why I am proud to endorse Bernie Sanders for president, because Bernie stands with the people. He knows this election is not about him. It's about all of us."
Volinsky is currently a Democratic candidate for governor in New Hampshire, focusing his campaign on education, climate action, healthcare reform, and addressing income inequality.
  