
    Colorado, Maine, Minnesota, North Dakota and Washington open doors for debate watch parties
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today the public grand openings of five new state operations headquarters, each of which will be open to supporters the evening of Thursday, December 15th for variety of activities including a debate watching party.
Official Ron Paul state operations headquarters in Colorado, Maine, Minnesota, North Dakota and Washington will open their doors to Ron Paul supporters for activities ranging from volunteer recruitment and training, campaign materials distribution, special guest appearances, and refreshments. All will take place amid a family-friendly atmosphere and all will feature a debate watching party.
The Republican debate airs at 9:00 p.m. EST on the Fox News Channel. The event is sponsored by Fox News and the Republican Party of Iowa, and will occur at the Sioux City Convention Center in Sioux City, Iowa. As such, Dr. Paul will be unable to attend these grand opening celebrations.
Colorado
The Colorado operation will hold its event at 6:00 p.m. MST at the Ron Paul Colorado headquarters, located at 2955 Ulster Street #101, Denver, CO 80238. Colorado staff will begin the evening at 6:00 p.m. with a social hour from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m., followed by a debate viewing on a large projection screen from 7:00 p.m. until 9:00 p.m. Staff will raffle off official Ron Paul 2012 merchandise during the commercial breaks, with the grand prize a Ron Paul autographed copy of his book Liberty Defined. All are eligible to enter for prize drawings just by attending. Food from Denver's own Steve's Snappin' Dogs, which is often voted best hot dogs in Denver, will also be provided.
"Ron Paul's rising poll numbers and solid fundraising have allowed us to extend our operations to Colorado. Our team has concluded that we're well positioned to make a tremendous impact here because of our uniquely motivated Colorado supporters who have shown that they are willing to climb the highest mountains to deliver the state to Dr. Paul," said Colorado State Director Matt Holdridge.
Maine
The Maine operation will hold its event at 7:00 p.m. EST at the Ron Paul Maine headquarters, located at 190 US Route 1, Falmouth, ME 04105. Maine staff will speak briefly, direct volunteer sign-up and orientation, and hand out campaign materials such as buttons, signs, literature and the like. Music, refreshments and finger-foods also will be provided. Supporters who recruit the most volunteers, and the region that is best represented, will receive a prize.
"We're pleased to work with supporters who succeeded in causing part of Ron Paul's vision for a more prosperous America — namely, his call to audit the Federal Reserve — to be featured in the state Republican platform. We're already discovering that many Maine voters appreciate Dr. Paul's message of liberty. We feel that as Maine goes, so will the nation, hopefully in the direction of peace, prosperity and freedom as our candidate alone champions," said Maine Deputy State Director Ryan Flowers.
To RSVP for the Maine grand open, click here or call 207-274-0099.
Minnesota
The Minnesota operation will hold its event at 6:30 p.m. CST at the Ron Paul Minnesota headquarters, located at 11000 Cedar Lake Road, Minnetonka MN 55305. Campaign staff will get to know their fellow supporters better and discuss local precinct strategy, and they will distribute campaign materials such as literature and lawn signs. During debate time, staff will serve pizza and soft drinks.
"Minnesota's Ron Paul 2012 campaign welcomes new and old faces to visit our local headquarters, get to know the staff, pick up campaign materials, and enjoy some camaraderie as we share pizza from American Pie and watch the GOP presidential debate televised from Iowa," said Marianne Stebbins, Minnesota Campaign Chair.
Recently, Ron Paul attracted more than 3,000 Minnesota supporters at a campaign rally held in St. Cloud.
North Dakota
The North Dakota operation will hold its event at 6:00 p.m. CST at the Ron Paul North Dakota headquarters,located at 500 N. 3rd Street, Bismarck, ND 58501. From 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. North Dakota staff will host a grand opening celebration and open house during which guests will be invited to sign up as volunteers. At 7:00 p.m., campaign staff will make a brief presentation and distribute campaign materials such as signs, literature, buttons and the like. Guests may then watch the televised Republican presidential debate while enjoying soft drinks, hors d'oeuvres, pizza, and cake.
"Ron Paul's recent rise in the polls firmly establishes him as a top GOP candidate and his campaign is now bringing a strong presence to the state of North Dakota. I am tremendously excited to open our office to the public and share with them Dr. Paul's lifelong fight for liberty and his positive vision for restoring America. Ron Paul is the only candidate who has expertise on the intricacies of our economic crisis and, over a 35-year track record, he has illustrated the moral character and wisdom sorely needed in the White House. As President, Dr. Paul will cut $1 trillion in his first year, balance the budget by his third year, and courageously exhibit the leadership necessary to bring about commonsense, limited government," said North Dakota State Director Jared Hendrix.
To RSVP, please call Mr. Hendrix directly at 701-516-7593.
Ron Paul recently visited Fargo, North Dakota to address a free-market policy forum.
Washington State
The Washington operation will hold its event at 4:00 p.m. PST at the Ron Paul Washington headquarters located at 13600 NE 20th Street, Bellevue, WA 98005. Washington State Rep. Cary Condotta (R-12) is slated to speak at 4:30 p.m. to endorse Ron Paul for the presidency.
Also that evening, Washington campaign staff will sign up supporters for volunteer and caucus training, distribute promotional materials, watch the GOP debate live, and involve volunteers in contacting voters. Soft drinks and appetizers will be served initially, and pizza will be ordered during the debate time.
"Washington is a state Ron Paul can most assuredly win. Dr. Paul's message strikes a chord with residents because they have watched not only the federal government, but also their local government, overspend for years as they now teeter on the edge of bankruptcy. Furthermore, residents value their civil liberties and support peace alongside a strong national defense. Many enthusiastic supporters have already stepped forward, but we're looking for many more to help us assure a victory 12 short weeks from now at the precinct caucuses on Saturday, March 3rd," said Washington State Executive Director Pedro Serra.
National, state, and local media wanting to cover these events should send an email to RSVP@ronpaul2012.com.
  