
    On Friday, December 21, 2007, the President signed into law:
H.J.Res. 72, which provides FY 2008 appropriations for continuing projects and activities of the Federal Government, through Monday, December 31, 2007;
H.R. 365, the "Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act," which authorizes appropriations to the Environment Protection Agency and the National Institute of Standards and Technology to establish research programs and develop voluntary guidelines to assist State and local government remediation of former methamphetamine laboratories;
H.R. 710, the "Charlie W. Norwood Living Organ Donation Act," which clarifies the National Organ Transplant Act to provide that criminal penalties do not apply to certain paired donations of human organs;
H.R. 2408, which designates a Department of Veterans Affairs outpatient clinic, as the Milo C. Huempfner Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic;
H.R. 2671, which designates a Unites States courthouse, as the C. Clyde Atkins United States Courthouse;
H.R. 3703, which excepts, from a requirement that certain vending machines be capable of dispensing $1 coins, machines that do not receive currency denominations greater than $1;
H.R. 3739, which makes technical amendments to the Arizona Water Settlement Act;
S. 597, which extends through 2011 the authority of the U.S. Postal Service to issue a special first class postage stamp to raise money for breast cancer research;
S. 888, the "Genocide Accountability Act of 2007," which expands criminal liability for participation in acts of genocide committed outside of the United States to persons not covered by current criminal law; S. 2174, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service, as the Paul E. Gillmor Post Office Building;
S. 2371, which eliminates certain untaxed income and benefits from the calculation of Pell Grant eligibility and makes technical corrections to the Higher Education Act of 1965, related to Federal student aid programs;
S. 2484, which renames the Department of Health and Human Services' National Institute of Child Health and Human Development in honor of Eunice Kennedy Shriver; and
S.J.Res. 8, which reappoints Patricia Q. Stonesifer as a citizen regent of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
  