
    Pool Reports by Geoff Earle, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




December 4, 202213:56

In-town pool report 1, checking in
Good afternoon from the White House, where POTUS is set to arrive from Camp David.
Pool is covid tested and expecting many boldface names in the East Room and at the Kennedy Center this evening. Gathering soon for arrival.
Today's WH sked below:
Sunday, December 4, 2022
EST
1:30 PM In-Town Pool Call Time
2:05 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 1:55 PM – Palm Room Doors) 
4:30 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host Kennedy Center Honorees; THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attend East RoomPooled for TV and Open to Pre-Credentialed Media (Gather 4:15 PM – Palm Room Doors) [RSVP here by 12:00 PM on December 3rd]
6:25 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White HouseSouth GroundsIn-Town Pool (Gather 6:10 PM – Palm Room Doors) 
6:30 PM THE PRESIDENT, THE FIRST LADY, THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attend the 45th Kennedy Center HonorsKennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Washington, DCIn-Town Travel Pool
9:45 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the Kennedy CenterKennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Washington, DCIn-Town Travel Pool
9:50 PM  THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at the White HouseSouth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool



December 4, 202214:25

In-town pool report 2 -- M1 arival
Potus and flotus entered the WH at 2:17 pm shortly after MI touched down.
Flotus was carrying a stack of binders or documents, and wore thick soled sneakers. Potus had on a lightweight blue outdoor jacket.
Potus briefly waved to pool and did not respond to shouted questions about Twitter files, Trump's response, or South Carolina.
Hunter and baby Beau deboarded shortly after the president.
Next up: East Wing



December 4, 202214:38

In-town pool report 3 - people aboard MI, lid
Per the WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Also spotted deboarding with Hunter and baby Beau was Hunter's wife, Melissa Cohen
It looks from still photos like flotus was carrying a copy of the NY Times Magazine
We have a lunch lid til 4 pm.



December 4, 202216:29

In town pool 4, East Room
Pool has moved to the East Room. Military band combo is playing "Angel of Harlem."
Pool is behind a rope in the back but has pretty good sight lines.
Room is filling up.
Awaiting Potus and honorees. Blinken is here. Other notables TK.



December 4, 202216:41

In town pool 5, more boldface names
The boldface names are filling in and taking seats.
Matt Damon is seated next to Julia Roberts.
From the admin, Cardona, Fauci, and Blinken are here.
Michael Fanone is seated next to Eddie Vedder
Sean Penn chatted with Blinken.
Deb Haaland up front.
Garth Brooks wearing the black hat.
Katie Couric is right behind Julia Roberts.
Amal Clooney is up front in glittery flown.
Brian Moynihan of Bank of America.
Event about to start. Nutcracker is getting second play.



December 4, 202216:50

I'm town pool 6, 2 mins
VP and Second Gentleman have arrived. 2 mins to honorees and potus.



December 4, 202217:09

In town pool 7, Potus speaking
Event is being streamed. Potus began speaking at 4:52.
Clooney gave a smirk and applauded when Potus had his parents Nick and Nina, seated with Amal, raise their hands.
Bono gave a big taxi style whistle for potus by putting his fingers in his mouth. Potus got big applause in the room.
Lots of sighs and applause when he spoke warmly about Gladys Knight, and when he quoted Midnight Train to Georgia.
He made a Delaware-Georgia comparison at one point after talking about her gig at the Delaware State Fair. "They speak like y'all do down in Atlanta, you know what I mean?"
He quoted Yates and called U2 poets in their own right.



December 4, 202217:31

In town pool 8, remarks over, Hunter, Borat
Potus wrapped around 5:10 after some more remarks about Ireland.
Honorees left through the same west door from where they entered.
Pool had a chance to ask Hunter a question (he was seated near the back with Melissa Cohen). He smiled and walked away to two simultaneous questions about GOP investigations and Elon Musk maneuvers.
The band switched to arrangements of U2 songs, plus "That's What Friends Are For."
Pool ran into Matt Damon while being escorted out. He said he thought it went "great."
Of note: Potus mentioned gun control while saluting Clooney.
3 more notables:
Sacha Baron CohenHozierAriana DeBose
Per the White House:
The President and the First Lady are hosting a reception for Kennedy Center Honorees. In attendance:
The Vice PresidentThe Second GentlemanSecretary Antony Blinken, Department of StateSecretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human ServicesSecretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education
Honorees: George ClooneyAmy GrantTania LeónU2

Bono
The Edge
Adam Clayton
Larry Mullen, Jr.




December 4, 202218:22

In town pool 9, gathered for departure
Pool has gathered for departure and loaded into motorcade vans, awaiting Potus.



December 4, 202218:54

In town pool report 10 - rolling
Motorcade was rolling toward the Kennedy Center at 6:53 pm



December 4, 202219:00

In town pool report 11 arrival
Motorcade pulled up to Ken Cen at 6:57.
Pool did not see Potus or see the Beast pull away.
We are expecting a brief look inside the Opera House.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady en route the Kennedy Center:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingCarlos Elizondo, Deputy Assistant to the President & Social SecretaryTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorVanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President and Press Secretary to the First Lady



December 4, 202219:32

In town pool 12 - event begins
Pool got a quick look inside the Ken Cen Opera House, where guests were seated and chattering before Biden entered.
Pool could spot Blinken and Mayorkas in balcony seats at 7:11 just before things got going.
Speaker Pelosi was seated one box over from Potus, toward stage left. Pool could not see Paul Pelosi, but has seen images from inside the hall that look like him, wearing a hat, as he recovers from the hammer attack.
Introducers read from large prompters for the televised program. Pool could hear Herbie Hancock and Big Bird and other speakers.
Potus was greeted by warm applause from the crowd. At one point he waived to the upper balcony seats, as well as to people below.
VP and Second Gentleman also got warm applause.
When the noise died down, a woman in the orchestra seats yelled out "Love you Bono!"
Pool left before the National Anthem.
Pool is now holding in the Israeli Lounge by the concert Hall. We don't have eyes on Potus during the event, but will note if he does anything newsworthy that is visible on the feed.



December 4, 202221:26

In town pool 13 - post-intermission, Paul Pelosi wave
Kennedy Center Chair David Rubenstein gave remarks after an extended intermission.
He introduced POTUS and FLOTUS, who each smiled to applause.
He then introduced VPOTUS and SGOTUS. Emhoff who waived to the crowd.
Rubenstein acknowledged support from Congress, then introduced Speaker Pelosi as someone who has devoted herself to the institution for 'several decades.'
At that point Pelosi and husband Paul Pelosi each stood up to waive to the cheering crowd.
Pelosi, wearing a black hat and a glove on his left hand, first waived with his left hand while holding hands with his wife. Then he waved with his other hand. The screen then cut away to Chief Justice John Roberts, who was among those cheering.
Show is now moving onto Cuban-born composer and conductor Tania Leon, with program behind schedule.



December 4, 202221:50

In town pool 14 pool moving
Pool is relocating in anticipation of the end of the event.
Program is currently showing tape of Julia Roberts in a green dress reading a limerick to U2 last night at State Dept.
The Edge is seen giving a speech asking why a group of "Irish lads" are being honored, thanking the Kennedy Center, and noting JFK's Irish descent, and name-checking a long-ago gig at the Bayou club in Georgetown.
Pool is on the move.



December 4, 202222:27

In town pool 15, rolling
Pool was rolling from Ken Cen at 10:25, having missed Sacha Baron Cohen in the theatre. Did not see Potus.



December 4, 202222:34

In town pool 16, back at WH
Pool was back at the WH at 10:31. No sign of Potus.
From earlier:
The President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman attend the 45th Kennedy Center Honors. This is the second consecutive year of the Biden-Harris Administration in which they have all have attended the nation's highest award for lifetime achievement in the arts



December 4, 202222:39

In house pool 17 - lid
We have a lid.
Gnite all.




  