
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Lisa Marie Kruska, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor (Public Affairs). Ms. Kruska currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Office of Public Affairs at the U.S. Department of Labor, where she previously served as Deputy Director of the Women's Bureau. Prior to this position, Ms. Kruska served as Vice President of Accounts for Creative Response Concepts in Alexandria, Virginia. She earned her bachelor's degree from the University of St. Thomas and her master's degree from Regent University.
The President intends to nominate Donald Lee Korb, of Ohio, to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service and an Assistant General Counsel in the Department of the Treasury. Mr. Korb currently serves as a Tax Partner for Thompson Hine LLP. Previously he served in the same position for Coopers & Lybrand LLP in Cleveland, Ohio. Earlier in his career, Mr. Korb served as an Assistant to the Commissioner for the Internal Revenue Service. He earned his bachelor's degree from the John Carroll University, his J.D. from the Case Western Reserve University Law School, and his L.L.M. from Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to appoint Robert A. Martinez, of Colorado, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the United Service Organizations, Incorporated, for a three-year term expiring November 20, 2006. Currently, Mr. Martinez serves as President of Great Southwestern, Inc. in Castle Rock, Colorado. He previously served in the same position for Great Southwestern Construction, Inc. Prior to this position, Mr. Martinez served as Assistant Regional Director for the Small Business Administration in Denver, Colorado. A member of the United States Army who was awarded a Bronze Star for his service, Mr. Martinez earned his bachelor's degree and his master's degree from the New Mexico State University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be members of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board:
The President intends to nominate Robert Scott Jepson, Jr., of Georgia, for a five-year term expiring September 14, 2008.
The President intends to nominate Paul Byron Jones, of Colorado, for a five-year term expiring September 14, 2008.
The President intends to nominate Charles Leon Kolbe, of Iowa, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring September 14, 2004.
  