
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee for a term of 2 years:
James William Alsdorf is chairman of the board and director of Alsdorf International, Ltd., in Chicago, Ill. He was born August 16, 1913, in Chicago, Ill., and now resides in Winnetka.
Patricia Rieff Anawalt is consulting curator for the Museum of Cultural History at the University of California at Los Angeles. She was born March 10, 1924, in Ripon, Calif., and now resides in Los Angeles.
Clemency Chase Coggins is an associate in pre-Columbian art for the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology at Harvard University. She was born June 12, 1934, in New York City and now resides in Auburndale, Mass.
James G. Crowley III is a private art dealer in Spartanburg, S.C. He was born August 28, 1949, in Spartanburg, where he now resides.
Arthur A. Houghton III is associate curator of antiquities at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Santa Monica, Calif. He was born May 6, 1940, in New York City and now resides in Pacific Palisades, Calif.
Michael Kelly is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Kelco Industries, Inc., in Woodstock, Ill., where he resides. He was born July 9, 1925, in Flint, Mich.
John J. Slocum is a trustee and member of the executive committee of the Archaeological Institute of America in Kenmore Station, Borton, R.I. He was born March 1, 1914, in Lakewood, N.J. Alfred E. Stendahl is director of Stendahl Art Galleries in Los Angeles, Calif. He was born December 4, 1915, in Los Angeles and now resides in North Hollywood, Calif.
Denver Fred Wendorf, Jr., is distinguished professor at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Tex., and is former chairman of the Department of Anthropology there. He was born July 31, 1924, in Terrell, Tex., and now resides in Lancaster, Tex.
Leslie Elizabeth Wildesen is adjunct professor for the Department of History at Portland State University in Portland, Oreg., where she resides. She was born December 5, 1944, in Phoenix, Ariz.
  