
    Trump Campaign Announces Police Endorsement and New Hampshire Youth Coalition Chairman
(New York, NY) December 10th, 2015 — Today Donald J. Trump received the coveted endorsement of the New England Police Benevolent Association. Mr. Trump was joined by hundreds of officers who endorsed the front runner for the Republican nomination after a private meeting in New Hampshire Thursday night.
Mr. Trump stated, "I am incredibly honored to receive this endorsement. My entire life has been spent defending the police and the incredible job they do. Especially today, they will play an increasingly vital part in making our nation safe. With their support and hard work together we will Make America Great Again."
The New England Police Benevolent Association historically endorses a candidate during the primary season and Mr. Trump was the overwhelming choice by the entire association.
Additionally, Bob Burns, Chairman of the New Hampshire Federation of Young Republicans, was selected to serve as Donald J. Trump for President Youth Coalition Chairman.
Burns expressed his full support for Donald Trump's bid for the Presidency stating, "I am confident that Donald Trump is the right man for our country at this time in our nation's history. It is clear Donald Trump is uniting Americans from every political persuasion as he ensures a solid future for my generation and the generations to come."
Burns has been actively involved with New Hampshire Young Republicans since 2005. His extensive political history also includes serving as the Youth Outreach Director for Huckabee 2008 and Deputy State Director for Newt Gingrich 2012. Additionally, he was elected as Hillsborough County Treasurer.
Mr. Trump continues to dominate the polls nationally and in each of the early primary states. According to the latest CNN/WMUR poll released in New Hampshire earlier this week, Mr. Trump maintains his commanding lead with 32% support, an 18 point lead over his closest rival. Mr. Trump is also dominating in Massachusetts with a recent poll showing him with 48% support. The campaign announced the addition of Massachusetts State Director Dean Cavaretta on Monday.
  