
    
  Cruz Welcomes Endorsements From More than Two-Dozen American Rabbis

HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz this week welcomed the endorsements of more than two-dozen rabbis, influencing a community of around 10,000 Jewish Americans.
In conjunction with Chanukah, the group released a letter of support for Cruz, citing a shared commitment to the Judeo-Christian ethic, human freedom, and the futures of Israel and the United States. The coalition represents a range of leaders, from the ultra-Orthodox Haredi to Modern Orthodox leaders.
Yaakov Rosenblatt, a leader of the coalition, is a rabbi and businessman in Dallas, Texas. Rosenblatt received his masters of Talmudic Law in 1999 from Beth Medrash Gevoha and his rabbinic ordination in 2002: the author of two books, he is a frequent contributor to Jewish and general publications on issues of faith and culture.
"Rabbis generally avoid political affiliation or endorsement," Rosenblatt told the Jewish World Review. "[But] with the Middle East and Europe unraveling and the United States stepping back from its role as a check against the expansion of evil, rabbis from coast to coast are sensing the need to weigh in on the issues of the day, including choosing a man they feel is most articulate and consistent in expressing the core values they hold dear."
Rabbi Michael Friedman is also instrumental in recruiting rabbis to rally around Ted Cruz. Friedman is completing an internship as a clinical mental health professional, has a Masters of Education, and received rabbinical ordination from Israel in 2009.
"I am honored to have the support of these leaders from the Jewish community," Ted Cruz said. "Today religious faith and liberty are under attack across the world, and innocent people suffer at the hands of violent extremists. No one knows the dangers of ambitious dictators and of terrorism more vividly than the Jewish people. During Chanukah, as we commemorate the Maccabees' historic stand against oppression, we must also accept the call to fight evil and oppression in our own times. I am proud to stand with the Jewish people both at home and abroad in defending the Judeo-Christian ethic and holding up the light of faith and liberty."
The statement of endorsement reads:
"Once stable and predictable, the world has become chaotic and dangerous. The Middle East is aflame, Europe is adrift, and the United States is unsure of its moral mission. ...Pushing back against destructive cultural trends and reversing them, takes a very special leader. The individual must be fearless, articulate, a person of faith who understands the premise and promise of America. He must be someone who understands the threat of radical Islam, and capable of inspiring the masses to return to spirit and purpose.
Not representing any religious institution but wholeheartedly representing the values to which we have dedicated our lives, we the undersigned rabbis have reviewed the field of candidates and endorse Senator Ted Cruz for President of the United States. He is the most articulate and passionate delegate of the values we hold dear; he is fearless and unwavering in these core beliefs. He is resolute toward defending our values and has consistently displayed the courage of his convictions.
In the spirit of Chanukah, when a small group inspired a tired populace to combat and defeat tyranny, we pray that his voice finds resonance, his spirit finds strength, and that the people of this great, moral nation once again feel great, become great, and spread the light of liberty, the message of morality throughout the world."

The names of the rabbis endorsing Ted Cruz for President appear below:
Rabbi Yaakov Rosenblatt — Dallas, TX
Rabbi Michael Friedman — Dallas, TX
Rabbi Elchanan Aisenstark — Oak Park, MI
Rabbi Ahron Dov Barkany — Miami Beach, FL
Rabbi Yaakov Berger — Lakewood, NJ
Rabbi Abraham Bloch — University City, MO
Rabbi Michael Bodeheimer — Dallas, TX
Rabbi Zeev (William) Brown — Far Rockaway, NY
Rabbi Benzion Buchman — Brooklyn, NY
Rabbi Jeremy Cassius — Dallas, TX
Rabbi David Ceder — Staten Island, NY
Rabbi Yosef Chazanow — Los Angeles, CA
Rabbi Samuel Chazanow — Los Angeles, CA
Rabbi Nosson Dubin — Houston, TX
Rabbi Yerachmiel Fried — Dallas, TX
Rabbi Yisrael Gruman — Chicago, IL
Rabbi Avrohom Jurkowitz — Kew Gardens, NY
Rabbi Yekusiel Kalmenson — Los Angeles, CA
Rabbi Herzel Kranz — Silver Spring, MD
Rabbi Simcha Merkin — Silver Spring, NY
Rabbi Menachem Rabenstein — St Louis Park, MN
Rabbi David Shanik — Lakewood, NJ
Rabbi Maximo Shechet — Omaha, NE
Rabbi Joseph E. Skaist — Dallas TX
Rabbi Yisrael Weiss — Edison, NJ
  