
    SIGOURNEY, IA-- With a campaign stop in Keokuk County today, New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson visited his 99th of Iowa's 99 counties. Joined by his wife, New Mexico First Lady Barbara Richardson, he held one of his signature "Presidential Job Interviews" at the Copper Lantern Restaurant in Sigourney, answering the questions of everyday Iowans.
"I am running the kind of grassroots campaign that Iowans appreciate," Governor Richardson said. "I have traveled to all of Iowa's 99 counties, meeting with caucus-goers and talking to them one-on-one to hear their concerns and share my vision for the future."
Throughout his campaign, Governor Richardson has shown a dedication to traveling to small communities in rural and urban areas and reaching out to all Iowans.
"As I travel through Iowa and New Hampshire, I see enthusiasm and amazing grassroots support for Bill," First Lady Barbara Richardson said. "He is extremely dedicated to this campaign and to bringing change to our country. I am proud of him for having met with Iowans in all 99 counties. Because of it, he never is home, but his dedication is paying off."
Governor Richardson detailed how he is the only candidate who brings both change and experience to the race. A former Congressman, Secretary of Energy, and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations and currently a two-term governor, Richardson consistently has produced results.
"In all 99 counties, I have met Iowans looking for a Presidential candidate who has the experience to bring about the change that our country so desperately needs," Richardson said. "I am that candidate. I have the experience to solve the very real problems facing our country. As President, I will end the war in Iraq, work toward solving our energy crisis, and make sure that every American has access to health care."
At today's event in Sigourney, Richardson unveiled his policy for the mortgage and credit markets and proposed solutions to the national foreclosure crisis.
"People are not looking for handouts; they are looking for honesty," Richardson said. "Americans are working hard and playing by the rules, but the rules do not work anymore. We have to change them."
Richardson also outlined his vision for the country, including his plan to redeploy soldiers from Iraq and leave no residual troops behind; make the country truly energy independent by creating an Apollo-style program to boost domestic renewable fuel production; and provide high-quality, affordable health care to every American.
Governor and Mrs. Richardson also stopped in Newton today for a Conversation on Iraq. This trip marks Governor Richardson's 24th of the campaign to Iowa.
Also reaching out to Iowans on behalf of Governor Richardson this week are former New Mexico Governor Toney Anaya, New Mexico Congressman Tom Udall, and Veterans Ruben Treviso and Pete Mora.
  