
    Des Moines, IA – Flanked by several dozen members of the Iowa clergy, Republican Presidential Candidate Mike Huckabee today announced his campaign's Iowa Pastors Coalition, the endorsement of Iowa family values leader Chuck Hurley and the support of nationally known religious leader Tim LaHaye and his spouse, Beverly LaHaye, who founded Concerned Women of America.
"I'm honored to have the support and encouragement from this fine group of faith leaders," Huckabee said. "We share a commitment to preserving life, strengthening families and making this country a better place for all Americans."
Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas who now leads the polls in Iowa and has vaulted to second place in national polls, also announced the support of Luana Stoltenberg, a Davenport pro-life activist.
Hurley, the president of the Iowa Family Policy Center, is a former state legislator who has devoted his career to strengthening Iowa's families by championing traditional values. "I'm humbled and honored to support such a fine man for such a vital office at this vital time," said Hurley, who noted the endorsement was a personal one and not on behalf of the IFPC.
Stoltenberg has been involved with Crisis Pregnancy Center in the Quad Cities. She also has been a board member and spokesperson for the Life and Family Coalition. A former supporter of Sen. Sam Brownback's presidential effort, Stoltenberg is active in Operation Outcry: Silent No More.
Huckabee said he welcomed the support as candidates continue to battle for support as the Iowa caucuses are just 30 days away.
The LaHayes are prominent national leaders who have provided a strong moral compass for America. "During the 25 years I have known Mike Huckabee, he has proven himself to be a Christian conservative who stands without apology for the pro-life, pro-marriage platform that is so important in this time of moral collapse," Tim LaHaye said.
Beverly LaHaye said, "I support Mike Huckabee because he is genuinely pro-life – true to Biblical morality – a man of absolute faith in God and courageous enough to try to do something to bring America back to its foundation."
For 25 years, Tim LaHaye pastored one of the nation's outstanding churches in San Diego, Calif., which grew to three locations. It was during this time he also founded two accredited Christian high schools, a school system of 10 Christian schools, San Diego Christian College and assisted Dr. Henry Morris in the founding of the Institute for Creation Research, the nation's foremost exponent of creationist materials. LaHaye has written more than 50 non-fiction books on a wide range of subjects such as family life, Bible prophecy, the will of God, Jesus Christ, and secular humanism. His books have been translated into 32 languages, with more than 13 million in print.
Beverly LaHaye is chairman of the board and founder of Concerned Women for America. The LaHayes have been married for over 55 years and live in southern California. They have four grown children, nine grandchildren, and seven great grandchildren.
Speaking on behalf of the pastors coalition, Pastor Brad Sherman of the Solid Rock Christian Church, Coralville, said he endorsed Huckabee because he was "first struck by, not only his position on the issues, but his skill at communicating his position in way that made sense."
Sherman added, "Then I noted that he is governed by principle, not by the direction of the political breeze. He holds the same positions today that he did yesterday. That is a solid indicator where will stand tomorrow. This nation badly needs Mike Huckabee in the White House."
Members of the Huckabee Pastors Coalition include: Terry Amann, Walnut Creek Community Church, Windsor Heights; B. Mark Anderson, Muscatine; Steve Benton, Faith Bible Church, Cedar Rapids; Bruce Branson, Central Avenue Baptist Church, Hartley; Bruce Brooks, Ninth Street Baptist Church, Spencer; Brett Callaway, Faith Bible Church, Baxter; Kevin Collins, Vinton; Kelvin Cooke, Grace Brethren Church, Waterloo; Dustin Cox, Celebration First Assembly of God, Waterloo; Roger Crawford, Calvary Baptist Church, Union; Van Davis, First Baptist Church, Swea City; Rex Deckard, Calvary Apostolic Church, Des Moines; Brien Deverick, Jordan creek Baptist Church, St. Charles; Larry Doughan, Colfax Center PCA, Grundy Center; Sam Dronebarger, Cedar Rapids; Lloyd Eaken, Anamosa; Ben Eilers, Shiloh Bible Church; Mairi Golnick, Faith and Christ Fellowship, Cherokee; LaVerne Harris, Upper Room Tabernacle, Waterloo; Wayne Herman, Berean Bible Fellowship, Glidden; Todd Hessel, Algona Evangelical Free Church; Kevin Hollinger, First Baptist Church, Algona; Mark Holton, Trinity Bible Church, Waterloo; Larry C. Hoop, Colfax Center PCA, Holland; Kerry Jech, New Hope Christian Church, Marshalltown; Joel Jorgensen, Grandview Baptist Church, Estherville; William King, First Apostolic Church, Indianola; Ken Klingman, Trinity Bible Church, Cedar Falls; John Lynn, Dysart; Ken Matteson, Grace Brethren Church, Waterloo; Robert McMurdock, Church of Promise (Buckingham) Waterloo; Dan Merchant, Cedars Street Baptist Church, Tipton; Marcus Moffit, Calvary Baptist Church, Archer; Daniel J. Moore, Cromwell Congregational UCC, St. John's UCC, Creston; Claude Perhelth, Wapello Church of the Nazarene, Wapello; Pinky Person, Faith and Christ Fellowship, Cherokee, Royce Phillips, Tabernacle Baptist Church, Tiffin; Dan Reid, Ottumwa Baptist Temple, Ottumwa; Tim Rude, Walnut Creek Community Church, Johnston; Steve Russell, Jordan Grove Church, Cedar Rapids; Andy Schmidt, Calvary Baptist Church, Waterloo; Phillip Schrauben, First Christian Church, New Sharon; Eric Schumacher, Marion; John Shaull, Iowa Baptist Convention, Winterset; Emad R. Shenouda, St. Mary Coptic Orthodox Church, Urbandale; Brad Sherman, Solid Rock Christian Church, Coralville; Mark Smeltzer, Glenwood Community Church, Glenwood; John Tank, Grace West, Des Moines; Terry Vance, First Church of the Nazarene, Burlington; Mark Waits, The Apostolic Pentecostal Church, Centerville; Kenneth Walker, Jesus Loves You/The River Jordan, Atalissa; Paul Warder, Evangelical Covenant Church, Stanton; Earl Warstler, Waterloo; Bob Waters, Des Moines; David Welch, Plano Christian Church, Plano; Darran Whiting, Marion; and Scott Wilson, Clear Lake Christian Church, Mason City.
These endorsements represent the personal views of these individuals and not those of the organizations they represent.
  