
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted December 18
George W. Black, Jr.,
of Georgia, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for the remainder of the term expiring December 31, 1996, vice Carl W. Vogt, resigned.
Patrick Davidson,
of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2000, vice Mel Harris, term expired.
Pascal D. Forgione, Jr.,
of Delaware, to be Commissioner of Education Statistics for a term expiring June 21, 1999, vice Emerson J. Elliott.
Townsend D. Wolfe III,
of Arkansas, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2000, vice Earl Roger Middle, term expired.
Sarah McCracken Fox,
of New York, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2000, vice James M. Stephens, term expired.
Robert E. Morin,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Curtis E. von Kann, retired.
Submitted December 19
Speight Jenkins,
of Washington, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2000, vice Philip Brunelle, term expired.
Mary Ann Vial Lemmon,
of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Peter Hill Beer, retired.
Michael D. Schattman,
of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Texas, vice Harold Barefoot Sanders, Jr., retired.
Submitted December 20
Gaston L. Gianni, Jr.,
of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (new position).
Rita Derrick Hayes,
of Maryland, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as Chief Textile Negotiator.
Withdrawn December 20
Norwood J. Jackson, Jr.,
of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (new position), which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 1995.
Submitted December 21
Thomas Paul Grumbly,
of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Charles B. Curtis.
Martin A. Kamarck,
of Massachusetts, to be president of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. for the remainder of the term expiring January 20, 1997, vice Kenneth D. Brody, resigned.
Donald W. Molloy,
of Montana, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Montana, vice Paul G. Hatfield, retired.
Susan Oki Mollway,
of Hawaii, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Hawaii, vice Harold M. Fong, deceased.
Submitted December 22
Alvin L. Alm,
of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy, Environmental Management, vice Thomas P. Grumbly.
  