
    Mary Matalin, Assistant to the President and Counselor to the Vice President, will be returning to the private sector, effective December 31, 2002. Catherine J. Martin, will be named Assistant to the Vice President for Public Affairs.
"Mary is just the best. The entire Cheney family is in awe of the superb job she has done and grateful we'll be able to call on her many talents in the future," said Vice President Cheney.
"Mary's assistance to the Vice President has been invaluable. She will be missed professionally -- and personally -- by all who have had the pleasure to work with her. We will count on drawing upon her guidance and good humor when she is in the private sector," said Lewis Libby, Chief of Staff to Vice President Cheney.
Ms. Matalin joined the Bush administration in the transition providing counsel on both domestic and international public affairs.
For the past year and a half, Cathie Martin has served as Deputy Assistant to the Vice President for Public Affairs.
"Cathie has been an important member of my team. She has sound judgment and tireless dedication and I appreciate her willingness to take on this new role," said Vice President Cheney.
"For over a year, Cathie has played an enormously important role in our office and a key role in the White House. She will be ready from day one to take on the duties of Assistant to the Vice President for Public Affairs," said Mr. Libby.
Prior to working for Vice President Cheney, Ms. Martin worked for Secretary of Commerce Don Evans as Deputy Chief of Staff and White House Liaison. From 2000-2001, Martin served as Policy Director to former Texas Attorney General John Cornyn, who was recently elected to the United States Senate. From 1994-2000, Ms. Martin practiced law at the Washington, D.C. law firm of Steptoe & Johnson, LLP.
Ms. Martin received her J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1993 and her B.A. from the University of Texas at Austin in 1990. Ms. Martin is married to Kevin Martin, Commissioner on the Federal Communications Commission, and they reside in Washington, D.C.
  