
    Also tees up tonight's 'Salute to Veterans' rally
ANKENY, Iowa — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul authored an op-ed in today's print and online versions of the Des Moines Register. Appearing in Iowa's largest circulation newspaper, the op-ed focuses on his record of service to veterans ahead of a rally he will hold tonight in Des Moines highlighting similar themes.
In the op-ed, the 12-term Congressman from Texas and former U.S. Air Force flight surgeon argues that he has been fighting for America's heroes while in Congress, and will be their strongest ally as President.
Backing veterans is a must
By U.S. Rep. Ron Paul
America cannot remain strong if our servicemen and women have reason to doubt that our nation will not honor the promises it made to them when they enlisted.
My campaign is holding a Salute Our Veterans Rally today in Des Moines. I hope this rally will help drive that point home.
Of all our government's shortcomings, few issues are more distressing than the inadequate treatment our veterans receive. I'm a veteran myself, having served as a flight surgeon in the United States Air Force during the turbulent 1960s. So, unlike some of my "armchair general" opponents, I have a firsthand understanding of our veterans' needs.
I have supported numerous pieces of legislation in Congress to better look out for our veterans, and I am proud to have helped many veterans in my district finally receive the medals and benefits they fought hard to earn. I intend to use the bully pulpit as president to advocate even more strongly for their issues. Our veterans fought hard for us, so we should fight hard for them.
For instance, I have always supported giving employers tax credits for hiring veterans, narrowing the gap in pay that exists between private and military sector pay scales, and finally reversing the trend of disproportionately high veterans unemployment, which is a sky-high 27 percent for vets ages 18 to 24, according to a recent New York Times article...
For the complete Des Moines Register op-ed, please click here.
For information on Dr. Paul's 'Salute to Veterans' rally including how to RSVP, click here.
  