
    Under authority of the act of Congress approved June 4, 1897 (30 Stat. 11, 36; U.S. Code, title 16, sec. 473), and on the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, it is hereby ordered that the following-described lands now parts of the Lolo National Forest as defined by proclamation of April 30, 1912 (37 Stat. 1739- 1740), be, and the same are hereby, transferred to the Cabinet National Forest:
All lands of the Lolo National Forest lying to the north and west of a line described as follows:
Beginning at Milepost 176.129 on the Montana-Idaho State line; thence in a northeasterly direction following the hydrographic divide between Dry and Marble Creeks on the east and South Fork Little Joe Creek and Cold Creek on the west to an intersection with the south line of sec. 7, township 17 north, range 27 west, Montana meridian; thence east along section lines to the southeast corner sec. 9, said township; thence north to northeast corner said sec. 9; thence east to southeast corner sec. 3, said township; thence north to northeast corner said sec. 3; thence east on north line sec. 2, said township, to a point where said line is intersected by the hydrographic divide between Four Mile Creek on the west and Sloway Gulch on the east; thence northeasterly along said hydrographic divide to its intersection with the hydrographic divide at the head of Keystone Creek, Pardee Creek, Flat Creek, and Nine Mile Creek; thence easterly along said hydrographic divide to an intersection with the boundary of the former Flathead Indian Reservation; also that part of sec. 15, township 17 north, range 27 west, Montana meridian, which is now a part of the Lolo National Forest.
The transfer effected by this order and the new boundaries of the Cabinet National Forest are more clearly shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof. It is not intended by this order to give any publicly owned lands a national-forest status which have hitherto not had such status, nor to remove any publicly owned lands from a national-forest status.
HERBERT HOOVER
The White House,December 16, 1931.
  