
    We're creating a healthcare system that protects vulnerable patients, makes healthcare more affordable, gives you more choice and control, and delivers the high-quality care Americans deserve. --President Donald J. Trump
A GREAT VICTORY FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: The 5th Circuit Court delivered a victory for the American people by ruling against a key part of Obamacare.

In the case of Texas v. Azar, the 5th Circuit ruled that a key part of Obamacare – the individual mandate – is unconstitutional.
The decision is expected to be litigated over the course of the next year.
While this is a great victory for the American people, there will be no immediate changes to your healthcare insurance while the case proceeds.
The decision is a positive step toward moving away from Obamacare, which has failed the American people for too long.
President Trump is committed to protecting Americans with preexisting conditions and will continue working to improve the quality, affordability, and accessibility of our healthcare system, as the courts continue to consider this case.

OBAMACARE FAILED THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: In addition to its unconstitutionality, Obamacare has failed the American people by increasing costs and reducing choices.

While the Obama administration and Congressional Democrats promised Obamacare would lower premiums by $2,500, costs have soared.
Obamacare has severely limited Americans' ability to choose the best healthcare plan for them.

Despite promises from President Obama and Congressional Democrats, millions of Americans lost their coverage and doctors after Obamacare was implemented.


Obamacare has utterly failed to provide reliable, comprehensive care for all Americans.

In 2017, 25.6 million Americans still lacked insurance.
In 2018, only 12.5 million people were enrolled in Obamacare-compliant plans, falling far short of CBO's 2013 projection of 27 million.



IMPROVING CARE FOR ALL: The President is working to deliver a healthcare system that protects the vulnerable, provides affordability, ensures choice and control for patients, and delivers high-quality care.

President Trump is increasing choices for consumers by expanding Association Health Plans, Health Reimbursement Arrangements, and short-term plans.
President Trump is taking action to increase price transparency, empowering patients to make informed decisions about their healthcare.
The President's efforts to reduce drug prices have resulted in the largest single-year drop in prescription drug prices in more than half a century.
President Trump will protect Americans with preexisting conditions.
The President has taken action to protect and improve Medicare for our seniors.
President Trump is committed to promoting innovative treatments for American patients.

President Trump has taken action to improve kidney health and treatment, increase funding for and expand access to treatment for those struggling with addiction, step up pediatric cancer research, work on eliminating the HIV epidemic, and more.



  