
    SANTA FE, NM-- Former Maryland Governor Parris Glendening today endorsed New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson for President. Glendening is a national leader on environmental policy and in the fight against global climate change. As Governor of Maryland, Glendening was renowned for his groundbreaking "Smart Growth" policies that balanced development and environmental protection. His 1997 legislation often is seen as the start of the national "Smart Growth" movement.
"Governor Richardson is the most qualified candidate to fight climate change and protect the environment," Glendening said. "He is the candidate in this race with a record of executive experience. That record of leadership on energy and the environment, more than anything else, is why he has earned my endorsement. As Secretary of Energy, he was a leader on mass transit and smart growth issues. As Governor of New Mexico, he has turned around an economy while also protecting the environment. He already has the skills and tested judgment needed in the Oval Office.
"I also have been deeply impressed with his record on education. My journey from poverty in Florida to the Governor's office in Maryland was made possible by a quality education. Governor Richardson understands the power of education, which is why he has raised teacher salaries every year in office, put in place a statewide pre-K program, and made college more affordable for students in his state."
Glendening served two terms as Governor of Maryland from 1994 to 2002. In recognition of his work in creating the first "Smart Growth" policies and his national environmental leadership, he has received numerous environmental awards from the Sierra Club, Congress for the New Urbanism, Sustainable Energy Institute, National Resources Council of America, National Wildlife Federation, United States Environmental Protection Agency, American Planning Association, and World Wildlife Fund. His work was recognized in 2000 by the Ford Foundation and Harvard University with the bestowing of the Innovations in Government Award.
"Governor Glendening is a leader on energy and environmental issues, and I am honored to have his endorsement," Richardson said. "As President, I will put in place an aggressive program to create a clean energy economy and fight global climate change.
"Not only has Governor Glendening served honorably as a public official, but he also is a great example of the possibilities of the American Dream. These days, however, that dream is under attack. Too many Americans are worried about the safety of their jobs, their houses, and the lack of opportunities available to their children. We can create well-paying jobs, fix our education system, and protect the American Dream. I have done it as Governor of New Mexico, and I will do it as the next President of the United States."
Please find Governor Glendening's biography below:
Growing up poverty-stricken in Florida, in a house without electricity or indoor plumbing, Parris Glendening could scarcely imagine that years later he would find himself in the State House in Annapolis. Yet, driven by the values of education, hard work, personal responsibility, and a commitment to public service, Parris N. Glendening overcame humble beginnings to become the 59th Governor of the State of Maryland.
Early in life, Governor Glendening recognized that education was the door to unlimited opportunities. A scholarship to Broward Community College started him on his academic career. Other financial aid later enabled him to attend Florida State University, where he received a bachelor's degree (1964), a master's degree (1965), and a Ph.D. (1967), becoming the youngest student in FSU history to receive a doctorate in political science and urban administration. Upon graduation, he began a career as a professor at the University of Maryland, College Park, where he taught Government and Politics for 27 years. In 1984, he co-authored Pragmatic Federalism, An Intergovernmental View of American Government, a textbook used in over 400 colleges and universities.
The Governor's public service began in 1973 as a City Councilman in Hyattsville. He was elected to the Prince George's County Council in 1974 and twice served as Council Chair. In 1982, he was elected County Executive of Prince George's County, and is the only County Executive in Maryland history to serve three terms (1982-1994). Under Glendening's leadership, Prince George's County was selected as an All America County by the National Civic League, and City and State magazine named him the "Most Valuable County Official" in the nation. In 1994, he was elected to his first term as Governor. In 1998, Governor Glendening overwhelmingly won re-election to a second term.
In his second term, Governor Glendening's wife Jennifer Crawford gave birth to a baby girl on August 18, 2002, the first time since 1879 that a Maryland governor had a baby born during his term of office. Governor Glendening also has a son, Raymond, from his previous marriage.
  