
    Pool Reports by Hailey Fuchs, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




December 31, 202111:51

Out of Town Pool Report #1 - Waiting to be Swept
Happy New Year's Eve everybody! Pool is located near the President's Wilmington home, waiting to be swept.



December 31, 202113:24

Out of Town Pool Report #2
The pool has been swept and is on its way to a new location.
After the pool left the area where it was swept (near the President's home), pool passed by a group of protesters holding signs beside a set of tents. Affixed to one of the tents, the signs read: "DECLARE a Climate Emergency" "BIDEN, STOP NEW FOSSIL FUEL PROJECTS NOW!" and "extinction rebellion".
Also, from a White House official:
President Biden plans to speak by phone with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine on Sunday to reaffirm U.S. support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, discuss Russia's military build-up on Ukraine's borders, and review preparations for upcoming diplomatic engagements to help de-escalate the situation in the region.



December 31, 202113:28

Out of Town Pool Report #3 - Lunch Arrival
The President and the First Lady are eating lunch for New Year's Eve at Banks' Seafood Kitchen in Wilmington, Delaware.
They were out of pool's sight as they walked in.



December 31, 202114:46

Out of Town Pool Report #4 — Leaving Lunch
POTUS and FLOTUS exited the restaurant at 2:38 pm and POTUS got into the car at 2:41 pm. He answered questions about the call with President Putin. A transcript/quotes will be coming shortly.



December 31, 202115:08

Out of Town Pool Report #5 — Quotes from Gaggle
There was a travel/photo lid called at 2:58 pm.
Here are quotes from POTUS' brief comments to the pool after he exited the restaurant.
First quote in response to questions about Russia: "I made it clear to President Putin that we will have severe sanctions, we will increase our presence in Europe, with NATO allies."
Q: Did you get the sense that he's any less likely to invade Ukraine after your conversation?POTUS: "Well, I got the sense of is that he's agreed that we would have three major conferences in Europe in the beginning of the middle of the month" ... "He laid out some of his concerns about NATO and the United States and Europe, we laid out ours. (inaudible) I made it clear that they only could work if he deescalated" … "Well, I always expect to negotiate and make progress."
Responding to a question about if Russia faces sanctions if it keeps the troops at the border. "I'm not gonna negotiate here in public but we made it clear he cannot, I'll emphasize, cannot invade Ukraine."
About Betty White's death, POTUS said, "That's a shame. She was a lovely lady." FLOTUS said, "Who didn't love Betty White? We're so sad."
When asked about any new years resolution, FLOTUS said, "Not yet." POTUS added, "I'm gonna try to earn her more love … Everybody knows I love her more than she loves me."
When asked whether he would travel to Colorado, POTUS said, "I may very well."
As he was getting in the car, POTUS stopped to pull down his black mask and said he spoke with the Colorado governor and offered additional aid.




  