
    STOCKTON, CALIFORNIA —  Stockton, California Mayor Michael Tubbs announced his support of Democratic Presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, praising Mike's work with cities and his track record on tackling challenges including gun violence, education and climate change. Mayor Tubbs was also named a national co-chair, the latest to join the Bloomberg campaign. Mayor Tubbs will advise the Bloomberg campaign on strategy, policy, messaging and serve as a surrogate.
"I am excited to endorse Mayor Bloomberg for President as he has the record, the relationships, and the resources to defeat Donald Trump and reclaim our democracy," said Mayor Michael Tubbs. "Today's announcements around affordable housing and extending the Earned Income Tax Credit point to Bloomberg's commitment to eradicating poverty and rebuilding the middle class so that every child in America has the same opportunities he had."
"As national co-chair, Mayor Tubbs will help us better engage communities like Stockton, all over the country," said Kevin Sheekey, Campaign Manager for Mike 2020. "California is a critical state and we're excited to have the support of one of its most innovative leaders. We're honored to have Mayor Tubbs on our team and to have his perspective as we build out an inclusive campaign."
Mayor Tubbs hosted Bloomberg in Stockton today for events including a roundtable discussion on housing and economic opportunity, meetings with local entrepreneurs, and a tour of the city's public art installations. While in Stockton, Bloomberg learned more about Mayor Tubbs' efforts to leverage research, sustainable investment and community engagement to address long-standing inequities in the city.
Mayor Tubbs, who was elected in 2016, has prioritized issues including poverty reduction, public safety, workforce development, and education in his first term. When he was first elected, he became the nation's youngest mayor and Stockton's first African-American mayor. Tubbs' leadership and ambitious progressive agenda has received national recognition. Since taking office, Stockton has been named an "All-America City" twice, the second most fiscally healthy city in the state, and has seen a 40 percent reduction in homicides. Additionally, Mayor Tubbs created "Stockton Scholars," which provides guaranteed scholarships to Stockton students to attend community college, trade school, or a 4-year University.
Before becoming Mayor, Michael Tubbs served as Stockton's District 6 City Councilmember. Tubbs has been a college course instructor for Aspire Public Schools and a Fellow at the Stanford Institute of Design and the Emerson Collective. Mayor Tubbs graduated in 2012 from Stanford University with a Bachelor's and Master's degree with honors.
  