
    At FoxNews.com, Todd Starnes takes note of Rick Perry's latest ad about his faith and Obama's war on religion.
Republican presidential candidate Texas Gov. Rick Perry has decided to address the big elephant in the pew as we head into 2012 – the Obama administration's relationship with religion – specifically Christianity.
"As president, I'll end Obama's war on religion," Perry declared in a new television advertisement. "And I'll fight against liberal attacks on our religious heritage."
Perry's declaration immediately resonated with millions of Christians around the nation who believe their faith is under attack and who've been waiting for a Republican presidential candidate to have the candor and moral fortitude to stand up and articulate why we are truly the greatest nation on the face of the Earth.

If you haven't seen the ad, click here.
It was during the Obama administration that Christian school children were ordered to stop praying outside the Supreme Court building because they were violating the law. Instead, those American boys and girls were forced to pray for the elected officials while standing in a gutter.
It was President Obama who dropped the words "by their Creator" when reciting a key excerpt from the Declaration of Independence to the Congressional Hispanic Caucus – not once, but twice.
It was the Obama administration that opposed the commemoration of a prayer by Franklin Roosevelt at the site of the World War II Memorial on the Washington Mall, arguing that it would "dilute" the memorial's central message.
And it was the Obama White House that asked Georgetown University to cover up all religious signs and symbols prior to a presidential address.

Gov. Perry knows that faith made America strong, and it can make her strong again.
I'm glad that Gov. Perry raised the issue of religion. It's a topic worthy of exploring merely for the fact that a leader's conduct and decision-making will always be influenced by what he or she believes at the core. A nation deserves to know what they can expect.
"Bringing America back starts with faith," Gov. Perry declared during a speech Wednesday to the Republican Jewish Coalition. "Faith in the Almighty, who created. Faith in our friends and allies, in a time of trouble, faith in each other to not give up hope."

Read the full article at FoxNews.com.
  