
    U.S. should be a friend and ally to Israel — not a "master" as current foreign policy promotes
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul recently discussed his position vis a vis the State of Israel and foreign policy in general.
In an interview published online, the 12-term Congressman from Texas describes how the United States as a true ally and friend would not limit Israel's right to defend herself. Nor would the U.S., under a fairer aid and diplomatic framework, fund Israel's enemies and create greater Middle East instability.
Ron Paul Tells Newsmax: I Support IsraelBy Doug Wead*
In an exclusive Newsmax interview, Congressman and Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul confirmed his support for Israel, but cautioned that while the United States should be a "friend" of the Jewish state, America should not be the "master" of Israel.
Paul also says the United States should not dictate Israel's borders or try to "buy her allegiance" with massive amounts of foreign aid. He argued that foreign aid has actually hurt — not helped — the Jewish state.
The interview was conducted by Newsmax contributor Doug Wead, a presidential historian and New York Times best-selling author.
Paul has recently come under fire from some Jewish groups in America. The Republican Jewish Coalition banned Paul from a debate on Jewish issues in Washington this week because of his "misguided and extreme views," according to the group's executive director, Matt Brooks.
Newsmax chatted with Paul to get his side of the issue as the Texas Republican is surging in some presidential polls.
A new Washington Post-ABC News survey in Iowa shows him threatening Mitt Romney as the second-leading candidate behind Newt Gingrich. Paul is now tied with Romney in the early caucus state with 18 percent of the vote, behind Gingrich's 33 percent.
Rep. Paul's interview with Newsmax follows:
Newsmax: What should our relationship be with Israel?
Ron Paul: We should be their friend and their trading partner. They are a democracy and we share many values with them. But we should not be their master. We should not dictate where their borders will be nor should we have veto power over their foreign policy.
This is not just about Israel, by the way, this is about how we should conduct ourselves with other countries around the world…
For the full article, click here.
[*Newsmax contributor Doug Wead is a presidential historian and bestselling author. He also serves as a senior advisor for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign.]
  