
    Pool Reports by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




December 24, 202110:22

In-town pool report 1 - pool mobilized
Good morning from the White House on this first Christmas Eve of the Biden White House. It's 45 degrees and sunny.
Pool has been mobilized for the motorcade, destination as yet undisclosed.



December 24, 202110:54

In-town pool report 2 - on the move/Commander sighting!
Motorcade departed the WH at 10:51 am. FLOTUS was spotted by pool getting into the Beast. We didn't see POTUS. Destination still not reportable.
Dr. Biden is wearing a bright red overcoat.
But here's the highlight of this report: while we waited in the motorcade for departure, Commander the First Puppy came out for a frolic on the South Lawn. See my Twitter for pix: @linda_feldmann
Commander got some nice belly rubs and some exercise retrieving a ball thrown by his minder. Looks like a tennis ball.



December 24, 202111:04

In-town pool report 3 - Children's National arrival
Motorcade arrived at Children's National Hospital at 11:03 am after an uneventful ride. Lots of blocked traffic to speed our trip thru the city, eventually heading north on North Capitol Street.
From the press office:
Background on the President and First Lady's Visit to Children's National Hospital on Christmas Eve:
President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden will make a holiday visit to Children's National Hospital (Children's National) in Washington, D.C. President Biden's attendance will be a surprise for hospital patients, families, and staff. This is the first time a sitting President has taken part in this annual holiday tradition at Children's National.
Today's visit will be Dr. Biden's third visit to Children's National as First Lady and will continue the annual tradition of First Ladies celebrating the holidays at Children's National with hospitalized children and their families.
Upon arrival, President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden will be greeted by hospital leadership and two patients. Next, they will visit with children who will be making lanterns as part of a winter craft project. After, Dr. Biden will sit near the Christmas tree and read aloud Olaf's Night Before Christmas to the children, which will also be broadcast by video to the rooms of pediatric patients throughout the hospital.
This year, The Walt Disney Company provided a copy of Olaf's Night Before Christmas to each hospitalized patient so that they can follow along during the First Lady's book reading. Each book will come with a White House bookmark designed by the First Lady's office. Each patient staying at the hospital will also receive the materials for the winter craft project in their room so they can participate virtually during the holiday visit.
Children's National Hospital – Holiday Visits by First Ladies:First Ladies traditionally visit Children's National Hospital during the holiday season to spread holiday cheer to children and their families. The tradition dates back to First Lady Bess Truman and includes reading a book to patients. Children's National does not have any record of a sitting President making a holiday visit, until today. Former President Barack Obama made a holiday visit in December 2018, after he had left office.



December 24, 202111:33

In-town pool report 4 - reading and crafts at Children's
Pool was escorted into the hospital atrium, decorated for Christmas. About a dozen children, including a little boy in a wheelchair, are seated at three tables making Illuminary lanterns. Hospital staff are standing nearby.
In front of a large Christmas tree there's a seat with a pillow that says LOVE.
Potus and FLOTUS entered at 11:15. Potus said "hi how are you?" To one kid. He then walked over to the boy in the wheelchair and leaned over to speak to him.
Potus to another boy" pretty cool, Danny," potus said after the boy had read his wish list.
FLOTUS: what do you have in your bag?
FLOTUS: Thank you to all the nurses and docs who are here to make them feel better.
A boy named Beau held up his lantern and said a few words, slowly. Potus pointed out he had a son named Beau, and now has a grandson Beau.
boy in the wheelchair is Samuel. He showed the Bidens his lantern, with drawings of his family, he said.
The Bidens made their way around the room, speaking to both children and adults. Potus put his hand in a woman's shoulder as he spoke to.
"You're bringing us some joy," Potus said to the kids.
"My grandson loves laser tag," Potus said to another boy who talked
Dr Biden to a kid: we have a new dog. This morning he was eating my slipper.
Potus showed a boy a picture of his new dog on his cell phone
"He's 15 weeks old" Potus said. Suggested maybe bringing the dog here in the summer.
Dr Biden is wearing a flowery dress with a red sash around the waist.
One girl explained she's been here a month and a half.
Parents of the kids are also in the room.
Potus kneeled in front of boy in wheelchair and spoke to him.
Then the Bidens took their seats in front of tree for book reading: Frozen Olaf's Night Before Christmas.
Potus joked that he reads this book at night before bed, along with briefing books.
Dr Biden did the honors, reading aloud to the kids who sat on the floor at the first couple's feet.
I tweeted a pic
More TK



December 24, 202111:43

In town pool report 5- more from Children's National
Potus is in blue suit, white shirt, blue spotted tie.
FLOTUS invited a boy to come up and read the final bit of the book aloud.
FLOTUS wished all the kids Merry Christmas.
Potus: "We spent a lotta time at Childrens hospital in Philadelphia," when granddaughter was there for a time.
Potus asked the kids, who wants to be a doctor? One or two hands went up.
One boy said he wants to be a chef, another said police officer. One child said aerospace engineer. Author, said another kid.
Biomedical engineer, said another.
Hospital administrator thanked first couple for coming.
"We've never had a president come with the First Lady on Christmas Eve," he said, noting that many FLOTUSes have visited.
Pool escorted from the atrium at 11:37. Bidens stayed behind still visiting with the group.
Pool now holding in vans.



December 24, 202112:00

In town pool report 6- motorcade rolling
Motorcade departed Children's National hospital at 11:59 am.
Meant to note in previous report: everyone at the hospital atrium visit, kids and adults, wore masks the whole time.



December 24, 202112:17

In town pool report 7 - arrival at OTR to see tree
Motorcade arrived at next destination at 12:14 — an OTR stop at 17th and Q to see the Xmas tree.
Motorcade again wended it's way thru DC streets, down north cap, across NY Ave, to the highways, then past WH and up Connecticut Ave., up 18th, right up NH Ave to Corcoran. Into 17th street to see the big Xmas tree at Q street.



December 24, 202112:24

In town pool report 8 - more color from Floriana tree
Potus and FLOTUS admired the big tree outside Floriana restaurant, getting up close and walking around it. A man, we think the restaurant owner, hosted their visit, showed them around. I will get his name.
Potus put an ornament on the tree
A reporter shouted a question: message for Americans?
"Keep the faith," Potus said, waving his fist
Pool rushed back to vans at 12:17.
Rolling at 12:22



December 24, 202112:32

In town pool report 9- back at WH
Motorcade arrived at WH at 12:27 pm
At 12:28 The Bidens exited the Beast and went into WH thru south Portico. FLOTUS's red coat really stands out.
For pic of the first couple visiting the tree at Floriana, see my Twitter: @linda_feldmann



December 24, 202112:35

In town pool report 10 - Potus comment on warm weather
As pool approached the Rose Garden, the first couple were walking along the colonnade toward the west wing.
First couple then exited out other side of west wing, and onto west exec avenue.
"It's more like Easter than Christmas with the weather," Potus said to the pool on his way to EEOB. He was holding a cup
Pool now entering eeob



December 24, 202113:02

In town pool report 11 - call to NORAD, a parent said "let's go Brandon"
At 12:43, FLOTUS and potus walked on stage at the South Court Auditorium in EEOB to call in to NORAD to see where Santa is. FLOTUS is leading the call, potus joining.
Commander of NORAD and his wife greeted the Bidens, and reported Santa was in Turkmenistan on his way to the Emirates.
Potus: Santa's really moving, man…. That s a heavy sleigh, man.
Commander said it moves faster than starlight.
The first couple spoke with kids by audience. First, a boy named Caleb. They asked what he asked for for Xmas. Legos, he said.
FLOTUS: you already have a lotta Lego's?
Yes
FLOTUS: what are you building?
A city
Potus: Gotta be to bed between 9 and 12, otherwise Santa won't come
Caleb's sister asked for a horse
Biden repeated the order to be in bed by 9
Next kids they spoke with are in Oregon. First they talked to the dad.
Griffin, age 11, asked for a piano.
Another son, Hunter, wants a Nintendo Switch.
Another child wants a Barbie. FLOTUS said she still has her Barbie- "now ancient Barbie."
Penelope, age 2: dad said she'd be happy with anything
Potus again reminded kids to be in bed by 9:00
Jared, the dad, said merry Christmas and Let's Go Brandon. (We are trying to get more on why this happened)
Potus did not react to the apparent slight, let it slide right by.
Next family:
Potus: we're keeping an eye on Santa. He's in Iran, heading our way.
Potus asked a kid named Dawson what he wanted. Dawson said a drum set
Potus again said you have to be in bed by 9, and you have to be asleep. If Santa sees you, he"ll take off
NORAD commander thanked the Bidens for joining.
"We wanna thank military families," said Potus. "God bless our troops."
A tv producer who was near the stage asked Potus a few questions that print reporters couldn't hear
Potus said he didn't get tested for covid today, but tested negative yesterday.
First couple left stage st 12:59 pm
From press office re Floriana tree visit:
Upon arrival at Floriana, the President and First Lady were greeted by Dito Sevilla. The President hung the official 2021 White House Christmas ornament.



December 24, 202113:14

In-town pool report 12 - travel/photo lid 
Travel/photo lid was called at 1:08 pm.
Meanwhile, I'm getting a better recording of the NORAD event (from NBC TV feed), and trying to get clarity on the "Let's go Brandon" moment. Will forward the Otter link when it's ready.



December 24, 202113:52

In-town pool report 13 - recording/transcript of "let's go Brandon" moment at NORAD event
Here are links to both the Otter recording and transcript of the NORAD event at EEOB. These links, via WeTransfer, will expire after a week:
Audio: https://we.tl/t-UwckicntAV
Text: https://we.tl/t-oGctJ6UsgC
The "Let's Go Brandon" moment comes at the 9:12 mark. The transcript doesn't quite capture POTUS's response, so I recommend the recording.
To recap, here's what happened - based on both audio and video of the event: A dad named Jared wished POTUS a Merry Christmas, followed by "Let's go Brandon." POTUS responded with "Let's go Brandon, I agree". POTUS didn't flinch, and seemed not to get the reference.
Many thanks to Ben Gittleson of ABC News (not NBC), for the clear recording. Also, it was Ben (positioned just offstage) who asked POTUS questions at the end of the NORAD event: What did you get each other for Christmas? (the first couple laughed) And have you (POTUS) been tested today? (not today, but tested negative yesterday)
Merry Christmas!




  