
    2007: "Ending illegal immigration won't be easy. ... I have the track record ... I've done it before, I can do it again." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks In Tampa, FL, 12/15/07)
2001: "The city of New York, quite frankly, is quite tolerant of undocumented immigration ... I happen to agree with that." (WABC Radio's "Live From City Hall...With Rudy Giuliani," 9/7/01, www.youtube.com/watch?v=QhS-Ic9JohM)

Mayor Giuliani Claims He Has The "Track Record" To End Illegal Immigration:
In His Tampa Speech, Mayor Giuliani Said He Has The "Track Record" To End Illegal Immigration. GIULIANI: "Ending illegal immigration won't be easy. It requires changing human behavior – but it needs to be done for everyone's good. I have the will. I have the way to do it, the plan to do it, and I have the track record to bring safety and order and fairness to a situation that is now out of control. I've done it before, I can do it again." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks In Tampa, FL, 12/15/07)
But Mayor Giuliani Supports Giving Illegal Aliens A Path To Citizenship:
Mayor Giuliani: "But The People Who Want To Come Forward Should Be Allowed To Come Forward." GIULIANI: "The people that come forward can sign up. They can pay taxes, and then the people who don't are the people who are really the cause of concern. Those people should be expelled from the United States if they don't already leave. But the people who want to come forward should be allowed to come forward." (Univision, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Miami, FL, 12/9/07)
Mayor Giuliani And Sen. McCain Have Both Called "For Some Illegal Aliens To Be Granted A Path To Citizenship." "Sen. John McCain and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani stood alone among the Republican presidential candidates in last night's Spanish-language debate in calling for some illegal aliens to be granted a path to citizenship." (Stephen Dinan, "Two GOP Hopefuls See Some Illegals As Citizens," The Washington Times, 12/10/07)
And Mayor Giuliani Ran New York City With A Sanctuary State Of Mind:
As Mayor, Giuliani Boasted That New York City Was "Quite Tolerant Of Undocumented Immigration." GIULIANI: " The city of New York, quite frankly, is quite tolerant of undocumented immigration and this shouldn't surprise you because I've been the Mayor for a long time and outspoken on this issue, even nationally, I happen to agree with that. I think New York City should not deal with undocumented immigrants in a harsh way, I think they make a big contribution to the life of the city and were much better off being sensible and practical about it. And the reality is that restaurants are going to have a certain number of people who are undocumented, you know people that come here to make a living trying to help them selves and their families." (WABC Radio's "Live From City Hall...With Rudy Giuliani," 9/7/01, www.youtube.com/watch?v=QhS-Ic9JohM)
Mayor Giuliani Said That Illegal Immigrants Were "The People Who We Want In This City." "[Mr. Giuliani said,] 'If you come here and you work hard and you happen to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in this city. You're somebody that we want to protect, and we want you to get out from under what is often a life of being like a fugitive, which is really unfair.'" (Deborah Sontag, "New York Officials Welcome Immigrants, Legal Or Illegal," The New York Times, 6/10/94)
Mayor Giuliani Wanted To Give A "Zone Of Protection" To Illegal Immigrants. GIULIANI: "So that we wouldn't have 40, 50, 60, 70,000, 80,000 children out of school and in the streets of the city and in apartments. We gave that kind of protection to people who might have been beaten or the victims of crime, so that they could get relief and help and so that they could assist the rest of us in society by reporting people who committed crimes, and it gave that relief and zone of protection to people who were sick and needed humane and decent services." (NPR's "Weekend Edition Saturday," 10/12/96)
- Mayor Giuliani: "There Are Times When Undocumented Aliens Must Have A Substantial Degree Of Protection." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks At Kennedy School Of Government, Cambridge, MA, 10/10/96, New York City Website, www.nyc.gov, Accessed 8/14/07)

  