
    Donald J. Trump Announces Statewide Leadership Team in Oklahoma
Mr. Trump is now Officially on the Ballot in Oklahoma as he Expands his Support Across the State
(New York, NY) December 8th, 2015 - Today Donald J. Trump announced his Oklahoma Statewide Chairmen and a growing number of endorsements for his campaign for President of the United States. The list includes elected officials, Veterans, small business owners, and county leaders. Additionally, the Trump campaign has announced Mr. Trump has officially qualified for the ballot in the state of Oklahoma.
Mr. Trump said, "I am proud to have the support of so many community leaders in Oklahoma and it is an honor to be on the ballot. I visited in September and was overwhelmed by the enthusiasm at the State Fair where over 20,000 people attended my speech. With the support of those people and my team, we will Make America Great Again!"
Co-Chairing Mr. Trump's campaign in Oklahoma is Mr. Bob Mills and Mr. Dan Keating. Bob Mills has been operating Bob Mills furniture in Oklahoma since 1972. His operations have now expanded into Texas as well. Tulsa native, Dan Keating, is a retired Marine and currently serves as President of Summit Consolidated Group.
The list of Oklahoma leaders endorsing Mr. Trump and county coordinators currently includes: Senator Ralph Shortey; Senator Mark Allen; Representative Mike Christian; Representative John Bennett; Representative Mike Turner; Bob Mills; Dan Keating & Kathy Keating; Rodney and Jill Timms; Dr. Sam & Lynn Coury; Bob Dani; Stan Ward; Lisa & Steven Kalman; Ferlin Kearns; Larry Stein; Darren Ward; Angie & Jason Thomas; Lester Claraval; Guy & Jennifer Madison; Beth Marshall; Ronnie Farmer; David Morgan; Orvel Robinson; Ella McDonald; Andy Barber; Suzanne Landess; D.W. & Rochelle Converse; Kelly Gatz; Jo Senske; John Horn; Richard Leathers; Monte Kleiner; Gene Marshall; and April Miller.
Mr. Trump has hired State Director Stephanie Milligan and Field Director Ben Keel to lead the campaign's Oklahoma operation. The most recent polls show Mr. Trump with a commanding lead in the state and he looks forward to visiting again soon.
  