
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced additional endorsements from prominent Georgia Republican leaders. Joining the Giuliani campaign are State Senator John Wiles, former State Senator Chuck Clay and Stefan Passantino, a counselor to former Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Newt Gingrich.
These Republican leaders will work to expand Mayor Giuliani's campaign in Georgia and help lead the Mayor to a victory in the state's February 5th primary.
"From his record of cutting taxes in New York City to his vision for keeping the country safe from international threats and ending illegal immigration, Rudy is the candidate who has been tested and is most ready to lead our country," said Senator Wiles. "Mayor Giuliani is the leader Georgians are looking for in their next President."
Today's endorsers join a strong and growing Georgia team, including State Superintendent of Schools Kathy Cox, Insurance Commissioner John Oxendine, and the Speaker of the Georgia House of Representatives, Glenn Richardson.
Passantino will also serve as Honorary Co-Chair of Georgia Lawyers for Rudy.
Senator John Wiles:
Wiles represents the northwest portion of Cobb County and is the Chairman of the State and Local Governmental Operations Committee and a member of the Higher Education, State Institutions and Property and Judiciary Committees. He was recently appointed a Deputy Majority Whip for the Republican Caucus by Senate leadership and Chair of the Higher Education Subcommittee of Appropriations.
Wiles served in the State House of Representatives from 1995 to 2003. During that time, he was a member of the Judiciary Committee, as well as a Deputy Whip for the House Republican Caucus. He was elected by his colleagues as Chair of the Cobb County Legislative Delegation.
Charles "Chuck" Clay:
Clay is the former Chairman of the Republican Party of Georgia and a former Georgia State Senator. He began his public service career as a Cobb County District Attorney and also served as a Cobb County Commissioner. He was elected to the Georgia State Senate and served as the Senate's Minority Leader.
Clay served as Chairman of the Republican Party of Georgia during George W. Bush's campaign for President. He remains active in public policy and legislative issues.
Stefan Passantino:
Passantino, a partner at McKenna Long & Aldridge, serves as head of the firm's political law team. He has worked with former Speakers of the United States House of Representatives Newt Gingrich and J. Dennis Hastert, U.S. Representative Roy Blunt and former U.S. Representative JC Watts. In addition, Passantino serves as General Counsel to corporate entities formed by former Speaker Gingrich and former Congressman Watts.
Prior to joining McKenna Long & Aldridge, Stefan worked as an associate for a New York law firm and as a Federal Law Clerk to United States District Court Judge Herbert F. Murray.
Stefan has been recognized as one of "Georgia's Most Influential People" in the March 2006 and 2007 issues of James Magazine.
  