
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 30
In the morning, the President met with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority in the Oval Office at the White House.
The President appointed Jenny Luray as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Women's Initiatives and Outreach.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the Advisory Commission on Holocaust Assets in the United States: Edgar M. Bronfman, Chair; Roman Kent, Ira Leesfield, Jehuda Reinharz, Margaret Richardson, Patricia Schroeder, William Singer, and Cecil Williams, private sector members; Stuart Eizenstat, Department of State; Patrick Henry, Department of the Army; James Robinson, Department of Justice; and Neal Wolin, Department of the Treasury.
December 1
In the morning, the President met with President Joaquim Alberto Chissano of Mozambique in the Oval Office at the White House. December 2
In the afternoon, the President hosted a working lunch for Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan in the Old Family Dining Room at the White House.
The President announced his intention to appoint Randy W. Deitering as Executive Director of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint James H. Schiff as a member of the Advisory Committee of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Angus S. King, Jr., as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas S. Williamson, Jr., as a member of the District of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission.
December 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Newport, RI, returning to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
The President announced his intention to appoint Bob Armstrong as Chair and W.F. (Rick) Cronk as a member of the National Recreation Lakes Study Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Roberta Bennett, Michael Berenbaum, Charles Kushner, William Lerach, Susan Bass Levin, Arnold Lorber, Jack Rosen, Dennis Ross, Gerald Sigal, and Arnold Thaler to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
December 4
The President announced his intention to appoint Lee Haney as a member of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.
The President announced his intention to appoint Frederick N. Frank and Ginger E. Lew as members of the Board of Directors of the Czech and Slovak American Enterprise Fund.
The President announced the recess appointment of G. Edward DeSeve as Deputy Director for Management in the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. DeSeve was nominated on March 13. The President intends to resubmit his nomination when the 106th Congress convenes.
The President announced the recess appointment of John C. Truesdale as Chair and member of the National Labor Relations Board. Mr. Truesdale was nominated on October 14. The President intends to resubmit his nomination when the 106th Congress convenes.
  