
    
  Direct Mail Piece Promises Rick Santorum Won't Surrender on Social Issues

Urbandale, IA - Republican Presidential Candidate Rick Santorum's campaign has released a direct mail piece to 60,000 likely Iowa caucus-goers outlining Rick Santorum's long track record of fighting and winning on conservative principles.
TEXT OF "NO SURRENDER"
"A number of Republican leaders have suggested that the best way to win back the White House is to call a truce on talking about social issues. Issues like abortion, marriage, school prayer, and immigration. In my book that's not a truce... it's a surrender!
The day we stop fighting for the unborn child, or fighting to protect the sanctity of marriage, expel God from public, or decide we will no longer enforce the laws of land, is the day we surrender all our founding father's created.
I believe what makes America exceptional is not just our economic potential or our remarkable innovation, but the fact that we are a moral enterprise. As President, I will protect American's moral foundation, empower American families and build America's economic freedom. And I won't compromise on my values to do it."
Rick Santorum: A history of fighting for our values.

Author of the bill that ended partial birth abortions in America;


Named by Time Magazine as one of the 25 most influential Evangelicals in America


Washington Post called Rick Santorum a "Tea Party guy before the Tea Party even existed," for his efforts fighting corruption in Congress, and returning to Constitutional government;


Founded the bipartisan House/Senate working group on religious liberty;


Co-authored and fought for the only vote on the Federal Marriage Amendment in the U.S. Senate;


Rick was an author and floor manager of the landmark Welfare Reform Act that moved millions from welfare to work;


Rick was a leader on U.S.-Israel relations, authored legislation to stop the growing nuclear threat from Iran, and has led the fight to protect America from Islamic radicals;


Rick is the best-selling author of It Takes A Family, Rick and his wife Karen have home-schooled each of their children;


Has passionately fought for a balanced budget amendment, and to take the immoral debt off the backs of our children.

COPY OF "NO SURRENDER"
SANTORUM DIRECT MAIL PIECE: "NO SURRENDER"
  