
    The United States congratulates the people of Iraq and their elected representatives for the passage of a revised election law, and we look forward to the holding of national elections. The negotiations that led to the passage of the election law demonstrate anew that the Iraqis and their leaders are committed to taking control of their future, and to resolving their differences peacefully and in accord with the Iraqi constitution.
Since 2005, the United States has supported the Iraqi constitution as the basis around which all Iraqis can protect their rights and work together to build national unity. That constitution, including the establishment of a Kurdistan Regional Government, has contributed to Iraqi stability. The United States reiterates its strong support for the Iraqi people and their elected government, and reaffirms its respect for the Iraqi constitution, including Article 140, which addresses the dispute over Kirkuk and other disputed internal borders, and Article 142, which addresses the process for constitutional amendments. We will continue to support the Iraqi people and their elected government as they work towards the full and fair implementation of the Iraqi constitution.
There are still challenges facing Iraq, including disagreements between the government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government. The United States is ready to help all Iraqis come together to find new political solutions to ease old conflicts, remove old fears and build a future together as a united country with a proud, historic place in the international community.
Following the 2010 parliamentary elections, Iraq will hold elections in 2013 and 2014 in accordance with its constitution and laws. A current and thorough census will help facilitate the conduct of those future elections, and the United States remains ready to help the Government of Iraq conduct an accurate census next year as one element in support of a stable Iraq with a government that is fair and accountable to the Iraqi people.
The United States thanks the United Nations for its indispensible role in helping Iraqis prepare for the upcoming elections and pledges to sustain U.S. support for the UN mission in Iraq.
  