
    Senator Klobuchar's Lead in Legislative Endorsements Continues to Grow 
DES MOINES, IA — Iowa State Senator Kevin Kinney and State Representative Sharon Steckman today endorsed Senator Amy Klobuchar for President. Kinney cited Senator Klobuchar's record of supporting rural communities in announcing his support, while Steckman lauded her ability to connect with everyday Americans and bridge the urban-rural divide.
"Amy connects with people on a very personal level and makes them feel seen and heard," said State Senator Kevin Kinney. "Her track record of working across the aisle and prioritizing rural communities is second to none. I believe Amy will be able to uniquely relate to voters across Iowa and the Midwest who have felt overlooked in recent years. I look forward to caucusing for her in February."
"Amy Klobuchar understands that to win this election with a mandate, the nominee has to be able to reach out to people of all backgrounds," said State Representative and Assistant House Minority Leader Sharon Steckman. "In the years I've known Amy personally, I've watched her succeed in bringing both sides together to pass meaningful legislation that has improved peoples' lives. In recent months I've had the opportunity to campaign with a number of presidential candidates. I believe that Amy has the agenda, vision and determination to make a difference for rural communities like mine in North Iowa as well as urban centers across the country. She'll be a president who speaks to the interests of all Americans."
Kinney — who represents Washington County as well as portions of Johnson and Keokuk Counties — currently serves as the ranking Democrat on the State Senate's Agriculture Committee. Steckman has represented her North Iowa district since 2009 and was elected as Assistant Minority Leader in 2018.
The new endorsements come just days after Klobuchar completed her 25th visit to Iowa as a presidential candidate and visited her 70th of Iowa's 99 counties. To date, Klobuchar has the support of more current and former Iowa legislators than any other candidate in the race.
  