
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including Subchapter III of Chapter 33 of title 5 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered that:
Section 1. Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Executive Order, the officers named in section 2, in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary of Labor (Secretary) during any period when both the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of Labor (Deputy Secretary) have died, resigned, or are otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary.
Sec. 2. Order of Succession.
(a) Solicitor of Labor;

(b)
Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of Administration and Management;
(c)
Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of Policy;
(d)
Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs;
(e)
Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Employment and Training Administration;
(f)
Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Employment Standards Administration;
(g)
Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration;
(h)
Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health;
(i)
Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health;
(j)
Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Office of Public Affairs;
(k)
Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training; and
(l)
Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Office of Disability Employment Policy.

Sec. 3. Exceptions.

(a)
No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 2(a)–(l) in an acting capacity shall act as Secretary pursuant to this Executive Order.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Executive Order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by Subchapter III of Chapter 33 of title 5 of the United States Code, to depart from this Executive Order in designating an acting Secretary.

Sec. 4. Executive Order 10513 of January 19, 1954, is hereby revoked.
GEORGE W. BUSH
The White House,
December 18, 2001.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., December 20, 2001]
  