
    Civil rights leader Dolores Huerta and Richard Chavez, brother of the late Cesar Chavez, kicked off a two-day, seven county tour of the Golden State today, attending "Holiday Parties for Hillary" in Fresno, Sacramento, Richmond, and San Francisco with hundreds of Hillary Clinton supporters.
At the parties, Huerta joined local elected officials and residents to phone bank area voters in support of Hillary. Holiday party goers took to the streets and went door-to-door and to local shopping centers to talk to voters.
"We're traveling throughout the state to deliver the message from Hillary Clinton that when she's in the White House, no American will be invisible to her," said Dolores Huerta. "As President, Hillary will ensure we have universal health care, affordable housing, quality education and the opportunity to achieve the American dream."
The "Holiday Parties for Hillary" was also the launch of the Clinton Campaign's new and ongoing voter contact effort known as Bring-Your-Own-Phone parties. The BYOP parties allow supporters to use their personal phones to come together and make hundreds of calls to area residents in support of Hillary.
The statewide tour started on Saturday morning in the City of Fresno at the home of David L. Schecter, Associate Professor of California State University at Fresno, and special guests included Fresno Councilmember Cynthia Sterling. The tour continued in Sacramento, attending a party hosted by campaign volunteers and supporters at the home of Karen Thomas and John McFadden. Early evening, Dolores was in the Bay Area attending the Richmond Holiday Party at the home of Contra Costa Supervisor John Gioia and Jennifer Peck with guests Pinole Councilmember Stephen Tilton, Berkeley Councilmember Kris Worthington, Oakland Councilmember Jean Quan and Mayor of San Leandro Anthony B. Santos.
The first day of the tour concluded in San Francisco at the home of Miguel Bustos and Alex Rivera. In attendance were Supervisor Jose Sandoval and Maria Echeveste, former Deputy Chief of Staff to President Bill Clinton.
Huerta currently serves as President of the Dolores Huerta Foundation, which focuses on community organizing and leadership training for low-income, under-represented communities. In 1993, Dolores was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame and received the Ellis Island Medal of Freedom Award. She has also been recognized by Ms. Magazine as "Women of the Year," and by Ladies Home Journal's "100 Most Important Women of the 20th Century." In 1998, Dolores received the United States Presidential Eleanor D. Roosevelt Human Rights Award from President Bill Clinton.
Dolores will continue the tour tomorrow, attending "Holiday Parties for Hillary" in San Diego, Orange, and Los Angeles counties.
  