
    We are witnessing dramatic and historic events in Eastern Europe that were scarcely imaginable a year ago. The formation in Poland of the first non-Communist government in Eastern Europe in more than 40 years hopefully represents only the beginning of a more profound systemic transformation in the region. The political and economic reforms in Hungary are further evidence of this phenomenon. The United States has encouraged and promoted these changes, which offer the prospect of a Europe whole and free, and a more peaceful world.
As part of this effort, and in accordance with the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, President Bush today has named Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger as Coordinator of United States support to Eastern Europe. In that position, Secretary Eagleburger will be responsible for overseeing and coordinating all SEED programs and activities which pertain specifically to Poland and Hungary. The President also has named Michael J. Boskin, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and John E. Robson, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, as Deputy Coordinators.
United States assistance to Poland and Hungary is designed to contribute to the development of democratic institutions and political pluralism in those countries, as well as to promote the development of free market economies. Such assistance includes food aid, labor programs, environmental projects, educational and cultural exchanges, assistance for democratic institutions, trade benefits, investment guarantees, and structural adjustment and technical assistance programs. Secretary Eagleburger will be responsible both for overseeing these U.S. initiatives as well as for coordinating them with similar initiatives by other Western nations and by international institutions.
The United States is also prepared to work closely with our Western partners in assisting other Eastern European countries that make meaningful progress toward economic reform and democratic change.
  