
    Jennifer L. Homendy of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a five-year term expiring December 31, 2024. 
Ms. Homendy currently serves as a member of the National Transportation Safety Board. Previously, Ms. Homendy served as the Democratic Staff Director of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials for the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in the U.S. House of Representatives and held positions with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Transportation Trades Department, AFL-CIO, American Iron and Steel Institute, and the National Federation of Independent Business. Ms. Homendy is certified by the International Association of Fire Fighters on Core HazMat Operations and Missions-Specific PPE and Product Control and is a graduate of Pennsylvania State University.
Michael Graham of Kansas, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 31, 2020. 
Mr. Graham currently serves as the Director of Flight Operations Safety, Security and Standardization for Textron Aviation, Inc., where he oversees the company's safety management system, global security, and air safety investigations. Additionally, he is the Chairman of the Air Charter Safety Foundation, leader of the Single Pilot Safety Working Group of the National Business Aviation Association's Safety Committee, and a Member of the General Aviation Information Analysis Team. Mr. Graham began his career in the United States Navy as a Naval Aviator flying A-7's and F/A-18's and later worked for Boeing/McDonnell Douglas as an F/A-18 Aircrew Instructor and avionics integration engineer and Cessna as a demonstration pilot. Mr. Graham is a certified Airline Transport Pilot with 10,000 flight hours and is type rated in six different citation models. He received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of New Mexico.

President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council for the remainder of five-year terms expiring January 15, 2023.

Andrew M. Cohn of Arizona
Helene Feldman of New York
Murray Jack Laulicht of Florida
Betty Pantirer Schwartz of New Jersey
Bradley David Wine of Maryland

  