
    Mike Bloomberg is leading a national campaign to defeat Trump in November
New York, NY— Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today launched a new microsite, We Can't Let Trump Win, that focuses on the damage President Trump is doing to our country and the general election campaign he's been waging since he took office. The site features a new video reminding voters that the Bloomberg campaign's strategy is to run a national campaign, focusing on the states where the general election will be decided.
"We can't afford to wait to start campaigning in the rest of the country," a voter says in the "How We Win" video, which will become a part of the digital advertising campaign in Super Tuesday states. "It's time to think bigger and act bolder."
As mikebloomberg/2020/beat-trump outlines: "Donald Trump has waged an uninterrupted re-election campaign since his first day in office. Over the past several years, the Trump campaign and the Republican National Committee have raised hundreds of millions of dollars and they are spending immensely on social media. Trump will soon outpace every current Democratic candidate, except Mike Bloomberg, in cash-on-hand by almost 10 times, with millions more pouring in each day. His impeachment has generated a flurry of donations from loyalists. And unfortunately, recent polls show that major Democratic rivals are falling behind in key battleground states, partly a result of Trump campaign efforts."
The video will also live on the campaign's YouTube channel.
The Bloomberg 2020 campaign has hired more than 200 staffers in more than 20 states, with expansion plans on the horizon. Just this weekend, Mike met voters and opened field offices in Philadelphia, PA, Detroit, MI, and Milwaukee, WI.
Mike Bloomberg celebrates the opening of the Mike 2020 campaign office in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on December 21, 2019.
Mike Bloomberg celebrates the opening of the Mike 2020 campaign office in Detroit, Michigan on December 21, 2019.
Mike Bloomberg celebrates the opening of the Mike 2020 campaign office in Milwaukee, Wisconsin on December 21, 2019.
  