
    DURING the visit of President and Mrs. Gerald R. Ford at the invitation of President and Mrs. Ferdinand E. Marcos, the two Presidents welcomed the opportunity to renew the bonds of friendship between their two nations and to review the status of their alliance in the light of changing circumstances in the Pacific region.
They affirmed that sovereign equality, territorial integrity and political independence of all states are fundamental principles which both countries scrupulously respect.
They confirmed the mutual respect for the dignity of each nation which characterizes their friendship as well as the alliance between their two countries.
The two Presidents discussed the measures which they agreed were desirable to enhance their relations, and to adjust them to current conditions and needs.
In the field of economic and commercial relations, they agreed that it was timely to conclude negotiations on a new agreement on trade, investment and related matters as a means to enhance economic cooperation between the two countries. This agreement would modernize the terms for conducting economic and commercial relations, taking account of the end of the Laurel-Langley agreement and giving due consideration to the requirements for the development of the Philippine economy. The Philippine Government stressed its urgent desires regarding United States tariff treatment for such significant Philippine products as mahogany and coconut oil.
In the field of security cooperation, they declared that the alliance between the United States and the Philippines is not directed against any country, but is intended to preserve the independence and promote the welfare of their two peoples, while at the same time contributing to peace and progress to all. They considered that the treaty of August 30, 1951 enhanced the defense of both countries, strengthened the security of the Pacific region, and contributed to the maintenance of world peace. They agreed that the military bases used by the U.S. in the Philippines remain important in maintaining an effective United States presence in the Western Pacific in support of these mutual objectives.
They agreed that negotiations on the subject of United States use of Philippine military bases should be conducted in the clear recognition of Philippine sovereignty. The two Presidents agreed that there should be an early review of the steps necessary to conclude the negotiations through the two panels already organized for that purpose.
President Marcos explained his efforts to attain military self-reliance for the Philippines and his policy not to allow introduction of foreign ground troops into the Philippines for its defense except as a last resort. President Ford expressed support for those realistic policies and to this end indicated that the United States intended to continue to provide assistance to the Philippines within the framework of available resources.
The two Presidents reaffirmed their commitment to continue close association on all matters of mutual concern. They concluded that the ties between the Philippines and the U.S. remain strong and mutually beneficial.
President Ford thanked President Marcos for the magnificent hospitality extended to him and Mrs. Ford. President Marcos accepted President Ford's invitation to make a return visit to the United States at a mutually convenient time.
Manila, December 7, 1975.
  