
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted December 11
Princeton Nathan Lyman,
of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Douglas Joseph Bennet, Jr., resigned.
Alfred C. DeCotiis,
of New Jersey, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 50th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Joseph Lane Kirkland,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 50th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Tom Lantos,
of California, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 50th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe,
of New York, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 50th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Toby Roth,
of Wisconsin, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 50th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Submitted December 12
A.E. Dick Howard,
of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term of 6 years, vice Lance Banning.
James P. Jones,
of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Virginia, vice James H. Michael, Jr., retired.
Cheryl B. Wattley,
of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Texas (new position).
Submitted December 13
Tom Lantos,
of California, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 50th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Toby Roth,
of Wisconsin, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 50th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Withdrawn December 13
Tom Lantos,
of California, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 50th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, which was sent to the Senate on December 11, 1995.
Toby Roth,
of Wisconsin, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 50th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, which was sent to the Senate on December 11, 1995.
  