
    Fred Thompson: 1
Debate Format: 0
"I am not sure how these other candidates plan to defeat al-Qaeda when they can't even take on Carolyn Washburn. The format of this debate was more of a joke than a Mike Huckabee foreign policy answer.
"But Fred Thompson easily cut through the clutter. Between marginal candidate outbursts and moderator questions dripping with liberal presumptions, Thompson rose above all of it to be, in a word, presidential.
"It is a three-way race in Iowa and today's debate performance will only solidify Fred Thompson's standing in the top three. We plan to spend almost every day between now and January 3rd proving to the people of Iowa that Fred Thompson is the one consistent conservative in this race who can beat the Democrats in 2008."
###
They Said It... "The Winner: Fred Thompson"
Chuck Todd: "the candidate who had the best afternoon I think was Fred Thompson"
"The winner: Thompson" (American Spectator, 12/12)
"Winner: Thompson" (Jim Geraghty, NRO, 12/12)
"Frankly, the candidate who had the best afternoon I think was Fred Thompson. This was easily his best debate performance and he seemed to shine in this subdued format." (Chuck Todd, NBC First Read, 12/12)
"Winner: Fred Thompson. Good substance, good personality, and his I won't raise my hand for an answer question reminded me of Reagan say 'I paid for this microphone.' Fred definitely won." (Right Wing News, 12/12)
"He had the sharpest tone and sounded like a leader" (NBC First Read, 12/12)
"This guy looks like he could eat most of the rest of the field for lunch." (Jim Geraghty, NRO, 12/12)
"Seriously, it's like Thompson came to the debate in Des Moines today to do two things: Kick butt and chew gum. And it appears he's all out of gum." (Mark Hemingway, NRO, 12/12)
"Fred Thompson is easily having his best debate; the format suits him well; it's very issue oriented and doesn't allow for too many back-n-forths and gives Fred a chance to shine." (Chuck Todd, NBC First Read, 12/12)
"Fred the Truth Teller....That's been his emphasis today, and a compelling one." (Rich Lowry, NRO, 12/12)
"Fred Thompson was smart, funny, irascible and consistent, and probably helped his standing here." (Ambinder, The Atlantic, 12/12)
"Judging by This Debate So Far... Romney's main threat in Iowa should be Fred Thompson." (Rich Lowry, NRO, 12/12)
"Thompson is sounding like he's decided this debate's format stinks, and so he's going to protest by mocking the mockery it has become. It's the most life he's shown in a while." (Jim Geraghty, NRO, 12/12)
"He seems, so far, a bit more rejuvinated than prevous ones." (Jim Geraghty, NRO, 12/12)
"'I want to take a chance on telling the truth to the American people.' Very nice line from Fred."
(Rich Lowry, NRO, 12/12)
"Finally, Fred wakes up and shows a little passion: 'When the enemies of this country are at the negotiating table, who do you want representing you? Whoever that guy is, that's the guy you ought to vote for for President.' One of his stronger moments." (Jim Geraghty, NRO, 12/12)
"Asked for a show of hands on global warming, Thompson finally stands up. 'I'm not doing any hand shows today.' A few folks applaud. Fred: You gonna give me a minute to answer it? Moderator: No. Fred: Then I'm not gonna answer it. This gets a smattering of applause. And yup, I'm applauding at home." (Jim Geraghty, NRO, 12/12)
"NEA... Another 'good for Fred' moment." (Kathryn Jean Lopez, NRO, 12/12)
"'The biggest obstacle is the NEA'....Another good Fred line..." (Rich Lowry, NRO, 12/12)
"Fred does come off as a sincere, solid man, with good instincts, who you want to see more of on more than Law & Order repeats." (Kathryn Jean Lopez, NRO, 12/12)

###
Fred Thompson on Economic Security: The most important thing we can do is reform our broken entitlement system.
The most important thing we can do to address our nation's economic security issues is to reform our entitlement system. Fred Thompson is the only candidate, of either party, who has a detailed plan to reform Social Security.
Here's what others have said about Fred Thompson's Social Security Plan:
Courage & Honesty
Republican presidential contender Fred Thompson's plan to save Social Security and protect seniors, which he introduced Friday afternoon in a Washington, D.C., hotel, differs starkly from standard election year pablum on the subject in one key way: He's actually treating voters like adults. (ABC, 11/9)
Thompson...is seeking to show he is willing to take on tough issues if elected in November 2008, telling a news conference in Washington he was the only candidate to offer an extensive Social Security plan. (Reuters, 11/10)
"You certainly have to admire his courage for putting this out," said Alan Viard with the American Enterprise Institute. (Tennessean, 11/10)
Supporters contend that Thompson's willingness to take on the so-called third rail of politics will impress voters. (Bloomberg, 11/10)
Conservative economic experts applauded Thompson for offering specifics on an issue considered to be politically dangerous. (Tennessean, 11/10)
"He's not afraid to be brutally honest with the American people about the challenges that lie ahead," said Representative Zach Wamp, a Tennessee Republican who is working to recruit supporters for Thompson. "People can tell the difference between a strong leader telling the truth and a weak leader talking politics." (Bloomberg, 11/10)
Substance
[Thompson is] the first candidate of either party to offer a detailed proposal to fix the nation's retirement system. (WP, 11/10)
The Republican candidate laid out a detailed, four-page proposal (WSJ, 11/10)
Mr. Thompson's plan...was more specific than what the Bush White House put on the table when it sought to overhaul the system. It also varied substantially from the traditional conservative approach of focusing primarily on personal investment accounts. (NYT, 11/10)
Economist Jason Furman said Thompson deserves credit for offering a detailed plan to address the projected Social Security shortfall...(Bloomberg, 11/10)
In discussing policy, Thompson was in his element. (Politico, 11/9)
He'd prefer to talk about substance. (Politico, 11/9)
Thompson's plan draws on ideas favored by conservatives: a reduction in benefits, rather than an increase in payroll taxes; and a shift toward private accounts, rather than government-provided payments. (WP, 11/10)
Rivals
[Thompson] ventured Friday into an area few rivals have tread: advocacy of a fundamental overhaul of Social Security. (WSJ, 11/10)
Although all of the presidential candidates have spoken, when asked, about the need to fix the Social Security system, none has offered such a detailed plan nor talked so eagerly and often about the issue. (WSJ, 11/10)
Among Republicans, former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Arizona Sen. John McCain and former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney have talked in general terms ... but none has offered a specific plan. (WP, 11/10)
Mr. Thompson is the only one of the Republicans running for the White House who has made Social Security a central theme of his campaign. (NYT, 11/10)
He is the only presidential candidate so far to make Social Security an anchor of his campaign. (WSJ, 11/10)
But with less than two months before the 2008 voting begins, candidates have generally been reluctant to confront the Social Security issue. (WP, 11/10)
###
Huckabee on Education: No To Vouchers, Let Government Fix It
Huckabee has consistently opposed school choice vouchers. He questioned "how practical they are" and called them "unrealistic."

Despite a recommendation in support of vouchers from the 1998 Arkansas "Murphy Commission," a commission Huckabee established himself, Huckabee argued that reforming public schools was a better focus than establishing school voucher programs and called a voucher program "unrealistic." ("Governor Takes Issue With Some Recommendations," The Associated Press, 10/1/98)
In 2002, following a Supreme Court decision upholding the constitutionality of vouchers, Huckabee said that he was not convinced that school vouchers would give many Arkansans any real choice for their youngsters and doubted "how practical they are." (James Jefferson, "Huckabee Questions Value Of Vouchers In Arkansas," The Associated Press, 8/15/02)
The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette reported in 2003 that "Huckabee opposes tax-supported school vouchers that allow taxpayer money to underwrite tuition at private or parochial schools." (Michael Rowett, "Accountability Critical To Education Reform, Experts Say," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 7/19/03)

In addition...

Huckabee called "No Child Left Behind" the greatest education reform effort by the federal government "in my lifetime." (Ralph Hallow, "Huckabee Says U.S. In Spending Mode," Washington Times, 3/1/05)

###
Fred Thompson: Biggest Impediment to Improving Education? National Education Association
The New Hampshire National Education Association Endorsed Hillary Clinton...and MIKE HUCKABEE
"The New Hampshire chapter of the National Education Association, the country's largest teachers union, has endorsed Hillary Rodham Clinton and Mike Huckabee for the Democratic and Republican presidential nominations respectively." (Philip Elliott, "NH NEA To Endorse Clinton, Huckabee," AP, 12/5/07) 

Huckabee was the only Re p ublican to speak at the NEA's national conference. All the Democratic candidates spoke.
"Former Gov. Mike Huckabee, the only Republican presidential candidate to address the NEA, got a warm welcome from delegates. 'I'm astonished there are not more Republican candidates here,' Huckabee said. 'Do they not think education is important? Or are they just afraid of the NEA? I don't know.' While most Republican candidates are focusing on national security, 'radical Islamic jihadism is not the only threat to America 's future.'" (NEA Press Release, 7/5/07)
###
Romney - $50 Abortions in Massachusetts
Romney claims to be pro-life. But under his health care plan, Massachusetts residents now have access to taxpayer-funded abortions for $50.
Romney's Health Care Plan:
Provides Taxpayer-Funded Abortions . Abortions are covered in the Commonwealth Care program that Romney created as Governor. Under the program, abortions are available for a copay of $50. (Menu of Health Care Services: http://www.mass.gov/Qhic/docs/cc_benefits1220_pt234.pdf )
Guarantees Planned Parenthood A Seat At The Table . Romney's legislation created an advisory board and guarantees, by law, that Planned Parenthood has a seat at the table. Romney's plan established a MassHealth payment policy advisory board, and one member of the Board must be from Planned Parenthood. No pro-life organization is represented. (Chapter 58 Section 3 (q) Section 16M (a), http://www.mass.gov/legis/laws/seslaw06/sl060058.htm )

Romney used his line-item veto authority to strike eight sections of the bill that he found objectionable, including the expansion of dental benefits to Medicaid recipients. Yet, he did not strike Planned Parenthood's guaranteed Board representation and he did nothing to prohibit taxpayer-funded abortions as part of his plan. ("Romney's Health Care Vetoes," Associated Press, 4/12/06)

  