
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Secretary Mattis, Secretary Tillerson, members of the Cabinet, members of Congress, members of the armed forces and law enforcement community from across this country, good afternoon and thank you all for being here as President Donald Trump articulates his vision to put the national security of America first.
President Trump has no higher priority than the safety and security of the American people. Since the outset of our administration, he's worked tirelessly to make America stronger and safer than ever before.
President Trump knows that American strength and security depends on a vibrant and growing economy. That's why this President has championed free and fair trade. He's rolled back federal red tape in record numbers. He's unleashed American energy. And under President Trump's leadership, this week, Congress will pass the largest tax cut in American history. (Applause.)
But to ensure the safety and security of the American people, our President has been working tirelessly from the first day of this administration -- defending our borders, enforcing our laws, removing dangerous illegal criminals from our streets. And illegal crossings at our southern border are already down by more than 50 percent.
Under President Trump's leadership, we're also rebuilding our military and making the strongest fighting force in history stronger still. The President has already signed the largest increase in defense spending in nearly a decade. And just last week, President Donald Trump signed into law one of the largest investments in our national defense since the days of Ronald Reagan. (Applause.)
With renewed American leadership, we're achieving real results on the international stage. Our NATO allies are paying more toward our common defense. North Korea is isolated as never before. This President has put Iran on notice, and he's put the war in Afghanistan on a path to victory. And thanks to the leadership of our Commander-in-Chief and the courage of our armed forces, ISIS is on the run. Their capital has fallen, and their so-called caliphate has crumbled across Syria and Iraq. (Applause.)
In less than a year, President Trump has made enormous progress to promote peace through American strength. And today, President Trump will take another crucial step to ensure the safety and security of our country far into the future as he announces to the American people and to our allies and adversaries across the wider world a national security strategy that puts America first.
So with gratitude for his unwavering commitment to make America safe again, it is now my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you the 45th President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump.
  