
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint 24 individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations, for terms of four years:
Carol Ann Bartz, of California;
Maria Cino, of Virginia;
Israel Hernandez, of Texas.
The President intends to appoint Jennifer E. Sims, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Public Interest Declassification Board for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 10/03/11.
The President intends to appoint Mark Sanford, of South Carolina, (Governor), to be a Member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 06/10/09.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee:
Kevin R. Johnson, of Washington;
Kay Sears, of Virginia.
The President intends to appoint John M. Hart, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Capital Planning Commission, for a six-year term beginning 01/02/09.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Commissioners of the United States Section of the United States-Russia Polar Bear Commission, for an initial term of four years:
Geoffrey L. Haskett, of Alaska, (Federal Representative);
Charles J. Johnson, of Alaska, (Alaska Representative).
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, for six-year terms expiring 10/23/14:
Sander R. Gerber, of New York, to be Vice Chair;
Charles E. Cobb, of Florida, (Public);
Carlos M. Gutierrez, of Michigan;
Barry Jackson, of Ohio.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel, for five-year terms expiring 01/10/14:
Barbara Bruin, of New Mexico;
Mark A. Carter, of West Virginia;
Grace Flores Hughes, of Virginia.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
Nancy Goodman Brinker, of Florida, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/01/14;
Condoleezza Rice, of California, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/01/14;
Leonard Sands, of California, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/01/13.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board:
Jean Loretta Becker, of Texas, for a three-year term expiring 09/22/11;
Gary R. Edson, of Illinois, for a three-year term 09/22/11;
Anita B. McBride, of Connecticut, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/22/11;
James L. Oblinger, of North Carolina, for a three-year term expiring 09/22/11.
  