
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, noted conservative jurist Judge Robert Bork endorsed Governor Mitt Romney for President of the United States.
Joining Romney for President, Judge Bork said, "Throughout my career, I have had the honor of serving under several Presidents and am proud to make today's endorsement. No other candidate will do more to advance the conservative judicial movement than Governor Mitt Romney. He knows firsthand how the judicial branch can profoundly affect the future course of a state and a nation. I greatly admired his leadership in Massachusetts in the way that he responded to the activist court's ruling legalizing same-sex 'marriage.' His leadership on the issue has served as a model to the nation on how to respect all of our citizens while respecting the rule of law at the same time."
Judge Bork continued, "Our next President may be called upon to make more than one Supreme Court nomination, and Governor Romney is committed to nominating judges who take their oath of office seriously and respect the rule of law in our nation. I also support Governor Romney because of his character, his integrity and his stands on the major issues facing the United States."
Welcoming Judge Bork's support, Governor Romney said, "For decades, Judge Bork has been a leader in moving the conservative legal movement forward. As one of our nation's premier conservative jurists, he has been an important voice for our conservative values in Washington. I look forward to his counsel and working with him on the most important judicial matters facing our nation today."
Background On Judge Robert Bork:
Judge Bork Is A Leading Conservative Jurist With A Long Record Of Public Service. Judge Bork served as Solicitor General from 1973 to 1978 and acting Attorney General from 1973 to 1974. From 1982 to 1988, he served as a Circuit Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. On July 1, 1987, he was nominated by President Ronald Reagan to the position of Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. In February 1988, Judge Bork resigned from the Circuit Court and joined the American Enterprise Institute. Judge Bork, who also served as a partner at a major law firm and a Professor of Law at Yale University, is currently a Distinguished Fellow at the Hudson Institute and a Professor at the Ave Maria School of Law.
  