
    Today I am pleased to sign into law S. 1670, the "Hazard Mitigation and Relocation Assistance Act of 1993."
The flooding that occurred in the Midwest this past summer was unprecedented in our history in scope, magnitude, and duration. The sheer number of victims, flooded homes, farms, and businesses, and the extent of damage to public facilities called for an unprecedented response from the nine affected States, local governments, volunteers, and the Federal Government—and respond they did.
Now that most of the flood waters have receded, it is time to reestablish lives disrupted by the weeks and months of rain and flooding and to rebuild property damaged by those waters. For many, rebuilding in the same place will be out of the question. And for many who want to move, relocating off the flood plain may not be possible without help.
With this legislation, my Administration and the Congress have taken an important step toward providing the help needed. This Act authorizes a greater Federal contribution toward acquiring and relocating structures damaged by floods than was available before. It provides higher ceilings on the amounts of Federal disaster funds that can be available to help flood victims move out of harm's way. And in assisting in the relocation of homes and other structures, it provides greater assurance than perhaps any other measure that the people helped will not have to suffer such damage and disruption from flooding again. It will be less costly to help the flood victims move now and reestablish their lives than to bear the expense of repeated flooding.
I congratulate and thank the many Members of the House and Senate in both parties who worked so diligently to pass this legislation. I especially commend the leadership of Representatives Volkmer and Gephardt, Senators Harkin and Danforth, and other Members of the congressional delegations of the Midwestern States, as well as the prompt action of the leaders of the House Committee on Public Works and Transportation and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, December 3, 1993.
  