
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and his nomination of one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Alberto Faustino Trevino to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Policy Development and Research. Trevino has served as the Principal and Managing Director of the Urban Interface Group and Alberto F. Trevino Advisors, a management firm working in strategic planning, investment analysis, housing and education, since 1975. He was Vice President of the Walt Disney Company from 1974 to 1975 where he developed strategies and concepts for EPCOT, and from 1973 to 1974, he was Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
The President intends to nominate W. Roy Grizzard to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Disability Employment Policy. Grizzard has been Commissioner of the State of Virginia Department for the Blind and Vision Impaired. From 1987 to 1995, he was Personnel Administrator for Employee Relations and Special Staffing for Henrico County Public Schools, and from 1968 to 1987, Grizzard was a teacher and assistant principal with Henrico County Public Schools. He received a bachelor's degree and Master's degree from Virginia Commonwealth University and doctorate degree from Nova Southeastern University.
The President intends to nominate Victoria Lipnic to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for the Employment Standards Administrator. Lipnic has been a professional staff member and Counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and the Workforce since 2000. From 1994 to 2000, she was an attorney in the Employment and Labor Law Department of the U.S. Postal Service, and she was previously an attorney in private practice. From 1984, to 1989, Lipnic was at the Department of Commerce, first as Special Assistant to the Director of Business Liaison and then as Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Trade Development. She is a graduate of Allegheny College and George Mason University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Christopher J. Christie to be United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey. Christie has been a partner with Dughi, Hewitt and Palatucci of Cranford, New Jersey since 1987. He is a graduate of the University of Delaware and Seton Hall University School of Law.
  