
    For Immediate Release:
Tuesday, December 8, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Following Governor Christie's three day swing through Iowa over the weekend, Clear Lake Mayor Nelson Crabb announced his endorsement of Chris Christie for President today.
"As the executive of a city, I know that strong leadership matters and that there is no substitute for years of tough decision making," stated Mayor Crabb. "Governor Christie is a former U.S. Attorney and experienced executive who can take on the critical issues facing our country. With all the tumult around the world and within our own country, now is not the time for someone "new" or untested. Our nation needs a leader who has dealt with these issues, understands the gravity of the situation we find ourselves in, and has the fortitude to take our adversaries head on. Chris Christie is that leader, and I strongly endorse him for President of the United States.
"Mayor Crabb brings tremendous experience and enthusiasm to our campaign, and I am grateful for his strong support. He has had a long career of public service as Mayor and an educator in Iowa, and his knowledge will be instrumental as we continue to campaign across the state," said Governor Christie.
Mayor Crabb is in his third term as the Mayor of Clear Lake Iowa. He was elected mayor in 2005 and re-elected in 2009 and 2013. He is retired from North Iowa Area Community College after spending 38 years in the field of education. At NIACC, he was the Director of Secondary Education. Prior to his 10 years at NIACC, he spent 28 years as an educator, counselor, coach, and administrator in the Clear Lake School system.
He and his wife, Darlene, have three children: Tina and her husband, Chris; Andy and his wife, Shawna; and Katie and her husband, Shawn. They also have six grandchildren.
Prior to his election as Mayor, he has been a member and Chair of the Clear Lake Parks and Recreation Board; President of the Iowa Counseling Association; President of the Iowa Association of Career and Technical Educators; and Past Master of Verity Masonic Lodge. Presently, he is a member of the Clear Lake Noon Lions, Pheasants Forever, and Zion Lutheran Church.
Mayor Crabb joins these previously announced individuals on Governor Christie's Iowa Leadership Team:
Representative Gary Carlson, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee State Representative Chip Baltimore (Boone, IA), Jasper County Republican Leader Diane Birchard (Newton, IA), COO of Iowa Soybean Association Karey Claghorn (Milo, IA),Business and Republican Leader Manda Elwell (Ankeny, IA),Jasper County Republican Leader Shelley Van De Krol (Newton, IA), Polk County Republican Leader Beth Ann Mahaffey (West Des Moines, IA), Polk County Republican Leader Tom Mazza (Des Moines, IA), Dallas County Republican Leader Jennifer Osby (West Des Moines, IA), Major General Maurice Phillips, USA (Ret.) (Newton, IA), Connie Schmett (Clive, IA), 2008 Republican Candidate for Congress Kim Schmett (Clive, IA), Speaker of the Iowa House of Representatives State Chairman Kraig Paulsen (Hiawatha, IA), Polk County GOP Leader Adrianne Branstad (Des Moines, IA) - Former Branstad Chief of Staff, 2010 Branstad-Reynolds Campaign Manager Jeff Boeyink (Ankeny, IA), Former Jackson County GOP Chair Jean Davidsaver (Bellevue, IA), Branstad-Reynolds 2010 campaign and Polk County Republican Leader Mikel Derby (West Des Moines, IA), Business Leader David Drescher (West Des Moines, IA), Business, philanthropic, and community leader, as well as Chairman of Denny Elwell Company, LC Denny Elwell (West Des Moines, IA), Former University of Northern Iowa College Republican Chair, Romney Caucus campaign leader and Branstad-Reynolds 2014 County Chair Patrick Finnegan (Des Moines, IA), Branstad-Reynolds County Chair and Branstad-Reynolds Honorary Colonel Dr. Tom Gleason and Martha Gleason (Boone, IA), Linn County GOP Leader Gary Grant (Cedar Rapids, IA), Branstad-Reynolds 2014 County Chair, Madison County GOP Leader Betty Gustafson (Cumming, IA), Iowa State University College Republican Chairman Nigel Hanson (Ames, IA), Linn County Supervisor John Harris (Cedar Rapids, IA), Waukee City Councilman Brian Harrison (Waukee, IA), Former Linn County GOP Chairman and Branstad-Reynolds 2014 County Chair Mark Hudson (Marion, IA), Waukee City Councilwoman Shelly Hughes (Waukee, IA), Former Senate Majority Leader Stewart Iverson (Clarion, IA), Former State Senator and former Branstad staff Jim Kersten (Fort Dodge, IA), Chairman, Wild Rose Casino and Resort, Founder of Kirke Financial Services Gary Kirke (West Des Moines, IA), Business leader, Polk County GOP leader, Branstad-Reynolds 2014 County Chair Shelley Laracuente (Ankeny, IA), State Representative Norlin Mommsen (DeWitt, IA), Branstad-Reynolds 2015 Inaugural Committee and Iowa State University College Republicans Katie Popkes (Rock Rapids, IA), Former Republican Party of Iowa Field Director, Romney 2011 Caucus campaign leader, Branstad-Reynolds 2014 County Chair Heather Quist (Dubuque, IA), CEO of The Summit Group Bruce Rastetter (Hubbard, IA), Vice chairman of the board of directors of Wild Rose Casino & Resort Mike Richards (West Des Moines, IA), Romney-Ryan legal team, Linn County Republican leader and Branstad-Reynolds 2014 County Chair Daniel Seufferlein (Cedar Rapids, IA), Former Mayor of Dubuque, former Branstad Chief of Staff, former Chairman of the Iowa Utilities Board, former Commissioner of the Iowa Department of Transportation, former Cedar Rapids City Manager, former Director of the Iowa Department of Economic Development Allan Thoms (Cedar Rapids, IA), Former State Representative Jim Van Fossen (Davenport, IA), Branstad-Reynolds 2014 County Chair Lisa Wagner (Spirit Lake, IA), Polk County GOP leader, Branstad-Reynolds 2014 County Chair and Branstad-Reynolds 2015 Inaugural Committee Mary Whisenand (Des Moines, IA).
  