
    Yesterday, Vice President Kamala Harris was in Los Angeles to ceremonially swear-in former Congresswoman Karen Bass (D-CA-37) as mayor of Los Angeles, California.
The Vice President invited a Congressional delegation to travel to Los Angeles for the ceremony, including Congressman Pete Aguilar (D-CA-31); Congresswoman Nanette Barragan (D-CA-44); Congressman Tony Cardenas (D-CA-29); Congressman David Cicilline (D-RI-01); Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX-18); Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett (D-USVI); Congressman Bobby Rush (D-IL-01); Congresswoman Terri Sewell (D-AL-07); Congresswoman Norma Torres (D-CA-35); and Congresswoman Frederica Wilson (D-FL-17).
Read more below: 
Los Angeles Times: Karen Bass sworn in as Los Angeles mayor, the first woman to hold the office[By Julia Wick, Benjamin Oreskes, Dakota Smith, 12/11/2022]
After 241 years, the nation's second-largest city has its first female mayor.
The mood was jubilant Sunday afternoon, as thousands of Angelenos danced to a surprise Stevie Wonder performance and cheered while Karen Bass was sworn in by Vice President Kamala Harris as Los Angeles' 43rd mayor.
The crowds inside downtown's Microsoft Theater exploded into applause after Harris said the words "Madam mayor" and remained on their feet as Bass walked to the podium.
Bass used her history-making moment to emphasize her place within a constellation of barrier-breaking California women.
The first Black woman elected mayor of Los Angeles was joined by the first female vice president, the first woman to lead the California Senate and California's first female lieutenant governor. […]
The Hill: Harris swears in Bass as first Black female mayor of Los Angeles[By Olafimihan Oshin, 12/11/2022]
Vice President Harris on Sunday swore in former Rep. Karen Bass (D-Calif.) as the first Black female mayor of Los Angeles.
Bass thanked Harris for making the time to attend her inauguration, and bringing several members of Congress along on Air Force Two, adding "know that your city has your back." […]
She reiterated that her first act as mayor would be declaring a state of emergency on homelessness, and said she would seek to build new housing in every neighborhood. […]
Harris, alongside her husband, Second gentleman Doug Emhoff, was among the high-profile political figures to attend the inauguration ceremony at the city's Microsoft Theater. […]
The New York Times: Karen Bass's First Act as L.A.'s Mayor: Declaring Homelessness an Emergency[By Soumya Karlamangla and Katie Rogers, 12/11/2022]
Karen Bass was sworn in as the first female mayor of Los Angeles on Sunday and vowed to build consensus among elected leaders as Angelenos contend with racial tensions, surging homelessness and a new rise in coronavirus cases.
Vice President Kamala Harris swore in Ms. Bass in a ceremony that celebrated her historic win but also underscored the obstacles she will face. Ms. Bass said that her first act as mayor on Monday would be to declare a state of emergency on homelessness. […]
Ms. Harris — the first female vice president, the first woman of color to hold her job, a former California attorney general and a former senator — flew to Los Angeles for the occasion with a planeload of Democrats. The roster included Delegate Stacey Plaskett of the Virgin Islands and Representatives Frederica S. Wilson of Florida, Bobby L. Rush of Illinois, Nanette Barragán of California and Tony Cárdenas of California.
Additional Coverage: 
Axios: VP Harris swears in Karen Bass as L.A. mayorCNN: New LA Mayor Karen Bass to declare state of emergency on homelessnessAssociated Press: Democrat Bass takes charge as LA mayor amid homeless crisisThe Black Chronicle: Kamala Harris Swears In Karen Bass as LA's MayorThe Wrap: Karen Bass Sworn in as Mayor of Los Angeles, Vows to End Homelessness: 'We Will Never Give Up'Variety: Karen Bass Vows to Tackle Homelessness and Crime at Her History-Making Inauguration as Mayor of Los Angeles: 'Bring Angelenos Inside'Deadline: Karen Bass Sworn In As First Woman Mayor Of Los Angeles, Says She Will Declare State Of Emergency On HomelessnessNBC Los Angeles: Photos: Karen Bass Sworn in as LA's First Female Mayor in Historic Inauguration
  