
    Student organizer: Sanders' College for All plan "shows he is willing to fight for us."
DES MOINES -- Iowa Student Action and its progressive student organizers across the state's college campuses on Tuesday endorsed Sen. Bernie Sanders for president.
"Only Bernie Sanders has proven to be an ally and voice for young people throughout his lifetime, and we're confident that he'll continue to do so when he's president," said Iowa Student Action organizer Sara Castro. "Candidates need to do more than just say they support young people, they need to show that support. Sanders' College for All plan, including undocumented and formerly incarcerated people, along with full debt cancellation, shows he is willing to fight for us."
"Students at Iowa's public colleges, private colleges, community colleges and trade schools know that Bernie Sanders believes higher education is a right, not a privilege for the few," Bernie 2020 Iowa State Director Misty Rebik said. "Iowa Student Action is going to organize campuses across the state to achieve record-breaking youth turnout this caucus. Together, with Bernie Sanders in the White House as Organizer-in-Chief, we are going to build a movement to deliver college for all."
Iowa Student Action is an affiliate of Student Action, a national network of student organizations that run a national campaign for tuition-free college for all and the full cancellation of student debt. Sen. Sanders is the only presidential candidate with a universal College for All and full debt cancellation plan.
Iowa Student Action has members at campuses across the state including Grinnell College, Iowa State University, Des Moines Area Community College, University of Iowa, University of Northern Iowa and Cornell College. Iowa Student Action is also a sister organization of Iowa CCI, which endorsed Sanders on Monday.
Sanders continues to build on his lead with young Iowans. High schoolers voted 2-to-1 for Bernie in October's Iowa Youth Straw Poll. In poll after poll, college students across the state and country overwhelmingly support Sanders by similarly decisive margins. Sanders leads the entire field with young donors in Iowa, receiving more contributions from Iowans 25 years old and younger than the next five candidates combined.
The Sanders campaign in Iowa has built the largest grassroots volunteer base in the state, bolstered by thousands of young volunteers. Over 1,500 students across the country signed up for the Bernie Summer School program to train campus leaders with staff-level organizing skills and resources. Volunteers at some of the largest high schools in the state and nearly every college in Iowa signed up to participate in the Summer School program.
  