
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Bidtah N. Becker, of Arizona, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2022. (New Position)
Estrellita Bograd Brodsky, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2026, vice Russell A. Berman, term expired.
Nani A. Coloretti, of California, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Shalanda D. Young.
Gretchen Gonzalez Davidson, of Michigan, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2022, vice Thomas Edgar Rothman, term expired.
Steven H. Fagin, of New Jersey, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Yemen.
Vanessa Northington Gamble, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2026, vice John Fonte, term expired.
David Anthony Hajdu, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2026, vice Phyllis Kaminsky, term expired.
Jodi Beth Herman, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Richard C. Parker.
Jerry Kang, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2026, vice Joyce Malcolm, term expired.
Kathryn Kahrs Matthew, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2026, vice Noel Valis, term expired.
Jerome H. Powell, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Glenna Laureen Wright-Gallo, of Nevada, to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, vice Johnny Collett, resigned.
Shalanda D. Young, of Louisiana, to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Russell Vought.
  