
    Today, President Bush Signed The United States-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Act. This Act will strengthen the partnership between the world's two largest democracies and help our countries meet the energy and security challenges of the 21st century.

This Act Is An Important Step That Will Help Allow Us To Share Civilian Nuclear Technology And Bring India's Civilian Nuclear Program Under The Safeguards Of The International Atomic Energy Agency. On his visit to India earlier this year, President Bush reached an historic agreement with Indian Prime Minister Singh, under which the United States and India committed to take a series of steps to make nuclear cooperation a reality. The bill the President signed today is one of the most important of these steps. Nuclear cooperation will help the people of India produce more of their energy from clean, safe civilian nuclear power, help both our economies grow, and make America more secure.
  
America And India Are United By Deeply Held Values. Our two great democracies are allies in the War on Terror, partners in global trade, and stewards of our environment. India is a democracy that protects the rule of law and is accountable to its people, and an open society that defends freedom of speech and freedom of religion.
  
The United States And India Are Working Together To Expand Economic Opportunities In Both Our Countries. India's economy has more than doubled in size since 1991, and it is one of the fastest-growing markets for American exports. This trade is creating new jobs in America and raising the standard of living for millions throughout India. America will continue to work with India to promote free and fair trade - and fuel economic growth in both countries.

The United States-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Act Will Help America Achieve Four Key Goals

This Act Will Help Strengthen Cooperation Between India And The United States On Energy, One Of The Most Important Challenges Of The 21st Century. India is now the world's fifth largest consumer of energy, and its demand for electricity is expected almost to double by 2015. The United States has a clear interest in helping India meet this demand with nuclear energy. By helping India expand its use of safe, clean nuclear energy, this Act lays the foundation for a new strategic partnership between our two nations that will help ease India's demands for fossil fuels and ease pressure on global markets.
  
This Act Will Help Promote Economic Growth. This Act helps open an important new market for American businesses by paving the way for investment in India's civilian nuclear industry for the first time. This new trade will help American companies gain new customers abroad and create new jobs here at home.
  
This Act Will Help Make It Possible For India To Reduce Emissions And Improve Its Environment. Today, India produces nearly 70 percent of its electricity from coal. Burning coal produces air pollution and greenhouse gases, but nuclear power can generate massive amounts of electricity without producing any air pollution or greenhouse gases. By sharing advanced civilian nuclear technology, we will help India meet its growing demand for energy and lower emissions at the same time.
  
This Act Will Help Keep America Safe By Paving The Way For India To Join The Global Effort To Stop The Spread Of Nuclear Weapons. India has conducted its civilian nuclear energy program in a safe and responsible way for decades. Now, in return for access to American technology, India has agreed to open its civilian nuclear power program to international inspection. After 30 years outside the system, India will now operate its civilian nuclear energy program under internationally accepted guidelines, and the world will be safer as a result.

  