
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




December 27, 202111:28

In town pool report #1 - POTUS meeting with governors
Pool is in place for POTUS meeting with his Covid-19 Response Team and the nation's governors.
Event is being held in South Court Auditorium and will be live streamed here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
There are four desks set up on the stage with mics on them. The large screen says "COVID-19 briefing meeting with America's governors"
Pooler has asked for a list of governors participating in the meeting and will pass along any information received. Pooler will also share any color from the event.
From POTUS schedule: the President will join the White House COVID-19 Response Team's regular call with the National Governors Association to discuss his Administration's response to the Omicron variant and to hear from the Governors on the needs in their States.



December 27, 202111:29

In town pool report #2 - 2 minute warning
Two minute warning to POTUS meeting with governors.
Reminder live stream is here https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



December 27, 202111:49

In town pool report #3 - POTUS remarks and he took one question 
At 11:31 am Zients, Walensky and Fauci came out and took their places on stage. They were all wearing white face masks.
At 11:33 am POTUS came on stage wearing a black face mask.
Zients said this was the 40th meeting with governors.
"More times than I've seen you," Biden said.
There are 25 governors on the screen for this virtual meeting.
Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson, the head of the National Governors Association, spoke first.
Hutchinson thanked the administration for its support. "I particularly appreciate your comments about increasing the supply chain of rapid COVID tests," he said to Biden.
Biden said his message to governors is "if you need something say something."
He acknowledged the testing shortage: "Seeing how tough it was for some folks to get a test this weekend shows that we have more work to do."
He said the administration worked with google to "so you can now search COVID test near me" to find one.
After his remarks, POTUS took one question about whether he supports the shortened quarantine period recommendations.
"I rely on my medical team. I get a recommendation I follow it," he said.
Pool was pulled after POTUS remarks. As always please check against transcript. POTUS didn't answer questions about whether there should be a vaccine requirement for domestic travel and whether he should have planned for holiday testing earlier.
From White House:
In attendance for the White House COVID-19 Response Team's regular call with the National Governors Association:
The PresidentJeff Zients, COVID-19 Response CoordinatorDr. Rochelle Walensky, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and PreventionDr. Anthony Fauci, White House Chief Medical Advisor and Director of the NIAID



December 27, 202112:27

In town pool #4 - departure and POTUS took questions 
POTUS and FLOTUS emerged from the residence at 12:20 pm, each carrying an umbrella.
He took two questions.
He was asked about a Vanity Fair report his administration rejected a holiday testing surge. "We didn't reject it," he said.
He was asked about his meeting with governors.
"They thanked me," he said. "There were no complaints."
There is a light rain falling and it was hard to hear POTUS over the helicopter. More detailed quotes from his answers to come.
From White House:
Departing on Marine One with the President and the First Lady:Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsSasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning at the NSC
Marine One was wheels up at 12:26 pm.



December 27, 202112:45

In town pool report #5 - full quotes from POTUS departure
Question: Why did your administration reject the holiday testing surge in October? Does the buck stop with you there?
POTUS: "We didn't reject it."
Question: What did the governors tell you they're worried about?
POTUS: "They didn't tell me they're worried but they thanked me for the cooperation they're getting. They said they've gotten all that they need. They just want to know what we think is gonna happen from here. They asked Dr. Fauci some more questions about everything from whether or not he thought he was going to have to move to test at home, I mean, air flights and that kind of thing. But there was no, there were no complaints, a lot of cooperation."




 
Pool Reports below by Zach Montague, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




December 27, 202113:39

Travel pool #1 — Arrival in Delaware
Marine One touched down at 1:22 pm near Gordons Pond at the south end of Cape Henlopen State Park.
POTUS stepped out into a light rain walking with a very lively Commander by his side, joining FLOTUS in the car.
The pool was positioned too far for questions and we are rolling to the hotel.



December 27, 202114:01

Travel pool #2 — lid
And at 1:57, we've been given a travel/photo lid for the day.




  