
    ISRAELI OFFICIALS
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu: "We're profoundly grateful for the President for his courageous and just decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to prepare for the opening of the US embassy here. This decision reflects the President's commitment to an ancient but enduring truth, to fulfilling his promises and to advancing peace. The President's decision is an important step towards peace, for there is no peace that doesn't include Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel."
President of Israel Reuven Rivlin: "Thank you @POTUS @realDonaldTrump. There is no more fitting or beautiful gift, as we approach 70 years of the State of Israel's independence. Jerusalem is not, and never will be, an obstacle to peace for those who want peace."
Israel's Permanent Representative to the United Nations Danny Danon: "We welcome this courageous decision by President Trump. In 1948, President Truman was the first world leader to recognize the State of Israel and today President Trump righted a historic wrong by recognizing Jerusalem as our capital."
U.S. OFFICIALS
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson: "President Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital aligns U.S. presence with the reality that Jerusalem is home to Israel's legislature, Supreme Court, President's office, and Prime Minister's office. We have consulted with many friends, partners, and allies in advance of the President making his decision. We firmly believe there is an opportunity for a lasting peace."
Speaker Of The House Paul Ryan (R-WI): "This is a day that is long overdue. Jerusalem has been, and always will be, the eternal, undivided capital of the State of Israel. The city's status as the religious epicenter of Judaism is an historical fact—not a matter of debate. Today's announcement is a recognition of reality that in no way inhibits efforts to reach a lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians. I commend President Trump for taking this important action, and for exploring next steps to move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem."
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): "Today the President recognized a reality: Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. The House and Senate have on three separate occasions supported recognizing Jerusalem as Israel's capital, including by enacting the Jerusalem Embassy Act in 1995 to move the United States embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. If acknowledging truth inspires violence, it is those who commit the violence, not the truth, that are at fault."
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA): "By recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, @POTUS has shown we're willing to back up our allies."
House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD): "Jerusalem is the capital of the State of Israel, something that the United States Congress has reaffirmed and a fact of history that cannot be denied. Our country must play a constructive role in supporting Israel as it seeks the peace and security its people deserve by continuing to promote a two-state solution through direct, bilateral negotiations that will end any question of Jerusalem's status."
Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-TN): "Today's announcement recognizes what has been true for almost 70 years, namely that Jerusalem is Israel's seat of government. On a bipartisan basis, Congress has repeatedly voted overwhelmingly to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital, and I applaud the president's initiative in making this a reality."
House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA): "I welcome the administration's decision to recognize Israel's self-identified capital. Sovereign nations have a right to determine their seat of government, and our close ally Israel should not be treated differently. Relocating the U.S. Embassy should be done carefully, and in a way that advances our national security interests in a dangerous and unstable region."
House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY): "I support the decision to recognize Jerusalem as the eternal capital of Israel and to move the U.S. embassy there. This decision is long overdue and helps correct a decades-long indignity. It recognizes where Israel's government—the parliament and the prime minister—is based, as well as the ancient and unbreakable connection between the Jewish people and Jerusalem. I look forward to a plan to ensure the safety and security of our embassy personnel."
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL): "I commend President Trump for following U.S. law and recognizing Jerusalem as the eternal capital of the Jewish state of Israel.... Today's announcement is an important step in right direction. Unequivocal recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital will be complete when the U.S. embassy is officially relocated there."
Sen. David Perdue (R-GA): "I commend President Trump for taking continued steps to reaffirm the United States' relationship with Israel after years of questionable policies from the Obama Administration....By recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, the President is recognizing both an historic and modern reality, Jerusalem is the center for the Jewish people and all parts of Israeli government reside there today. President Trump has shown Israel is a priority, and we will continue to work together in support of our longtime friend and ally."
Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA): "Jerusalem Embassy Act of '95 (Senate vote 93-5 & I voted for it) states embassy should be in Jerusalem by 5/31/99. For 18 yrs, Rep + Dem presidents waived. Congrats Pres Trump for making this move. Amen!!!"
Sen. Roger Wicker (R-MS): "President Trump's courageous decision to relocate America's embassy to Jerusalem is long overdue. I supported bipartisan legislation to move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem in 1995 as a freshman member of the House of Representatives. I believe now what I did then: Jerusalem is the eternal and undivided home of the Jewish people. We should treat Israel like we do every other country and locate our embassy in its capital city."
Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO): "President Trump's announcement today recognizes that Jerusalem is an integral part of Israel's history, and will be an essential and enduring part of its future. I continue to support efforts to advance negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, and today's announcement should in no way hinder that process."
Sen. Deb Fischer (R-NE): "I support POTUS announcement recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. It demonstrates a strong commitment to our ally & is consistent with a bill passed by Congress & enacted into law under President Clinton in 1995."
Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV): "I applaud President Trump for his decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. I'm also pleased that the Administration committed to developing a plan to relocate the American Embassy to Jerusalem....Today's decision sends a message to our strongest and oldest ally in the Middle East: the United States Senate stands with Israel."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "#Jerusalem has always been the capital of Israel. I've long supported moving the U.S. embassy there, including voting for the bipartisan Jerusalem Embassy Act in 1995."
Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK): "I applaud President Trump for officially recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and beginning the process of moving our embassy to the Holy City. Not since supporting the creation of Israel in 1947 has the United States done more to uphold our strategic and long-standing ally, Israel. As an original cosponsor of the legislation that prompted this action, I look forward to supporting him and his administration over the next few years as they begin the process of moving the embassy to Jerusalem."
Sen. James Lankford (R-OK): "After more than two decades of bipartisan requests from Congress, I applaud the President's recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and the start of a long process to move the US Embassy to Jerusalem....Israel is America's closest friend In the Middle East and she is a solid partner in research, strategic defense, and freedom. We have a unique relationship and a special bond among nations."
Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC): "I applaud @POTUS for reaffirming our commitment to our greatest ally in the Middle East by recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, following through on many years of bipartisan advocacy."
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC): "I fully support the Trump Administration's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel because this statement reflects the reality on the ground for the last 3,000 years. Why did the Trump Administration decide to declare Jerusalem the capital of Israel? Because it always has been and always will be."
Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC): "The fact is, for all intents and purposes, Jerusalem is and has been the capital of Israel. Their legislature is seated there, as well as their Prime Minister. Congress has repeatedly voted in a bipartisan manner in favor of recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and the President has made the right decision to formalize that recognition. I look forward to our embassy moving there as security and staffing are ramped up, as well as strengthening our relationship with Israel as efforts to find peace in the region continue."
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX): "I enthusiastically commend President Trump for today's courageous and heroic decision.... This day will forever be etched in the history books as one of the great moments in history. The strongest and most prosperous country in the world has rectified what has been a historic injustice for far too long, recognizing the ancient and sacred city that has been the eternal capital of the Jewish people for over 3,000 years, and the capital of the one and only Jewish State since 1948."
Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT): "I am thrilled with the President's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and his plan to move the US Embassy there.... I have long supported the recognition of Jerusalem as the official Israeli capital, most notably as a co-sponsor of the Jerusalem Embassy and Recognition Act, which my colleagues introduced to the Senate in January. The President's action, which reaffirms US legislation that has been on the books since 1995, sends a clear signal that we are prepared to defend the interests of the United States and its allies."
Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT): "I applaud President Trump's proclamation and join him in recognizing that both throughout history and today, Jerusalem is the true capital of Israel. The President has also been bold in directing that the State Department expeditiously begin to move the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, following the international custom of having official diplomatic representation in national capitals around the globe."
Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL): "#Israel is 1 of our most impt allies. We're dedicated 2 its security & freedom. As a Christian, Israel is sacred 2 me as it is 2 many Americans. Congrats 2 @realDonaldTrump on recognizing Jerusalem as capital of Israel. Past presidents used words on this subject Trump uses action"
Rep. Andy Biggs (R-AZ): "I applaud President Trump's action to implement the 1995 decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital and to move our embassy to its rightful place in the city. Jerusalem is the historic capital of the Jewish people. I pray for a peaceful transition."
Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ): "Recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Thank you, @POTUS."
Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ): "I applaud President Trump's courage in recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and her seat of government. This is an historic and long overdue decision."
Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ): "By relocating our embassy to Jerusalem, President Trump is doing what our country should have done two decades ago: fulfill our promise to our ally and formally recognize the Jewish State of Israel's undivided capital.... I applaud the President's decision, which sends a strong and clear message to the international community that we are beginning a new chapter in our alliance, one in which America keeps our promises towards Israel and doesn't waffle about where our true allegiance lies."
Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA): "Jerusalem is the historic, declared and functioning capital of Israel. Its legislature and other national institutions are in Jerusalem. There's bipartisan support for recognizing Jerusalem as Israel's capital and I applaud the president's actions today."
Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO): ".@POTUS kept his campaign promise to declare that the United States recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, as it has been for thousands of years. I applaud him for laying the groundwork to swiftly relocate the American embassy in Israel to Jerusalem."
Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL): "#Jerusalem is without question the capital of #Israel and should be recognized as such. Denying simple, obvious truths is not a strategy for peace. I commend the Administration for reaching this decision."
Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-FL): "President Trump is doing what his recent predecessors have promised but failed to deliver: formal recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital, to be followed by relocation of the American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem!"
Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL): "It is well past time that our embassy is moved to its rightful home. Though many may be upset with the decision, or even use this as an excuse to incite violence, we must remember that #Jerusalem is the country's true capital."
Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-FL): "Moving the US Embassy to Jerusalem sends the Palestinian Authority a message that their days of denying @Israel's existence are over, & that they must become an honest partner in peace. I commend @realDonaldTrump today for honoring our friend & ally Israel."
Rep. Brian Mast (R-FL): "Today is a day of celebration for those of us who recognize the truth that #Jerusalem is the rightful capital of Israel. For groups like Hamas, this is just another excuse to cause violence & destruction that proves they are not ready to negotiate peace."
Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) & Rep. Ted Deutch (D-FL): "The President's decision today is a recognition of existing U.S. law that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel and that the U.S. embassy should ultimately be located in the capital. There is no debate that the Jewish people have a deep-rooted religious, cultural and historic tie to Jerusalem, and today's decision reaffirms that connection. The fact is that Jerusalem – an ancient and holy city to all three monotheistic faiths – will remain the capital of the Jewish state in any iteration of a negotiated two-state solution."
Rep. Dennis Ross (R-FL): "We need to send a clear message to the world that we support Israel and recognize Jerusalem as its eternal capital.... I and my fellow members of Congress are hopeful that relocating the embassy will strengthen our vital alliance and send a clear message to the world: America stands with Israel."
Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL): "I applaud the decision by @POTUS to move the US Embassy in Israel to #Jerusalem. This step is important to our relationship with our ally Israel. An important part of peace between Israel and Palestine is Israel's right to exist, its self-determination, and its rightful identity."
Rep. Karen Handel (R-GA): "Jerusalem has been - & will always be - the undivided capital of Israel. I applaud President Trump for the decision to recognize it as such."
Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA): "It is the diplomatic right of any sovereign nation to choose where their nation's capital is located; and, for 67 years, Israel has recognized Jerusalem as their capital."
Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID): "I applaud @realDonaldTrump for recognizing that #Jerusalem is the capital of #Israel and beginning the process of moving the U.S. embassy there. Jerusalem has been, and always will be, the capital of the State of Israel."
Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL): "For millennia, Jerusalem has been the eternal capital of the State of #Israel. I'm proud to support @POTUS in reiterating U.S. policy & support for our ally, and in recognizing Israel's right to exist."
Rep. Brad Schneider (D-IL): "Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. It has been the eternal capital of the Jewish people for more than three thousand years, and since 1948 the capital of the Jewish state. These are facts that cannot be denied."
Rep. Jim Banks (R-IN): "It's great to have a president who is finally enforcing the law passed by Congress in 1995 recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of #Israel. Today's news re-affirms the special relationship between the United States and our cherished ally."
Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN): "I support President Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. This recognition is long overdue. Hoosiers agree that Israel is our most important ally in the region, and President Trump's decision reaffirms our commitment to stand with the Jewish State."
Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN): "Jerusalem is the capital of Israel and the United States embassy rightfully should reside there. While presidents from both parties have called for this recognition of Israel, President .@realDonaldTrump is the first president to take action."
Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS): "For years, Congress has overwhelmingly agreed that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. This decision confirms what we already knew, that the United States stands with our allies and friends."
Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA): "I commend President @realDonaldTrump for recognizing Jerusalem as Israel's rightful capital. Israel is our strongest ally in the region, and I'm glad to see that we are standing with them."
Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO): "I applaud decision by @POTUS to recognize Jerusalem as rightful capital of #Israel. This move affirms existing U.S law and is common-sense: most of Israel's government agencies and parliament are in Jerusalem. Proud to support our ally."
Rep. Ted Budd (R-NC): "I applaud President Trump for fulfilling his promise to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Today's announcement sends a clear signal to the world that in any coming peace negotiations we will not be pressuring Israel to give up its historic and religious capital.... This historic move by President Trump shows, once again, that the bond between our two countries is stronger than ever."
Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC): "I commend today's decision by @POTUS to move the US embassy to Jerusalem. It not only enforces long-standing federal law but also sends a strong message of support to one of America's most sacred allies."
Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC): "After 8 years of damage, constant undermining, and broken promises, the world will once again know that the United States stands, unwaveringly, alongside our ally #Israel.... There are times throughout United States' history when our Presidents have sent the rest of the world a clear, powerful message of leadership and conviction. This historic moment will be remembered as one of those times."
Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC): "#Jerusalem has been Israel's capital since the time of King David. Jerusalem's legislature and courts are in Jerusalem. Why should we continue to pretend otherwise? President Trump's common sense decision is to move our embassy to Jerusalem is grounded in reality."
Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND): "Moving our embassy to Jerusalem is a long overdue recognition to the undeniable core of Israel. Today's announcement by President Trump comes at a time when reaffirming the strong alliance between the United States and Israel is critical towards stabilizing and advancing diplomacy in the region."
Rep. Don Bacon (R-NE): "Today is an important day for the United States, and for our Israeli allies and friends. I applaud the President for affirming U.S. Law and recognizing Jerusalem as the eternal and undivided capital of Israel. The President's actions today have righted a wrong in the application of double-standards to the State of Israel."
Rep. Dan Donovan (R-NY): ".@realDonaldTrump's decision to move our U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem is the right thing & long overdue. I fully support his efforts."
Rep. John Faso (R-NY): "I fully support the Administration's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and relocation of our embassy as we continue to work towards peace in that region. The six-month delay will allow this process to continue as we assess security and other considerations."
Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY): "Jerusalem is the eternal capital of the State of Israel and the Jewish people. I was proud to vote for the Jerusalem Embassy Act, which demonstrated Congress' unified position that Jerusalem should be recognized as the capital of Israel, and today's announcement is consistent with existing U.S. law."
Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA): "Today will surely shine throughout world history. After decades of delay, the USA will officially recognize #Jerusalem as the capital of #Israel and rightly relocate our embassy there. I thank @realDonaldTrump for keeping his promise and standing strong with our friend for peace."
Rep. Keith Rothfus (R-PA): "It is a longstanding fact that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. I am proud to see the President make this monumental and historic recognition. The people of Jerusalem are remarkable and they have demonstrated over the last 50 years, since reunification, that people of all faiths are welcome and protected in this capital city."
Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA): "Today @POTUS @realDonaldTrump made clear the United States stands with our strongest ally in the Middle East. #Jerusalem is the true capital of Israel and should be recognized as such."
Rep. Lloyd Smucker (R-PA): "When I traveled to Israel in August, I met with Prime Minister Netanyahu and had a discussion about moving the United States embassy to Jerusalem. The city is at the core of the nation's foundation and history. President Trump's decision to move our embassy is the right one. I will continue to support and defend our decades-old friendship and strengthen our alliance."
Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC): "I applaud President Trump for recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and promising to move the U.S. Embassy to reflect this change in policy. This decision is in clear contrast to the last administration's anti-Israel sentiments, and it is refreshing to have a leader in the White House who supports and stands with our strong ally. I agree with President Trump that this decision is in the best interest of the United States as we work towards lasting peace."
Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC): "America's bond with Israel is unique, and its strength is the foundation of American leadership in the Middle East. The president's announcement that our embassy will be located in Jerusalem strengthens that bond, and I am grateful to see him honor another one of his campaign commitments. The people of Israel know they have an ally in the White House."
Rep. Diane Black (R-TN): "Thank you @realDonaldTrump for keeping your promise to the American people, recognizing #Jerusalem as Israel's capital & relocating our U.S. embassy accordingly."
Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN): "I fully support @realDonaldTrump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital. Thank you, Mr. President, for standing with our ally."
Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN): "For years, Jerusalem has been regarded as Israel's capital city by the Knesset, the United States Congress, and the people of Israel. The President's announcement reaffirms the longstanding friendship and support between United States and Israel. I applaud President Trump for his decision, and will continue to stand with Israel as our ally in the Middle East."
Rep. David Kustoff (R-TN): "I applaud President Trump for fulfilling his promise to recognize Jerusalem as the unquestionable capital of Israel. After eight years of the Obama Administration's failure to support our closest ally, this sends a powerful message to the world – the United States will stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel, our friend and the stronghold of democracy in the Middle East."
Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX): "I fully support @POTUS decision to recognize #Jerusalem as the capital of #Israel. Having first been expressed in the Jerusalem Recognition Act of 1995 & reaffirmed by a unanimous vote in Senate just 6 months ago, this historic step has strong, bipartisan in Congress."
Rep. John Culberson (R-TX): "Grateful to @POTUS for today's historic action to officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. No other nation can say they have been a more loyal friend to America throughout their existence than the State of #Israel."
Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX): "President Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as the rightful capital of Israel was not only an act of political valor, it was a promise kept to the American people who voted him into office.... The announcement today displays great strength and courage. It shows that the United States will stand with its ally, Israel. I sincerely appreciate President Trump's decision to buck the status quo and do the right thing for this nation and the world."
Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX): "Today, for the first time, the United States has officially recognized what so many have known for years, that Jerusalem is the rightful capital of Israel. Israel is one of America's closest friends and allies. I appreciate President Trump's decision, and reiterate my desire to see a peaceful way forward for the region."
Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX): "The historical capital of Israel has long been Jerusalem. It is about time the United States recognizes this and places our embassy where it belongs- in Jerusalem."
Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX): "President Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel has been affirmed by Congress more than once. This foreign policy decision reinforces our commitment to one of our strongest allies in the region."
Rep. Randy Weber (R-TX): "With today's announcement, we are finally officially stating what is a well-known fact. Jerusalem is the capital of Israel, and we are finally adhering to our own decades-old law in relocating our embassy there as well. I applaud the President for moving forward with this course of action. Our commitment to Israel is unwavering. Jerusalem is the true seat of the government of Israel."
Rep. Roger Williams (R-TX): "I commend @POTUS for his unwavering support of Israel & his decision to recognize Jerusalem as its capital. For 22 years, the United States has acknowledged it as such, and now is the time to show the world that our country always back its allies and will always stand with Israel."
Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI): "In January, I sent a letter to @POTUS @realDonaldTrump, urging him to keep his promise to move the American embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. Thank you for keeping your promise, Mr. President!"
Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-WI): "I applaud the decision today by @POTUS to move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. Jerusalem is Israel's undivided capital. By moving our embassy there, we're sending a message of support for our strongest ally in the Middle East."
Rep. Liz Cheney (R-WY): "I support Trump's decision to formally recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel & his announcement he will move the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Jerusalem is the eternal & undivided capital of the state of Israel, & the US has no closer or stronger ally than Israel."
ADVOCATES & ADVOCACY ORGANIZATIONS
The American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC): "Today is a historic day for the U.S.-Israel relationship. For the first time, the United States officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. AIPAC has always supported American recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's undivided capital city, and we commend President Trump's momentous announcement and decision to initiate relocating the U.S. embassy there. This recognition is a long-overdue step to implement U.S. law.... Today's action by President Trump is an important, historic step for which we are grateful. We urge the president to quickly relocate our embassy to Israel's capital."
The Anti-Defamation League: "For decades, ADL has called on the United States – and the entire international community – to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital.... We welcome President Trump's announcement that the United States – almost 70 years after the founding of the State of Israel – will begin the process to relocate its embassy consistent with the longstanding bipartisan consensus as enshrined in the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995."
Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America: "Just as the United States locates its embassy in the duly designated capitals of other nations, so too it should locate our embassy to Israel in that nation's recognized capital. Mr. President, we thank you for your staunch commitment to the safety and security of Israel. We continue to pray that under your leadership the United States will continue to work to foster peace, security and liberty for the Jews of Israel, the United States and around the world."
The Republican Jewish Coalition: "Time after time, President Trump has sent an unambiguous message to the world: the bond between the U.S. and Israel is strong, and after eight years of the Obama Administration, the days of daylight between our nations are over. Thank you Mr. President. Thank you for standing shoulder to shoulder with the Jewish people and the Jewish State."
Agudath Israel: "Israel is a sovereign state. Sovereign states have every right to determine where their capitals are. Israel has designated Jerusalem as its capital. Jerusalem is the seat of Israel's national government.... President Trump's welcome announcement today reaffirms that longstanding commitment, and deserves to be warmly commended."
My Faith Votes Honorary National Chairman And Former Governor Mike Huckabee: "There is no brighter beacon of democracy in the Middle East than Israel, and President Trump's announcement of Jerusalem as its capital reinforces — for the whole world to see — the truth that it has a right to exist. Christians in America should be proud that one of our closest allies, also the ancient homeland of our Judeo-Christian faith, exudes tolerance, steadiness and strength in a region too often marked by all the reliability of deserts full of shifting sand."
Republican Jewish Coalition National Chairman And Former Senator Norm Coleman: "Tomorrow President Trump will announce a major change in U.S. policy -- that the U.S. Embassy will move from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and that we will now recognize Jerusalem, the ancient and enduring capital of the Jewish people, as the capital of Israel. The President has delivered on another major campaign promise. President Trump is doing what he does so well: recognizing the reality on the ground. No more false news -- Jerusalem is Israel's capital."
Republican Jewish Coalition Executive Director Matt Brooks: "President Trump is taking a courageous stand that expresses his commitment to repairing and strengthening ties with Israel, our most important ally in the Middle East. For the RJC, the recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital has been a longstanding goal. We are grateful to President Trump for making it a reality."
Family Research Council President Tony Perkins: "Today is a major milestone in America's historic relationship with Israel. Under the bold and courageous leadership of President Trump, America is finally putting American interests and the interests of our key allies first. America's foreign policy, as it pertains to Israel, is coming into alignment with biblical truth: Jerusalem as the eternal and indivisible capital of the Jewish state."
Zionist Organization of America President Morton Klein: "The ZOA strongly praises and gives our heartfelt thanks to President Donald Trump for today officially recognizing Jerusalem as Israel's capital, and moving the US Embassy there. President Trump's important, historic, moral and just action paves the way to move the US Embassy to Israel's eternal capital Jerusalem."
American Zionist Movement President Richard Heideman: "This announcement is a bold act in the spirit of Zionism that rectifies a historic wrong and is a proper recognition of Jerusalem's millennia-old status as the capital of Israel and the Jewish People. This is an important recognition of Jerusalem as the center of the legitimate national, ancestral and indigenous claims of the Jewish people."
Christians United for Israel National Chairman Pastor John Hagee: "Jerusalem has been the epicenter of the Jewish faith since King David danced into the city with the Ark of the Covenant over 3,000 years ago. It is the capital of the Jewish state, and I am grateful to the President for changing American policy to finally reflect this reality. I look forward to the day we open the doors of the US Embassy to Israel in Jerusalem."
Christian' Israel Public Action Campaign (CIPAC) Founder Richard Hellman: "By not simply following the opinions of others around the globe, the President has demonstrated that he and America are not afraid of threats that some parties have made. This sends a strong signal that a truly great global power can and will do the right thing, despite threats from others."
Liberty Counsel Founder and President Matt Staver: "President Trump's affirmation that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel represents a significant and long overdue shift in U.S. policy."
First Baptist Church Dallas Senior Pastor Dr. Robert Jeffress: "President Donald J. Trump has demonstrated true leadership today by recognizing Jerusalem as the legitimate capital of Israel. President Trump is a modern-day profile in courage, accomplishing what no other president has been willing to do. It took courage for President Harry S. Truman to recognize Israel as a nation in 1948, and it took courage for President Donald J. Trump to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel today. He is a blessing not only to our nation, but to Israel as well."
New Destiny Christian Center Senior Pastor Paula White: "Promise made. Promise kept. Once again, President Trump has shown the world what I have always known — he is a leader who is willing to do what is right however loud the voices are of the skeptics and the critics. Evangelicals are ecstatic, for Israel is to us a sacred place and the Jewish people are our dearest friends."
National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference (NHCLC) President Rev. Samuel Rodriguez: "President Trump has made clear that the time for acquiescence is over. Recognizing the Jewish people's rightful claim to their eternal capital city puts the United States firmly on the right side of history. This is not only the right thing to do, it is the altogether righteous thing to do."
Shadow Mountain Community Church Senior Pastor Dr. David Jeremiah: "God's devotion to the Jewish people is the result of an eternal promise. We applaud the U.S. administration's leadership for finally, rightly and formally recognizing Jerusalem as Israel's eternal capital.... To this day, Israel stands as a shining light in the Middle East, a free democracy, a thriving economy and a vibrant culture undergirded by the rule of law. May she continue to be blessed and may we, the United States of America, be blessed by reaffirming that we stand firmly beside her."
International Fellowship of Christians and Jews President Rabbi Yechiel Eckstein: "On behalf of The Fellowship's millions of Evangelical Christian supporters around the world, I applaud the U.S. administration's decision today to formally recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital. It is a bold, courageous move that is long overdue, and is especially significant coming from Israel's closest ally. Both Jews and Christians around the world have prayed for this day, which rights a historic wrong by affirming to the world that Jerusalem is the eternal capital of the Jewish people."
International Fellowship of Christians and Jews Pastor Silmar Coelho: "On behalf of thousands of Evangelical Christians across Rio de Janeiro and all of Brazil, I wholeheartedly welcome the U.S. administration's brave and farsighted recognition of Jerusalem, our holy city, as Israel's capital."
International Fellowship of Christians and Jews Rev. Hyung Eun Chi: "On behalf of thousands of Christians across Seoul and all of South Korea, I commend the U.S. administration's long-overdue recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital. This is an historic moment for Christians and Jews around the world."
Hope Christian Church Bishop Harry Jackson: "President Trump's support of Israel is encouraging. It marks the beginning of a new season in US Middle East Policy.... As someone who has been to Israel several times, I have seen the complement of this nation to democracy. As an African American, I have also seen the fairness and civil Freedoms afforded every resident: Black, White, Palestinian, or Jewish. I celebrate President Trump's Historic decision."
Cross Church Senior Pastor Dr. Ronnie Floyd: "I'm thoroughly pleased President Trump has taken this action when it comes to our ally Israel. By recognizing that Jerusalem is Israel's unquestionable capital and promising the subsequent move of the U.S. embassy, President Trump has incurred blessing on America, for Scripture says God blesses those who bless Israel."
Prestonwood Baptist Church Pastor Dr. Jack Graham: "President Trump's announcement — that the U.S. will recognize Jerusalem as Israel's rightful capital and that our embassy will move from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem — is the best news to come out of the Middle East in decades. As a Christian, I'm grateful America is playing a decisive role in the story of God's chosen people, and I'm very glad President Trump is displaying the courage to fulfill a promise to support Israel and its biblical role among the nations."
Harvest Christian Fellowship Pastor Greg Laurie: "We stand with the Jewish people and the nation Israel. We bless them and thank God for them. Jerusalem is their eternal capital. I am grateful for the U.S. administration's decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital."
Dr. Alveda King: "President Trump is on a record promise-keeping-roll. His support for Israel, undergirded by our 'prayers for the peace of Jerusalem,' are encouraging evidence that God is blessing us."
Skyline Church Senior Pastor Dr. Jim Garlow: "It is quite possible that President Donald Trump's statement on Israel today is the single most important announcement regarding Israel by a U.S. President since President Harry Truman recognized Israel as a state 70 years ago on May 14, 1948."
Free Chapel Worship Center Senior Pastor Jentezen Franklin: "We stand with the President of the United States, the nation of Israel and her right to declare Jerusalem as the capital. We pray for the peace of Jerusalem as scripture implores us to do, and we trust her peace and prosperity, not to man-made institutions and international efforts, but to the God of all Peace, and to the greatest Jew to have ever lived, Jesus Christ."
EDITORIAL BOARDS & COMMENTATORS
New York Daily News Editorial Board: "Donald Trump's acknowledgment of reality by formally recognizing, as United States policy, what has been the case for more than 3,000 years is welcome. It undoes 70 years of American fiction that this is a city without a country, part of some mythical international territory, neither Jewish nor Arab... Finally recognizing that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel states a fact that anti-Israel forces need to get through their heads sooner or later: The Jewish State isn't going anywhere. Deal with it."
The Washington Free Beacon Editor-in-ChiefMatthew Continetti: "By keeping his campaign promise today, [President Trump] has called the bluff of everyone who thought the United States could have its cake and eat it too on the question of Israel's capital. And by moving our embassy to Jerusalem, the United States will acknowledge Israel's right to determine its own capital city. That is not something to condemn or fear. It is something to be proud of."
Breitbart Senior Editor-at-Large Joel Pollak: "Recognizing Jerusalem as Israel's capital and moving the U.S. embassy there is just a recognition of reality. But it is also a courageous decision, showing that the U.S. will stand with our allies regardless of terrorist threats. President Trump's decision also represents a guarantee of Israeli sovereignty in at least part of Jerusalem.... It is no exaggeration to say that for Jews, recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital is an event of almost Biblical significance. And we are witnesses to it."
  