
    "Hillary Clinton passes test after test after test."
The Quad City Times, a major daily newspaper serving Iowa and Illinois, today endorsed Hillary Clinton for President, calling her "tested" and citing her experience and ability to solve problems.
According to the endorsement editorial, the newspaper found Hillary Clinton to be "a proven, passionate, intelligent leader with a breadth of legislative and executive experience that is the best of a good bunch."
Hillary has also been endorsed by the Des Moines Register and the Vinton Eagle.
The full endorsement follows. ###
Times Democratic caucus endorsement: Hillary Clinton passes the test
By The Quad-City Times
Hillary Clinton passes test after test after test. This Clinton arrived for the caucus campaign with much, much more experience than the first Clinton to stump across Iowa. In campaign speeches and in an interview with the Times Editorial Board, she spoke passionately of people - specific, real people - whose stories drive her desire to solve problems. "I was brought up to believe we were the problem solvers," she told the editorial board. "If it was hard, that meant America would do it."
This Clinton hasn't shied away from problems.
As first lady, she stepped far beyond the traditional role and took on a major policy issue: health care. Washington special interests villified her for trying, branding any reform "socialized medicine" and even giving it her name: "Hillarycare."
Regardless, she persevered, becoming an advocate for children worldwide and pioneering the State Children's Health Insurance Program, which has survived Republican and Democrat Congresses.
She passed perhaps the toughest personal test. Many Americans stand up for the sanctity of marriage. Hillary Clinton did something much harder. She very publicly stood up for her own marriage.
In the Senate, she's worked across party lines to pass test after test and earn this testimonial: "This blue-state senator with a blue-state perspective has managed to build unusual political alliances on a variety of issues with Republicans." That commendation was written for Time magazine by U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who led the impeachment prosecution against her husband.
We tested her, too, in our editorial board interview, looking for evidence of the partisan rancor that is destroying our country. We found none. Instead, we found a proven, passionate, intelligent leader with a breadth of legislative and executive experience that is the best of a good bunch.
For Iowa's Democratic caucuses, we support Hillary Clinton.
  