
    Influential LGBT newspaper calls Hillary "smart, tenacious, hard working and willing to cede the spotlight in the interest of bipartisan cooperation"
In an editorial written by its editor Kevin Naff, The Washington Blade endorsed Hillary Clinton for President. The editorial not only cites Hillary's strong record on behalf of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community, but also lauds Hillary's experience and ability to address the global challenges that the country faces.
"Clinton has demonstrated a mastery of detail during the campaign. Whatever you think of her, there's no denying her intellect and willingness to work hard. She knows the issues, the history and players and has repeatedly pledged to work to restore the country's reputation around the world. That's a much-needed common sense perspective on where to start in 2009. And with an eight-year record of extensive globetrotting as first lady, she's well positioned to serve as the diplomat the country needs."
The endorsement also notes Hillary's success in reaching out to independent and Republican voters to find common ground. "For those who doubt her ability to win over moderate and conservative voters, look at what she accomplished in upstate New York, where she carried 'red' counties in a landslide Senate re-election victory. I've interviewed elected officials, including conservative Republicans, from those areas and they agree that Clinton is a hard-working and accessible leader with a focus on constituent service.
Hillary has been a longtime ally of the LGBT community. She fought against the Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA) both times and has worked on legislation that would promote equality for LGBT Americans. As President, Hillary will work to ensure that gay and lesbian couples in committed relationships have the same legal rights and responsibilities as all Americans. She will also work to end discrimination in adoption laws, sign hate crimes legislation and ENDA into law, and put an end to the failed policy of Don't Ask, Don't Tell.
The Washington Blade is one of the most influential LGBT newspapers in the country and regularly serves as a national source of political news for LGBT media outlets around the country.
"But in the end, Hillary Rodham Clinton stands the best chance of sending the Republicans into eight years of a well-deserved political wilderness. She's smart, tenacious, hard working and willing to cede the spotlight in the interest of bipartisan cooperation. She has marched in our Pride parades, promised unprecedented access to her administration and backed nearly all of our issues. Clinton has earned the support of gay voters in 2008."
To read the full endorsement visit www.washblade.com.
  