
    Pool Reports by Michael Mathes, Agence France-Presse



Sent:
Reports:




 December 24, 2020 10:13

 WH travel pool report 1: Mar-a-Lago start 
?Good morning from breezy Palm Beach, where I'll be your print pooler for this Christmas Eve — day one of President Donald Trump's holiday sojourn in Florida. It's 79 degrees (Sorry!) and partly sunny, with a few sprinkles. More rain possible later today.
Earlier this a.m. we were Covid-tested, and then swept by security.
At 10:10am the press vans joined up with the presidential motorcade — brief sighting of the black SUVs but no sighting of POTUS by your pooler — as it exited his Mar-a-Lago resort. We are now en route to an undisclosed location. 


 December 24, 2020 10:32

 WH travel pool report 2: golf 
?At about 10:18 am, after an uneventful drive over the inter coastal waterway, and where only a handful of supporters could be seen along the route, the president was driven into his Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach. Again we saw the motorcade roll in, but no POTUS sighting, and the pool peeled off.
I have asked press staff whether Trump is playing golf and who his golfing partners might be, but I have not heard back.
We are now holding, presumably a few hours, and I'll let you know when we are on the move. 


 December 24, 2020 14:07

 WH travel pool report 3: back to MAL and lid 
?The Trump motorcade exited his golf club at 1:38 pm and headed back to Mar-a-Lago, where the SUVs entered the gates at 1:48 pm. Your pooler has had no visibility on the president.
A travel photo lid was called at 1:57 pm.
Note: On the return drive, just before the bridge to Palm Beach, a few supporters lined the road waving US and Trump flags and holding signs as the motorcade passed.
One sign read "Stop the Steal," and another said "In Trump I Trust."
An eagle-eyed photographer in the pool took a photo of something I did not see in the blur as we drove by, but confirmed in her images: a man wearing a Proud Boys black and yellow shirt and cap, raising his hand with his fingers in an "OK" sign — connecting the thumb and forefinger In a circle and raising the three other fingers.
Cheers and have a great rest of your Christmas Eve. 



  