
    MINNEAPOLIS, MN — Amy Klobuchar has a proven record of winning big in the kinds of places Democrats will need to carry to defeat Donald Trump in 2020. Despite running in a purple state that the President nearly won in 2016, she has never lost an election. She is a proven progressive from the heartland who delivers results. A Vanderbilt study from this year named her the most effective Democrat in the Senate and the fifth most effective senator overall, despite Democrats being in the minority. She's the first minority-party senator to break into the top five in 16 years.
Here's why Amy will defeat Donald Trump and deliver Democratic victories up and down the ballot:
She won every single Minnesota Congressional district in all three statewide elections, including a district Donald Trump won by 20 points.
In 2018, she won 42 counties that President Trump won in 2016, including 39 rural counties. She won 44 rural counties overall in 2018.
She has strong support and gets things done. According to Morning Consult, Klobuchar is the third most popular Senator with 58 percent approval and 26 percent disapproval. A Vanderbilt study from this year named her the most effective Democrat in the Senate and the fifth most effective senator overall, despite Democrats being in the minority. She's the first minority-party senator to break into the top five in 16 years.
Read More:
New York Times: "On the campaign trail, Ms. Klobuchar touts the 42 counties Mr. Trump carried that she won during her re-election race last November. She won 51 of the state's 87 counties in all."
The Guardian: "But even in the reddest, most conservative corners of this purple place, Klobuchar has cleaned up. In three statewide elections over a dozen years, she has beaten Republican opponents by 20, 35 and 24 points, respectively. Farmers, miners, truckers, nurses and teachers – many of them the white, working-class voters who tipped the scale last time – have turned out to support her... Klobuchar won her third term in November with 60 percent of the vote, beating her GOP challenger by 24 points, or 626,000 votes. Klobuchar won 42 counties in 2018 that Trump had won in 2016. Of those, 39 are in rural areas. "
538: "Klobuchar can make some good, data-driven arguments for her electability. One of them is simply the overall electoral importance of the Midwest — particularly the Upper Midwestern states of Minnesota (which Trump came within 1.5 percentage points of winning), Wisconsin and Michigan (which Trump won). Winning those three states plus Pennsylvania (or Ohio, or Florida, or North Carolina) would have given Hillary Clinton the presidency. And if the midterm elections were any guide, they still probably represent the path of least resistance for Democrats to retake the White House."
Politico: "She's a consistent big winner in a state that has gotten more competitive -- and just so happens to border Iowa."
  