
    Second Ad Released During "Building a Better America Week"
Manchester, NH – Today on day three of "Building a Better America Week," the John Edwards for President campaign unveiled its second New Hampshire television ad of the week, entitled "Rigged." The ad features John Edwards speaking directly to New Hampshire voters about how the system in Washington is corrupt and rigged against hardworking Americans on behalf of the moneyed corporate interests.
"John Edwards has spent his entire life fighting for hardworking Americans against big corporate interests," said New Hampshire state director Beth Leonard. "He knows that replacing a group of corporate Republicans with a group of corporate Democrats is not going to bring about the bold change we so desperately need."
"Rigged" is the fifth ad to air in New Hampshire since the summer. "Rigged" and "Together" will both air on broadcast and cable across the state.
Edwards will return to New Hampshire this Friday and Saturday: www.johnedwards.com/nh/events
The ad can be viewed at: http://johnedwards.com/watch/rigged/
Below is a full transcript of the ad:
"RIGGED" :30
This system is corrupt. And it's rigged. And it's rigged against you.
ANN: Finally, someone telling the truth.
And we can say as long as we get Democrats in, everything's gonna be ok. It's a lie. It is not the truth.
Do you really believe if we replace a crowd of corporate Republicans with a crowd of corporate Democrats that anything meaningful's gonna change?
This has to stop. It's that simple.
I'm John Edwards, and I approved this message.

John Edwards – Building a Better America Week
On Monday, John Edwards kicked off "Building a Better America Week," in which he has been highlighting his proposals for restoring the American Dream. Edwards has challenged Americans to rise up and meet the great moral test of our time to ensure our generation leaves this country better for our children than it was when our parents gave it to us. Edwards has been highlighting five core principles:

Universal Health Care: Edwards will create a true universal health care system that covers everyone in America, brings down costs, and creates more choices and security.
Good Jobs: Edwards will invest in the good jobs of the future by creating a new energy economy based on clean, renewable energy, rejecting failed trade deals in favor of new smarter trade policies, and eliminating tax incentives for corporations to invest overseas.
Excellent Schools: Edwards will invest in teachers with higher pay and a new National Teachers University, overhaul No Child Left Behind, and invest more to turn around struggling schools. His College for Everyone initiative will let everyone work their way through college.
Affordable Housing: Edwards will help families save for a down payment with a new Get Ahead tax credit, create 1 million housing vouchers to let families live where they choose, build more economically integrated housing.
Strong Families: Edwards will work with states to offer eight weeks of paid leave to new parents and workers with serious illnesses in the family. He will also create a universal Great Promise program of early childhood education and more than double the child care tax credit.

  