
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, DailyMail



Sent:
Reports:




 December 8, 2020 11:58

FLOTUS pool report #1 - her motorcade is rolling to Toys for Tots Drive 
?FLOTUS is headed to Joint Base Anacostia – Bolling for the annual Marine Toys for Tots Drive. She is participating in this event for the fourth year in a row.
Pool did not see Melania Trump enter the motorcade. At 11:57 am we are rolling.
At the event FLOTUS will:
- make remarks- participate in toy sorting- join in Christmas Card making for troops- do socially distant greetings with military families- distribute Be Best bags to children
On background from an East Wing official, the First Lady is also donating books and soccer balls to this years Toys for Tots charity.
FLOTUS tweeted about her visit earlier:
https://twitter.com/flotus/status/1336311861877288967?s=21
And here is the release from the East Wing on the event:
First Lady Melania Trump will participate in the annual Marine Toys for Tots Drive hosted by the United States Marine Corps Reserve at Joint Base Anacostia – Bolling.
The charity collects new, unwrapped toys and gives them to children in need. The toys are intended to provide hope for children and families, motivating them to Be Best in all that they do.
For the fourth year in a row, the First Lady will deliver brief remarks before helping Marines and children sort toys and make Christmas cards, which will be included with each gift. 


 December 8, 2020 12:25

FLOTUS pool report #2 - arrival and remarks 
?FLOTUS motorcade arrived at Joint Base Anacostia – Bolling at 12:11 pm after an uneventful drive past the National Christmas tree and through downtown DC.
Melania Trump entered the room at 12:22 pm to Christmas music and applause. She is wearing white pants and white turtle neck with a dark jacket - either black or navy blue. She is not wearing a face mask.
The event is taking place is a large room with lots of space. About a dozen kids are sitting on mats on the floor spread out to be socially distanced. There is a table of gifts to the side and a table in the back for card making. There are large boxes labeled girls and boys that the toys will be sorted into.
One young girl escaped her mat to head for the toy table to check out the gifts. A Marine in dress blues caught the youngster and returned her to her spot.
Most participants - even the little kids - are wearing face masks. The exceptions are very young kids - a baby and a little kid who looks about one.
There are about a dozen Marines in dress blues. And about a dozen civilians.
Event is airing live on WhiteHouse.gov:
https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=693654164e35d23cf5...
Below are her remarks as prepared for delivery and embargoed until she gives them.
She is speaking now.
In them she reminds people an act of kindness can go a long way during the COVID-19 pandemic:
"Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic, many Americans are spending the holidays separated from their loved ones and have to change routines they've had for many years.
Remember that small acts of kindness such as calling your friends and neighbors or making holiday cards for a nearby nursing home can go a long way in spreading cheer and helping those struggling with change."
Introducing her was Lieutenant General David Bellon followed by Lieutenant General James Laster.
Full Remarks as prepared, embargoed until delivery:
Good afternoon.
It is great to be back here to support this joyful holiday tradition. The Marine Toys for Tots is one of my favorite events during the Christmas season!
I want to start by thanking Lieutenant General Laster and Lieutenant General Bellon for their dedication to the success of this program. You have spent countless hours collecting, sorting, and distributing toys – ensuring that every child has a Christmas they deserve. Thank you for all you do.
I also want to thank all of the children who are here today. I know that many of you have a family member serving in the military and I want you to know how special they are to our Nation – they are true heroes.
I also want to tell you how proud I am of each of you.
Your work here today will help us make sure every child has presents to open on Christmas day.
To the service members joining us, thank you for the sacrifices that you and your families make for our country.
It's fantastic that you brought your children here today, teaching them that the holiday season is not just about receiving presents, it's about kindness and giving back to your community and to the less fortunate. Lessons that will stick with them for the rest of their lives.
Like many of you, we just finished decorating for Christmas at the White House. Our theme this year is America the Beautiful. From coast to coast, our country is blessed with beautiful landscapes and inspirational people.
It was my goal that this year's decorations honored and paid tribute to the people and places that have shaped this place we proudly call home.
The Marine Toys for Tots program is a shining example of an American tradition that has shaped our nation. For over 73 years, they have provided hope to nearly 300 million children and families in need.
They have also served as a reminder to both young and old, that the holiday season is about kindness and communities coming together to uplift one another.
This year more than ever, it is important for us to all remember to be kind this holiday season.
Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic, many Americans are spending the holidays separated from their loved ones and have to change routines they've had for many years.
Remember that small acts of kindness such as calling your friends and neighbors or making holiday cards for a nearby nursing home can go a long way in spreading cheer and helping those struggling with change.
Let's all do our part to Be Best in these difficult times.
During this holiday season, and throughout the year, I encourage everyone to think about ways you can safely give back to your community. The Toys for Tots program has proven that idea to give back is timeless and can be done at all ages.
Before we get started, I want to wish all of you a Merry Christmas and happy and healthy new year.
We send our prayers to all those serving overseas who will not be home with their families this Christmas. Our nation is with you and thanks you for all that you do.
God Bless you and your families, and God Bless the United States of America.
Thank you! 


 December 8, 2020 12:44

FLOTUS pool report #3 - remarks wrapped and FLOTUS put on face mask 
?FLOTUS wrapped her remarks at 12:27 pm.
As she spoke one little kid called "mommy" as he sat waiting.
FLOTUS put on a face mask after she spoke.
The kids joined her in taking toys from the toy table to the boxes across the room labeled boy and girl. The First Lady bent and spoke to some of them. She also helped hand out gifts to the kids to sort into boxes. Marines also helped in the sorting.
FLOTUS leaned down to one girl and waved so a pic could be taken.
One little girl brought a toy to her dad, who later slipped it back on the toy table.
Event evolving into the general chaos that comes when you combine kids and toys - lots of running and bouncing about (the kids - FLOTUS is her usual unflappable self).
FLOTUS now at the card making table. 


 December 8, 2020 13:03

FLOTUS pool report #4 - Card making and family meet and greet 
FLOTUS watched the kids making cards for troops overseas, offering advice and encouragement.
"Draw something for Christmas," she suggested to one child who was stuck.
A little boy brought her a card he made for her. It was hard to hear what she said to him and what she is saying in general as the room is quite large and spacious.
"Thank you so much for doing this," FLOTUS told the kids.
She is walking between two table where the kids are drawing. She has sit down a few times to talk to the kids and posed for some pics with them.
She also sat at a table making cards with the kids. A few kids brought their cards to show her.
After she finished her card making, FLOTUS used the hand sanitizer and helped other kids use it too.
"Stay well and stay safe," she told the kids. A little girl also brought FLOTUS a card she made her.
FLOTUS greeted families in a socially distanced way. The families stood behind a double row of boxes while FLOTUS stood across from them. She turned and they stood at a distance behind her as they all posed for pictures. FLOTUS took her mask off for the photos.
She put her mask back on to pass out Be Best bags. The kids lined up to receive them. Marines held the bags as FLOTUS bent to greet the kids and then hand them a bag.
More color from the room: there is a large military truck with teddy bears sitting on it. A little boy kicked a soccer ball across the room before he put it in the toy box. Other toys include lots of board games, an Olaf doll from Frozen, an assortment of stuffed animals, and and toy trucks.
Christmas music has played the entire time.
Please note in the past the second lady and cabinet spouses usually attend but the event is scaled back this year due to COVID. There are also about half the number of kids attending than previous years. 


December 8, 202013:07

FLOTUS #5 - motorcade departure
At 1:04 pm FLOTUS is headed back to White House.
Per the photographers, the first card FLOTUS received from one of the kids said "Merry Christmas and happy new year"



 December 8, 2020 13:16

FLOTUS pool report #6 - arrival at White House 
?FLOTUS motorcade returned to White House at 1:15 pm after an uneventful drive.
Pool did not see FLOTUS get out of her vehicle.
And that's a wrap folks. 



  