
    Inspired by Paul's economic message, members hail from Muscatine, Des Moines, and Clinton counties
ANKENY, Iowa — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today new members of its "Small Businesses for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
Dr. Paul's platform, which includes a return to restoring sound money, responsible spending, lower taxes, and free markets, has excited small business owners across Iowa and nationally.
The new "Small Businesses for Ron Paul" members hail from Muscatine, Des Moines and Clinton Counties.
The first of these is Wayne Zumwalt, who for more than 30 years has owned and operated Zumwalt Tile.
"Dr. Paul has been a true champion of individual liberty who understands the Constitution's role in preserving our freedoms. He'll get Washington out of the way and allow the economy to grow again. Small business needs a friend in the White House, and I trust the man who sticks to his principles, and that man is Ron Paul," said Mr. Zumwalt of Muscatine.
Another supporter is Eric Riendinger, who owns and operates Attention Signs in Des Moines.
"Dr. Paul acknowledges that our country is faced with a serious debt crisis. He is also willing to take the bold steps necessary to turn things around. As a small business owner, I'm confident that Dr. Paul's economic plan will restore American prosperity," Mr. Riendinger stated.
Finally there is Rodney Gibbons, owner of the furniture store Slumberland, which employs eight people.
"Ron Paul's life work as a doctor and a congressman shows exactly who he is. Dr. Paul has always defended the rights of the unborn and argues that we should treat people around the world the way we would want to be treated. In Congress, he stood against those threatening our individual freedoms and liberty, everyday fighting to shrink the size of the federal government," said Mr. Gibbons.
"I could write a book on the reasons why I support Dr. Paul," concluded Gibbons of Burlington.
As a first basic step, those interested in joining the "Small Businesses for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page here. Those residing in Iowa should email Iowa Voter Outreach Director Meghann Walker atmeghannw@ronpaul2012.com.
  