
    
  Both Ads will first air during the Michigan State vs. Iowa Big-10 Championship Game

HOUSTON, Texas – Cruz for President campaign today announced two new 30-second ads, "Endorsement" and "Dangerous," highlighting Cruz's proven record as a courageous conservative fighting to strengthen and defend America.
"Endorsement" features Iowa Congressman Steve King who recently endorsed Cruz and says "he understands that we need to defeat Islamic jihad, pay down our national debt, and strengthen our families." In"Dangerous," Cruz outlines his approach to defeating radical Islamic terrorism: "We'll rebuild our military. We'll kill the terrorists. And every Islamic extremist will know, if you wage jihad against us, you're signing your death warrant."
Both ads, part of a two-week Iowa statewide buy, will first air during the Big-10 Championship Game between Michigan State and Iowa. The two ads are part of a six-figure media buy in Iowa that includes digital and radio.
Ad Scripts:
Cruz for President


"Endorsement"
:30 TV
KING: For over a year now, my regular prayer has been that God would raise up a leader whom He will use to restore the soul of America.
One of them has been standing at my side time after time, and it was Senator Ted Cruz.
He understands that we need to defeat Islamic jihad, pay down our national debt, and strengthen our families.
February 1st, do your duty for God and country, come to caucus and support Ted Cruz for President of the United States.
CRUZ: I'm Ted Cruz and I approved this message.


"Dangerous"
:30 TV
CRUZ: Under President Obama and Secretary Clinton, the world is more dangerous, and America is less safe.
If I'm elected to serve as Commander-in-Chief, we won't cower in the face of evil. America will lead.
We'll rebuild our military. We'll kill the terrorists. And every Islamic extremist will know, if you wage jihad against us, you're signing your death warrant.
And under no circumstances will I ever apologize for America.
I'm Ted Cruz, and I approved this message.
  