
    
  State Representatives Steve Drazkowski and Cindy Pugh to Co-Chair Cruz Effort

HOUSTON, Texas – Today, Presidential candidate Ted Cruz continued building his strong national organization by announcing his Minnesota Leadership Team, which will be co-chaired by Rep. Steve Drazkowski (District 21B) and Rep. Cindy Pugh (District 33B). On December 5th, Cruz won the Minnesota Republican Central Committee convention's straw poll by a 2-to-1 margin. Minnesota's Republican Caucuses will be held on Super Tuesday – March 1, 2016. Cruz will continue his "Take Off With Ted" fly around tour to Super Tuesday states tonight in St. Paul. The event will be held at Harriet Island Pavilion at Harriet Island Regional Park starting at 6 p.m. and will be live streamed here.
"I am thrilled to have two of Minnesota's foremost movement conservatives leading our growing team," Cruz said. "All across America, we are gaining momentum because principled, conservative voters are uniting behind us. Due to the hard work of our grassroots supporters in Minnesota, we won a convincing straw poll victory just two weeks ago, and I look forward to continuing to build our team heading into March 1st."
"We are excited to stand with Ted Cruz in his effort to secure the Republican nomination and take on Hillary Clinton," Representatives Drazkowski and Pugh said in a joint statement. "Ted Cruz is a consistent and principled conservative who is steadfastly seeking to reform Washington and return the power to the people of this great country. We join in the optimism and strength that he has fought for throughout his career."
Members of the Minnesota Leadership Team for Ted Cruz:
Brandon Lerch (Minnesota Campaign Coordinator)
Mandy Benz (Grassroots Coordinator)
Rep. Cindy Pugh, Chanhassen, District 33B (Co-Chair)
Rep. Steve Drazkowski, Mazeppa, District 21B (Co-Chair)
Reverend Ken Beale, Woodbury, US Army Chaplain, Colonel, Retired
Robert Cummins, Deephaven, CEO, Primera Technology and Co-Founder, Freedom Club of Minnesota
Deborah Everson, Watertown, local elected official
Emily Gruenhagen, Glencoe, Chair, Sibley County GOP
Rep. Glen Gruenhagen, Glencoe, District 18B
Becky Hall, Duluth, Tea Party Leader
Rep. David Hancock, Bemidji, District 2A
Rep. Josh Heintzeman, Nisswa, District 10A
Rep. Jerry Hertaus, Greenfield, District 33A
Christopher Kaufmann, Hanover, Mayor
Bruce Miller, Champlin, local elected official
Rep. Tim Miller, Prinsburg, District 17A
Rep. Jim Newberger, Becker, District 15B
Tim Pitcher, Farmington, local elected official
Susan Richardson, Woodbury, Minnesota Voter's Alliance
Christopher Rush, Woodbury, Pro-Life activist
Vicki Soppeland, Glenwood, Officer, Pope County GOP
Robert Yang, Rogers, Assistant to the Hmong Republicans of Minnesota
  