
    
Texas State Representative James Frank put a lot of thought into whom he wanted to endorse for President in 2016. Here's what he told his constituents:
While I spend the vast majority of my time on state level issues, I have spent considerable time over the past four months trying to determine who to support for President.  It would be much safer politically to stay out of this race (as there is a very good chance that I will make some people angry).  That being said, I believe that this Presidential election is too important to spend it on the sidelines out of fear. . . .
All of us should be paying attention for three reasons:

Importance of the Presidency — we must have someone who understands, desires and works for a government that is both limited in its scope and as local as practical. Unfortunately, the President has significantly more influence on the rules, regulations and budget of the state than I ever would have imagined.
Choose the right candidate and we win — if Republicans choose one of the qualified, electable candidates, we will win the election.      
Texas will play an important role in picking the Republican candidate— while Texas is almost certain to elect a Republican in the general election, the PRIMARY is where we can actually have the biggest impact on this election.  


He had it down to two conservative senators:
While there is an amazing amount of talent in the Republican primary field, my final choice of who to support for the Republican nomination came down to two very strong candidates: Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio. These two men are similar in many ways. Not only are they articulate and smart, but they are both first-term senators that have personal stories that are woven from the very fabric of America. 
In the end, though, Frank found it an easy choice. One candidate clearly has a better chance of taking the White House for conservatives in November.
In my final analysis, I have chosen to support Marco Rubio as I believe he has a much stronger chance than Cruz of beating the Democratic nominee in the general election due to his high likeability and his location in the critical electoral state of Florida.
Here's what he had to say about Marco's record:
Marco Rubio's voting record is a good indicator that he will lead the country in a way that decreases the size and scope of government.  In his time as Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives he demonstrated his appreciation of the proper role of state government and federalism.
I have no concerns about the job Rubio would do as President and I have no concerns that he would beat Hillary Clinton in a general election.  He is young, charismatic, intelligent and has a compelling personal story.  He is highly telegenic and has shown a knack for self-deprecation that comes in handy on the campaign trail. 
Frank, of Wichita Falls, is a small business owner who's helped bring over 100 new jobs to Texas.Representative Frank, welcome to Team Marco!
  