
    
It's been a big year for Marco, and it was no exception on Facebook, where his social media presence has been growing at an incredible rate.
Here are our top ten most popular posts of the year from Marco's Facebook page:10. Marco's thoughts on Hanukkah:
As our Jewish friends, neighbors, and loved ones in Florida and around the world prepare to light the menorah at sundown...
Posted by Marco Rubio on Sunday, December 6, 2015


9. That time Marco took the time to get an important update before the October GOP debate.
Last night ahead of today's debate, I got an update on Cruz, Bush & Carson. #CNBCGOPDebate
Posted by Marco Rubio on Wednesday, October 28, 2015


8. Marco has stood with Israel, President Obama hasn't.
Sadly, under the current Administration our commitment to Israel is lacking. Israel deserves our support and respect. We must stand strong with Israel. SIGN if you agree!
Posted by Marco Rubio on Wednesday, April 15, 2015


7. The story of how Marco's father taught him about the American Dream:
Remembering my father today — he worked hard to provide so many opportunities for me and taught me what the American Dream is all about.
Posted by Marco Rubio on Sunday, June 21, 2015


6. We've seen a lot of memorable debate moments from Marco — but this from the October CNBC debate was tops.
Re-watch Marco's take down of the GOP establishment, the liberal media, and Jeb Bush's campaign.
Posted by Marco Rubio on Wednesday, October 28, 2015


5. What can we say? With a family like this, Marco has a lot to be thankful for.
From our family to yours, Happy Thanksgiving
Posted by Marco Rubio on Thursday, November 26, 2015


4. It can be so easy to take for granted the values embodied by the words of our Pledge of Allegiance and our flag.
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one Nation under God,indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.Happy Flag Day!
Posted by Marco Rubio on Sunday, June 14, 2015


3. Those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for America deserve to remembered and celebrated.
Have a fun and safe Memorial Day weekend and remember, you can do so because…
Posted by Marco Rubio on Friday, May 22, 2015


2. This year we were reminded about the grave threat posed by radical Islamic terrorism. Marco's message about it is clear.
The attacks on Paris are a wake up call. This is not a grievance-based conflict. This is a clash of civilizations. Either they win or we win.
Posted by Marco Rubio on Saturday, November 14, 2015


1. It's only fitting that the top spot has nothing to do with politics — it's about what others give up to keep us safe.
Wherever you're celebrating Thanksgiving this year, remember:
Posted by Marco Rubio on Wednesday, November 25, 2015


As 2015 comes to a close and 2016 begins, we're excited for another year of working towards a New American Century.
Join the team here.
  