
    
BURLINGTON, Vt. — With turnout projections mounting, U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders' Iowa campaign on Sunday shifted the locations of events in Sioux City and Red Oak. The Democratic Party presidential candidate will also make stops in Storm Lake, Carroll, Harlan and Council Bluffs. Sanders will discuss a wide range of issues, including his plan to combat climate change, his college affordability plan, income and wealth inequality and getting big money out of politics. Here is the itinerary:
Monday, December 21
7 p.m. Sioux City Town Meeting, Sioux City Convention Center, 801 4th Street, Sioux City
Information for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Tuesday, December 22
10 a.m. Storm Lake Town Meeting, Buena Vista University, Harold Walter Siebens School of Business, Storm Lake
Information for the public: Doors open at 9:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
12:30 p.m. Carroll Field Headquarters Opening, Bernie 2016 Carroll Field Office, 820 West 8th Street, Carroll
Information for the public: Doors open at noon. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
4 p.m. Harlan Town Meeting, C. G. Therkildsen Activity Center, 706 Victoria Street, Harlan
Information for the public: Doors open at 3 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
7 p.m. Pottawattamie County Economic Forum, Iowa Western Community College, Kanesville Gym and Arena, 2700 College Road, Council Bluffs
Information for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. This event is free and open to the public,but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Wednesday, December 23
10 a.m. Red Oak Town Meeting, Red Coach Inn and Restaurant, 1200 Senate Avenue, Red Oak
Information for the public: Doors open at 9:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Noon Council Bluffs Meeting with Precinct Captains, Barley's, 114 W. Broadway, Council Bluffs
Information for the public: This event is for precinct captains.
  