
    By Mike Huckabee
President Obama's national security priorities are dangerous. Two weeks after terrorist attacks rocked Paris, he is visiting France, not to focus on fighting global terrorism, but to tackle the global warming "security imperative." America needs a commander-in-chief, not a weather-obsessed meteorologist-in-chief.
The federal government cannot control the weather. Period. We can control borders, military assets, critical airspace, and American intelligence. We can also kill Islamic terrorists and radical ISIS murderers. America needs a president focused on what we can control, not fixated on weather patterns which we cannot.
Even if we could control the weather, 95 percent of the world lives outside America, and we cannot control the behavior of seven billion people across the globe. Put another way, other countries refuse to tackle simple, dangerous threats like nuclear weapons proliferation. So how does Obama expect to persuade massive polluters like China, Russia and Pakistan to embrace expensive, job-killing global warming regulations?
Obama's obsession with global, utopian collaboration and building a personal climate change legacy has made him allergic to common sense. Meanwhile, the real "security imperative" keeps metastasizing.
ISIS keeps swelling in size and power and Obama still has no strategy. In the Syrian city of Raqqa, which serves as the ISIS capital, Islamic radicals have established a treasury department with an elaborate system of taxes, public services and real estate rental agreements. Between oil production, smuggling, antiquity dealing and kidnapping, ISIS is building a comprehensive infrastructure.
What will it take for Obama to wake-up to this menace? Maybe he would take ISIS seriously if he discovered they didn't recycle.
Homegrown terrorists and radicalized immigrants continue to pop-up across Europe. The Department of Homeland Security refuses to reform a dangerous travel program that allows unscreened foreign passengers from 38 countries, including France and Belgium, to enter the U.S. without a visa.
Illegal immigrants continue to cross our porous borders and thousands of immigrants overstay their visas each year. America's cyber-defenses remain incredibly vulnerable and the White House has endless excuses for security breaches, intelligence failures and routine Washington incompetence.
Now more than ever, America needs a commander-in-chief focused on the global war on terrorism, instead we have a community organizer focused on global warming. Obama's blindness is beyond baffling, it's dangerous. It shouldn't take another Paris attack for this White House to open its eyes: radical Islamic terrorism is a much greater threat than a sunburn.
Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee is a 2016 Republican candidate for president of the United States.
This op-ed was originally published on FoxNews.com HERE.
ACTIONS
Sign up to make calls from home for Huckabee for President here.
Iowa voter? Commit to caucus for Mike Huckabee here.
  