
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Florida State Representative Chris Dorworth has endorsed his campaign for President of the United States.
"Chris has a distinguished record of public service in Central Florida and extensive experience in local Republican grassroots campaigning. I am thankful for his support," said Governor Romney. "We both agree that to keep America strong, we must strengthen our military, strengthen our economy and strengthen families. As we quickly approach Florida's January primary, I look forward to sharing this optimistic vision for our county's future with voters across the Sunshine State."
Representative Dorworth joins many of his fellow Florida legislators in endorsing Governor Romney's candidacy, including Romney for President Statewide Co-Chairs: Representatives Jennifer Carroll, Anitere Flores and Trey Traviesa. Other legislators serving on Governor Romney's Florida leadership team include: State Senators JD Alexander, Carey Baker, Steve Oelrich and Stephen R. Wise and State Representatives Marti Coley, Don Davis, Michael J. Grant, Alan Hays, Ed Hooper, Dick Kravitz and Trudi Williams.
"As he campaigns in Florida and across the country, Governor Romney is the only candidate who has demonstrated that he has the experience, the vision and the values to lead America forward," said Representative Dorworth. "Governor Romney enjoys tremendous support in Central Florida and throughout the state. I am committed to working hard to help him secure victory in the Sunshine State next month."
The Florida Steering Committee is chaired by former Lieutenant Governor Toni Jennings, former Speakers of the House Allan Bense and John Thrasher, Florida Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Charles Bronson, former Chairman of the Florida Republican Party Al Cardenas and U.S. Congressmen Tom Feeney and Connie Mack. Additional Co-Chairs include St. Petersburg Mayor Rick Baker, former Representatives Dennis Baxley and Dudley Goodlette, David Griffin, former Florida Secretary of State Glenda Hood and former Senator and Chairman of the Republican Party of Florida Van Poole.
Background On State Representative Chris Dorworth:
State Representative Chris Dorworth Represents House District 34, Consisting of Alachua, Bradford, Gilchrist, Union And Parts of Orange and Seminole Counties. Representative Dorworth was recently elected to the Florida House of Representatives last month in a special election. He serves as the Vice-Chair of the Committee on Utilities & Telecommunications and is a member of the Committee on Constitution & Civil Law, Committee on Healthy Seniors and Jobs & Entrepreneurship Council. Prior to his election to the Legislature, Representative Dorworth was appointed Chairman of the Seminole Community College District Board of Trustees by Governor Jeb Bush and re-appointed by Governor Charlie Crist. He has also served on the Board of Directors of the Seminole County Regional Chamber of Commerce and Chaired the Board of Directors and Chaired the Seminole Soil and Water Conservation District. Representative Dorworth has been active in Republican politics in Florida, previously serving as the Seminole County Chairman of the Bush/Cheney Campaign in 2004. He is a real estate investor with an M.B.A. from Duke University and a B.A. from the University of Florida, where he served as Student Body President.
  