
    
  George P. Bush to Chair Young Professionals Organization

McLean, VA - Today the Fred Thompson campaign announced its Young Professionals for Fred Thompson national and local leadership. George Prescott Bush will serve as the National Chair of the organization, while Nicolee Ambrose will serve as the Executive Director of the Young Professionals for Fred Thompson National Steering committee.
"As a young professional, I am pleased to support Senator Fred Thompson because of his consistent conservative record in public service and sincere vision to pursue a reform-based domestic agenda in Washington D.C," said George P. Bush. "From addressing grave forecasts in connection with the efficacy of Social Security to the recent endorsement he received from the National Right to Life Committee, Senator Thompson has demonstrated in short order that he is the most reliable spokesman for conservative values in this presidential election cycle."
George Prescott Bush currently serves as Chief Operating Officer of N3 Opportunity Fund, a Texas-based investment partnership. Prior to joining N3, Mr. Bush practiced corporate law in the Dallas office of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, the nation's 10th largest law firm. After graduating from law school, he clerked for the Honorable Sidney A. Fitzwater, a U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Texas. Mr. Bush received his undergraduate degree from Rice University and obtained his Juris Doctorate from the University of Texas School of Law. In 2000 and 2004, he campaigned as a surrogate speaker on behalf of his uncle, President George W. Bush.
"Fred Thompson is right on the issues and that is one of the many reasons I am proud to support him for President," said Nicolee Ambrose. "As both a working mother and a young professional, I am thrilled Senator Thompson is tackling the tough issues that will most impact America's future: Social Security reform, tax reform, border security, and national defense. Furthermore, it is refreshing to witness Senator Thompson's unshakeable belief that government is not the answer to every question."
Nicolee Ambrose is Chairman Emeritus of the Young Republican National Federation. She was an award-winning Financial Advisor for American Express. Nicolee received her Bachelor of Arts in International Relations at Johns Hopkins University and a Master of Music in Opera Performance from Arizona State University.
"We are so pleased to announce our Young Professionals for Fred leadership," said Randy Enwright, National Political Director. "George P. Bush has been a strong advocate for conservative values throughout his career and I thank him for his leadership in serving as Chair of this organization. I look forward to working with this team as we work to spread Fred Thompson's message of consistent conservatism along the campaign trail."
For more please visit www.fred08.com/youngprofessionals
Young Professionals for Fred Thompson Leadership includes:
CHAIRMAN
George P. Bush
NATIONAL STEERING COMMITTEE
Will Alexander
Nicolee Ambrose, Executive Director
Clay Barclay, Southeast Regional Director
Ken Emanuelson, Southwest Regional Director
Harrison Frist, Northeast Regional Director
Stephen Gele, Chair of Fred Force
Kyle Jones, Western Regional Director
Joseph Konzelmann
Baxter Lee, Chair of Fred Founders
Nick Wahoff, Midwest Regional Director
METRO AREA COORDINATORS
Northeast
Ron Herbison, Washington, D.C.
Dan Iampieri, Baltimore, MD
Neil and Lori-Ann Miller, Northern Virginia
Moshe Starkman and David Cotter, Montgomery Co., MD
Southeast
Michael Wall, Atlanta, GA
Kevin Speed, Birmingham, AL
Andy Gazitua, Miami, FL
Clay Barclay, Mobile, AL
Stephen Gele, New Orleans, LA
Cristen Vehorn, Richmond, VA
Jeff Ripley, Virginia Beach, VA
Midwest
Keely Drucala, Chicago, IL
Heather Harlow, Cincinnati, OH
Morgan McIntosh, Cleveland, OH
Greg Lawson, Columbus, OH
Jeff Witherspoon, Kansas City, MO
Southwest
Dan Garcia, College Station, TX
Julie Baumgarten and Ashley Allen, Houston, TX
Mark Russo, Rockwall, TX
Dorian Jauregui and Monica Rojas, San Antonio, TX
Western
Kyle Jones, Central Valley, CA
www.fred08.com/youngprofessionals
  