
    Pool Reports by Kéthévane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




December 9, 202113:25

VP Pool report #1 
Hello everyone,
I'll be your pooler for the VP's remarks at the summit for Democracy.
gathered at the stakeout, heading to the South Court auditorium where she'll be delivering the closing remarks for Day 1 of the summit.
She's scheduled to speak at 1:25pm.
Remarks will be livestreamed here:
http://whitehouse.gov/Live



December 9, 202113:35

VP pool report #2 - VP speaking 
VPOTUS started speaking at 1:34pm
She was introduced via DTC by Gov. Janet Mills (D-ME)
The large table that was set up for the President's remarks this morning is gone. VP is speaking at a lectern in the middle of the room.
In the background, the Summit for Democracy logo.



December 9, 202113:46

VP pool report #3 - quotes 
VPOTUS ended her remarks at 1:41pm.
As always please check against tape for exact quotes
"In this new era, I believe that democracy is our world's best hope. Not because it is perfect, but because of its principles, because it delivers for the people."
"Here in the United States, we know that our democracy is not immune from threats. January 6 looms large and our collective conscience and the anti voter laws that many states have passed are part of an intentional effort to exclude Americans from participating in our democracy."
She spoke of the 2 voting rights bills currently stalled in Congress:"Today as the world watches the President and I reiterate our call for swift passage of these bills."
She Concluded by speaking about a conversation on democracy she had this past summer with now former German chancellor Angela Merkel and their experiences with the Iron Curtain for Merkel & the civil rights movement for Harris.
"Though we grew up in different times and places under very different circumstances, the importance of democracy in our own lives was and remains clear, as we address the present threat of democracy, as we work to prove its value and vitality, in this new era, as leaders of our world we must all remember that democracy is neither an abstract concept, nor static state. Democracy lives in the people. Democracy is the people and democracy is our best hope."




  