
    Steyer discusses HBCU 2030 plan with State Representative Jerry Govan and Allen University students 
(COLUMBIA, SC, December 10, 2019) –– Today, Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer announced his HBCU 2030 plan to revitalize our nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Steyer unveiled his plan at Allen University, an HBCU in Columbia, South Carolina. In conversation with Representative Jerry Govan and Allen University students, Steyer discussed the need to invigorate the next generation of leaders, pioneer new research, and continue the proud academic legacy of HBCUs in our nation.
"For as long as they've existed, HBCUs have been underfunded and left to do more with less—all while producing some of the world's most brilliant leaders. My HBCU 2030 plan will address these financial hardships, expand economic opportunities, and ensure that our nation's African American students have the ability to succeed and lead from out front," said Steyer.
Steyer's 4-part plan will invest $125 billion in federal resources over 10 years to enhance the White House Initiative on HBCUs and strengthen Centers of Innovation across HBCU campuses, establish a Board of Regents for long-term governance, and foster community impact partnerships across public and private sectors.
South Carolina State Rep. Jerry Govan, an HBCU graduate and senior advisor to the Steyer campaign, also spoke of the plan:
"As a proud HBCU graduate, I know that my time at South Carolina State University gave me a sense of community that I have carried with me throughout my life and career in politics. HBCUs forge pathways of opportunity for young black Americans across the country; we need a president who invests in HBCUs, so that they are around and thriving for this generation and the next. Tom is that person."
HBCUs have seen massive cuts in federal funding because far too often, their financial resources are at the whims of politicians. To begin leveling the playing field, Steyer's unprecedented $125 billion investment will improve infrastructure, services and facilities for educators, administrators, and students, as well as provide technical assistance to help schools build their endowments.
Steyer's 10-year plan will bolster the White House initiative on HBCUs. Within 180 days, the White House Initiative on HBCUs will develop a stronger HBCU governing structure that allows for more independent decision-making without putting federal assistance at risk. To help foster a stronger, long-lasting connection between HBCUs and their communities, Steyer will establish a Board of Regents to oversee governance across the diverse HBCU system, allow for more governing independence, coordinate state and federal resources, and ensure HBCUs thrive for future generations.
In addition to funding, Steyer's plan recognizes that training the next generation of academics, entrepreneurs, and innovators means committing to research and development on HBCU campuses. That is why Steyer will invest in strengthening and replicating HBCU centers of innovation to spur entrepreneurship, and develop research and development opportunities in STEM fields, healthcare, business, civic engagement, criminal justice, environmental protection, and more.
Crucially, HBCUs are engines that spur economic growth and foster communities within their regions. To continue growing opportunity in HBCU communities, Steyer's plan will assist schools in forging strategic partnerships with community organizations, foundations, nonprofits, and other federal, state and local agencies.
Steyer's HBCU 2030 Plan recognizes that when we empower our nation's young people, their prosperity builds communities –– now and for the future.
  