
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced several additional Missouri endorsements. Joining Team Rudy in Missouri are State Senator Kevin Engler, State Senator John Griesheimer and State Representatives Steve Hobbs, Timothy Jones, Mike Parson, Ryan Silvey, Joe Smith, Rick Stream and Marilyn Ruestman. Also endorsing Rudy is St. Charles Mayor Patti York.
"Mayor Giuliani is unquestionably the real fiscal conservative leader in the race," said State Senator Engler, the former Mayor of Farmington. "Not only did he cut taxes and end wasteful government spending as Mayor of New York, he cut crime and reduced welfare. Rudy's experience and vision will serve all Americans well."
"We're glad to have these legislators join our growing Missouri team," said Missouri House Majority Leader Steven Tilley, who also serves as the Mayor's Missouri State Co-Chair. "They will help spread Rudy's record of real results and strong leadership to Missourians because they know he is the only candidate who can beat the Democrats."
Today's endorsers join a strong Missouri team that includes U.S. Senator Kit Bond, Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson and State Representatives Kenny Jones, Ed Robb and Kevin Threlkeld.
About Rudy's Missouri Legislator Endorsements:
Senator Kevin Engler Senator Engler was first elected to the Senate in 2004, representing the 3rd District which includes Carter, Reynolds, Iron, Washington, St. Francois, Ste. Genevieve and South Jefferson Counties. He previously served one term in the House of Representatives. He also served six years as Mayor of Farmington, Missouri.
Senator John Griesheimer A native of Missouri, Senator Griesheimer represents parts of Franklin, Warren and West St. Louis counties. Elected to the Missouri Senate in 2002, Griesheimer previously served in the Missouri House of Representatives from 1992 to 2002.
Representative Steve Hobbs Representative Hobbs, elected in 2002, represents parts of Audrain, Boone, Callaway and Monroe Counties in the House of Representatives. Hobbs serves as a Deputy Majority Whip. Hobbs is president of Hobbs Farms, Inc., a company he started with his father in 1997.
Representative Timothy Jones
Representative Jones represents part of St. Louis County. He was elected to the House in November 2006. In addition to his legislative duties, Representative Jones is currently employed as an attorney and is a member of several organizations including Most Sacred Heart Church, SSM St. Joseph's Hospital Foundation and the West St. Louis County Lions Club.
Representative Mike Parson
Representative Parson, elected in 2004, represents Polk and Cedar Counties in the House of Representatives. Parson is the former Polk County Sheriff and served six years in the United States Army. Parson is a member of the American Legion, Optimist Club, Missouri Farm Bureau, Missouri Cattlemen's Association, Missouri Sheriffs Association, the Missouri Association of Counties for Budget Procedure, the U.S. Department of Justice Advisory Committee for C.J.I.S. and the National Sheriffs Association.
Representative Ryan Silvey
Representative Silvey, elected in 2005, represents part of Clay County in the House of Representatives. Silvey is a mortgage advisor and a former legislative aide to Senator Kit Bond. He is a member of the Northland Regional Chamber of Commerce and attends Antioch Bible Baptist Church in Kansas City.
Representative Joe Smith
Representative Smith, elected in 2002, represents part of St. Charles County, including the cities of Weldon Spring and St. Peters, in the House of Representatives. He is an Account Representative in the business office at Lindenwood University and a member of Saint Joseph Catholic Church. He is also a member of the St. Peters Chamber of Commerce and the St. Charles City Chamber of Commerce.
Representative Rick Stream
Representative Stream represents the Kirkwood and Des Peres areas of St. Louis County in the Missouri House of Representatives. He was elected to the House in November 2006.
Representative Marilyn Ruestman
Representative Ruestman, elected in 2002, represents portions of McDonald and Newton Counties. During her first term, she was elected Treasurer of the Freshman Class of the 92nd General Assembly, President of the Women Legislators of Missouri and was appointed to the Missouri Women's Council by the Governor. In her second term, Marilyn was elected by her colleagues to the Leadership position of Majority Caucus Secretary.
Mayor Patti York
Mayor York was elected Mayor of St. Charles in 1999 and reelected in 2003 and 2007. York is also an Adjunct Professor of Corporate Communications at Lindenwood University. She teaches various classes, including Corporate Communications, Mass Communications, Literature, Writing Skills, Speech, Business Writing and Research, and Research Writing at the Undergraduate and Graduate levels.
  