
    AT THE INVITATION of the Government of India, the President of the United States of America paid a visit to India, lasting from December 9 to 14. President Eisenhower received on his arrival in New Delhi a warm and cordial welcome, marked by popular enthusiasm and goodwill. Throughout his stay and wherever he went, these friendly manifestations of goodwill were repeated by millions of Delhi citizens and others who had come to Delhi to join in this welcome. During his strenuous four-day visit, President Eisenhower fulfilled a number of public engagements. He addressed Members of the Indian Parliament, received an Honorary Doctorate of Laws from the University of Delhi, participated in the inauguration of the World Agriculture Fair, attended a Civic Reception on behalf of the City of Delhi and visited rural areas near Agra.
In thus fulfilling a desire of many years, the President was deeply touched by the warmth of the welcome extended to him by the people of India, by the generous hospitality of the Government and the excellence of the arrangements made for him.
The President was impressed by the vitality of India's democratic institutions, of Parliament, press and University, and by India's strength of spirit combined with practical idealism. He saw how India, like the United States, has created national strength out of diversity, neither country boasting that theirs is the only way. He confirmed the bond of shared ideals between India and the United States, their identity of objectives, and their common quest for just and lasting peace.
President Eisenhower met the President of India, the Prime Minister and other members of the Government of India. He and the Prime Minister had intimate talks in which they reviewed the world situation and exchanged views on matters of mutual interest. Among other things, the President told the Prime Minister that he was happy to report to him that all the leaders of the countries he had visited during his recent journey had expressed to him the hope that problems involving one form or another of conflict of interest or views could be solved by peaceful methods of conciliation. He said that this was true in Italy, Turkey, Pakistan, and Afghanistan. The President found this heartening and in harmony with his own thinking. He did not wish in any way to minimize the importance of or the inherent difficulties involved in some of the problems. The spirit he found was good and forward-looking.
The Prime Minister expressed gratification and pleasure at President Eisenhower's visit to India, and thanked him for the warmth and generosity of the sentiments he had expressed. He assured the President of the wholehearted support of India in his unremitting efforts in the cause of world peace. India herself is dedicated to a policy of peace and has been steadfast in her conviction that differences between nations should be resolved peacefully by the method of negotiation and settlement and not by resort to force. She has consistently pursued this policy in relation to problems of this nature affecting her and other countries. The Prime Minister gave President Eisenhower a review of the major aspects of some of these problems and of recent developments in regard to them.
The Prime Minister also referred to the great effort that India was making, through her Five Year Plans, to develop the country, both in regard to agriculture and industry, so as to raise the living standards of the people as rapidly as possible. To this great task, involving the future of 400 million people, India was devoting herself with all her strength and will.
The President and the Prime Minister expressed their deep satisfaction at the friendly and cordial relations existing between their two countries, and their firm belief that their common ideals and objectives and their quest for peace will ensure the maintenance and development of the strong ties of friendship between the two countries.
President Eisenhower's visit to India has afforded the welcome opportunity of a meeting between the Presidents of the two countries, and for the renewal of the friendship between him and the Prime Minister of India. He was happy to meet other members of the Government, as well as men and women, young and old, in city and village, Parliament and University, and to bring to them, personally, assurance of the genuine friendship of the people of the United States for the people of India and their sincere and continuing interest in India's welfare. To the people of India, this visit, which had been long hoped for, has given the opportunity for the demonstration of the sincere friendship, goodwill and sympathy which they feel for the people of the United States.
  