
    
  Iowans "Stand" with Obama Key Supporters Introduce Obama as he Continues "Stand for Change" Tour

Des Moines, IA -- Today, as Senator Barack Obama continues his "Stand for Change" tour, supporters introduced him at events in Williamsburg, Coralville, Clinton, Davenport and Muscatine. On issues from health care to the Iraq war, education and the ability to win the general election, these supporters reached out to caucus goers to stand for Barack Obama on January 3rd.
"My name is Bonnie Adkins and I am on the Obama County Steering Committee. On January 3rd, I will be caucusing for Barack Obama. Barack Obama began his career in public service over two decades ago when he turned down a job on Wall Street to take one on the streets of Chicago, where he fought for working families who were struggling after the local steel plants closed down. In the Illinois senate, he took on the insurance lobbyists and he won, bringing Republicans and Democrats together to expand health care for 150,000 children and parents. As president, he'll stand up for American workers, strengthen our middle class, and put the American dream within reach for every American," said Bonnie Adkins, an Obama supporter from Muscatine.
"I could have remained neutral. But I know - in my head and in my heart - that Barack Obama is the leader America needs right now. It's not just that he's leading a grassroots movement of ordinary Iowans, instead of getting outside help from Washington lobbyists, special interest PACs, and Washington-based groups called 527s. It's not just all this. It's that Barack Obama is the only candidate in either party who can change the way business is done in Washington so we can start getting things done for the American people. Because he's the only candidate who can stand up to the special interests, bring Republicans and Democrats together and unite this whole country around a shared purpose," said U.S. Representative Dave Loebsack (D-IA), an Obama supporter.
"I'm proud to be here today as a strong supporter of Senator Barack Obama. As the Senator from our neighboring state of Illinois, Barack understands the issues that matter to folks in the Quad Cities. He knows that we need to pass universal health care and drive down the cost of premiums. He knows that we have to start putting Main Street ahead of Wall Street in our trade deals. He knows that we've got to end this war in Iraq - a war he had the judgment to oppose from the start. But Barack Obama also knows that to bring about real change in this country, we need to stand up to the special interests, and bring Republicans and Democrats together - and that's what he'll do as President," said Bill Gluba, incoming Mayor of Davenport.
"On January 3rd, I will stand for change: I'll be caucusing for Barack Obama. I chose Barack Obama because he's the only candidate in this race who's actually taken power away from lobbyists, passing the most sweeping lobbying reform since Watergate as a U.S. Senator and because he is the ONLY Democrat who can beat all five top Republicans according to two new national polls. So if Democrats want to win in 2008, the candidate to caucus for on January 3 is Barack Obama," said Clinton County Sheriff Rick Lincoln, an Obama supporter from DeWitt.
"I'm proud to say I'm a precinct captain for Barack Obama in Marengo. I know Senator Obama appreciates what his precinct captains are doing. As a former community organizer, he understands what it's like to build a grassroots movement for change. But I wouldn't be a precinct captain for Barack Obama if I weren't confident that he's our best chance to win in November. And I am confident - because poll after poll shows he attracts more Independent and Republican support than any other candidate. That's why he won some of the reddest, most Republican counties when he ran for Senate in Illinois. That's why in 2006, when candidates in red states like Missouri, Nebraska, Tennessee, Virginia, and Indiana needed someone to campaign for them, Senator Obama was the one they called," said Candi Schmieder, an Obama supporter from Marengo.
  