
    Pool Reports by Lauren Gambino, The Guardian 



Sent:
Reports:




December 1, 202112:52

VP Pool Report #1 — National Space Council meeting arrival and background
Hello! I'll be your pooler today for the administration’s inaugural meeting of the Space Council. The meeting is scheduled to begin at 1:30 at the United States Institute of Peace and will be live-streamed at WhiteHouse.gov/Live
Background from a White House official on the meeting, participants and priorities included below.
Pool arrived at the United States Institute of Peace at around 12:30, independent of the VP’s motorcade. We have not seen her yet, but pool spotted Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack as we arrived.
The meeting is being held in the Frank C. Carlucci auditorium, which has floor-to-ceiling windows and a large domed roof. On this sunny day, it's very bright in the room and the windows are shaded.
The stage is set with a long, extended table and has placards for the VP and the secretaries who will be speaking. Big photos taken from space and one of astronauts speaking to children are on display behind the table. A mounted American flag is situated behind the VP’s seat at the center, marked by the presidential seal. In front of it is another American flag and the flag of the Vice President.
On Background from a White House Official
On Wednesday, December 1 at 1:30pm EST, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene the Biden-Harris Administration’s inaugural National Space Council meeting at the United States Institute of Peace in Washington, D.C. The Vice President, who chairs the National Space Council, will deliver remarks laying out the Administration’s whole-of-government approach to ensuring that space activities create opportunities that benefit the American people and the world.
During the meeting, Vice President Harris will announce the release of the United States Space Priorities Framework. The Framework will guide the Council’s efforts to develop and implement national space policy and strategy going forward. It maintains focus on advancing and synchronizing our civil, commercial, and national security space activities, and adds emphasis in support of the Administration’s agenda, including promoting peaceful exploration of space and reducing the risk of miscalculation or conflict in space; addressing the climate crisis; and enhancing STEM education. After her remarks, the Vice President will ask members of the Council to accelerate, expand, and develop rules and norms for responsible behavior in space; increase the availability and accessibility of space climate data; and increase interagency cooperation on STEM initiatives to support job creation and maintain the innovative and competitive edge of the United States. See United States Space Priorities Framework here.
In conjunction with the meeting, President Joe Biden will sign a new Executive Order on Wednesday, December 1 that addresses the membership, duties, and responsibilities of the Council. The Order adds five new members to the Council: the Secretaries of Education, Labor, Agriculture, and the Interior, as well as the National Climate Advisor. These new members demonstrate the Administration’s emphasis on ensuring the benefits of American space activities are applied broadly throughout society and employed to solve the toughest challenges, including addressing the climate crisis and building a vibrant workforce for the future.
Senator Mark Kelly of Arizona, a former NASA astronaut, will introduce Vice President Harris and welcome the Council members. To conclude the meeting, the Council will hear a report from Admiral James Ellis, United States Navy, Ret., Chair of the Users’ Advisory Group, a federal advisory committee composed of industry and other non-federal representatives.
Those participating in the meeting include:

Vice President of the United States Kamala Harris
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland
Secretary of Agriculture Thomas Vilsack
Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg
Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm
Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas
Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan
National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy
NASA Administrator Bill Nelson
Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman
Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen Hicks
Commander, U.S. Space Command General James H. Dickinson
Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget Jason Miller
Assistant Secretary for Policy, Department of Labor Raj Nayak
Deputy Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy Alondra Nelson
Users’ Advisory Group Admiral James Ellis Jr. USN (Ret.)

--Background on the Vice President’s Leadership of the National Space Council-- 
The Vice President receives regular briefings from National Security Council staff and other experts on issues pertaining to national security and space. This first National Space Council meeting builds on the Vice President’s leadership working to amplify the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to deliver the benefits of space to the American people and the world, ensuring those benefits are broadly and equitably applied throughout society.

Vice President’s Meeting with President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico (November 2021). In a bilateral meeting, Vice President Harris emphasized the importance of peaceful, sustainable, and cooperative space exploration and discussed how together we can help advance these objectives.
Vice President’s Visit to France (November 2021). In a bilateral meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron, Vice President Harris highlighted the important role space activities play in providing societal benefits, tackling global challenges, and stimulating international cooperation. After the meeting, she announced expanded cooperation with France on space. See here.
Vice President’s Visit to NASA Goddard Space Flight Center (November 2021). Vice President Harris visited NASA Goddard to underscore how the U.S. is harnessing one of the nations’ most powerful tools – our space program – to combat the climate crisis and protect vulnerable communities. See the Vice President’s remarks here.
Vice President’s Visit to Hampton University (September 2021). Vice President Harris visited Hampton University, the only HBCU to run a NASA mission, the Aeronomy of Ice in the Mesosphere satellite. She also spoke with STEM undergraduate students about the importance of fostering a diverse STEM workforce. See here.
Vice President’s Meeting with Quad Leaders (September 2021). The Vice President met with the leaders of The Quad countries - Australia, India, Japan, and the U.S. - who are among the world’s scientific leaders, including in space. The U.S. will begin space cooperation between the Quad countries for the first time through a new working group. See here.
Vice President’s Visit to Singapore (August 2021). In bilateral meetings with the leaders of Singapore, Vice President Harris highlighted the importance of international space cooperation and reinforced international norms on the peaceful exploration of space. The U.S. and Singapore agreed on the importance of creating a safe and transparent environment that facilitates space exploration, science and commercial activities for all of humanity to enjoy. See here.
Vice President’s Visit to Vietnam (August 2021). In bilateral meetings with Vietnamese leaders, Vice President Harris emphasized reinforcing international norms on the peaceful exploration of space and both countries agreed to support efforts to ensure space activities are conducted in a responsible and sustainable manner and committed to a bilateral space dialogue. See here.

--Overview of the National Space Council--The National Space Council is the White House policy council responsible for ensuring the United States capitalizes on the rich opportunities presented by our nation’s space activities. Under the leadership of its chair, Vice President Kamala Harris, the Council advises and assists the President on the development and implementation of space policy and strategy. In addition to its Chair, the Council is composed of Cabinet-level Secretaries and other senior executive branch officials, including:

The Secretaries of State, Defense, the Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, Transportation, Energy, Education, Homeland Security;
The Directors of the Office of Management and Budget, National Intelligence, and the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
The Assistants to the President for National Security Affairs, Economic Policy, Domestic Policy, and the National Climate Advisor;
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and
The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

The Biden-Harris Administration has taken action to ensure sound, coordinated U.S. space policy and strategy. Space capabilities underpin vital elements of society, from education and science to national security and economic prosperity. At a time of unprecedented activity, the Administration will organize its civil, commercial, and national security efforts to deliver the benefits of space to the American people and ensure those benefits are broadly and equitably applied throughout society. This Administration is committed to expanding and strengthening U.S. global leadership, tackling global challenges such as the climate crisis, and increasing opportunity for current and future generations – all of which are enabled by American space activities.


December 1, 202113:33

VP Pool Report #2 - two minute warning
Two minute warning for Harris' arrival at the National Space Council meeting.
Moments ago, the meeting participants emerged from behind blue curtains in a single file line to take their seats on stage at 1:23pm. Interior Secretary Deb Haaland and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack are seated on either side of the VP. As they awaited Harris, some of the participants chatted silently or checked their notes.
The meeting will be livestreamed in its entirety but I will continue to send color that may not be visible or audible on the livestream.



December 1, 202113:46

VP Pool Report #3 - Mark Kelly introduction / Harris arrival
Just after 1:30, Arizona senator Mark Kelly, a former astronaut, introduced Vice President Kamala Harris. He spoke about the first time he saw Earth from space, "this big round ball just floating there in the blackness."
He then spoke about the importance of the council to confronting all manner of earthly challenges, among them maintaining a "competitive edge over our adversaries."
Harris entered from center stage to the entrance march of the vice president. Everyone stood. She and Kelly greeted each other warmly and he finished his remarks before handing the podium over to Harris.
Harris began her remarks at 1:38pm.
"In this new era, we must see all the ways in which space can benefit Earth," she said, outlining three areas of focus for the council.
1. building the STEM workforce2. addressing the climate crisis3. promoting rules and norms governing space



December 1, 202114:12

VP Pool Report #4 - opening remarks over; meeting begins
Harris concluded her opening remarks at 1:52, to applause.
Most of the participants watched closely as she spoke, some nodded or took notes.
In her opening statement, Harris formally announced the expansion of the National Space Council. She also said that "without clear norms" governing the use of space, there is a "real risk of threats to our national and global security." She called Russia's anti-satellite test last month an "irresponsible act" that "endangered" the satellites of other nations as well as astronauts on the International Space Station.
"Yes, our agenda is ambitious," Harris said. But she believes progress is both possible and critical. Sharing advice a former astronaut once gave her, she said: "Just focus on what's right in front of you and from there widen your view. That, my friends, is how we will move forward."
After speaking, Harris, who is wearing an eggplant-colored pantsuit, put on a black mask matching the ones worn by the rest of the participants and took her seat at the center of the table.
Convening the meeting, she first turned to Commerce Secretary, Gina Raimondo, who gave brief remarks, followed by Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and Deputy Secretary of State, Wendy Sherman.
As always, please check against the transcript. There is a slight echo in the auditorium.



December 1, 202115:24

VP Pool report #5 - meeting conclusion
The meeting concluded at 3:18. Harris answered a shouted question about the discovery of the omicron variant in the US but her answer was inaudible to the pool. It may have come through better on the live feed, so check there first.
During the meeting, which clocked in at just over 1hr and 45mins, Harris moderated three panels on the aforementioned priorities – norms and behaviors governing space, combating climate change, and STEM. The participants remained onstage for the entire meeting.
She then invited retired Admiral Jim Ellis, chair of the National Space Council Users' Advisory Group to offer closing remarks before she concluded the meeting.



December 1, 202115:48

VP Pool Report #6 - Harris quote on omicron
At the end of the meeting, Harris answered a shouted question from Gary Grumbach of NBC on whether Americans should be concerned about the omicron variant.
"We have discussed our priority to make sure that we are all focused on public health and the health of the American people and we will continue to prioritize that," Harris said before leaving the stage.
(thanks to Gary for help transcribing her response.)
Pool left separately from the VP's motorcade.
That's all from me today. Have a nice afternoon!




  