
    Governor Romney On The Conservative Coalition:
Fox News' Steve Doocy: "Well, for the things that you do believe, the National Review, the very influential magazine, you're their cover story. They've endorsed you for President of the United States. Why do they like you more than the other guys?"
Governor Romney: "Well, you know, they wrote a pretty good article, I must admit."
Doocy: "Yeah, I bet you liked it."
Governor Romney: "It was good news, having the mouthpiece for conservatism that William Buckley put together endorse you is good news. And frankly what they said is that I have the capacity, by virtue of my record and my positions, to bring together all three parts of the conservative coalition that have been required for us to win the White House. And that's social conservatives, economic conservatives, and foreign policy conservatives, and my philosophy is to bring together all of these elements of our Party and to make sure we maintain the conservative principles that have allowed this nation, I believe, to become very strong over these last couple of decades."
...
Doocy: "One thing about the National Review that you probably liked was the fact that they saw some parallels between you and Ronald Reagan."
Governor Romney: "Any parallel like that I must admit I like. You know, anybody feels that they're a pale comparison to Ronald Reagan, but he did something which our country desperately needs today, and that is remind people of the optimistic core of this country, remind us of our values, of our family orientation, of our belief in a purpose greater than our self in life. At the same time, he said that I'm going to grow this economy, I'm going to cut taxes, we're going to take off and out-compete the Russians. And then he built a strong military, so strong that they couldn't keep up. Those, frankly, those policies of strengthening America and relying upon conservative principles are what I believe America needs today."
To watch Governor Romney on Fox News, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OwkO7taxL70
  