
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint the following 32 individuals to serve as Members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations (ACTPN) each for a two-year term:
The purpose of ACTPN is to provide the U.S. Trade Representative with overall policy advice on matters concerning objectives and bargaining positions before entering into a trade agreement, the operation of any trade agreement once entered into, and other matters arising in connection with trade policy of the United States. ACTPN shall consist of members including representatives of non-federal governments and labor, industry, agriculture, small business, service industries, retailer and consumer interests.
Margaret Cushing Whitman, President and CEO, eBay Inc.
Steven Rollie Rogel, Chairman, President and CEO, Weyerhaeuser Company
Frank Henry Habicht II, CEO, Global Environment and Technology Foundation
Jerome Jasinowski, President, National Association of Maunfacturers
William Frenzel, Guest Scholar, Brookings Institute
Rodolphe Vallee, Chairman, CEO and Owner, R.L. Vallee, Inc.
Bernard Aronson, Managing Partner, ACON Investments, LLC
Edward Emma, President and CEO, Jockey International, Inc.
Jill Considine, Chair and CEO, The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation
Wythe Willey, President, National Cattlemen's Beef Association
Edward Perkins, Crowe Professor in Geo-Politics and Executive Director of International Programs, University of Oklahoma
Richard Rivera, Vice Chairman, Darden Restaurants
Pete Hanna, Chairman, President and CEO, Hanna Steel Corporation
John Rowland, Governor of Connecticut
Jean-Pierre Rosso, Chairman, CNH Global
Hersh Kozlov, Senior Partner, Wolf, Block, Schorr and Solis-Cohen LLP
Samuel Palmisano, President and CEO, IBM
Corporation JoAnn Brouillette, President, Demeter
Herbert Johnson, Chairman, SC Johnson & Son, Inc.
Hector Ruiz, President and CEO, Advanced Micro Devices
Melinda Bush, President and CEO, HRW Holdings, LLC
Richard Wardrop, Jr., Chairman, CEO and President, AK Steel Corporation
Grace Nichols, President and CEO, Victoria's Secret Stores
Larry Liebenow, President and CEO, Quaker Fabric
Michael Goldstein, Chairman, Toys "R" Us Children's Fund
Thomas Mottola, Chairman and CEO, Sony Music Entertainment
George Fitch, President, IOP Associates, Mayor of Warrenton, VA
Luis Lauredo, President, Hunton & Williams, Latin American Services, LLC
James Winston Morrison, President, Small Business Exporters Association
Walter Bernard Duffy Hickey, Jr., Chairman, Hickey Freeman Company, Inc.
Robert Edward Grady, Managing Director, The Carlyle Group Morgan
Yaping Wang, CEO and Chairman, Angeles Optics, Inc.
  