
    South Carolina State Senators Paul Campbell, Jr. and Greg Gregory today endorsed Ohio Governor John Kasich for President and joined Kasich for America's South Carolina Leadership Team as state co-chairs.
"For years I've watched John Kasich lead, and I have no doubt that he is the best candidate for president," said Campbell, the retired regional president of Alcoa in South Carolina. "America is looking for a leader with a plan to keep our country safe from terrorism and help grow a stronger economy. Gov. Kasich understands that the two are intertwined: we must balance our federal budget and restore fiscal health in order to lead with strength. I'm looking forward to sharing his message with voters in the months ahead." Since 2007 Campbell has represented the state's 44th Senate district, which includes Berkeley, Charleston and Dorchester Counties.
Said Gregory, "When it comes to leadership, results are important. South Carolinans, like the rest of America, are looking for a leader with a track record of actually accomplishing something. John Kasich led the effort to balanced the federal budget for the first time in a generation while in Congress, and he balanced the state budget as governor of Ohio. He has the national security experience to keep America safe on Day One. Fiscal responsibility, job creation, strong national security—these are ideas that resonate strongly with South Carolinian voters. It's a real honor to join the governor's South Carolina team." A Lancaster native, Gregory represents Senate District 16, which includes Lancaster and York counties. He also serves as president of Builders Supply Co. in Lancaster.
Said Kasich, "It is a privilege to welcome State Senators Paul Campbell and Greg Gregory to our team. Their combined years of experience and deep knowledge of the issues imporant to South Carolina voters will be an incredible asset. Thanks to their leadership, our ground operation is growing stronger in South Carolina."
State Senator Ray Cleary, State Representative Jeffrey Bradley and State Representative Gary Clary also serve as co-chairs.
  