
    Today, Janelle Rettig, a member of the Johnson County Board of Supervisors, and her partner Robin Butler, announced their endorsement of Senator Kamala Harris, citing her leadership on issues such as equal pay for women, designing a health care plan that listens to the concerns of Iowans, standing up for LGBTQ+ rights, and more.
"Kamala Harris is a compassionate leader that calls upon our better instincts to improve our world. She is wicked smart, tough, and adaptive. She cares about people. She is an active listener who never stops trying to solve problems. It will be an honor to stand with Kamala Harris on caucus night," Rettig and Butler said.
"Harris is a combination of intelligence, toughness, caring, listening, adapting and leadership," they continued. "Harris knows how to get things done by being flexible and finding common ground, but also knows when to stay strong and true. Harris shines when she talks about bringing women up in access, pay, opportunities and education. She knows economic disparity is a crisis in our country. Harris listened to many people and labor unions about forcing people to give up private insurance and has been flexible enough to adapt and allow her plan to change for the better."
"When many people rejected our civil rights and were pushing civil unions, Kamala Harris was standing up for same-sex couples and performing their wedding ceremonies. Her upbringing of activism and having protester parents gives her the deep-rooted courage to be ahead of popular opinion and do what is right. It does matter that Kamala Harris is a woman of color who was an activist on marriage equality long before it was cool. Her history, her upbringing, her instincts are to fight for those in need," Rettig and Butler concluded.
"Janelle and Robin have been dedicated advocates on so many issues, from fighting for LGBTQ rights to protecting the environment and so much more," Harris said. "I am deeply honored to have the support of these longtime activists and am grateful that they have made the decision to stand in our corner on caucus night."
Rettig is the second member of the Johnson County Board of Supervisors to endorse Harris. She joins other prominent Johnson County Democrats who have endorsed Harris, including member of the Johnson County Board of Supervisors Pat Heiden, Iowa powerhouses Sue and Bob Dvorsky, and Coralville City Councilwoman Meghann Foster.
  