
    "'The Bush tax cuts were a driving force behind the economic prosperity of the last couple of years and a cornerstone of a pro-growth philosophy,' said Club for Growth President Pat Toomey. 'Not only did Senator McCain oppose these cuts, he aligned himself with the likes of Ted Kennedy in his rhetorical attacks in 2001 and 2003. Four years later, American taxpayers still have not heard the Senator disavow his misguided statements and votes.'" ("John McCain's Record on Economic Issues," The Club For Growth, 3/12/07)
Watch Sen. McCain says he'd still vote against the Bush tax cuts: www.youtube.com/watch?v=6F1IuoR-o24
Sen. McCain Says It Was NOT A Mistake To Vote Against The Bush Tax Cuts...
NATIONAL REVIEW'S RICH LOWRY: "Senator, things are really heating up on the campaign trail. If you don't mind, I want to ask you a domestic policy question, a straight talk question, if you will. In retrospect, was it a mistake for you to vote against the Bush tax cuts?" SEN. JOHN MCCAIN: "No, because I had significant tax cuts, and there was restraint of spending included in my proposal." (Fox News' "Hannity & Colmes," 12/28/07)
...But Now Says The Tax Cuts Need To Be Made Permanent...
SEN. JOHN MCCAIN: "So these tax cuts need to be made permanent. Otherwise, they would have the effect of tax increases." (Fox News' "Hannity & Colmes," 12/28/07)
... Yet Given The Chance To Do It Over Again, Sen. McCain Would Still Vote AGAINST The Bush Tax Cuts:
RICH LOWRY: "Senator, specifically on tax cuts, even those these tax cuts help the economy grow, the deficit, which you were concerned about at the time, has actually gone down. So if you had it to do over again, you still would still vote against the Bush tax cuts?" SEN. JOHN MCCAIN: "Well, actually the deficit is still significant, but spending is out of control. ..." RICH LOWRY: "But you're saying you stick by your vote. It was the right thing to vote against the Bush tax cut?" SEN. JOHN MCCAIN: "Yes, Rich, perhaps I'm speaking in a different language to you..." RICH LOWRY: "I'm persistent, if nothing else." SEN. JOHN MCCAIN: "...as part of those tax cuts. As a part, I would have restrained spending. And if we would had restrained spending, as we should have, as part of that package, then we would be talking about further tax cuts today. And I want to add, these tax cuts must be made permanent. They must be made permanent." (Fox News' "Hannity & Colmes," 12/28/07)
  