
    As Senator Clinton attends "Moms and Daughters Making History" events in the Granite State today with her own mother Dorothy Rodham, and daughter, Chelsea Clinton, the New Hampshire for Hillary campaign announced the names of over 3,500 Women for Hillary. With less than 20 days until the primary, the announcement is yet another sign of the momentum the Clinton campaign continues to build across the state.
Yesterday, the Keene Sentinel endorsed Hillary, saying that "... this newspaper has come to the conclusion that the candidate with the best ideas, as well as the imagination, know-how and bearing to carry them out, is Hillary Clinton."
Today, Hillary Clinton will outline her agenda to ease the burden on families that are struggling to balance caring for elderly parents, spouses and children, while meeting their job obligations. Maintaining this balance is a growing practical and financial struggle. Today's parents have 22 fewer hours to spend with their children. Two-thirds of working parents say they do not have enough time with their children. And with a growing elderly population, many of these working parents are finding themselves in the "sandwich generation," providing care not only as "working parents" but as "working children" for their own parents as well. Out-of-pocket costs for families with long-term caregiving responsibilities have skyrocketed to $5,531 per year – more than what most of these families spend on their own health care. Burdened with both long-term care and child care costs, many caregivers are dipping into their retirement savings or forgoing health care coverage for themselves.
Hillary Clinton understands the need to ease the burdens on these families. Americans are working harder for less pay and feeling increasingly overwhelmed as they struggle to balance work and family. With sound policies and sensible investments, Hillary will provide people more choices to make the decisions that are best for them.
Her devotion to and fight for women and children is an example of the tireless commitment she'll bring to the White House, and it's one of the reasons so many women are supporting Hillary in the New Hampshire primary.
  