
    SANTA FE, NM-- Jefferson County Tax Assessor Dan Weinrib today endorsed New Mexico Governor and Democratic candidate Bill Richardson for President. Weinrib is vying to be a Richardson delegate from Alabama's 6th Congressional district in the February 5th primary state.
"Governor Richardson has earned my support because he is a proven leader with the experience to be President on day one," Weinrib said. "As Governor, he has been an effective leader and helped move New Mexico forward, particularly by creating jobs in the alternative energy sector. Even better, he has done this while keeping the state's finances in sound shape. I appreciate a leader who understands the importance of balancing budgets to promote a strong economy."
Per Alabama Democratic Party rules, Weinrib will be listed on the Presidential Preference Primary ballot along with Richardson.
"As our next President, Bill Richardson will restore U.S. credibility in the international community in the face of the crises in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other world hot spots," Weinrib said. "He truly understands foreign policy, having represented our country abroad and performed honorably as a Congressman, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Energy Secretary, and two-term Governor of New Mexico."
Governor Richardson acknowledged his appreciation for Weinrib's support.
"I am honored to have the endorsement of Dan Weinrib," Governor Richardson said. "I think that I share the common values and aspirations of Southerners, and that is why I expect to do well in Alabama on February 5th.
"Throughout my career, I have worked to bring people together. That is how I will get things done as President-- by reaching out to people around the country."
Dan Weinrib, 37, is running for re-election next year. He was first elected Jefferson County Tax Assessor in 2002, his first time as a candidate for public office. Born and raised in Montgomery, Alabama, Weinrib is a charter member of the Over the Mountain Democratic Club.
Weinrib is a 1992 graduate of Northwestern University and has a Master's degree in Public Administration from the University of Alabama. He is married to Karen Tishler Weinrib. They recently adopted a newborn son, Jack Reuben.
  