
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




December 13, 202107:24

In-town pool report #1 - Schedule update
Good morning. I'm your print pooler on this chilly Monday morning.
Please note there's been a schedule update today. The president will sign an executive order on "delivering government services and experience the American people expect and deserve" at 1:15pm EST and the press briefing will now take place at 12:30pm EST.
From a White House official:
Attending the President's signing of an executive order on delivering the Government services and experience the American people expect and deserve:
- Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Wally Adeyemo- Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra- Secretary of Education Dr. Miguel Cardona- GSA Administrator Robin Carnahan- FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell- SBA Administrator Isabel Guzman- Acting SSA Commissioner Dr. Kilolo Kijakazi- Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas- TSA Administrator David Pekoske- Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs Donald Remy
Here's the full schedule for today:
EST
10:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily BriefOval OfficeClosed Press
10:30 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
11:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives a briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, and Homeland Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall on the Federal response to the tornadoes and extreme weather that impacted multiple states Friday nightOval OfficeIn-House Pool Spray at the Top (Gather 10:55 AM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
1:15 PM THE PRESIDENT signs an executive order on delivering the Government services and experience the American people expect and deserveOval OfficeIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 1:10 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
Briefing Schedule
12:30 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki
Please feel free to reach out with any questions.



December 13, 202108:24

In-town pool report #2 - Press briefing moved 
The press briefing has been moved to 12:15 pm EST.



December 13, 202111:46

In-town pool report #3 - Pool gathering for tornado briefing spray 
As you may have noticed, we're running a bit behind on the schedule today.
We're gathering now for the Oval spray, which is expected to take place at the bottom of the tornado briefing.



December 13, 202112:29

In-town pool report #4 - POTUS to travel to Kentucky Wednesday 
Pool entered the Oval at 12:18 pm EST.
POTUS was seated in one of the yellow chairs with attendees seated on the couch (list below). Behind the president was a map of the tornado paths in Kentucky.
He said he would travel to Kentucky on Wednesday. Haven't decided where he's going to go but working with governor to make sure he's not in the way of recovery efforts.
"We're going to get this done we're going to be there as long as it takes to help," he said.
"Whatever they need when they need it," Biden says of his message to governors.
Says he worries most about the peace of mind of the victims so they can actually put their head down on a pillow.
He then showed a map of the impacts of the tornadoes in Warren County, Kentucky and another map of Graves County, Kentucky. He pointed to areas that had been "wiped out."
Biden says "mental health" of victims and "the uncertainty" worries him most.
Says the federal government will stay as long as it is needed.
In attendance for the President's briefing on the Federal response to the tornadoes and extreme weather that impacted multiple states:
· Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas· FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell· Homeland Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall· Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff· Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs· Caitlin Durkovich, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Resilience and Response
More TK



December 13, 202112:45

In-town pool report #5 - More from tornado briefing 
POTUS says he believe Congress will respond where more resources are needed in terms of disaster relief.
"No I'm not looking to make that argument," Biden says when asked how much climate change played a role and whether that's an argument he'll make to Sen. Manchin on the need to pass BBB now.
"We can't say it was with absolute certainty" that the tornadoes were because of climate change, but it "certainly is one of the worst disasters."
POTUS declined to share details of what his message will be to Sen. Manchin when he speaks to him about passing BBB.
Pool was ushered out at 12:34pm. POTUS spoke for about 15 minutes and took four questions.
Please check against transcript.



December 13, 202112:49

In-town pool report #6 - 2-minute warning
Two-minute warning for press briefing.



December 13, 202112:52

In-town pool report #7 - Press briefing begins
Psaki took the podium at 12:51pm.
You can stream the briefing in all the usual places, including here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



December 13, 202113:31

In-town pool report #8 - briefing ends 
The briefing ended at 1:26pm EST for a total of 35 minutes.
Pool is now gathering ahead of the signing of the president's executive order on cutting bureaucratic red tape across government services.



December 13, 202113:49

In-town pool report #9 - EO signing 
Pool entered the Oval at 1:39 pm EST.
POTUS was seat at the Resolute Desk with 10 members of his Cabinet looking on.
"today, I'm signing an executive order to ensure ensure that the federal government puts you imagine people at the front of the line," he said.
The order Means you will "see better technology to speed the security lines and wait times at National airports." Make filing to the IRS "more rapid."
It will "make government work more effectively" so that it's "not as confusing and straightforward."
"I know it sounds like a simple thing. I think it's pretty consequential," he said before asking members of his cabinet to stand behind him as he signed the EO.
Pool was ushered out at 1:45 pm EST. Please check against the transcript.
Among those in attendance (pool will send a full list):Education Secretary Miguel CardonaDHS Secretary Alejandro MayorkasFEMA Administrator Deanne CriswellSBA Administrator Isabel GuzmanTSA Administrator DavidPekoske



December 13, 202113:59

In-town pool report #10 - Travel/photo lid 
And we have a travel/photo lid at 1:57pm EST.



December 13, 202114:12

In-town pool report #11 - More from EO signing 
Some additional (and updated) quotes from the EO signing this afternoon. Please check against the transcript.
"We assume – bureaucracy assume – that people understand how they function. But it's really a very complicated web for the vast majority of people, whether they have PhDs or high school education," he said. "And so today, I'm signing an executive order to ensure – to ensure - that the federal government puts you, the American people, at the front of the line."
Said he's directing 17 agencies to focus on more than 30 key areas "to make it easier to apply for services and benefits that they're entitled to and paid for."
He gave the example that millions of people who are retiring each year who should be able to apply for Social Security benefits without going to a Social Security office and to have Medicare "proactively reach out to you the tools you need to manage your health help save money."
"You'll see better technology to speed the security lines and wait times at our national airports. Making filing a new fund to the IRS more rapid. And for disaster aid, which I was talking a little bit earlier today about, and student loans – the list goes on."
"The bottom line is we're going to make government work more effectively for the American citizens so it's not as confusing and it's straightforward," he said.
"I know it sounds like a simple thing, but I think it's pretty consequential."
For those looking for the full list of those in attendance:
- Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Wally Adeyemo- Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra- Secretary of Education Dr. Miguel Cardona- GSA Administrator Robin Carnahan- FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell- SBA Administrator Isabel Guzman- Acting SSA Commissioner Dr. Kilolo Kijakazi- Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas- TSA Administrator David Pekoske- Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs Donald Remy
That's it from me today. Enjoy the rest of your day!




  