
    Vows as president to immediately stop new construction of gas plants and retire all U.S. coal plants in the next decade
Alexandria, Virginia – Today, on a campaign stop in Northern Virginia, Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg outlined his first of several plans to propel the country towards a 100% clean-energy future as soon as humanly possible, and before 2050, slashing emissions by 50% across the whole U.S. economy in ten years. The plan calls for the phasing out of all carbon and health-threatening pollution in the electricity sector, ensuring 80% clean electricity by the end of his second term of office.
Mike's plan replaces the remaining 251 coal plants in the United States with clean power and immediately stops the rush to build all proposed gas plants. Coal production in the United States is on the decline, thanks in part to the efforts spearheaded by Mike over the past decade, leaving gas as a leading contributor to dangerous emissions that accelerate climate change. The plan also calls for a complete transition from gas to clean energy, beginning with an end to all subsidies for fossil fuels. Under Mike's plan, stringent carbon and health pollutant standards for new gas plants will also be immediately implemented, avoiding construction and then stranding of a new generation of dirty fossil power plants.
In addition to reducing pollution, Mike will prioritize the communities that have suffered most from coal pollution or have been left behind in the transition to clean energy. Mike will ensure corporations are held responsible for the damages they have created, and commitments made to impacted communities are honored. He will put intense focus on federal rulemaking, enforcement, and investments on communities disproportionately impacted by the production and use of coal and gas. He will also restore the dignity, scientific integrity, and effectiveness of the EPA by immediately reversing President Trump's dangerous rollback of clean air and clean water rules, tightening health and carbon-reduction standards, and greatly expanding enforcement. 
"The president refuses to lead on climate change, so the rest of us must. I've been all in on this fight for more than a decade – and having helped close more than half the nation's dirty coal plants, having cut New York City's carbon footprint by 14 percent, having led a coalition of cities, states, and businesses committed to the Paris Agreement, I know that we can win," said Mike Bloomberg. "We've proven that you can transition to clean energy and strengthen the economy at the same time. As president, I'll accelerate our transition to a 100% clean energy economy." 
Mike has a proven track record in cutting emissions in the power sector. In 2011, Mike helped launch the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign, which has since shuttered more than half – 299 to date – of America's coal-fired power plants, and counting. In 2019, he launched Beyond Carbon, the largest-ever coordinated campaign to combat the climate crisis in the United States. Mike Bloomberg's Beyond Carbon is accelerating work underway in nearly every corner of the country, empowering the elected officials and citizens who are leading it, mobilizing voters who support it, and ensuring that America leads the way in upholding the Paris Climate Agreement — and moving beyond it.
When President Trump decided to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Agreement in 2017, Mike joined Governor Jerry Brown of California to build America's Pledge, a coalition of mayors, governors, business leaders, and others committed to keeping the United States on track to meet the global climate goals. Mike's plan draws on the analysis and findings from this year's America's Pledge report, which Mike presented to the international climate community at COP25 in Madrid earlier this week. The report found that the combination of local, bottom-up leadership by cities, states, and businesses, with aggressive national action after the 2020 election, could reduce U.S. emissions by nearly half of 2005 levels by 2030. 
QUOTES
"The climate crisis is the defining issue of our time, and to protect our children and grandchildren, we have a moral obligation to find solutions," said Reverend Lennox Yearwood Jr., national climate change and climate justice leader. "Mike Bloomberg's leadership on climate has been steadfast, because he understands the impact of climate pollution on our nation's most vulnerable communities. I'm looking forward to him putting these communities at the forefront of policy solutions."
"There's no presidential candidate who has shown greater leadership in our existential battle against climate change than Mike Bloomberg," said San Jose Mayor and California Campaign Co-Chair Sam Liccardo.  "Mayor Bloomberg's bold goals  for dramatic fossil fuel reductions match his record of achievement in propelling cities nationally toward a clean energy future." 
"Climate change is the biggest threat of our lifetime and we need the next president to provide federal leadership domestically and internationally," said Bruce Nilles, one of the two co-founders of the Beyond Coal Campaign. "Mike Bloomberg has an unparalleled record bringing together businesses, elected officials, and community groups to tackle the global crisis and his bold and pragmatic plan will tap into this experience and more to reach our full ambition and put the U.S. back in place as a global climate leader." 
"Indiana is moving away from coal despite Donald Trump's promises to save a dying, polluting, unhealthy industry," said Jodi Perras, Indiana's 2019 Climate Activist of the Year. "But our progress is not fast enough, with some utilities planning to burn coal for another generation and fracked gas for decades beyond that, while they hide the fact that clean energy costs less. We can't afford another four years of dirty and expensive coal. I share Mr. Bloomberg's vision to move rapidly toward a clean energy economy that leaves no one behind."
"Mayor Bloomberg's long term commitment to address climate change has delivered. His support of community efforts across the country has resulted in the US move away from coal and unprecedented development of clean energy," said Heather Cusick, Midwest Community Activist. "A new era of tenacious, innovative, and hopeful communities are taking on the fossil fuel industry. For the sake of future generations, I am grateful to Mayor Bloomberg." 
"Mike Bloomberg doesn't just talk the talk when it comes to climate action: his work has successfully shut down nearly 300 coal plants, making a difference in communities across America," said Duane Ninneman, Plains Rural Organizer. "Mike's solutions-based activism matches my rural community's commitment to cleaner water and air. We're grateful for his commitment."
"The Beyond Coal campaign has been one of the most successful climate action movements in the past decade, helping to shut down hundreds of coal plants and protect the residents of Arkansas from the extreme health risks that come with them," said Glen Hooks, a longtime clean energy activist in Arkansas. "Our success was made possible by the partnership of Mike Bloomberg."
"We know the solutions that we must take to address the climate crisis, what we need now is the political will to put them into practice," said Molly Diggins, longtime environmental advocate from North Carolina. "Mayor Bloomberg early on identified the imperative of phasing out coal and through his philanthropy and leadership has supported effective and viable solutions."
"Consistent with his proven approach to cutting emissions, Mike is taking concrete steps to end reliance on coal and gas immediately," said Antha Williams, Mike's senior advisor on climate, energy and environment. "Mike recognizes that climate is too important a problem to assume a single solution. We'll soon see climate action integrated into all his plans, from economic development to agriculture to foreign policy and more."
"Having worked with Mike Bloomberg for years, I've seen first-hand his steadfast dedication to advancing a low-carbon economy – and this new plan exemplifies his commitment to this issue," said Carl Pope, Mike's senior climate advisor and co-author of the New York Times bestselling book, Climate of Hope. "Unlike the other candidates in the race, Bloomberg's plan is based on his proven track record of providing real, measurable emissions reductions throughout this country — and on the solid experience of cities, states, and businesses which for years have led America's clean energy efforts. As president, the progress would only accelerate."
"Mike Bloomberg's philanthropic efforts to address climate change have been transformational. He's been a leader on this defining challenge of our time at a global scale. He's also taken a holistic look at the issue. This includes insuring the transition is just and fair for those communities that are suffering the most from mine closure and plant closure, including right here in West Virginia," said Brandon Dennison, CEO, Coalfield Development Corporation. "Coalfield Development has been a partner with Bloomberg Philanthropies on innovative approaches to business development and on-the-job-training so we can diversify coal-based economies and create a more sustainable economy for Appalachia." 
"Mike has a deep understanding of the scope of the crisis we're facing and has used his strong voice to safeguard our planet and those who call it home," said Andy Sharpless, CEO of Oceana. "His work to combat climate change and protect the world's ocean is delivering not just for coastal communities, but all communities throughout the United States and around the world."
Read about the policy here.
  