
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
Pursuant to Public Law 99-145, I am forwarding herewith the classified and unclassified versions of the Administration's report to the Congress on Soviet Noncompliance with Arms Control Agreements.
The information contained in this report, in addition to that provided in our previous reports, is essential to understanding the problems we face in seeking to achieve sound, equitable, and verifiable arms reductions agreements that will strengthen our security and that of our allies.
The Soviet Union has not corrected the noncompliant activities cited in the last report. In this regard, I want to emphasize a particular Soviet failing: the Krasnoyarsk radar is a significant violation of a central element of the ABM Treaty. We have informed the Soviets that the radar calls into question the viability of the ABM Treaty and makes it impossible to conclude future arms control agreements in the START or Defense and Space areas. The violation caused by the Krasnoyarsk radar will continue to raise the issues of material breach and proportionate responses until it is resolved. In order to broaden the basis for cooperation between our two countries, the Soviets must correct their violations and noncompliant activities with respect to the ABM Treaty and other arms control agreements.
This report also provides a summary of Soviet implementation of the INF Treaty. The INF Treaty is meeting our goal of complete elimination of an entire class of U.S. and Soviet missiles under conditions of strict verification. Instances of Soviet noncompliance, which we have raised with the Soviets, have been resolved to our satisfaction or are in the process of resolution.
I am confident Congress fully shares my concern about Soviet noncompliance. Congressional consensus on this issue has been indispensable to my Administration's efforts to secure corrective action, and to pursue the kind of arms reductions agreements that will best serve the interests of the United States and the world.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
  