
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the campaign's Military Advisory Board. Leading the board is Admiral Robert Natter (Ret.), who was previously announced as Mayor Giuliani's Senior Military Advisor.
Joining Natter are Lieutenant General Ed Anderson (Ret.), General Donald Cook (Ret.), Rear Admiral Kevin Delaney (Ret.), Rear Admiral James W. Eastwood (Ret.), General Alfred G. Hansen (Ret.), Vice Admiral James D. Hull (Ret.), Vice Admiral Al Krekich (Ret.) and Rear Admiral Paul Soderberg (Ret.).
"Today, America remains a nation at war. We have responded forcefully to the Terrorists' War on Us and Rudy Giuliani is the right man to keep us on offense against Islamic terrorists," said Admiral Natter. "As the former commander of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet and a 41-year veteran of the U.S. military, I know that Mayor Giuliani is the best candidate to lead our nation as Commander-in-Chief."
"This group of distinguished military leaders will be crucial to helping Mayor Giuliani articulate the policies which are necessary to keep America on offense in the Terrorists' War on Us," said Bill Simon, Giuliani's Policy Director. "The high-quality of this group is a testament to the fact that Rudy is the right man to be President at this time in our nation's history."
About Rudy Giuliani's Military Advisory Board:
Admiral Robert Natter (Ret.) Senior Military Advisor
Admiral Natter retired from the US Navy as a four-star Admiral after serving as Commander of the US Atlantic Fleet and the first Commander of US Fleet Forces Command, responsible for the training and equipping of all worldwide deploying US Navy forces.
Natter's service at sea included department head tours in a Costal Minesweeper and Frigate and Executive Officer tours in two Amphibious Tank Landing Ships and a Spruance Destroyer. He was Officer-in-Charge of a Naval Special Warfare detachment in Vietnam and commanded USS CHANDLER (DDG 996), USS ANTIETAM (CG 54), and the United States SEVENTH Fleet before his assignment at Fleet Forces Command.
Shore assignments included Company Officer and later Flag Secretary to the Superintendent at the U.S. Naval Academy; Executive Assistant to the Director of Naval Warfare in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations; staff member for the House Armed Services Committee of the 100th Congress of the United States; Executive Assistant to the Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Fleet; Executive Assistant to the Vice Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, during Desert Storm Operations in the Middle East; Assistant Chief of Naval Personnel for officer and enlisted personnel assignments; Chief of the Navy 's Legislative Affairs organization; and Director for Space, Information Warfare, Command and Control. He was also the Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Plans, Policy and Operations.
Admiral Natter was a distinguished graduate of the US Naval War College and has Master's Degrees in Business Management and International Relations. In May 2000, he was honored as the fifth recipient of the Naval War College's annual Distinguished Graduate Leadership Award.
His personal decorations include the Silver Star Medal, four awards of the Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, five awards of the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star Medal with Combat V, Purple Heart, two awards of the Meritorious Service Medal, the Navy Commendation Medal with Combat V, Navy Achievement Medal with Combat V, and various unit and campaign awards.
Lieutenant General Ed Anderson (Ret.), Military Advisor
Lieutenant General Anderson led the Army staff organization responsible for developing the Army's modernization strategy and funding priorities. He commanded the Army Space and Missile Defense Command; and served as Director for Strategic Plans and Policy, Joint Staff. He was the Deputy Commander, United States Space Command, and Vice Commander, US Element, North American Aerospace Defense Command; and Deputy Commander, United States Northern Command (NORTHCOM), the first and only Department of Defense joint organization totally dedicated to homeland defense and homeland security.
As Deputy Commander of NORTHCOM, Anderson guided development and led implementation of the commander's plan to establish NORTHCOM, resulting in an effective and operational organization dedicated to homeland defense and homeland security, in less than 8 months. As the Joint Staff Director of Strategic Plans and Policy, he conducted strategic planning and developed strategic policy for the entire U.S. military during a critical timeframe, which included Kosovo operations. Mr. Anderson was specifically responsible for developing Joint Vision 2020, the path for bringing the military into the 21st Century, and responsible for overseeing the development of the Unified Command Plan 21, approved by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary of Defense and the President. Anderson also served as the military advisor to the United States Ambassador to the United Nations.
General Donald Cook (Ret.), Military Advisor
General Donald Cook retired from the Air Force as Commander, Air Education and Training Command at Randolph Air Force Base in Texas. As Commander, he was responsible for the recruiting, training and education of Air Force people. His command included the Air Force Recruiting Service, two numbered air forces and Air University.
The General entered the Air Force in 1969 through the ROTC program at Michigan State University. He completed undergraduate pilot training at Williams AFB, Ariz. General Cook has commanded a flying training wing, two space wings and the 20th Air Force. He has served as Legislative Liaison in the Senate Liaison Office, on the staff of the House Armed Services Committee and as Director for Expeditionary Aerospace Force Implementation at U.S. Air Force headquarters. Prior to assuming his current position, General Cook was assigned to Air Combat Command as Vice Commander. He is a command pilot and has flown more than 3,300 hours in the B-52D/G/H, T-37B and T-38A.
Rear Admiral Kevin Delaney (Ret.), Military Advisor
During the Vietnam War, retired Rear Admiral Kevin Delaney flew nearly 700 combat missions over Southeast Asia, following his 1968 graduation from the U.S. Naval Academy.
Over a 34-year career in the US Navy, Kevin received 98 military awards and decorations, including the Silver Star, Distinguished Flying Cross, 37 Air Medals, six Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Crosses, the Navy Distinguished Service Medal, and four awards of the Legion of Merit.
Kevin's six command tours included two award winning aviation squadrons, an aircraft wing, and Naval Air Station Jacksonville. Under his command, Jacksonville was selected from 178 Navy bases worldwide for the Commander-in-Chief's Installation Excellence Award as the Navy's best shore installation. Kevin also served as Commander, Naval Shore Activities, US Atlantic Fleet. Just prior to retirement, he served as the Navy's Regional Commander for the Southeastern United States and the Caribbean. In this assignment, he was responsible for over 40 commands including 14 major naval installations and four hospitals. He retired from the Navy in 1998.
Rear Admiral James W. Eastwood (Ret.), Military Advisor
Rear Admiral James W. Eastwood retired from the Naval Reserves in November 2001 as a two-star Admiral having completed his final tour as Deputy, Vice-Commander, Commander-in-Chief Atlantic Fleet. Born in Morristown, N.J., Eastwood's military career spans more than 30 years in the active Navy and the Naval Reserve. Eastwood was appointed as the Naval Reserve member of the Reserve Forces Policy Board, which serves as the principal policy advisor to the Secretary of Defense on reserve component matters.
General Alfred G. Hansen (Ret.), Military Advisor
General Alfred G. Hansen retired from the U.S. Air Force as commander of Air Force Logistics Command (AFLC), with headquarters at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio. General Hansen is a command pilot with more than 7,000 flying hours. His military decorations and awards include the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit with two oak leaf clusters, Distinguished Flying Cross with oak leaf cluster, Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, Air Medal with seven oak leaf clusters, Air Force Commendation Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Presidential Unit Citation, Air Force Outstanding Unit Award with three oak leaf clusters, Combat Readiness Medal, Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal with service star, Vietnam Service Medal with three service stars, Air Force Overseas Ribbon-Short, Air Force Overseas Ribbon-Long, Air Force Longevity Service Award Ribbon with eight oak leaf clusters, Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon, Air Force Training Ribbon, Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross with Palm, and Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal.
The General is the recipient of the 1988 Eugene M. Zuckert Management Award for outstanding management achievements in the Air Force. He received a bachelor's degree in business administration and management from Troy State University in 1972. He completed Air Command and Staff College in 1966 and Air War College in 1972.
Vice Admiral James D. Hull (Ret.), Military Advisor
Vice Admiral James Hull is retired from the U.S. Coast Guard and currently serves as Principal Advisor for Homeland Security of the Security Strategies and Operations Group at Anteon Corporation. His background includes Coast Guard and interagency operations and capabilities, as well as maritime security and intercept operations. During his career, Admiral Hull served as Commander of the Coast Guard's Atlantic area and the U.S. Maritime Defense Zone Atlantic. He has served on numerous scientific boards and advisory committees, including as a member of the NRC Committee on The Role of Naval Forces in the Global War on Terror.
Vice Admiral Alexander J. Krekich (Ret.), Military Advisor
Alexander J. Krekich retired from the U.S. Navy as Commander of Naval Surface Forces, U.S. Pacific Fleet in San Diego, Calif. Vice Adm. Krekich was promoted to Flag Rank in February 1992, and his first assignment as a Flag Officer was on the Joint Staff in the Pentagon. He later served as Commander, Cruiser-Destroyer Group Two, and as Director, Surface Warfare, on the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations.
His sea-duty assignments include tours of duty on USS WARRINGTON (DD-843), on USS DAVIS (DD-937) and on USS JOHN KING (DDG-3). He served as Commanding Officer of USS AINSWORTH (FF-1090) and the guided missile cruiser USS BELKNAP (CG-26), flagship of the United States Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean. In addition, Vice Adm. Krekich served as Chief of Staff to the Commander of the Second Fleet. He also served in Da Nang,Vietnam, with Coastal Division Twelve as an Officer-In-Charge of a fast patrol craft (SWIFT Boat).
Rear Admiral Paul Soderberg (Ret.), Military Advisor
Rear Admiral Soderberg retired from the U.S. Navy after serving as Director of Logistics and Supply for Fleet Forces Command. He served 33 years in the Navy in multifaceted logistics assignments. Admiral Soderberg graduated from Minot State University in North Dakota with a BS in Mathematics and taught school for 3 years. He holds MS degrees from the University of North Dakota in Education, the Naval Postgraduate School in Financial Management and, completed a one year course of study at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces with focus on Aerospace Industries. He participated in the National Defense University Capstone Course (Western Pacific), and attended the Executive Business Course at Duke University, Fuqua School of Business.
Admiral Soderberg is an advocate for change through information technology, functional business process reengineering and training. He served on the Navy Executive Steering Committee for Enterprise Resource Planning, Navy Aviation Readiness Improvement Team, and was a leader in employing creative concepts and pilot projects for future supply and logistics support operations.
  