
    On Monday, December 18, 2006, the President issued into law:
H.R. 1472, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Tito Puente Post Office Building;
H.R. 4246, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Dr. Robert E. Price Post Office Building;
H.R. 4720, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Beverly J. Wilson Post Office Building;
H.R. 5108, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Lance Corporal Robert A. Martinez Post Office Building;
H.R. 5736, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Vincent J. Whibbs, Sr. Post Office Building;
H.R. 5857, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Morris K. "Mo" Udall Post Office Building;
H.R. 5923, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Dr. Leonard Price Stavisky Post Office;
H.R. 5989, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the John J. Sinde Post Office Building;
H.R. 5990, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Wallace W. Sykes Post Office Building;
H.R. 6078, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Chuck Fortenberry Post Office Building;
H.R. 6102, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Captain Christopher P. Petty and Major William F. Hecker, III Post Office Building;
H.R. 6151, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Hamilton W. Judson Post Office;
S. 1219, which authorizes certain tribes in the State of Montana to enter into a lease or other temporary conveyance of water rights to meet the water needs of the Dry Prairie Rural Water Association, Incorporated;
S. 1820, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Dewey F. Bartett Post Office;
S. 3759, which designates the Armed Forces Readiness Center as the Captain William Wylie Galt Great Falls Armed Forces Readiness Center;
S. 4050, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service as the Sergeant First Class Robert Lee "Bobby" Hollar, Jr. Post Office Building; and
S. 4073, which designates the outpatient clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs as the Robert Silvey Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic.
  