
    Pool Reports by Laura Barrón-López, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




December 8, 202108:08

In-town pool report 1 POTUS moving
Morning, it’s a cold and dreary 38 degrees. POTUS motorcade is rolling to undisclosed location at 8:06am



December 8, 202108:21

In town pool report #2 church
POTUS arrived at Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Georgetown at 8:18am
POTUS waved to some children and adults who were waiting outside as he walked into church. There’s a Holy Trinity school attached to church.



December 8, 202121:05

In-town pool report 3 Rolling
POTUS exited Holy Trinity Catholic church at 9:01am with a mask on and waved to the press pool before getting into motorcade
Today, Dec 8, is a holy day of obligation observed by Catholics as the Feast of the Immaculate Conception
Motorcade is rolling at 9:02am



December 8, 202109:14

In-town pool report #4 back at WH
POTUS arrived back at the White House at 9:12am



December 8, 202109:58

In-town pool report #5 breakfast lid
Breakfast lid till 10:20am



December 8, 202111:07

In-town pool report #6 Departure, POTUS gaggle 
POTUS exited Oval Office at 10:57am and took off his mask as he walked over to press pool.
There's some good news this morning that the vaccine Pfizer lab report
"That's the lab report…that's very very encouraging"
"The meeting with Putin I was very straightforward. ..I made very clear if in fact he invaded Ukraine there will be severe consequences" mentioned economic consequences. "Made clear we would provide defensive capability to Ukrainians"
He hopes soon to announce meetings with NATO to discuss bringing down temperature along eastern front.
Q: Are you ruling out putting US troops on the ground in Ukraine? Biden: That's not on table
Will send full quotes shortly
POTUS departed the White House in Marine One at 11:06am
Per WH, Traveling with the President on Marine One:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffKurt Campbell, NSC Coordinator for the Indo-PacificKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



December 8, 202111:39

In-town pool report #7 More POTUS gaggle
Biden approached pool and before taking questions said:"This is good news this morning, the Pfizer lab report came back saying that the expectation is the existing vaccines protect against Omicron but if you get the booster you're really in good shape. So that's very encouraging. That's the lab report, that's the lab report. There's more studies going on."
Reporter: "what have you achieved by talking with Putin yesterday?"
Biden, smiling: "He asked about you a lot he talked about you a lot."Shouted questions about bbb and PutinBiden: "In meeting with Putin I was very straightforward, there were no *inaudible* words, we were polite but I made it very clear, if in fact he invaded Ukraine there will be severe consequences, severe consequences. Economic consequences like none he's every seen or ever have been seen in terms of being imposed."
"He knows. His immediate response was he understood that. And I indicated I knew he would respond but beyond that if in fact we will probably also be required to reinforce our presence in NATO countries to reassure particularly those in the eastern front. In addition to that I've made it clear that we would provide the defensive capabilities to the Ukrainians as well."
"The good news is, the good news. The positive news is that thus far our teams have been in constant contact. We hope by Friday we're gonna be able to say, announce to you we're having meetings at a higher level, not just with us, but with at least four of our major NATO allies, and Russia to discuss the future of Russia's concern relative to NATO writ large and whether or not we could work out any accommodations as it relates to bringing down temperature along the eastern front.
Reporter asked about placing troops on ground in Ukraine. Asked if it was ruled out. Couldn't hear full question in audio.
Biden: "That is not on the table. We have a moral obligation and a legal obligation to our NATO allies if they were to attack under article 5, it's a sacred obligation. That obligation does not extend to NATO, I mean to Ukraine. But it would depend upon what rest of the NATO countries were willing to do as well. But the idea that the United States is going to unilaterally use force to confront Russia invading Ukraine is not on, in the cards right now. What will happen is there will be severe consequences."
Reporter: "Are you confident [Putin] got the message?"
Biden: "I have absolute confidence he got the message"
Check against transcript. Thanks all.



December 8, 202113:02

In-town pool report #8 AF1 gaggle starting 
Principal Deputy press Secretary Karine Jean Pierre gaggle starting now
Link: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



December 8, 202119:57

In-town pool report #9 arrival and lid
POTUS exited Marine One on South lawn at 7:54pm ET and removed his mask
President Biden waves at press pool and entered the White House without responding to shouted and likely inaudible questions about Meadows suing Pelosi and Putin
And White House called a travel/photo lid at 7:55pm
Per White House, Traveling with the President on Marine One:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffKurt Campbell, NSC Coordinator for the Indo-PacificKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President




 
Pool Reports below by Geoff Earle, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




December 8, 202111:22 EST

Travel pool 1, Dec 8, 2021
Greetings all from JBA for POTUS’ trip to KC.
Marine One landed at 11:15 am on a chilly overcast day. Potus exited at 11:18. He didn’t respond to shouted questions about Ukraine and NATO, after speaking briefly at the WH.
We’re soon wheels up for KC.
Per the White House:
Upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by Col. Matthew Getty, 89th Operations Group Commander.
Traveling with the President to Kansas City, Missouri:
Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05)Rep. Sharice Davids (KS-03)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffKurt Campbell, NSC Coordinator for the Indo-PacificKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningJeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterJustin Oswald, Special Assistant to the President and House Legislative Affairs Liaison



December 8, 202113:00 CST

Travel pool No. — KC arrival
AF1 landed at KC International Airport at 12:38 pm local time.
Potus deplaned at 12:50, greeted by Gov. Parson and KC Mayor Lucas. Cleaver and Davids followed and joined. Potus has his short overcoat on. It’s sunny and 48 degrees. They spoke warmly for 7 minutes.
Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled in flight, touching on such topics as Ukraine, SCOTUS, the rebranded Build a Better America, Saule Omarova and other matters. There should have been a live-stream.
For dicey questions on the US military posture with Russia she read back POTUS’s comments verbatim from earlier.
Motorcade is rolling.
Per WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival to Kansas City International Airport:
Missouri Governor Mike ParsonMissouri First Lady Teresa ParsonKansas City, Missouri Mayor Quinton Lucas
Info below about Missouri provided by the WH (apologies on formatting)
BACKGROUND MEMORANDUM
Impact of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) on Missouri
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will deliver for Missourians by rebuilding roads and bridges, upgrading public transit, replacing water infrastructure, and creating good-paying union jobs
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will deliver for Missourians by rebuilding roads and bridges, upgrading public transit, replacing water infrastructure, and creating good-paying union jobsRoads and Bridges:
• In Missouri, there are 2,190 bridges and over 7,570 miles of highway in poorcondition. Based on formula funding alone, Missouri would expect to receive $7 billion for highways and bridges, a nearly 30% increase in federal funding. This includes $484 million in dedicated investments for bridge replacement and repairs.
• Missouri has multiple bridges in need of repair, including the Buck O’Neil Bridge in Kansas City.Public Transportation:
• Missourians who take public transportation spend an extra 80% of their time commuting, and non-White Households are 10 times more likely to commute via public transportation. Nearly a third of transit vehicles in Missouri are past useful life. Based on formula funding alone, Missouri would expect to receive $674 million over five years to improve public transportation options across the state.
• Kansas City has taken on an ambitious zero emission/zero fare plan to reduce emissions and increase opportunity by providing free public transit and transitioning its bus fleet to electric buses.
Water:
• Currently, up to 10 million American households and 400,000 schools and child carecenters lack safe drinking water. Missouri will expect to receive $866 million overfive years to improve water infrastructure.
• Kansas City is working to upgrade its old and overwhelmed combined sewer system. This is one example of how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will support Kansas City’s residents.
The Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA) and The Kansas City Streetcar Authority
Two transit agencies serve the city: the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA), which provides regional bus services and the Kansas City Streetcar Authority, which provides a new streetcar service in the downtown area.
KCATA operates 78 local bus routes in Kansas and Missouri and the Metro Area Express (MAX) bus rapid transit service. It serves 14 million riders each year with approximately 34,000 trips each day. In 2019, Kansas City was the first major American metropolitan city to make all public transportation fare-free. This zero-fare program saves the average transit rider $1,500 to $2,000 per year. Three quarters of KCATA riders report annual incomes of less than $30,000 and nearly two-thirds of riders depend on public transit to get to work, school, medical appointments, or other tasks.
Buses are currently only free within Kansas City, MO, but KCATA is working with Rep. Sharice Davids (D-KS-03) and local leaders to expand the free service to Kansas communities, which they believe will be possible thanks to the additional transit funding provided in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
KCATA also has four battery-electric buses in operation and committed to only purchase zero- emission buses until the entire fleet is zero-fare and zero-emissions.
The Kansas City Streetcar Authority opened in 2016 and is free to riders. Both capital and operating costs are supported by a special tax assessment and one cent sales tax collected within the downtown district. The Streetcar has served as a catalyst for the revitalization of downtown Kansas City, spurring more than $3 billion in economic development.
It currently has more riders per vehicle hour than any other streetcar system in the country.
In January, the Federal Transit Administration provided $174 million to extend the streetcar an additional 3.5 miles south to the University of Missouri Kansas City campus. Construction began in August and service for the extension is anticipated to begin in 2025.
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes a total of $89 billion for transit over five years, including an additional $5.6 billion for transit agencies to purchase low- and no-emission transit vehicles and an additional $8 billion above baseline appropriations for the Capital Investment Grants program at the Department of Transportation, which funds the current extension project and could be the source for an east-west extension project.



December 8, 202113:53 CST

Travel Pool report No. 3 – pool is holding
Pool is holding inside the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority, which operates the city's public transit system.
It's basically a large, windowless bus depot, but it has advance potential. There is a big blue banner that says "Building a Better America" – the new catch phrase the WH was flagging in flight. It also includes that new web address, BUILD.GOV.
There is a podium with a prompter, with a "Route 46" sign for the 46th president that will be in the shot. There's also bunting, a big flag, and a couple street signs, which instead of pointing to locales contain slogans like "Building a Better America."
Next up is a briefing with POTUS and local officials.
Per the WH:
Participating in a photoline with the President:

Robin Carnahan, GSA Administrator
Kansas City, Kansas Mayor David Alvey
Frank White Jr., Jackson County Executive
Missouri State Senate Minority Leader John Rizzo (MO-11)
Missouri State House Minority Leader Crystal Quade (MO-132)
Missouri State Senator Barbara Washington (MO-09)
Chairman Joseph "Zeke" Rupnick, Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation




December 8, 202114:00 CST

Travel pool 4
Pool is now in the bus body shop as we await the event.
It’s where the KC buses come when they get wrecked, an electrical technician tells pool. Davids, Cleaver, and the mayor are now here.
Per WH:
Briefing the President on the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority:

Robbie Makinen, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority
Chuck Ferguson, Vice President, Operations, Kansas City Area Transportation Authority
Will Howard, Business Agent and President of Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU) Local 1287
James Sneed, Electrical Technician, Member of ATU Local 1287
Laura Bolton, Procurement, Member of ATU Local 1287
LaVale Smith, Master Driver and Executive Board Member of ATU Local 1287

Also in attendance for the briefing:

Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05)
Rep. Sharice Davids (KS-03)
Kansas City, Missouri Mayor Quinton Lucas




December 8, 202114:55 CST

Travel Pool No. 5, briefing
POTUS was briefed by local transit and union officials inside the body shop. There were two shiny blue electric city buses nearby, as well as various repair equipment (like spare upper wipers for a bus).
Not much news, and no Q&A.
Before it began, Mayor Lucas spoke a bit about the fare free program when called over by the pool. He said the goal was to make it permanent, and he thanked Rep. Cleaver for funds in the bill for it. He says next of is trying to expand the program regionally into Kansas.
Biden began by escorting the head of the transit authority, Robbie Makinen, whose sight is impaired, into the room.
Then he greeted the officials.
Biden took his black mask off a couple times when trying to make a point and be heard by the group. A union official told Biden funds would provide funding for training new electric bus drivers.
He touted the new order to bring to make the government fleet carbon-neutral, mentioning the 2030 goal.
He was most emotive when talking about battery technology and cars.
"Right now, the Chinese are ahead of us," he said.
"We got a whole lot of money for electric batteries … battery capacity" in the bill, Biden said. One of the briefers drove electric busses.
The conversation naturally turned to electric cars, and Biden referenced his recent test drives.
"And by the way – quick," he said, turning to car talk.
One more point on those metal "46" and other traffic-style signs, which have the look of real street signs, and serve as a backdrop for the speech. A source tells pool that local officials at the Public Works Department were able to make them last night, and that Biden signed a few of them earlier.
POTUS speech event is starting, and remarks are streaming.



December 8, 202115:34 CST

Travel pool No. 6 - speech wrapped
Potus wrapped at 3:27 pm, speaking for about 38 minutes. Speech was streamed. He honored son of Russell, Kan. Bob Dole and KC Monarchs great Buck O’Neill.
Pool is about to roll. Potus is working the crowd of about 170, per WH. It includes frontline workers and union members.



December 8, 202115:45 CST

Travel pool 7 - Zelensky preview, Bucharest Nine
Per the WH:
Tomorrow, President Biden will speak with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy to discuss Russia’s military build-up on Ukraine’s borders. He will then convene a call with the leaders of the Bucharest Nine group of our eastern flank NATO Allies to brief them on his call with President Putin, hear their perspectives on the current security situation, and underscore the United States’ commitment to Transatlantic security.
For reference, the B9 consists of Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia.



December 8, 202116:09 CST

Travel pool 8 - motorcade rolling
Motorcade started rolling at 4.
Potus looked to be on the phone inside The Beast. He worked the room inside until the bitter end.
Pool drove by some thumbs down protesters, Eritrea, Ethiopia signs. Earlier there was a Let's Go Brandon. Evidently there are pro-Biden supporters with signs at another locale.
Despite the mayor saying during his speech that potus "has an appointment" with some KC BBQ, there is no indication of a stop at Gates or the renamed Kansas City Joe's, which is unfortunate. Heading toward the airport.



December 8, 202116:33 CST

Travel pool 9 - departing
Pool arrived just in time to see potus wave at the top of the stairs boarding AF1.
Also, Rep. Davids was able to clarify that there was in fact a spider on the podium during her intro remarks, with Rep. Cleaver stepping in to brush it away.
Thanks to Aurelia End of AFP for all the assists.
We are taxiing.



December 8, 202119:42 EST

Travel pool 10 - Andrews
AF1 was wheels down at Andrews at 7:24 EDT.
Potus exited at 7:35, saluted and walked to Marine One, which lifted off at 7:41.
During the flight, a Secret Service Agent who is retiring came back for a brief OTR / farewell visit.
Thanks again to Aurelia End and to all the readers. Handing off to in-town pool. Good night!




  