
    "I am concerned that repeal of the estate tax would provide massive benefits solely to the wealthiest- and highest-income taxpayers in the country." – Sen. John McCain (Sen. John McCain, "Statement Of Senator John McCain On H.R. 8, The Death Tax Elimination Act," Press Release, 6/11/02)
Sen. McCain Recently Suggested He Supported Abolishing The Death Tax:
On CNBC This Week, Sen. McCain Claimed He Agreed With Actress Whoopi Goldberg's Call To Abolish The Death Tax. CNBC's LARRY KUDLOW: "Actress Whoopi Goldberg came out for total abolition of the death tax, sir do you agree with her?" SEN. MCCAIN: " I agree with her. I've always admired her enormously and now my admiration knows no bounds." (CNBC's "Kudlow & Company," 12/18/07, www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVumaLF79Uw)
Minutes Later, Club For Growth President Pat Toomey Pointed Out That Sen. McCain Doesn't Support Repealing The Death Tax. CLUB FOR GROWTH'S PAT TOOMEY: "But the big news, Larry that you need to stress here is the persuasiveness of Whoopi Goldberg. She turned John McCain around on the death tax. He's always been in favor of keeping the death tax, as recently as 2005 publicly declaring he was going to vote to keep the death tax. But I heard him say he agrees with Whoopi Goldberg." (CNBC's "Kudlow & Company," 12/18/07, www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVumaLF79Uw)
But Sen. McCain Also Recently Told An Iowa Audience That He Doesn't Support Full Death Tax Repeal:
Sen. McCain: "I Think The Estate Tax Level Ought To Be At About $10 Million, And Then At Approximately 15% In Taxes At That Point." SEN. MCCAIN: "I think the estate tax level ought to be at about $10 million, and then at approximately 15% in taxes at that point. In other words, so we take care of 99% of the family farms, businesses in America. ... not complete elimination of the estate tax, but certainly at a level that would take care of 99 1/2% of all American families, farms, and businesses in America." (Iowans For McCain YouTube Website, www.youtube.com/watch?v=EfI_KJACAvg, Posted 12/17/07)
The Club For Growth To Sen. McCain: "'Make Up Your Mind, Dude." "The Club for Growth, taking a break from bashing Mike Huckabee, has posted this video of Sen. John McCain apparently flip-flopping on yet another position - this time on the estate tax. ... With the rest of the Republican field calling for a total repeal of the estate tax - they argue it's a matter of fairness and double-taxation - McCain is under pressure to come into line with them, and maybe that's what prompted his glib new position. But the back and forth is more than the Club for Growth can stand. 'Make up your mind, dude,' said Club's communications director, Nachama Soloveichik." (Stephen Dinan, "To John McCain: 'Make Up Your Mind, Dude'," The Washington Times, 12/20/07)
Sen. McCain's Recently-Unveiled Economic Plan Does Not Repeal The Death Tax:
The Washington Times: "Mr. McCain Would Not Make Mr. Bush's Estate Tax Repeal Permanent." "Mr. McCain would not make Mr. Bush's estate tax repeal permanent. Instead, he wants an exemption up to $10 million and a 15 percent rate for estates bigger than that." (Stephen Dinan, "McCain Embraces Tax Cut Turnaround," The Washington Times, 12/19/07)
Sen. McCain's Campaign Website Highlights An Article Sating "He Will Avoid Embracing Repeal Of The Estate Tax." "Mr. McCain, who is trying to refocus his campaign in the wake of weak first quarter fund-raising and concerns over Iraq, will also use a speech before the Memphis Economic Club to try and woo fiscal conservatives by pledging spending restraint and his support for extending President Bush's income and investment tax cuts - though he will avoid embracing repeal of the estate tax and won't call for any new tax cuts." (John McCain 2008 Website, http://www.johnmccain.com/, Accessed 12/18/07)
Sen. McCain Hasn't Supported Repealing The Death Tax In The Past:
In 2005, Sen. McCain Did Not Support A Full Repeal Of The Death Tax. "McCain also told [Novak] he looks to Kyl for a compromise short of total repeal. He added he could support Kyl's plan to keep the estate tax rate at the capital gains rate (currently 15 percent) with an exclusion from taxation of an estate's first $5 million – compared with 55 percent and $1 million in the basic law." (Robert Novak, Op-Ed, "Nothing Unifies Republicans More Than The Estate Tax," Chicago Sun-Times, 9/5/05)
Sen. McCain Said He Opposes "Passing On Fortunes." MCCAIN: "I follow the course of a great Republican, Teddy Roosevelt, who talked about the malefactors of great wealth and gave us the estate tax. I oppose the rich passing on fortunes." (Robert Novak, Op-Ed, "Nothing Unifies Republicans More Than The Estate Tax," Chicago Sun-Times, 9/5/05)
- Robert Novak Said Sen. McCain's Position Is Un-Republican. NOVAK: "That does not fit the basic GOP mind-set that wealth should not be punished and that earnings should not be double-taxed." (Robert Novak, Op-Ed, "Nothing Unifies Republicans More Than The Estate Tax," Chicago Sun-Times, 9/5/05)

Sen. McCain Has Actually Voted Against Repeal Of The Death Tax:
In 2002, Sen. McCain Was One Of Only Two Republicans To Twice Vote Against Permanent Repeal Of The Death Tax. (S. 1731, CQ Vote #28: Adopted 56-42: R 45-2; D 11-39; I 0-1, 2/13/02, McCain Voted Nay, H.R. 8, CQ Vote #151: Motion Rejected 54-44: R 45-2; D 9-41; I 0-1, 6/12/02, McCain Voted Nay)
- Sen. McCain: Estate Tax Cuts Go "Solely To The Wealthiest." MCCAIN: "I am concerned that repeal of the estate tax would provide massive benefits solely to the wealthiest- and highest-income taxpayers in the country." (Sen. John McCain, "Statement Of Senator John McCain On H.R. 8, The Death Tax Elimination Act," Press Release, 6/11/02)

  