
    Des Moines, IA - Tonight, Republican Presidential Candidate Rick Santorum showed he was above the fray, the adult in the room, and the one candidate ready to lead the United States from day-one.
Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director, said: "Rick Santorum was the one candidate who stayed above the fray - answering the questions asked by outlining conservative solutions to the issues facing average Americans. Rick's momentum is undeniable and he's proving every day that he's a man you can trust to be the Commander in Chief. His record matches his rhetoric - Rick has consistently fought for conservatism and Rick has consistently won for conservatism. Rick's the real deal and the country got to see that tonight."
SANTORUM SAID:
On Distinguishing Job Creation Plan:
"I was just visiting Fremont County where they just lost hundreds of jobs from a ConAgra plant. Instances like that are why Governor Branstad and Lt. Governor Reynolds held a manufacturing forum in Pella, because the heartland of America is suffering. During my lifetime we've gone from 21% of people employed in manufacturing down to 9% today. Small town America is hurting. We need a plan to revitalize manufacturing, which is why I have called for the elimination of the corporate tax on manufacturers, repealing the bevy of regulations of the Obama Administration, and lower energy costs... I will not give you a jobs number, because government doesn't create jobs. I don't believe you can have a top down mentality. You create the petri dish and I don't need a government bean counter to tell me how many jobs we're going to create."
On Being A Consistent Conservative and Winning:
"This is not about what you say at the debate. In 1994, I was not supporting an individual mandate. I authored Medical Savings Accounts because I believe in a bottom up approach and I have never strayed. The record is important and what the question is was who is a consistent conservative. I would agree with Michele, but she's been fighting and losing. I have been fighting and won. I won and passed Welfare Reform. I was the leader on pro-life and pro-family issues. I went out and fought on national security, and imposed sanctions on Iran. I was there in good times and in bad. I was there, I led, and I won... I was in the minority and along with Jim Nussle we formed the Gang of Seven, and we won. We exposed the House Banking scandal and sent the Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee to jail. We figured out how to win, even though we were in the minority."
On Fidelity:
"Character counts, all of your record - personal and political. I would not say it is a disqualifier, people make mistakes, and people should hold you accountable. You are electing a leader, trust is everything, particularly in this election. I hear this all the time in Iowa, who can we trust? I have been married for 21 years, I have seven children. I have been consistent and I talk about my past."
On Israel/Palestine Dispute:
"You must speak the truth, but do so with prudence. We are in a real life situation, not an academic exercise. We need to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our ally. We need to be working with the Israeli's, because they have the right to determine what they do with their land - and the West Bank is their land."
On His Upbringing and Family:
"I grew up in a modest home, and I was blessed with a mom and a dad who made the little things feel like luxuries. Today we see the family breaking down. Single parent households have poverty approaching 40%. Single moms are doing heroic work, but it's tough. We need to elevate the institution of marriage and the family. The most important luxury is a mom and a dad."
One Bringing People Together and An Opponent:
"I listened to Newt's (GOPAC) tapes as a young man and he laid out a vision for conservative governance. I ran in a tough environment. In 1990, I ran and won, and when I won, the Wall Street Journal called the RNC and the RNC didn't even know my name. In 2000, I won re-election in Pennsylvania in the same year that President Bush lost by 5%, I won by 6%. I've run as a conservative and won, I stuck by conservative principles."
  