
    By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
Every American should have the opportunity to pursue an education beyond the high school level. Colleges and universities enhance the mental and moral development of their graduates. The future of our country depends on equal access to education for all students, including members of minority groups and the economically disadvantaged. All educators should be aware of and support efforts that recognize and offer educational opportunities to underprivileged students.
The City University of New York has implemented two programs—College Discovery for community college students and SEEK (Search for Elevation, Education, and Knowledge) for senior college students-that provide specialized counseling, remedial instruction, and tutorial services enabling nearly 14,000 disadvantaged students a year to receive the benefits of a college education.
Almost 100,000 students have participated in the SEEK and College Discovery programs since their inception 20 years ago, which the City University of New York is celebrating in a special ceremony on December 11, 1986. The concept and innovative educational techniques employed by the SEEK and College Discovery programs have served as a forerunner and model for college remedial programs across our country and for Federal programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
The Congress, by Public Law 99-512, has designated December 11, 1986, as "National SEEK and College Discovery Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim December 11, 1986, as National SEEK and College Discovery Day. I invite the Governors of every State, college presidents, alumni, graduate and undergraduate students, community leaders, school superintendents, educators, students, parents, and all Americans to observe this day with appropriate education activities.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this second day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.
RONALD REAGAN
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:32 p.m., December 3, 1986]
  