
    Good morning. On this Christmas Eve, Laura and I send our best wishes to families across America as you gather in your homes to celebrate the holiday. Christmas is a time of joy and peace, and we hope the holiday season brings all of you happy reunions with families and friends and time to rest and reflect as you look forward to a new year.
At Christmas, we give thanks for the gift of the birth of Christ and for the blessings that surround us every day of the year. In this great and prosperous land, we have so much to be thankful for, and Christmas reminds us of our obligation to share these blessings with others. There are many among us who are hurting and require a helping hand. In the new year, I hope Americans will look for ways to volunteer your time and talents where they are needed most. By reaching out to a neighbor in need, we make our Nation a more just and compassionate place.
This Christmas, we remember our fellow citizens who suffered from the hurricanes and other disasters that struck our Nation this past year. We pray for their strength as they continue to recover and rebuild their lives and their communities.
During the holiday season and throughout the year, we think with pride of the men and women of our Armed Forces, who are keeping our Nation safe and defending freedom around the world. In Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere, they are protecting our liberty by spreading liberty to others, and all Americans are grateful to our troops for their courage and commitment.
We're also grateful to their families. Staying behind when a family member goes to war is a heavy burden, and it's particularly hard at Christmas. We pray for our military families; we ask Almighty God to bestow His protection and care on their loved ones as they protect our Nation from grave dangers.
We also remember the heroic men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our Nation's freedom. We pray that God will comfort the loved ones they left behind. The sacrifices of these brave troops have rescued millions from lives of tyranny and sorrow and made America more secure. We will always cherish the memory of each of our fallen service men and women and count it a privilege to be citizens of the country they served.
The times we live in have brought many challenges to our country. And at such times, the story of Christmas brings special comfort and confidence. Christmas reminds us that we can trust in God's promise of peace on Earth and good will toward men. On a night more than 2,000 years ago, an angel of the Lord brought good tidings of great joy: The God of Heaven had come to Earth, and He would be with us always.
Thank you for listening, and Merry Christmas.
  