
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced its South Carolina Veterans for Rudy Leadership. Leading the coalition in the Palmetto State will be Vice Admiral Albert Baciocco, Jr. (Ret.), Brigadier General Edward Hall (Ret.), Rear Admiral William Schachte (Ret.), and Major General Darwin Simpson (Ret.).
"The next President of the United States must have the determination to keep the country on offense in the Terrorists' War on Us," said Admiral Schachte. "I know that Rudy Giuliani is the best candidate to lead our nation as Commander-in-Chief. No other candidate has the proven record of results that compares to what Mayor Giuliani has accomplished. I'm proud to support his campaign."
About South Carolina Veterans for Rudy:
Vice Admiral Albert J. Baciocco, Jr., United States Navy (Ret.)
Vice Admiral Baciocco retired from the U.S. Navy in 1987 after 34 years of service, principally within the submarine force and directing the Department of the Navy research and technology development enterprise. A graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, where he received a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering, he subsequently completed graduate level studies in nuclear engineering as part of his training for the naval nuclear propulsion program.
Admiral Baciocco served initially on the heavy cruiser USS SAINT PAUL (CA73) during the final days of the Korean War, and then entered the submarine service on board the USS WAHOO (SS565) in 1955. One of the early officer selectees for nuclear submarines, he rose to command of the nuclear attack submarine USS GATO (SSN615) from 1965 to 1969 and subsequently commanded Charleston-headquartered Submarine Division 42, Submarine Squadron 4, and Submarine Group 6 during the height of the Cold War.
Admiral Baciocco served as Chief of Naval Research from 1978 to 1981 and as the Director of Research, Development and Acquisition, the senior uniformed R & D policy official in the Department of the Navy, from 1983 until 1987. Since retirement he has been engaged in a broad range of business and pro bono activities within industry, government and academia, including service on the boards of directors of several corporations, both public and private. He is a Trustee of the South Carolina Research Authority, a founding Director of the Foundation for Research Development at the Medical University of South Carolina, and a member of the Board of Advisors to the Charleston Maritime Law Institute at the Charleston School of Law. In addition, he serves as a Commissioner of the Old Village Historic District Commission for the Town of Mt. Pleasant, SC, where he and his wife reside.
A member of Tau Beta Pi, a national engineering honor society, he is the recipient of honorary doctorate degrees from Florida Atlantic University and from the Medical University of South Carolina. In addition, he is a recipient of the Order of the Palmetto, the highest civilian award of the State of South Carolina. He is a Regent and Senior Fellow of the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies, Arlington, Virginia, and has been designated a lifetime National Associate of the National Academies by the Council of the United States National Academies of Sciences.
Brigadier General Ed Y. Hall, South Carolina State Guard (Ret.)
Hall was commissioned as a Regular Army 2nd Lieutenant in 1960 and served tours in Germany, Thailand, Vietnam and the United States. Retiring as a Major in 1980, Hall joined the South Carolina State Guard in 1983 and served as a General Staff Officer and as Commander of the Second Brigade. Hall retired from the State Guard in 2006 as a Brigadier General with over 45 years of combined military service. Among the awards he has received are the Combat Infantry Badge, the Bronze Star, the Air Medal, the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry, the Meritorious Service Medal and the South Carolina Order of the Palmetto. Hall is the President of Honoribus Press which has published over 40 books on military and aviation history, two of which were National Book Club selections.
Rear Admiral Bill Schachte, United States Navy (Ret.)
Rear Admiral Schachte is a decorated Vietnam volunteer (SWIFT Boats). He also served as Executive/Operations Officer for Coastal Division Fourteen, Republic of Vietnam. He later received a Law Degree from the University of South Carolina School of Law and transferred to the Navy JAG Corps. He was then assigned to the Naval Legal Service Office, Charleston, South Carolina. After receiving his Masters of Law Degree (with Highest Honors) from the George Washington School of Law, Rear Admiral Schachte served as the Head of the Law of the Sea Branch, International Law Division, and in the Office of the Judge Advocate General. In October 1990 he was appointed Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy. In October 1992 Admiral Schachte was appointed Acting Judge Advocate General of the Navy. He served in these four assignments until he retired in October 1993.
Admiral Schachte's personal decorations include the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, Navy Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit with Gold Star (in lieu of second award), the Bronze Star with "V", the Meritorious Service Medal with Gold Star (in lieu of second award) and the Combat Action Ribbon.
Major General Darwin H. Simpson (Ret.)
Simpson began his military career in the Arkansas Army National Guard in 1964. Accepting a commission as Second Lieutenant in 1967, Simpson held various major duty assignments including Company Commander, Communications-Electronics Officer, Battalion Executive Officer, Battalion and Brigade S2, Battalion Commander, Brigade S3, Deputy Brigade Commander, Brigade Commander, and Army Air and Missile Defense Command Commander. He is a graduate of the Signal Officer Basic and Advance Courses, Command and General Staff Course, and the Army War College. He was promoted to the rank of Major General in October 2000.
Major General Simpson has received various awards and decorations for his distinguished service with such honors as the Legion of Merit, Meritorious Service Medal, Army Reserve Components Achievement Medal, National Defense Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Humanitarian Service Medal, Louisiana Commendation Medal, South Carolina Extraordinary Achievement Medal, South Carolina Meritorious Service Medal, South Carolina Achievement Medal, the Order of the Palmetto (South Carolina's highest civilian award) and many other awards.
  