
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Albert Beveridge, Member, National Council on the Humanities
•      Constance Carroll, Member, National Council on the Humanities
•      Cathy Davidson, Member, National Council on the Humanities
President Obama said, "I am proud to have such distinguished and accomplished individuals join this Administration and serve on the National Council of the Humanities. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Albert Beveridge, Nominee for Member, National Council on the Humanities
Albert J. Beveridge is a founding member and Senior Counsel of the law firm of Beveridge & Diamond, P.C and has served as General Counsel of the American Historical Association for more than 15 years. He was a founding member of the National Trust for the Humanities, an affiliate of the National Endowment for the Humanities. In addition, Mr. Beveridge serves as a lecturer in history at Johns Hopkins University and as Distinguished Historian in Residence at the American University in Washington, D.C. He received his B.A. from Princeton University, an M.A. from Johns Hopkins, and his J.D. from Harvard University.
Constance Carroll, Nominee for Member, National Council on the Humanities
Dr. Constance M. Carroll has served as Chancellor of the San Diego Community College District since 2004. Prior to becoming Chancellor, Dr. Carroll served as president of three community colleges in California and also worked with two universities. Dr. Carroll's board service has included the American Council on Education, American Association of Community Colleges, League for Innovation, California Council for the Humanities, Maine Humanities Counsel, NEH Panel on Museums and Historical Societies, and the Community College Humanities Association. She received her B.A. in Humanities from Duquesne University and an M.A. and Ph.D. in Classics from the University of Pittsburgh.
Cathy Davidson, Nominee for Member, National Council on the Humanities
Cathy N. Davidson is the Ruth F. DeVarney Professor of English and John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute Professor of Interdisciplinary Studies at Duke University. She was Duke's first Vice Provost for Interdisciplinary Studies, serving in that position until 2006. She is co-founder of HASTAC, the Humanities, Arts, Sciences, and Technology Advanced Collaboratory, a network of educators dedicated to new modes of learning for the digital age. In addition, Professor Davidson is past President of the American Studies Association, former editor of the journal American Literature, and co-directs the annual HASTAC/MacArthur Foundation Digital Media and Learning Competitions. She received her B.A. in English and Philosophy from Elmhurst College and her M.A. and Ph.D. in English from the State University of New York at Binghamton.
  