
    Mr. President, Mrs. Ceautescu, and all of our distinguished guests:
Mr. President, it was over 3 years ago that I had the honor of being the first American President to visit your country and when I had the honor to receive you here in Washington as the first President of Romania to visit our Nation's Capital.
In these past 3 years, we have seen a very great improvement in the relations between our two countries, improvement that is indicated by the amount of trade that we have between our countries, the amount of exchange, and in other areas which we think are particularly important in the economic and political areas.
What is also very significant, however, is that in those 3 years we have seen a great change in the world in which we live, a change that you and I first discussed in 1967 when I visited your capital, Bucharest, as a private citizen. It was then that we talked of the necessity for a bridge between East and West. And since these past 3 years, we have seen not only the visits I have referred to but a visit to the People's Republic of China, to the Soviet Union, and the development of new relationships between the United States and nations in the Socialist part of the world, but new relationships between Romania and nations in the non-Socialist part of the world.
It is as we look at the world today that we recognize how those relationships I came about, how two countries so very far apart geographically--one much larger than the other in terms of population, but each with a proud history--how two countries with different philosophies of government, nevertheless in the field of foreign policy had common objectives, and that was to seek good relations with all nations, regardless of what their philosophical ideas were. A policy of respecting the independence and sovereignty of every nation, large and small, in the world, and a policy of always recognizing that unless each nation has independence, and that that independence is not infringed upon and not threatened by other nations, there cannot be real peace, lasting peace, in the world.
This is the goal of our nation; it is the goal of your nation. It is one that we have discussed on several occasions before, and it is one that, in addition to the bipartisan matters we will be discussing, I am sure, we shall discuss at length in our e-day visit on this occasion.
We are happy that you and your wife will be able to visit not only Washington but a number of other cities in our country, and we know that you will receive here the same warmhearted welcome that made such an enormous impression on Mrs. Nixon and me and all the members of our party when we had the honor of visiting your country, Romania.
  