
    [As prepared for delivery]
As President-elect Biden and I look ahead to the challenges we will inherit upon walking into the White House, we are focused on containing this pandemic and delivering relief to all who need it.
We are focused on safely reopening our schools and responsibly reopening our economy.
And, as we've said many times, we are also focused on building America back better and doing what is necessary to lift up all Americans no matter where they live — whether it's in big cities, rural areas, or anyplace in between.
One of the most important ways we will do that is by creating good, union jobs to build, operate, and maintain a safe, modern, and sustainable transportation system.
A transportation system that will help us grow our economy, tackle our climate crisis, and connect all Americans to jobs and opportunity.
We will transform our roads and bridges, transit systems, railways, ports, and airports, while powering them with clean energy.
Spark a renaissance in American passenger rail that will not only connect our country, but unlock job-creation and growth across our manufacturing sector.
And we will expand and upgrade our transportation system in a way that's equitable. Serving communities of every size — urban and rural — all across our country.
The choice President-elect Biden has made to help spearhead this work is simply outstanding.
I got to know Pete over the last two years.
We traveled to the same states, attended the same events, and shared a debate stage many times.
We've had long conversations, he and I — about the future of our country, about the need for bipartisanship, and about family and faith.
And along the way, Pete and his wonderful husband, Chasten, have become very dear friends of Doug's and mine.
Pete is an innovative problem solver. He has a sharp intellect and a deep commitment to uniting people across party lines and meeting our challenges together.
He is a trailblazing leader from the industrial Midwest who understands that we need to create opportunity for people of all backgrounds.
And he is a veteran and dedicated public servant who represents the very best of our country and the next generation of American leadership.
Now, Pete will bring his remarkable talents to bear — not just on behalf of the people of South Bend, but on behalf of people across our nation.
In 1966, upon creating the Department of Transportation, President Lyndon Johnson said, "America's history is a history of her transportation." 
With Pete's leadership, we are ready to write the next great chapter in that history, modernizing our infrastructure, creating jobs and opportunity, and helping to usher in a clean energy future for the United States of America.
Thank you, Mr. President-elect and welcome Pete.
  