
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit this report on the Nation's achievements in aeronautics and space during Fiscal Year (FY) 2000, as required under section 206 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2476). Aeronautics and space activities involved 11 contributing departments and agencies of the Federal Government, and the results of their ongoing research and development affect the Nation in many ways.
A wide variety of aeronautics and space developments took place during FY 2000. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) successfully completed four Space shuttle flights. In terms of robotic space flights, there were 24 U.S. expendable launch vehicle launches in FY 2000. Five of these launches were NASAmanaged missions, nine were Department of Defense (DoD)-managed missions, and eight were FAA-licensed commercial launches. In addition, NASA flew one payload as a secondary payload on one of the FAA-licensed commercial launches. This year, two new launch vehicles debuted: the Lockheed Martin Atlas IIIA and the Boeing Delta III, each serving as transition vehicles leading the way for the new generation of evolved expendable launch vehicles.
Scientists also made some dramatic new discoveries in various space-related fields such as space science, Earth science and remote sensing, and life and microgravity science. In aerospace, achievements included the demonstration of technologies that will reduce the environmental impact of aircraft operations, reinvigorate the general aviation industry, improve the safety and efficiency of U.S. commercial airlines and air traffic control system, and reduce the future cost of access to space.
The United States also entered into many new agreements for cooperation with its international partners around the world in many areas of space activity.
Thus, FY 2000 was a very successful one for U.S. aeronautics and space programs. Efforts in these areas have contributed significantly to the Nation's scientific and technical knowledge, international cooperation, a healthier environment, and a more competitive economy.
GEORGE W. BUSH
The White House, December 19, 2001.
  