
    South Bend, IN –– Today, Mike Schmuhl, campaign manager for Pete for America, released the following statement:
"In a continued commitment to transparency, we are announcing today that our campaign will open fundraisers to reporters, and will release the names of people raising money for our campaign. Fundraising events with Pete will be open to press beginning tomorrow, and a list of people raising money for the campaign will be released within the week.
"From the start, Pete has said it is important for every candidate to be open and honest, and his actions have reflected that commitment. He is the only current presidential candidate who has released the names of people raising money for his campaign, and we will continue to release additional names as more people join our growing effort. Moreover, he will be one of the few candidates to allow reporters access to his fundraising events.
"Our campaign strives to be the most transparent in the field. Pete has held three multi-day bus tours with reporters that were completely on the record, has previously released the names of people who have fundraised for our campaign, and made public 12 years of tax returns, which includes all of the mayor's professional working life since he finished his education. Pete has also committed to restoring press briefings in the White House.
"No other candidate for president has released the entirety of their tax returns since their education concluded. No other current candidate for president has released the names of people raising money for their campaign. There are important differences in this race among Democratic candidates, from creating a choice of affordable health care choices for all to removing cost as a barrier to college for those who need it, but transparency shouldn't be one of them.
"We plan to continue to talk about the issues that matter most to voters, because Pete is more interested in bringing people together to solve the critical issues facing America. This election is about defeating Donald Trump and uniting the country the day after this president leaves office. Pete is the best candidate to beat Trump, and we remain focused on doing just that in 2020."
  