
    OTTUMWA, IA - Today, Hillary continued her "Every County Counts" Tour by traveling to Ottumwa and Donnellson.
Throughout the day, Hillary emphasized her agenda to stand up for working families. Specifically, she outlined her plans to protect the middle class -- by tackling the foreclosure crisis impacting thousands of Iowans, driving down the cost to heat Iowans' homes during the winter, giving them the opportunity to save for the future, making college more affordable, and covering their long-term care needs. She not only detailed this agenda, but explained how it would impact real Iowans in a tangible way.
Listen to excerpts from today's speech in Ottumwa, IA.
"I'm running for president because I know we can do better. I believe that if we put our minds to it we can make the changes that will give a better life to countless Americans. We'll lift up our country's reputation and leadership again in the world, make our government work for all of us and put us back on that wonderful journey that America has taken, that we can be proud of our country and the progress we are making together."
Click for Radio Actuality ***
"For me, the American dream is within the grasp of everybody willing to really work as hard as you can and take responsibility. And it's worked for generations, hasn't it? Not everybody ends up like Warren Buffet or Bill Gates, but people can own a home and people can be secure in their retirement and people can save to send a child to college and people can be secure when they get sick. That's what we've all done and every generation has gotten a little bit further than the prior generation. And it's been an incredible economic success story, the greatest in the history of the world. But it's in jeopardy right now and I'm going to set it right."
Click for Radio Actuality ***
"I will not forget all of the faces and the stories that I have seen and heard as I have crisscrossed Iowa. You will have a president who wakes up every day worrying about how to make your lives better; how to give you the tools to shape your own destiny and fulfill your own version of the American dream. I want to give to every American the same blessing that I was given. I want our country once again to stand for all of the values and ideals I was raised to cherish."
Click for Radio Actuality
  