
    (New York, NY) – President-elect Donald J. Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence today continued calls with world leaders to thank them for their congratulatory wishes.
Readout of phone call with the President-elect Trump and the Prime Minister of Norway:President-elect Trump thanked the Prime Minister of Norway Erna Solberg for her well wishes and congratulations on a historic election. The two leaders discussed the strong relationship between the United States and Norway. President-elect Trump said he looked forward to participating in alliance building forums to strengthen ties within the global community.
Readout of phone call with Vice President-elect Pence and the President of Armenia:The President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan shared with Vice President-elect Pence today his hope for a deeper economic relationship with the United States. Vice President-elect Pence expressed gratitude for the many contributions of the Armenian-American community to the United States.
Readout of phone call with Vice President-elect Pence and the President of Cyprus:The President of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades offered his congratulations to Vice President-elect Pence today and shared his commitment to build upon an already strong relationship between the two nations. Vice President-elect Pence expressed his pride in the long history of cooperation between the two countries and his interest in working closely together in the future.
Readout of phone call with Vice President-elect Pence and the Vice President of the European Union:The Vice President of the European Union Federica Mogherini offered congratulations to Vice President-elect Pence and highlighted the importance of success for the United States and partners in the EU in tackling ISIS. Vice President-elect Pence reaffirmed President-elect Trump's commitment to defeating the global threat of ISIS.
Readout of phone call with Vice President-elect Pence and the Prime Minister of Jamaica:Vice President-elect Pence and the Prime Minister of Jamaica Andrew Holmes had a productive conversation about the close economic cooperation between Jamaica and the United States. Vice President-elect Pence also expressed appreciation for the many contributions of Jamaican-Americans to the United States.
Readout of phone call with Vice President-elect Pence and the President of Mongolia:The President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdori offered his congratulations to Vice President-elect Pence today on his election and expressed his desire to continue the close partnership with the United States in Afghanistan and abroad to confront the threat of global terrorism. Vice President-elect Pence shared his encouragement for the deepening economic relationship between the two countries.
Readout of phone call with Vice President-elect Pence and the President of Sri Lanka:The President of Sri Lanka Maithripala Sirisena thanked Vice President-elect Pence for his commitment to strong relations between the two nations and to government reform. Vice President-elect Pence shared his gratitude for the desire to work together and complimented President Sirisena for the work he has done to heal Sri Lanka and unite the country following civil war.
  