
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 15
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a reception for members of the press in the Diplomatic Reception Room.
The President announced his intention to appoint George R. Ariyoshi, Curtis H. Barnette, Robert J. Eaton, George Fisher, D. George Harris, Dean R. Kleckner, J. Bruce Llewellyn, Lewis Platt, and Jeanette Sarkisian Wagner as members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
December 16
The President announced the recess appointments of Mozelle W. Thompson and Orson Swindle as Commissioners of the Federal Trade Commission.
The President announced the recess appointment of Richard W. Fisher as Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced the recess appointment of Nancy E. Soderberg as Alternate U.S. Representative for Special Political Affairs at the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, and as U.S. Alternate Representative to the sessions of the U.N. General Assembly.
The President announced the recess appointment of Paul M. Igasaki to serve as a Commissioner and Vice Chair on the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The President announced the recess appointment of Kevin Emmanuel Marchman as Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
December 17
In the afternoon, the President met with Senator Arlen Specter in the Oval Office, concerning the Senator's upcoming visit to the Middle East.
Later in the afternoon, the President met with a group of family farmers in the Cabinet Room, concerning new USDA efforts to improve civil rights and assist small farmers.
The President announced his intention to appoint Dr. Harold P. Freeman to serve as member and Chair of the President's Cancer Panel.
The President announced the appointment of John M. Deutch, Robert L. Gallucci, Dave McCurdy, and Daniel Poneman to the Commission To Assess the Organization of the Federal Government To Combat the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction.
The President declared a major disaster in Guam and ordered Federal aid to supplement territory and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Typhoon Paka and associated torrential rains, high winds, high surf, and tidal surges on December 16 and continuing.
December 18
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a holiday celebration for children in the East Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Cherryl T. Thomas as Chair of the Railroad Retirement Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint James O. DuPree, Ralph Paige, and Leland H. Swenson as members of the Commission on 21st Century Production Agriculture.
December 19
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz of Turkey in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Ivey to be Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Arthur H. White to serve as a member of the Federal Prison Industries Board.
  