
    Alongside Iowa Chair Drew Ivers and Rep. Glen Massie, Air Force veteran Ron Paul to assemble veterans, discuss their issues, and thank them
ANKENY, Iowa — Air Force veteran and 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will hold a major veterans rally in Des Moines, demonstrating his commitment to veterans, active-duty military men and women, and their families.
The event, which is open to supporters of all ages regardless of veteran status, will be held on Wednesday, December 28th at the Knapp Learning Center, located on the State Fair Grounds in Des Moines. Doors will open to the public at 6:30 p.m. To enter 30 minutes early and secure a seat near the front of the room, RSVP for the veterans rally featuring Dr. Paul by clicking here.
The salute to veterans rally is of particular importance as U.S. troops are returning from Iraq, and are deserving of a warm welcome home. Another function of this event is to answer the growing demand of the "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, which is among the strongest voter associations benefiting Dr. Paul in Iowa.
"My country called and like Ron Paul I left my family, friends, and career behind, in my case serving in Vietnam. Now Dr. Paul is again offering himself to serve our great nation as president in a time of urgent need," said Ron Paul 2012 Iowa Chairman Drew Ivers.
"I've never met a more humble, honest, and capable patriot in my lifetime. As Ron Paul salutes his fellow Veterans here in Iowa, I'm proud to return that salute," said Mr. Ivers, himself a combat-wounded U.S. Army veteran awarded a purple heart for injuries he sustained while serving in Vietnam.
"Like many other veterans and active-duty military men and women, officers and enlisted alike, I wholeheartedly support Ron Paul for our President and Commander in Chief," said Iowa House Rep. Glen Massie (R-Des Moines).
Rep. Massie is a U.S. Marine Corps veteran and was the first Iowa legislator to endorse Dr. Paul for the Republican nomination.
During the 1960s, Dr. Ron Paul proudly served in the U.S. Air Force as a flight surgeon. Today, the 12-term Congressman from Texas has stood up in defense of veterans benefits and as a friend to veterans has helped returning veterans receive honors and awards never bestowed them.
In recognition of Paul's own military service, his promotion of a strong national defense, and his service to veterans, active-duty military personnel contributed more to Paul's campaign than to those of all Republican presidential candidates combined, and more than that of incumbent President Barack Obama, in 2Q and 3Q of 2011.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page by clicking here. Those residing in the Hawkeye State should email Iowa Voter Outreach Director Meghann Walker at meghannw@ronpaul2012.com.
Due to strong demand and space limitations, members of the media are asked to RSVP for the event by sending an email to RSVP@ronpaul2012.com.
Details of the event, which is free of charge and open to the public, are as follows. Time is Central.
Wednesday, December 28, 2011
7:00 p.m.
Knapp Learning Center
State Fair Grounds
E. 33rd Street and University
Des Moines, Iowa 50317
  