
    The Clinton campaign today released a list of more than 200 foreign policy experts and former officials who are supporting Senator Clinton for President. More than 150 served in the Administration of President Bill Clinton. The group includes two former secretaries of state, the former secretary of defense, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the former permanent representative to the United Nations, as well as the next generation of America's foreign policy leaders.
"America has lost respect and leadership in the world," says Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. "Restoring our stature, making our world safer and protecting America's interests requires a leader with a vision for America and the world. Few leaders today can match Hillary Clinton's understanding of the opportunity for America to lead in a dangerous world."
General Wesley Clark, the former Supreme Allied Commander of Europe, said, "I know she has what it takes to end the war in Iraq, avert war with Iran, and restore our country's standing in the world. These are tough times and Hillary Clinton is the right choice for America."
Among the other distinguished officials and experts advising Senator Clinton are Afghanistan war veteran Vice Admiral Joe Sestak, a member of Congress representing Pennsylvania and Major General Paul D. Eaton, who served with distinction in Iraq, and called on President Bush to accept the resignation of Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld for his mishandling of the Iraq war. In addition are former Secretary of State Warren Christopher, former US Permanent Representative to the United Nations and architect of the Dayton Accords, Richard Holbrooke, and General John M. Shalikashvili, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The list also includes the next generation of America's foreign policy leaders, with expertise ranging from public health to nonproliferation. They have signed onto to Senator Clinton's campaign in such large numbers because they believe she is uniquely qualified to address the challenges of the 21st century.
To view the full list, please [Click here].
  