
    
  These 73 Leaders Join The 45 Prominent Members Of Christie's Iowa Leadership Team

For Immediate Release:
Monday, December 21, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Today, Chris Christie announced the support of 73 Grassroots Leaders across the state who will continue to help spread Governor Christie's message leading up to the Caucuses in February. These statewide leaders will represent the Governor in their precincts and include former Walker supporter Ron Wheeler, Former Clarke county GOP Chair and Branstad-Reynolds Inaugural Committee member Mary Ellen Kimball and her husband Dr. Jim Kimball, as well as former Poweshiek County GOP Chair Rick Jacoby.
"We will be supporting Governor Christie at the February caucus because we believe he is the best candidate to protect America and provide the leadership we so desperately need," said Dr. Jim and Mary Ellen Kimball.
"Governor Christie's unique background as both a Governor of a large state and former federal prosecutor has prepared him well to deal with the critical threats our nation faces today," added Mr. Wheeler. "The Governor is mature, tested, and ready to deal with the biggest problems on day one in the Oval Office and I'm proud to be supporting him for President of the United States."
"The serious times our country finds itself in demand a leader and President who has faced challenges and prevailed, enforced our laws against those who mean to do us harm, and taken meaningful action to protect our country's national security," said Mr. Jacoby. "Governor Chris Christie has done all that and more, and he is the leader our nation needs right now. He is not afraid to stand and fight for our conservative principles and that is why I will be caucusing for Chris Christie on February 1st, and I would urge Republicans in Poweshiek County and around Iowa to do the same."
"I'm so incredibly appreciative of the support from the leaders all across the state of Iowa," said Governor Christie. "As we continue to build momentum heading into the February Caucuses, these individuals will be important voices in their communities sharing our message."
These grassroots leaders include:





Jim & Mary Ellen Kimball, Osceola
Ron Wheeler, Cedar Falls
Rick Jacoby, Grinnell??
David Sweeney, Alden
Kathy Barnhart, Marion
Jennifer Bear, Waterloo
Ruth Book, Nevada
Allan & Karen Bruhn, Davenport
Mike Butterfield, Cedar Rapids
Emily Claghorn, Des Moines
Barb Clark, Monticello
Barbara Costello, Van Meter
Joel Davis, Coon Rapids
Robert Devaux, Cedar Rapids
Nathan Eichorst, North Liberty
Margie Eppley, West Des Moines
Mike Finnegan, Clear Lake
Phyllis Fleming, Windsor Heights
Chris & Jane Flesher, Pleasant Valley
Michele Franck, Davenport
Brandon Gehrke, Iowa Falls
Diane Gussie, Council Bluffs
Staci Hansen, Scanton
Laurel Haxton, Des Moines
Donna Heslop, Pilot Mount
Jeff Hintz, Fairfax
David Kinsley, Ankeny
Dan Klaas, Indianola
Adrian Lanser, Urbandale
June Locke, Cedar Rapids
Corey Lorenzen, La Porte City
Rebecca Mallonee, Cedar Rapids
Niki Martin, Nevada




Dan Matasic, Iowa City
Brittany McCoy, Stockton
William McFarlin, Davenport
Lois Monday, Creston
Sarah Mueller, Urbandale
Maggie Nugent, Adel
Dale O'Brien, Iowa City
Randy Oakley, Cedar Rapids
Doug Oelke, Newton
David Peers, Urbandale
Randi Petrik, Cedar Rapids
Richard & Linda Pint, Waterloo
Barb Powers, Dubuque
Steve & Mary Quiner, Johnston
Ernie & Sherryl Rairdin, Cedar Rapids
James & Khris Reeder, Newton
Sheryl Roberts, Iowa Falls
John Rochford, Marion
Chuck & Judy Rogers, Marion
Leslie Schmidt, Cedar Falls
Bob & Jan Schulte, Urbandale
Mike Siegel, Adel
John Spears, Lake Mills
David Spoerl, Sherrill
Donna Strange, North Liberty
Jeff Talbot, Newton
Morgan Tangen, Blue Grass
Kathi Thompson, Newton
David & Mary Twedt, Altoona
Frank & Lois Vogel, Newton
Tom & Elaine Weaver, Des Moines
Guy Winchell, Newton





View Christie's full Iowa leadership team here.
  