
    Dear Max:
It is with deep regret that I accept your resignation as Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs. Your energy, ability, and dedication have played a key role in translating our economic recovery program into legislative reality. We could not have done it without you, and I am sure that the members and leaders of the Congress share my admiration for the excellent job you have performed over the past ten months.
Of course, I do plan to keep your phone number in Bermuda close by, and I hope you will not mind an occasional call for consultation about matters on the Hill.
We have been through some historic times together; your contribution will long be remembered. I know that you will bring the same outstanding qualities to bear on your new duties as Consul General to Bermuda. Nancy and I wish you and Priscilla all the best in this new phase of a distinguished public service career.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
[The Honorable Max L. Friedersdorf, Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs, The White House, Washington, D.C. 20500]
December 3, 1981
Dear Mr. President:
I wish to advise you that I am herewith submitting my resignation as Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs effective January 2, 1982.
It has been one of the most significant and pleasurable years of my life to have served you in this capacity during a session of Congress which I believe will rank historically as one of major and long-lasting significance for our country.
Under your leadership, the nation has embarked on a course leading again to full economic health, and I consider the passage of your Economic Recovery Program to be a milestone in the course you have charted for the United States.
I believe that we have one of the finest White House congressional relations staffs in the history of this office and one that will continue to produce satisfactory results during the remainder of your term of office.
You have my heartfelt thanks for the opportunity to serve you in this capacity, and I look forward to continuing my contribution to this Administration in my new assignment.
With warmest thanks and cordial regard,
I am
Sincerely,
MAX L. FRIEDERSDORF
Assistant to the President
[The President, The White House, Washington, D.C. 20500]
  