
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, House Republican Conference Secretary John Carter (R-TX) announced his endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney for President of the United States. Congressman Carter is the fourth member of the Texas Congressional Delegation to join Romney for President and joins over thirty Members of Congress in supporting Governor Romney.
Making today's announcement, Congressman John Carter said, "In just a few short days, Republicans will begin the process of electing our party's standard-bearer in 2008. The one candidate who can bring together all elements of the conservative movement is Governor Mitt Romney. He will be a strong fiscal steward in the White House who understands that for our nation to be stronger we must have a strong military, strong economy and strong families. I am proud to support Governor Romney because I know that with his values the people of Texas will be well represented in Washington."
Welcoming Congressman Carter's support, Governor Romney said, "As one of our party's leaders in Congress, Representative Carter has been a strong proponent of our common conservative values. He has worked tirelessly to defend the American people against crime and threats from abroad. I am proud to have his support and look forward to working with him as we campaign in Texas and across the country."
Background On Congressman John Carter:
Congressman Carter Is The House Republican Conference Secretary – The Sixth Most Powerful Position Among House Republicans. In 2002, Congressman Carter was elected to represent Texas' 31st Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives and was re-elected in 2004 and 2006. He was unanimously elected by his peers to serve in the House Republican leadership as the House Republican Conference Secretary for the 110th Congress. In this position, Congressman Carter holds the sixth most powerful position among House Republicans. He currently serves on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittees on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Homeland Security. Congressman Carter also continues to serve on the House Republican Steering Committee.
Before serving in Congress, he served over 20 years on the bench. In 1981, Congressman Carter was appointed the Judge of the 277th District Court of Williamson County and was first elected District Judge in 1982. Before becoming a Judge, Congressman Carter had a successful private law practice. He was the first county-wide elected Republican in Williamson County history.
  