
    
  Caffeinated Thoughts' Shane Vander Hart Endorses Ted Cruz for President

HOUSTON, Texas – Presidential candidate Ted Cruz has received the endorsement of respected Iowa conservative activist Shane Vander Hart. Vander Hart is the founder and editor-in-chief of Caffeinated Thoughts, a widely-read conservative blog, where he announced his endorsement of Cruz on Monday.
"Shane's endorsement comes at a crucial juncture of our campaign and I am honored to have his support," Cruz said. "As we get closer and closer to the caucus, I am incredibly encouraged by the growth of conservative support we are seeing across the state of Iowa. It is a testament to the hard work of our dedicated volunteers on the ground, taking our optimistic message to their friends and communities every day."
Below is an excerpt of Vander Hart's column expressing his support for Ted Cruz's candidacy:
I Endorse Ted Cruz for President
Caffeinated Thoughts
December 28, 2015
By Shane Vander Hart
I'm endorsing Cruz, in part, because I believe he is a man of character who loves his wife, his kids and his God.
I believe Ted Cruz will stand firm on restoring the Constitution. How do I know this? I've seen him do it time and time and time again in the U.S. Senate. He certainly has not won any popularity contests in DC, but, in my opinion, he has all of the right people mad at him.
I am supporting Ted Cruz because he has followed through on his campaign promises, a rare quality we see in DC these days. He has fought for those seeking reform in Washington. He has fought for limited government. He has gone against party leadership, and we will need a fighter in the White House.
Cruz has successfully thread the needle between liberty and security. He has fought for personal liberty in light of government overreach in the name of security. At the same time, he also demonstrates a commitment to national security and to strengthen America's position in the world.
He has been a champion for religious liberty, for life, and for marriage, both in his previous role as the Solicitor General of Texas and while in the U.S. Senate. He has been firmly against the Common Core State Standards and has opposed the awful reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act
....
I humbly ask for you to join me in this support.
Read the full column at Caffeinated Thoughts.
  