
    This week, President Biden, Vice President Harris, and members of the Biden-Harris Cabinet fanned out across the country to kick offthe administration's nationwide tour to highlight how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will deliver concrete results for communities and position America to compete and win the 21st century.
From California to Connecticut, the Biden-Harris administration hit the road and spoke directly to the American people about how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will rebuild America's roads, bridges, and rails; expand access to clean drinking water; ensure every American has access to high-speed internet; tackle the climate crisis; advance environmental justice; and drive the creation of good-paying union jobs.
Here is a sampling of what Americans are reading in the states: 
President Biden in Minnesota

The Star Tribune: Biden makes first Minnesota stop as president to highlight infrastructure law[Hunter Woodall and Brianna Bierschbach, 11/30/21]
Speaking at Dakota County Technical College in Rosemount, Biden said he and others in his administration will travel throughout the country in the coming weeks to talk about how "these investments will change lives." The president said the law "will help rebuild the backbone of this nation," including making high-speed internet available to every Minnesotan. Biden, a Democrat, signed the legislation into law earlier this month that will bring billions to Minnesota. Prior to the president's remarks, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz called the infrastructure bill "one of the most important pieces of legislation" Congress has passed in the last several decades. Former Democratic New Orleans mayor Mitch Landrieu, recently picked by Biden as senior advisor and infrastructure coordinator, said in a phone interview that Minnesota has "661 bridges and over 4,000 plus miles of highway in poor condition and some of the funding that's coming down to you guys should be coming down sooner rather than later."
Minnesota Reformer: Infrastructure law is 'blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America' Biden says in Minnesota[Ricardo Lopez, 11/30/21]
On his first visit to Minnesota since he was elected, President Joe Biden on Tuesday touted the $1.2 trillion infrastructure package he recently signed into law. Biden spoke during a brief stop at Dakota County Technical College in Rosemount. Minnesota will receive more than $6 billion in federal funds, of which $4.5 billion will go toward highways. Minnesota bridges will receive $302 million, public transportation will get $818 million and $100 million is aimed at improving high-speed internet in rural areas. Biden toured the college and spoke with students who are training for jobs that could be created by the infrastructure package. He said the law he signed on Nov. 15 will help fund much-needed repairs to roads and bridges, noting the 2007 Interstate 35W bridge collapse in Minneapolis. 
Vice President Harris and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg in North Carolina
 
Charlotte Observer: 'America is moving again.' In Charlotte, Harris touts infrastructure spending[Will Wright, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris visited Charlotte on Thursday to promote a newly-approved infrastructure spending plan — a key piece of legislation for President Joe Biden's administration and one that will bring billions to North Carolina.… "This is our focus with Build Back Better," Harris said in an interview with the Observer: "Working people right now are finding it very difficult to get through their day given all the burdens that they carry... Let's make it more affordable." Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg also spoke during the event, saying the bill will help fund more climate-friendly public transportation systems in Charlotte that can connect communities with limited access to good-paying jobs.
WFAE (NPR Charlotte): Kamala Harris, Pete Buttigieg tout $1.2 trillion infrastructure law in Charlotte visit[Steve Harrison, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris touted the Biden administration's $1.2 trillion infrastructure law during a stop in Charlotte on Thursday, saying robust transit systems help low-income workers. Harris and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg visited the Charlotte Area Transit System light rail maintenance facility on South Boulevard. Harris said the bipartisan law will include more than $900 million for transit systems in North Carolina.
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg in Virginia 
Roanoke Times: Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg tours Jackson Ward, Henrico, talks infrastructure[Michal Martz, 12/3/2021]
U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg came to Jackson Ward on Friday to herald a plan to reconnect the historically Black neighborhood, but he never made it to the highway that has divided the community for almost 70 years…. Buttigieg and Northam were accompanied by U.S. Sen Tim Kaine, Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney and two members of Virginia's congressional delegation, Reps. Donald McEachin and Abigail Spanberger. Buttigieg and Spanberger hung back from the tour for a block or so to walk alongside McEachin, who represents the area in Congress and was using a cane while recovering from a fractured hip. They see new hope for Jackson Ward in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, a $1 trillion funding package that includes $1 billion to help reconnect communities that have been divided and undermined by transportation projects that often went through Black communities.
WWBT (NBC Richmond): U.S. Transportation Secretary touts infrastructure money in Richmond, Henrico[Henry Graff, 12/3/21]
Pounding the pavement in Richmond, U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg went on a walking tour to learn about the city's historic Jackson Ward. "You can feel that sense of what we can actually be doing with these infrastructure dollars. Sometimes in Washington, they feel like numbers on a page, but when you come here and literally see the physical work that is getting done, that just puts a lot of propulsion into me and my team to keep this work going," said Pete Buttigieg, U.S. Transportation Secretary…. Secretary Buttigieg heard about efforts to revitalize Jackson Ward, established 150 years ago as a center for Black commerce and culture before being disconnected by a turnpike and later, I-95. Federal funds will help reconnect the neighborhood with other parts of the city.
Labor Secretary Marty Walsh in California
Spectrum News 1: U.S. labor secretary visits Port of LA amid supply chain issues[11/30/21]
LOS ANGELES (CNS) — Amid supply chain disruptions at the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, U.S. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh visited the port complex Tuesday to discuss the Biden administration's efforts to mitigate the issues…. "This administration's commitment to ports and supply chains goes far beyond the holidays. Standing with local officials, unions, employers, and port leadership today, we are focused not only on solving immediate issues — we are also building strategies for long-term resilience," Walsh said.
KNX Los Angeles: U.S. Secretary of Labor impressed following tour of ports of L.A, Long Beach[12/1/21]
After an on-the-water tour of the docks and the port channels, Walsh said he's impressed with the cooperation of the shippers and port operators, which has resulted in a 37% drop in containers that were stuck on the docks according to L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti…."I think part of the reason why we're having this conversation today about supply chain is that for far too long we've been too dependent on foreign investment, foreign imports," Walsh said, explaining that bringing manufacturing jobs to America is already in the mind of President Joe Biden. Walsh said the task force he's part of is currently looking for options to increase manufacturing and will likely be able to release its findings sometime next year.
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm in Connecticut and Rhode Island 
WTNH (ABC New Haven, Connecticut): US energy secretary visits Enfield to highlight job-creation plans[12/2/21]
Granholm said President Joe Biden wants to see American-based manufacturers like Control Module expand. It's all part of a state and federal partnership to address air-quality issues. "We're going to put 500,000 electric passenger vehicles on the road by 2030 to meet our targets,' Katie Dykes, commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) said. 'We're at about 17,000 today. That means that we need to continue to provide supports for rebates for our folks and businesses to purchase electric vehicles, nut most importantly to get chargers deployed across the state."
Portland Press Herald: Energy secretary: Offshore wind brings 'gust' of job growth[Jennifer McDermott, 12/2/21]
Granholm visited a new offshore wind manufacturing hub in Providence to talk about the Biden administration's plan to deploy 30 gigawatts of offshore wind energy by 2030 and to promote the investments in the $1 trillion infrastructure deal. "More offshore wind means more jobs for iron workers, line workers, engineers, electricians, plumbers, pipefitters," she said. "Jobs in mining and manufacturing and management and operations and sales, not to mention of course the benefit to surrounding communities."
Interior Secretary Deb Haaland in Maryland 
WDVM (NBC Hagerstown, MD): Congressman David Trone, Interior Secretary Haaland visits national parks, and host roundtable focused on climate change and environmental justice[Mikayla Newton, 12/3/21]
Congressman David Trone and U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Deb Haaland hosted a roundtable discussion with environmental justice groups focused on how climate change adversely affects underserved communities. "This new bipartisan infrastructure law will be a game changer for so many communities rural and urban alike. We want to make sure those folks are at the table and they have input as we move it forward," said Interior Secretary Haaland.
The Herald-Mail: Federal official, congressman tour canal, park headquarters at Williamsport[Mike Lewis, 11/30/21]
Bundled against late November's chill, U.S. Interior Secretary Deb Haaland took a boat ride across the restored Conococheague Aqueduct on Monday. She also toured the new headquarters of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park in Williamsport with U.S. Rep. David Trone as part of a swing through Maryland…. The visit came after Congress passed and President Joe Biden signed the $1.2 trillion Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021.
According to the National Parks Conservation Association, the National Park Service will receive more than $1.7 billion from the package. "Spread out over five years, the investments will improve roads and bridges, modernize transportation systems, support climate adaptations, and better protect wildlife and motorists, among other crucial projects," the association reported. "The Park Service manages more than 12,600 miles of roads, over 1,440 bridges and 127 transit systems. Nearly 40% of park roads need repair, including Blue Ridge Parkway and roadways within Mojave National Preserve, deteriorating bridges at Great Smoky Mountains and flood-damaged roads at Harpers Ferry."
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack in Pennsylvania 
WHMT (ABC Harrisburg, PA): York County going green for agriculture and environment[James Wessler, 12/3/2021]
HREWSBURY, Pa. — Going green for agriculture and the environment. That was the topic of an event in Shrewsbury, York County. U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack joined Senator Bob Casey to talk about how the "Build Back Better" infrastructure bill is investing to help businesses and the environment. They were at Saubel's market, which has a solar panel array that's already providing 20% of its electricity.
  