
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Elaine L. Chao, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Lynn Friess, of Wyoming, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Douglas Manchester, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Hannah F. Buchan, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Catherine B. Reynolds, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Andrew George Biggs, of Oregon, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico.
Dr. Betty A. Rosa, Ph.D., of New York, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico.
John E. Nixon, of Utah, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico.
Rep. Mike Sanders, of Oklahoma, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board.
Christopher C. Papagianis, of New York, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board.
J. Steven Grist, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board.
James H. Herbert II, of Wyoming, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board.
Kellyanne Elizabeth Conway, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy.
Douglas Macgregor, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy.
Chang Oh Turkmani, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory Board.
Elizabeth M. Fago, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory Board.
Dr. Jack T. Evjy, M.D., of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory Board.
Lisa Cutone, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences.
Marina A. DeWit, of Arizona, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences.
Larry Schweikart, of Arizona, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences.
Matthew A. Schlapp, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board.
Andrew Kloster, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States.
Jared Smith, of Florida, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
William Ruger, of Virginia, to be a Member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
Dr. Jonathan Bronitsky, Ph.D., of Michigan, to be a Member of the National Historical Publications and Records Commission.
David Kennedy, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Arctic Research Commission.
  