
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. These are all new positions.
Theodore F. Brophy is chairman and chief executive officer of General Telephone and Electronics (GTE) in Stamford, Conn.
Charles L. Brown is chairman of the board of American Telephone and Telegraph (A.T. & T.) in New York, N.Y.
Vincent N. Cook is president of the Federal systems division of the IBM Corp. in Bethesda, Md.
Robert M. Flanagan is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Western Union Corp. in Upper Saddle River, NJ.
Emanuel Fthenakis is chairman of the American Satellite Co. in Rockville, Md. He is also senior vice president of Fairchild Industries, Inc., in Germantown, Md.
Robert C. Hall is president of Satellite Business Systems in McLean, Va.
Paul H. Henson is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of United Telecommunications, Inc., in Kansas City, Kans.
Henry E. Hockeimer is president of Ford Aerospace & Communications Corp. in Detroit, Mich.
Edward E. Hood, It., is vice chairman of the board and executive officer of the General Electric Co. in Fairfield, Conn.
William C. Hittinger is executive vice president of the RCA Corp. in Princeton, NJ.
David H. Lubetzky is president and chief executive officer of TRT Telecommunications Corp. in Washington, D.C.
William G. McGowan is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of MCI Communications in Washington, D.C.
Ruben F. Mettler is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of TRW, Inc., in Cleveland, Ohio.
H. Ross Perot is chairman of the board of Electronic Data Systems in Dallas, Tex.
Dale F. Pilz is president of Southern Pacific Communications Co. in Burlingame, Calif.
Robert M. Pirnie is president of the U.S. Independent Telephone Association in Washington, D.C.
Robert M. Price is president and chief operating officer of Control Data Corp. in Minneapolis, Minn.
Allen E. Puckett is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Hughes Aircraft Co. in Culver City, Calif.
Donald J. Yockey is president, defense electronic operations, for Rockwell International Corp. in Anaheim, Calif.
  