
    "The bill… could do for internet connectivity what FDR's Rural Electrification Act did for electric power nearly a century ago."
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law makes historic investments into extending affordable high-speed internet access to all Americans. In Pennsylvania, local publications have highlighted how expanded broadband access will impact communities across the state by broadening opportunities in e-learning, telehealth, and remote work. Increased broadband availability will also make internet access more equitable by reaching underserved minority and low-income families.
See excerpts from the coverage below:
York Daily Record: 'You can't do anything without internet service:' How broadband money could help communities[Teresa Boeckel, 12/2/21]
"President Biden recently signed a $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill, which includes $65 billion for broadband to ensure Americans have access to reliable, high-speed internet service, according to the White House. Almony said she hopes it will help individuals like herself who work and live in more rural areas."
"'In York County, the need for broadband is great in both urban and rural areas,' said Silas Chamberlin, vice president of economic and community development at the York County Economic Alliance. 'Census data shows an estimated 32 percent of residents lack high-speed internet to meet their basic needs of remote working, learning and telehealth,' he wrote in an email."
"Pennsylvania is expected to receive at least $100 million to expand broadband internet statewide, including to nearly 400,000 residents who do not have it, according to the White House, U.S. Senator Bob Casey Jr. and state Sen. Senator Kristin Phillips-Hill, R-York County."
"'There are a lot of challenges, but I also think that there are more opportunities in front of us now than there have ever been,' [Sheri Collins, acting executive director of the Governor's Office of Broadband Initiatives] said."
"A willingness, commitment and dedication exists at the federal, state and local levels in figuring out how to get people connected."
Go Erie: Erie Voice: How the infrastructure bill can close northwest Pa.'s digital divide[Elspeth Koehle, 11/28/21]
"Spent wisely, the bill's $65 billion broadband package — including $14 billion to help low-income families afford home internet service — could do for internet connectivity what FDR's Rural Electrification Act did for electric power nearly a century ago. And not a moment too soon: The pandemic's acceleration of virtual learning, telehealth, and remote work makes broadband more essential than ever."
"Roughly 99% of Erie County homes have broadband available. Ninety-five percent have world-class, ultra-fast networks right at their doorstep. Yet fewer than 70% of households in the county are actually connected to home broadband service…For neighborhoods and rural communities still waiting for high-speed broadband, the infrastructure bill commits $42 billion to build and extend new networks. And it includes some clear, really smart guidelines to make sure the money gets spent effectively."
"The infrastructure bill gives Erie an unprecedented chance to end our digital divide. It's up to us to seize this chance."
Elspeth 'Kate' Koehle is a civic activist and advocacy coordinator for Erie County United.
  