
    WASHINGTON – Sen. Bernie Sanders on Saturday kicks off a two-day swing through Iowa. The Democratic Party presidential candidate will make stops in Anamosa, Clinton, Dubuque, Waterloo, Mount Vernon and Davenport. Sanders will discuss a wide range of issues, including his racial justice platform, his newly released plan to combat climate change, getting big money out of politics and his college affordability plan.
Here is the itinerary:
Saturday, December 12
10 a.m. Anamosa Forum on Racial Justice and Prison Reform, Strawberry Hill Elementary School, 203 Hamilton St, Anamosa
Information for the public: Doors open at 9:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged. Admission is first come, first served.
1 p.m. Clinton Town Meeting, Clinton Middle School, 1350 14th St. NW, Clinton
Information for the public: Doors open at noon. This event is free and open to the public, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged. Admission is first come, first served.
4 p.m. Dubuque Town Meeting, Grand River Center, 500 Bell St, Dubuque
Information for the public: Doors open at 3 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged. Admission is first come, first served.
7:30 p.m. Waterloo Town Meeting, Waterloo West High School, 425 E. Ridgeway Ave, Waterloo
Information for the public: Doors open at 6:30 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged. Admission is first come, first served.
Sunday, December 13
11 a.m. Church Service, Mount Carmel Baptist, 805 Adams St, Waterloo
Note: Press coverage for this event will be POOLED.
12:15 p.m. Meet and Greet with Volunteers, Waterloo Field Office, 217 W. 4th St, Waterloo
Note: Press coverage for this event will be POOLED.
2:30 p.m. Round-table Discussion with Veterans, Cornell College, Kinesiology Lab, 835-1st St W
3 p.m. Mount Vernon Town Meeting at Cornell College, Richard and Norma Small Multi-Sport Center, Gymnasium, 835 1st St. W, Mount Vernon
Information for the public: Doors open at 2 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
6 p.m. Meet and Greet with Volunteers, Davenport Field Office, 736 Federal St, Suite 2101, Davenport
6:30 p.m. Press Availability, Davenport Field Office, 736 Federal St, Suite 2101, Davenport
  