
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 2
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Dublin, Ireland, to Ramstein, Germany, and then to Baumholder, Germany.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton had lunch with American troops of the 1st Armored Division at Baumholder Army Base.
In the early evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Ramstein, Germany, and then to Madrid, Spain.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton toured the Prado Museum in Madrid.
December 3
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC, and in the evening, they attended the Kennedy Center Honors at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
December 5
In the morning, the President met with Bosnian refugee families who have resettled in the United States.
The President announced the release of the second report on Federal agencies' customer service standards issued by the National Performance Review.
December 6
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe, Alfred C. DeCotiis, and Joseph Lane Kirkland to be alternate representatives to the 50th session of the United Nations General Assembly.
The President announced his intention to appoint James Hamilton and the reappointment of Anthony S. Harrington and Robert J. Hermann to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
December 7
In the afternoon, the President attended a Democratic National Committee luncheon at the Hay Adams Hotel.
The President announced his intention to appoint Mack G. Fleming as a member of the World War II Memorial Advisory Board.
December 8
The President announced his intention to appoint Curtis A. Prins to the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Andrew A. Rosenberg as a member of the North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jim Kelly to the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.
  