
    Pool Reports by Sarah Tobianski, Fox News Channel



Sent:
Reports:




 December 15, 2020 10:39

 #0 FLOTUS pool: National Children's Hospital visit - Good Morning! 
?Good morning,
Fox is your pool for the First Lady's visit to Children's National Hospital here in Washington, DC.
We will be feeding all video live via LIVEU on POOL 8.
It's the First Lady's fourth holiday visit to Children's National and it'll be a scaled down event due to COVID-19 restrictions.
We're expecting Mrs. Trump to read a book to a small group of children and later she will participate in a holiday-themed bingo game with another small group. (Other patients and families will be able to watch and play along live from hospital rooms.)
Here is today's schedule, for planning purposes only/not reportable, provided by the First Lady's Office.
FPPO Schedule:* 11:10AM – Press gather at Palm Room Doors (Check-in by Catharine Cypher)* 11:40AM –Motorcade departs White House en route Children's National Hospital* 12:00PM –Motorcade arrives Children's National Hospital, pool stages* 12:10PM – First Lady Melania Trump participates in a Holiday program* 12:30PM – First Lady Melania Trump participates in a Holiday bingo game* 12:40PM – Holiday bingo game concludes* 12:45PM – Motorcade departs Children's National Hospital en route White House* 1:05PM – Motorcade arrives White House 


 December 15, 2020 11:50

#2 FLOTUS pool: rolling to Hospital 
The motorcade departed the South Lawn at 11:48am.
Pool didn't catch the First Lady as she exited the residence.
It's about a 15min drive over to Children's National. 


 December 15, 2020 12:10

#3 FLOTUS pool: arrived at Hospital / shot up 
The motorcade arrived at Children's National at 11:57. Pool didn't spot the First Lady exiting the vehicle.
We've preset in the hospital's atrium for our first stop - the book reading.
Our shot is going out now on POOL 8.
It's a very small set up this year. Only 2 children will be in person for the reading: Riley Whitney, 6 years old, and Sofia Martinez, 8, will sit on a carpet in front of Mrs. Trump.
8 chairs are also set up for the author (see below), CEO Kurt Newman, Executive VP and COO of patient care services Kathy Chavanu, as well the children's parents.
Here is a little more information about the book, provided by the First Lady's office.
The First Lady will visit the hospital's main atrium and read "Oliver the Ornament Meets Marley & Joan and Abbey" by author Todd Zimmerman, who will also be in attendance. This will be the third consecutive year the First Lady reads a book from the "Oliver" series. 


 December 15, 2020 12:24

#4 FLOTUS pool: First Lady book reading NOW 
The First Lady entered the atrium at 12:21pm.
In pre-program remarks CEO Newman said that despite the pandemic the First Lady didn't want to miss the annual visit."Mrs Trump decided to make this a priority," said CEO Newman.
The First Lady's office says this event is also being live-streamed on Facebook.
Also passing on the names of the remaining event attendees, according to Children's National (in addition to the hospital CEO, COO, author and the two children):
Elizabeth Wells, Chair of Medical Staff& Neurosciences Unit
Lori Crowder, Director of Surgical Services
Mothers of the two child patients:Ashley Whitney, motherPamela Martinez, mother 


 December 15, 2020 12:43

#5 FLOTUS pool: First Lady book reading finished 
?The reading ended at 12:33pm. Mrs. Trump exited the room to Maria Carey's "All I want for Christmas is you."
We'll be repositioning for the Bingo game shortly. It'll be a quick spray set up.
Riley and Sophia will be the only kids with the First Lady in person. As mentioned the game will be live-streamed throughout the hospital for kids to play along.
There were no formal remarks before she started reading but Mrs. Trump talked about how it was important it was for her to be here today.
Some event color:The First Lady entered with both Sofia and Riley. Throughout the reading, several hospital workers and children on the second floor stopped to watch from the windows. Mrs. Trump is wearing a green, belted jacket with a black dress underneath. 


 December 15, 2020 12:51

#6 FLOTUS pool: First Lady bingo game underway 
?The Bingo game is starting in Seacrest Studios, which is right off the atrium. Mrs. Trump is calling out the numbers.
The game was delayed slightly, after a slight hiccup with the with the audio.
Participants are instructed to call x7700 if they win. Children's National's Newman tells the pool the game is played often in the hospital- the kids go crazy when they win - there are usually multiple winners. He says kids are disappointed to miss it due to appointments and procedures. 


 December 15, 2020 13:08

#7 FLOTUS pool: motorcade rolling back to White House 
After a brief hold in vans, the motorcade pulled away from Children's National at 1:05pm.
The bingo game was wrapping up as the pool walked out. We're told Riley was one of the winners.Here is a rough log of the First Lady's remarks from the book reading (please check to tape):
12:21:18 good afternoon. wonderful to be here. This is one of my favorite events during the holiday season and i'm very excited and looking forward to reading a book, oliver the ornament,
12:21:40 and this is the series that i started to read a few years ago and is by todd zimmerman.
12:21:51 i want to say hello to the patients in the rooms that they're watching us and a special hello to kellan and i hope youre feelin gwell, stay strong nad keep fighting.
12:22:11 stay strong and well and merry christmas and happy holidays.
12:22:18 (READS BOOK)
12:33:42 merry christmas and happy and healthy new year


 December 15, 2020 13:22

#8 FLOTUS pool: FLOTUS back at White House 
?The First Lady's motorcade pulled up to the White House at 1:16pm and she entered the residence. We weren't able to get a shot of her entering.
With that, Goodnight and Happy Holidays from your FLOTUS pool! 



  