
    [Dated December 13, 1976. Released December 14, 1976]
Dear Dr. Rhoads and President Fleming:
This letter is addressed to you, Dr. Rhoads, as the Archivist of the United States (hereinafter referred to as the "Archivist") acting under authority of Chapter 21 of title 44, United States Code, and the authority delegated to you under such statute by and from the Administrator of General Services. This letter is addressed also to you, President Fleming, in your capacity as the duly authorized representative of the Regents of The University of Michigan, a constitutional corporation of the State of Michigan (hereinafter referred to as the "University").
The purposes of this letter are to offer for deposit the materials as described and provided in Annex A attached, to be kept in a Presidential archival depository, and to convey my rights, title and interest in such materials. This letter and accompanying Annexes A and B deal with materials that may have historical, educational or commemorative value because of my life and work:
(i) as a candidate for election to, and as Member of, the Congress of the United States during the period 1948 to 1973,
(ii) as Vice President of the United States in 1973 and 1974,
(iii) as President of the United States from August 9, 1974, until the expiration of my term on January 20, 1977,
(iv) as candidate for nomination and election to become President for a subsequent term, and
(v) as participant in a variety of other public and political activities.
This offer of deposit is made to the Archivist for acceptance pursuant to the following pertinent provisions of Chapter 21 of title 44, United States Code:
"When the Administrator of General Services considers it to be in the public interest he may accept for deposit-
"(1) the papers and other historical materials of a President or former President of the United States, or other official or former official of the Government, and other papers relating to and contemporary with a President or former President of the United States, subject to restrictions agreeable to the Administrator as to their use; . . ." (44 U.S.C. ยง 2107)
Concurrently with acceptance of this offer of deposit, I convey to the United States of America all my rights, title and interest in the materials accepted for deposit, including my literary property rights in the unpublished portions of such materials, which deposit and conveyance are subject, however, to:
(i) the exclusions and reservations in Annex A and to the terms and restrictions that are stated in Annex B, and
(ii) the condition that in the event the United States does not abide by the aforesaid terms and restrictions, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, possession of the materials shall be transferred to, and all my rights, title and interest conveyed hereunder shall vest in, the University, subject to the same terms and restrictions.
This conveyance to the United States is made for acceptance pursuant to the following pertinent provisions of Chapter 21 of title 44, United States Code: "... The Administrator, in negotiating for the deposit of Presidential historical materials, shall take steps to secure to the Government, as far as possible, the right to have continuous and permanent possession of the materials. Papers, documents, or other historical materials accepted and deposited under section 2107 of this title and this section are subject to restrictions as to their availability and use stated in writing by the donors or depositors, including the restriction that they shall be kept in a Presidential archival depository. The restrictions shall be respected for the period stated, or until revoked or terminated by the donors or depositors or by persons legally qualified to act on their behalf. Subject to the restrictions, the Administrator may dispose by sale, exchange, or otherwise, of papers, documents, or other materials which the Archivist determines to have no permanent value or historical interest or to be surplus to the needs of a Presidential archival depository."
"(d) When the Administrator considers it to be in the public interest, he may cooperate with and assist a university institution of higher learning, institute, foundation, or other organization or qualified individual to further or to conduct study or research in historical materials deposited in a Presidential archival depository." (44 U.S.C. ยง 2108 (c) and (d) as amended by P.L. 94-575 on October 21, 1976).
Also, this conveyance is made on terms that will allow for additional cooperation with and reliance on the University or other appropriate organization by the Government as may be permitted by law.
This conveyance does not affect the rights or obligations that I may have as President or former President or as former Vice President, or that a President in office may have, to assert and enforce any applicable privilege in respect of confidential Presidential or Vice Presidential portions of the material conveyed; or the rights I may have as a former member of Congress to assert and enforce any applicable privilege in respect of confidential Congressional portions of the materials conveyed.
Following are reasons for this offer of deposit and the conveyance and for the terms and restrictions to which they are subject:
(a) To enable the United States to maintain and operate an archival facility to be constructed by the University for all the described materials that are of a documentary nature, upon which students, historians and other scholars may draw in order accurately to recount and judge the political history of our times and my participation in the events of that history.
(b) To have such archival facility embrace the full scope of my materials relating to my entire political and public career in the three different Constitutional offices I have held.
(c) To permit the establishment and operation of such archival facility in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in connection with a long-established, diversified and distinguished institution of higher learning, where it will be readily available to a large resident faculty and student body and to visiting scholars and researchers from throughout this nation and from other countries, and where the usefulness of the materials deposited will be enhanced by the availability of many other scholarly resources within the University and by the general stimulation and support for scholarly research and educational activities which the University provides.
(d) To take advantage on a temporary basis of facilities on the campus of the University that will allow archival accession and other processing of the conveyed materials until completion of a new structure which the University is to provide as a permanent archival facility for these materials; and to build upon the extensive work of processing already done by the University at its own expense on virtually all of the documentary materials related to my elections and career as a Member of Congress.
(e) To enable the United States to maintain and operate a museum in Grand Rapids, Michigan, as another facility of my Presidential archival depository, in a building to be provided by an appropriate organization, for housing and exhibiting the many articles of commemorative and educational value among the conveyed materials, together with tangible gifts received by the United States during and because of my service as President, where they will be readily available for viewing by the people in the area of my home town whom I represented in the Congress for 25 years and by interested visitors, researchers, educators and students from throughout the nation in the manner that similar materials of former Presidents Hoover, Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, and Johnson have become available within their respective home areas for that purpose.
(f) To express my deep appreciation to the people of the State of Michigan and to the University for their many benefits to me and helpful influences upon my life, and to demonstrate my grateful cooperation with the University, the citizens of my former Congressional district, especially the members and supporters of the present Gerald R. Ford Commemorative Committee, and other interested persons in their plans to raise the funds necessary for the construction of the archival facility and the museum which, when in operation with the materials conveyed, will serve as national resources of historical, commemorative, and educational importance.
Materials similar in nature to those conveyed hereby and suitable to the uses and purposes for which this conveyance is made, including those related to my life and work as former President after January 20, 1977, may hereafter be added to those conveyed hereunder by me, or by any other person having title, right, or interest therein, by intentional delivery to the Archivist for that purpose or by an instrument of conveyance that makes reference to this letter. Such additional materials, if accepted by the Archivist shall be subject to the terms and restrictions of Annex B hereto except as otherwise specified by the donor at the time they are conveyed.
Upon acceptance of this letter, along with accompanying annexes, by your respective signatures on all three copies hereof (one of which copies is to be returned to me, and the others of which shall be kept by the two of you, respectively) the offer and acceptance for deposit and the conveyance evidenced by this letter and accompanying annexes shall be effective for all purposes, and the terms thereof shall not be altered or amended except by agreement in writing among the Archivist, the University and me or, after my death, by agreement among the Archivist, the University and my duly appointed and acting executor or executors. In no event, however, shall any amendments to this letter and accompanying annexes revert or restore to me or to my estate any rights of ownership in the conveyed materials.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
  