
    DENVER — Bennet for America today announced that it needs to raise $700,000 by January 16th to have the resources to compete in New Hampshire, including for the launch of a new ad series introducing Michael Bennet to Granite Staters. The campaign shared a preview of the first ad — titled "Opposite of Trump" — which it intends to air on television and through digital ads when it hits the new goal.
Bennet recently announced his commitment to hold 50 town halls in the Granite State in the final 10 weeks before the primary, and the campaign has doubled down there, with more staff, office space, and endorsements.
In a memo to top supporters, Campaign Manager Daniel Barash outlined the urgency and opportunity of the new effort dubbed the New Hampshire Investment Strategy: "As other candidates have left the race or stumbled in the last few weeks, Michael has doubled down and gained momentum. Now is our moment. We have planted our flag in New Hampshire, but we need your help right now to have the resources to compete there."
The campaign outlined how fluid and open the presidential race remains, noting that just 33% of New Hampshire Democratic voters have made up their minds, and that because of strategic and judicious budgeting, Bennet has been able to outlast other candidates and make it to the "starting line" of the 2020 contest.
However, Barash notes, "without a significant uptick in fundraising, we will not have the resources to fully capitalize on the groundwork that has been laid to compete." The $700,000 New Hampshire Investment Strategy will go toward promotion of the 50 town halls push, as well funds for TV and digital advertising, more field staff, and a direct mail program. The new ad series announced by the campaign would aim to introduce Bennet to the many voters who are just now tuning in to the race and looking for a candidate who can beat Trump and build a stronger future for the next generation.
"To beat Donald Trump, we need the opposite of Donald Trump. That's what I am," says Bennet in the new ad. "Every decision I make is for the kids I served as superintendent of the Denver Public Schools. … So if you want a president who's focused on the next generation, and not just the next tweet, then give me a look."
Read a transcript of the ad below.
To beat Donald Trump, we need the opposite of Donald Trump. That's what I am.
"Oh, no, I've heard that voice before!"
Trump has divided our country like no other president. I'll unite the country, and we'll fix it together.
Trump's the first president to take health care away from millions. I have a plan to cover everyone in three years and lower costs, without bankrupting the system.
Trump is a pathological liar. I'll tell you the truth, even when it's hard.
Trump doesn't care about your kids or mine. Every decision I make is for the kids I served as superintendent of the Denver Public Schools. I'll wake up every morning thinking about you and your family, and how to make your lives better.
So if you want a president who's focused on the next generation, and not just the next tweet, then give me a look. I'm Michael Bennet, and I'm running for president.
  