
    Little Rock, AR - The Huckabee for President Campaign today called for an investigation of media reports regarding recorded phone calls involving negative attacks against several presidential candidates who are campaigning in New Hampshire.
"It has recently come to our attention that a group known as 'Common Sense Issues' has made recorded calls to voters in New Hampshire," wrote Campaign Manager John "Chip" Saltsman in a December 17, 2007 letter to Secretary of State William M. Gardner requesting an investigation.
"We were not aware of such a program nor do we condone such tactics," Saltsman said, noting that it is campaign policy to "oppose any deceptive campaign tactics."
"For this reason, we ask that you have your office investigate these calls further. We welcome the opportunity to assist your investigation and look forward to your findings," wrote Saltsman.
Saltsman said the Huckabee campaign issued a similar letter to the Iowa Attorney General requesting for an investigation into alleged push polling calls being made in that state.
Last week, Saltsman and Huckabee denounced push polling activities activities in Iowa, New Hampshire, and any state in the country.
"As I've said before, our campaign has nothing to do with push polling and I wish they would stop. We don't want this kind of campaigning because it violates the spirit of our campaign. I want to become President because I am the best candidate, not because I disabled the other candidates," said Huckabee during a campaign stop in New Hampshire on Saturday.
Saltsman stated: "Anyone who has the slightest understanding of the race ahead and the mindset of voters would know this sort of activity is extremely counterproductive. It takes the campaign off message at a time when Governor Huckabee is resonating with voters as never before. It loses votes rather than gains them. It's an underhanded way of doing business that is not welcomed by the campaign and it flies in the face of what Governor Huckabee stands for: integrity and clean politics. On behalf of Governor Huckabee and his campaign, I ask once again that these calls be stopped immediately."
  