
    Memorandum for the Governors of the United States Postal Service
I have been advised by the Department of Justice that the United States District Court for the District of Delaware held in UPS Worldwide Forwarding v. United States Postal Service, Civil Action No. 93-340, May 16, 1994, that the Postal Service must obtain the approval of the President to establish rates of postage or other charges on mail matter conveyed between the United States and other countries.
On appeal of the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, the Government argues that the explicit consent of the President is not required. In the view of the Government, to the extent that 39 U.S.C. 407(a) does require the President to consent, it does not require that consent be given in any particular manner. The Government's position is that the failure of the President to object to the establishment of international postage rates and other charges is consent to the establishment of such rates and other charges. This has been the practice of the Government for the past 120 years.
To the extent that the District Court's decision creates or appears to create an obligation for the President to give his consent to the establishment of rates of postage and other charges on mail matter conveyed between the United States and other countries in a particular manner, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Governors of the United States Postal Service, as defined by section 202(a) of title 39 of the United States Code, any authority vested in me by section 407(a) of title 39 of the United States Code, with respect to the establishment of rates of postage and other charges on mail matter conveyed between the United States and other countries. This delegation is effective until the date on which the Third Circuit Court of Appeals issues its mandate in the aforementioned appeal. This delegation relates only to the establishment of rates of postage and other charges on mail matter conveyed between the United States and other countries; it does not affect the obligation of the Postal Service to seek the consent of the President to negotiate and conclude postal treaties or conventions.
This memorandum shall be published in the Federal Register.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, December 15, 1994.
  