
    Mitt Romney today announced that Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers will serve as the Romney for President Washington State Chair.
"I am proud to announce Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers as the Chair of my campaign in Washington State," said Mitt Romney. "Working with conservative leaders like Cathy, I hope to bring reform to Washington, D.C. We need to get spending under control, lessen the regulatory burden, and make it easier for businesses to grow and hire. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers has already been a leader in this fight and I look forward to working with her."
Announcing her support, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers said, "President Obama's policies are not working for Washington State or the rest of the nation. Joblessness remains high and businesses are not able to expand. President Obama's on-the-job training has left millions of Americans disappointed and looking for someone with the experience to get results. Mitt Romney actually knows how the economy works — he spent 25 years in the private sector — and knows how jobs are created. Throughout his life, he has shown conservative solutions work, whether it was in business, the Olympic Games or as governor. With his economic know-how and bold plan to turn around the economy, Mitt Romney will be able to get our country back on the right track on day one as president."
Background on Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers:
Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers was elected in 2004 and serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, where she has been working to help make America more energy independent. 
In Congress, she championed a balanced budget amendment and a constitutional amendment to limit federal spending. 
McMorris Rodgers has been a political star, winning a seat in the state House in 1994, rising to be Republican Leader in 2002 before a 2004 run for Congress and election by her colleagues in 2008 to serve as Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference. She is the highest ranking Republican woman in Congress. Recently, McMorris Rodgers was named one of the top 5 most influential conservative women in America.
McMorris Rodgers is married to Brian Rodgers, a retired 26-year Navy Commander. Brian and Cathy have two young children, Cole, who is four and Grace, who just turned one.
  