
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Each day, thousands of hardworking men and women bring vital home health care services to Americans who are incapacitated by illness, age, or disability. Working in association with more than 12,000 home care agencies across the country, these dedicated professionals and volunteers play an important part in our Nation's total health care system. This week, we honor them for their many contributions.
The administrators and employees of home health care agencies work closely with government agencies and with concerned private organizations, including hospitals, to give patients a welcome alternative to institutionalized care. Home care not only emphasizes the dignity, comfort, and independence of patients but also affirms the importance of family love and support to their well-being. By enabling clients to prevent or to postpone costly hospital stays and other forms of inpatient care, home care has often proved to be economical, as well.
Thousands of nurses, therapists, social workers, and others provide our Nation's home care services, and each of them deserves our recognition and thanks. Their professionalism and compassion are making a real difference in the lives of Americans in need.
To increase public awareness of and support for our Nation's home care agencies, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 175, has designated the weeks beginning December 1, 1991, and November 29, 1992, as "National Home Care Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these weeks.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the weeks of December 1 through December 7, 1991, and November 29 through December 5, 1992, as National Home Care Week. I encourage all Americans -- as well as government officials, health and social service providers, insurance companies, and private voluntary organizations -- to observe these weeks with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this second day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  