
    Excerpts from "Thompson Rallies Conservative Christians"
ABC News
Political Radar
December 14, 2007
ABC News' Christine Byun Reports: Standing inside the Mississippi State Capitol Rotunda, a cluster of conservative Christian leaders voiced their support for Republican candidate Fred Thompson, praising his "fortitude" of character.
"[Former] Senator Thompson's pursuit of the presidency is not ego-driven ... and [he] does not attempt to re-invent himself or change his language depending on his audience," Reverend Phillip Knight said, adding, "It appears to me, the only candidate that can act, isn't."
Knight and Dr. Benny Tate, founders of the Wesleyan Center for Strategic Studies, promise the endorsements of 100 conservative Methodist pastors in the coming days. They also say they have been calling Iowa-area church leaders, rallying support for the former Tennessee Senator, who has been overshadowed by fellow Southerner-in-the-running, Mike Huckabee.
...
"We don't need a leader in the White House with a sporadic splash but we need a man with a steel spine," Tate said.
After meeting with Thompson, the two men said they were impressed with the former Senator based on his stances on issues like abortion, same-sex marriage and U.S support for Israel. Tate says Thompson's record as a "tax-cutter" also elevates his appeal as a presidential contender, one of the reasons why he's supporting him over Huckabee.
"We believe Americans can manage their money better than their government can," Tate said.
Knight, who says he has prayed with Thompson and his wife, Jeri, believes Thompson has been "mischaracterized" by Christian conservative leader, Dr. James Dobson, who questioned Thompson's faith and candidacy in an email a couple months ago.
Christian conservative leader Gary Bauer, who was not present for the endorsement and is not endorsing a candidate at this time, says it's not too late for Thompson. When reached by ABC News, Bauer said Thompson could "end up beating expectations."
"Fred Thompson would make a really strong president based on issues of concern to Christian conservatives," Bauer said, explaining that Thompson's support for appointing conservative judges has impressed him.
To View The Entire Article Please Visit :
http://blogs.abcnews.com/politicalradar/2007/12/thompson-rallie.html
  