
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Aaron Dworkin, Member, National Council on the Arts
•      Clyde E. Terry, Member, National Council on Disability
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint several individuals to the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. Their biographies are below.
President Obama said, "I am confident that these talented individuals will greatly serve this Administration and the American people. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
Aaron Dworkin, Nominee for Member, National Council on the Arts
Aaron Dworkin is a violinist, arts educator, and President of the Detroit-based Sphinx Organization, which he founded in 1996. The Sphinx Organization works to increase the number of minority students pursuing careers in classical music around the country through summer training programs for string players and music education outreach programs in Detroit public schools. A frequent speaker on youth and minority involvement and career development in classical music, Mr. Dworkin also serves as an advisor for several education and music organizations, including the University Musical Society and the Rachel Elizabeth Barton Foundation. He was a 2005 MacArthur Fellow.
Clyde E. Terry, Nominee for Member, National Council on Disability
Clyde E. Terry is the Chief Executive Officer of Granite State Independent Living and is responsible for the organization's advocacy, grant, and service activities to assure independent living and economic self sufficiency for persons with disabilities in New Hampshire. Prior to this position, Mr. Terry was the Executive Director of the New Hampshire Developmental Disabilities Council. He also spearheaded a national coalition of disability organizations on election reform and election accessibility for persons with disabilities and co-authored the 2001 publication "Voters Denied Equal Access at the Polls; A Status Report of the Accessibility of Polling Places in the United States." Mr. Terry received his B.S. from Emerson College and his J.D. from the Franklin Pierce Law Center, now the University Of New Hampshire School Of Law.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key administration posts:
Linda Gooden, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Linda Gooden is Executive Vice President of Lockheed Martin's Information Systems & Global Solutions (IS&GS) business area and an officer of Lockheed Martin Corporation. Prior to assuming her current role, Ms. Gooden was Executive Vice President of Lockheed Martin's Information Technology & Global Services business area, and before that she was President of Lockheed Martin Information Technology. She also served as Vice President of Lockheed Martin's Software Support Services unit from 1994. In 2008, Ms. Gooden was inducted into the Maryland Business Hall of Fame and named to Corporate Board Member magazine's Top 50 Women in Technology. She was selected in 2007 as Executive of the Year by the Greater Washington Government Contractor Awards and in 2006 as "Black Engineer of the Year" by U.S Black Engineer and IT magazine. Ms. Gooden was featured as one of Black Enterprise magazine's "100 Most Powerful Executives in Corporate America" for 2009 and as one of Savoy magazine's "100 Most Influential Blacks in Corporate America for 2010." Ms. Gooden serves on numerous executive boards including the Eisenhower Fellowships Board of Trustees; the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association (AFCEA) International; the Information Technology Association of America (ITAA); and University Systems of Maryland Board of Regents. Ms. Gooden holds an MBA and a B.S. in Business Administration from the University of Maryland and a degree in Computer Technology from Youngstown State University.
Mark T. Greenquist, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Mark Greenquist serves as President and Chief Executive Officer for Telcordia, which he joined in 2005 as Chief Financial Officer. He also served as Chief Operating Officer, where he was responsible for overseeing the company's daily operations and executing the corporate business plan. Prior to joining Telcordia, he served as CFO at both Symbol Technologies and Agere Systems. Mr. Greenquist also served as treasurer of Saab Automobile, CFO and managing director of General Motors Poland, and Vice President of Finance and CFO for General Motors, Europe, based in Zurich, Switzerland. Mr. Greenquist holds an MBA from Columbia University Graduate School of Business and a B.A. in Economics from Dartmouth College.
Dan Hesse, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Dan Hesse currently serves as the Chief Executive Officer of Sprint Nextel. Prior to becoming CEO, Mr. Hesse was the Chairman and CEO of Embarq Corporation, and from 2000 – 2004, he served as Chairman, President and CEO of Terabeam Corporation, a wireless telecommunications service provider and technology company. From 1997 – 2000, he served as the President and CEO of AT&T Wireless Services, and launched AT&T's global online initiatives. From 1991-1995, he served as the President and CEO of AT&T Network Systems International, a joint-venture telecommunications technology company. Mr. Hesse has been named "Most Influential Person in Mobile Technology" by LAPTOP magazine, Wireless Industry "Person of the Year" by RCR magazine, "Executive of the Year" by Wireless Business and Technology magazine, and is a recipient of Wireless Week magazine's Leadership Award. He received an M.A. in Business Administration, with distinction, from Cornell University, an M.S. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a B.A., with honors, from the University of Notre Dame.
Mark McLaughlin, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Mark McLaughlin is President and Chief Executive Officer of VeriSign, Inc. Prior to being named CEO, Mr. McLaughlin held a number of key positions at VeriSign, most recently as Chief Operating Officer. In addition he served as Executive Vice President of products and marketing, and Senior Vice President of VeriSign Information Services. Prior to joining VeriSign, Mr. McLaughlin was Vice President of sales and business development for Signio. Before joining Signio, Mr. McLaughlin was Vice President of business development for Gemplus. He also served as general counsel of Caere Corporation and practiced law as an attorney with Cooley Godward Kronish LLP. Mr. McLaughlin is currently a director of Vesta, and is a member of the TechNet Executive Council, a bipartisan, political network of CEOs and senior executives that promotes the growth of technology and the innovation economy. Mr. McLaughlin earned a J.D., Magna cum Laude, from Seattle University School of Law and a B.S. Degree from the United States Military Academy at West Point. Mr. McLaughlin also served as an attack helicopter pilot in the U.S. Army and earned an Army Commendation Medal and Airborne Wings.
Paul Sagan, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee 
Paul Sagan currently serves as Chief Executive Officer of Akamai. Mr. Sagan was elected to the Akamai Board of Directors in January 2005, and he became CEO in April 2005. He also served as President of Akamai from May 1999 until September 2010. Previously, Mr. Sagan served as senior advisor to the World Economic Forum from 1997 to 1998, consulting to the Geneva-based organization on information technology. In 1995, Mr. Sagan was named president and editor of new media at Time Inc., a division of Time Warner. Previously, he served as managing editor of Time Warner's News on Demand project and was a senior member of the team responsible for the development of the company's online, cable online, electronic publishing, and Internet publishing activities. He is also a founder of Road Runner, the world's first broadband cable modem service, and Pathfinder, one of the early Web properties that pioneered Internet advertising. Mr. Sagan is a three-time Emmy Award winner for broadcast journalism and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was named Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year in 2009 in the technology category as well as Global Leader for Tomorrow in 1996 by the World Economic Forum. Mr. Sagan is a trustee of Northwestern University; co-chair of the Medill Board of Advisors; a member of the Dean's Council at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University; a member of the advisory board of the Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics & Public Policy at the Kennedy School; and an advisor to the MATCH Charter Public School in Boston. Mr. Sagan received a B.A. from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern.
Gary Smith, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Gary Smith has served as Chief Executive Officer of Ciena since 2001. He also serves as President and Director, positions he has held since October 2000. Prior to his current roles, he served as Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales, and Vice President, International Sales. From 1995 through 1997, Mr. Smith served as Vice President of Sales and Marketing for INTELSAT. He also previously served as Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Cray Communications, Inc. Mr. Smith currently serves on the board of directors for CommVault Systems, Inc. and is a commissioner of the Global Information Infrastructure Commission. He is also a Broadband Ambassador for the Internet Innovation Alliance and participates in initiatives at the Center for Corporate Innovation. He received his M.B.A. from Ashridge Management College, United Kingdom.
  