
    
  State's National Right to Life Affiliate Supporting Thompson

McLean, VA - Today, Fred Thompson received the endorsement of Vermont Right to Life.
"Every Democratic candidate for president is pro-abortion, and a leading Republican candidate is pro-abortion," said Sharon F. Toborg, Vermont Right to Life Committee Chairwoman. "Now is the time for pro-lifers to rally around the one pro-life candidate who can win, and that candidate is Fred Thompson."
The Vermont Right to Life Committee is the state affiliate of the National Right to Life Committee, the nation's largest pro-life group with affiliates in all 50 states and over 3,000 local chapters nationwide. In November the full board of directors of NRLC met to consider the positions of the Republican candidates for president and ultimately supported Thompson based on his pro-life voting record and his ability to win. Vermont cast its vote in favor of endorsing Fred Thompson.
"Unlike endorsements by single individuals, this endorsement was made by representatives of statewide pro-life organizations across America which themselves are comprised of local community chapters and grassroots activists," stated Dr. Wanda Franz, President of National Right to Life Committee.
"I'm blessed and honored to have the endorsement of Vermont Right to Life for President of the United States," said Senator Fred Thompson. "From the Heartland to the South and now the folks in the Green Mountain State, right to life organizations have voted to endorse my candidacy because they know I have stood with them yesterday, I stand with them today, and will stand with them tomorrow. They know I have the ability to win this election. They know I believe in the sanctity of life and as President I will do all that I can to do to protect life."
Fred Thompson is pro-life. He believes in the sanctity of human life and that every life is worthy of respect. He had a 100% pro-life voting record in the Senate and believes Roe v. Wade was a bad law and bad medicine and ought to be overturned. He consistently opposed federal funding to promote or pay for abortion and supported the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act, the Child Custody Protection Act, and President Reagan's Mexico City policy. While Fred Thompson supports adult stem cell research, he opposes embryonic stem cell research. He also opposes human cloning.
  