
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Millions of people around the Nation and the world take comfort in knowing that, wherever the bright banner of the American Red Cross flies, help is close at hand. For well over a century, this respected humanitarian organization has enabled individuals and their communities to cope with crisis.
While the Red Cross is most often associated with major emergencies such as those caused by floods, earthquakes, and military conflict, it also brings aid to those whose plight may never make the headlines -- such as victims of industrial accidents, hunger, and house fires. The lifesaving activities of the Red Cross may vary, but in every case its staff and volunteers bring swift, compassionate assistance to needy persons without regard to race, religion, or national origin.
During a typical year, the Red Cross may respond to some 50,000 disastrous incidents, helping people not only to survive but also to rebuild.
While the work of the Red Cross in the face of disaster has been outstanding, its day-to-day effort aimed at emergency prevention and preparedness have been equally remarkable. Today some 1.1 million trained Red Cross volunteers work at more than 2,700 chapters throughout the United States. These dedicated men and women help to instruct youths and adults alike in first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and water safety. In addition, the Red Cross is a leader in the campaign to stop the spread of AIDS. Across the country, trained Red Cross volunteers are teaching the public about this deadly disease and how it is prevented.
The Red Cross is also helping to prevent the spread of AIDS by ensuring the safety of our blood supply. Each year the Red Cross collects more than 6 millions units of blood -- half of the Nation's blood supply. Every unit of blood must pass seven tests to ensure its safety for transfusion. As a result of such careful screening, the Nation's blood supply is safer now than it has ever been.
The Red Cross, which formed the National Bone Marrow Donor Registry in 1986, also maintain a national registry of more than 20,000 volunteer donors of rare blood types and conducts vital research on blood at its Holland laboratory. The Red Cross also renders vital tissue transplantation services to help some 49,000 Americans a year live longer, fuller lives.
With so many American service men and women currently stationed abroad, the importance of the Red Cross' work in behalf of U.S. military personnel is more apparent than ever. For members of the Armed Services at both domestic and overseas military installations, the Red Cross provides valuable information, referral services, and emergency communications.
Through its outstanding humanitarian services, the American Red Cross has earned the respect and appreciation of millions of people throughout the United States and around the world. This month we gratefully salute its dedicated staff and volunteers.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America and Honorary Chairman of the American Red Cross, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the month of March 1991 as American Red Cross Month. I urge all Americans to continue their generous support of the Red Cross and its chapters nationwide.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  