
    On Tuesday, December 21, 2004, the President signed into law:
H.J.Res. 102, which urges the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) recognize the 60th anniversary of the Battle of Peleliu; (2) work to protect the historic sites of that battlefield; and (3) establish commemorative programs honoring the Americans who fought at those sites;
H.R. 480, which redesignates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Albany, New York, as the United States Postal Service Henry Johnson Annex;
H.R. 2119, An Act to provide for the conveyance of Federal lands, improvements, equipment, and resource materials at the Oxford Research Station in Granville County, North Carolina, to the State of North Carolina;
H.R. 2523, An Act to designate the United States courthouse located in Savannah, Georgia, as the Tomochichi United States Courthouse;
H.R. 3124, An Act to designate the facility of the United States Geological Survey and the United States Bureau of Reclamation located in Boise, Idaho, as the F.H. Newell Building;
H.R. 3147, An Act to designate the Federal building located in Ogden, Utah, as the James V. Hansen Federal Building; H.R. 3204, the "Benjamin Franklin Commemorative Coin Act," which requires the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of the tercentenary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin;
H.R. 3242, the "Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act of 2004," which ensures an abundant and affordable supply of highly nutritious fruits, vegetables, and other specialty crops for American consumers and international markets by enhancing the competitiveness of United States-grown specialty crops;
H.R. 3734, which designates the Federal building located in Roswell, New Mexico, as the Joe Skeen Federal Building.;
H.R. 3884, which designates the Federal building and United States courthouse located in San Antonio, Texas, as the Hipolito F. Garcia Federal Building and United States Courthouse;
H.R. 4232, which redesignates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Kingwood, Texas, as the Congressman Jack Fields Post Office;
H.R. 4324, which amends chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, to provide for Federal employees to make elections to make, modify, and terminate contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund at any time;
H.R. 4620, which confirms the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to collect approved State commodity assessments on behalf of the State from the proceeds of marketing assistance loans;
H.R. 4807, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Rio Vista, California, as the Adam G. Kinser Post Office Building;
H.R. 4829, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Kingsville, Texas, as the Irma Rangel Post Office Building;
H.R. 4847, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Longboat Key, Florida, as the Lieutenant General James V. Edmundson Post Office Building;
H.R. 4968, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Rosine, Kentucky, as the Bill Monroe Post Office;
H.R. 5360, the "American History and Civics Education Act of 2004," which authorizes grants to establish academies for teachers and students of American history and civics;
H.R. 5364, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in San Diego, California, as the Earl B. Gilliam/Imperial Avenue Post Office Building;
H.R. 5365, which treats certain arrangements maintained by the YMCA Retirement Fund as church plans for the purposes of certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
H.R. 5370, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Boulder, Colorado, as the Donald G. Brotzman Post Office Building.
  