
    Pool Reports by Naomi Lim, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




December 16, 202210:58

Out-of-town travel pool #1 - Holding near POTUS residence
Pool has been swept and is holding near POTUS' Wilmington residence as of 10:56 a.m.
A livestream of today's event can be found here:
https://youtu.be/WUEC-_JcdX4
As a reminder, this is today's schedule:
EST
9:30 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed Press
10:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
11:45 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
12:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a town hall and speaks with veterans and veteran survivors to discuss the historic expansion of benefits and services resulting from the PACT ActMajor Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center, New Castle, DelawareOut-of-Town Pool
12:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs New Castle, Delaware en route Joint Base AndrewsDelaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, DelawareOut-of-Town Pool
1:45 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route the White HouseDelaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, DelawareOut-of-Town Pool
1:55 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 1:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)
8:55 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White House en route New Castle, DelawareSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 8:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)
9:50 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive in New Castle, DelawareDelaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, DelawareSupplemental Pool



December 16, 202211:50

Out-of-town travel pool #2 - Rolling to event
The motorcade started rolling to the Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center at 11:48 a.m. It's a roughly 12-minute drive with traffic lights.
Pool did not see POTUS hopping into the Beast.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard / Reserve Center, New Castle, Delaware:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of StaffTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterTerri Tanielian, Special Assistant to the President for Veterans AffairsJimmy Anderson, Director of Veterans Engagement



December 16, 202211:59

Out-of-town travel pool #3 - Event arrival
The motorcade arrived at the Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center at 11:58 a.m.



December 16, 202212:15

Out-of-town travel pool #4 - Event starts
POTUS entered the room at 12:12 p.m.
There are three speakers before his remarks.
The stage is set with two American flags and another two with the presidential seal. There are two signs in front of the podium that says "Supporting our veterans" and "va.gov/pact."
In front of the president, roughly 100 seats are filled.
From the WH:
The President is participating in a town hall and speaking with veterans and veteran survivors to discuss the historic expansion of benefits and services resulting from the PACT Act.
Attendees
John Carney, Governor of DelawareSecretary Denis McDonough, U.S. Department of Veterans AffairsSenator Tom Carper (DE)Senator Chris Coons (DE)Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At-large District)Major General Michael Berry, Delaware National GuardVeterans and families
Speaking Program
Major General Michael Berry, Delaware National GuardSecretary Denis McDonough, U.S. Department of Veterans AffairsSenator Tom Carper (DE)The President
Background on PACT Act progress to date: 

PACT claims filed: Since President Biden signed it into law Aug. 10, more than 185,000 Veterans have applied for PACT Act-related benefits.
Toxic exposure screening: More than 730,000Veterans have received the new PACT ACT VA toxic exposure screenings, with nearly 39% reporting a concern of exposure.
Expedited claims for terminally ill Veterans:From the moment that the PACT Act was signed into law VA's priority has been getting Veterans the benefits they deserve as quickly as possible.VA and the Biden Administration sped up the timeline for Veterans to get their PACT Act benefits by several years by deciding not to phase in PACT Act benefits through 2026, as written into the legislation, and instead made all conditions in the PACT Act presumptive on Aug. 10, the date President Biden signed it into law. VA also announced it would begin processing PACT Act related claims from terminally ill veterans early, beginning on December 12, 2022.

Release:  https://www.va.gov/opa/pressrel/pressrelease.cfm?id=5848
Latest numbers: Approximately 2,500 of the PACT Act claims filed to-date were filed by Veterans who self-identified as terminally ill.


Week of action overview: Between Dec. 10 and the 17, VA is hosting more than 90 Week of Action events across all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.

These events have featured veterans, veteran families and survivors, VA leaders, members of Congress, local elected officials, Veterans Service Organizations, state directors of Veterans Affairs and more — all of whom are working together to spread awareness about the new health care and benefits available to veterans and survivors.
Many of these events will have VA staff present to help Veterans apply for benefits, get screened for toxic exposures and enroll in VA health care.
The PACT Act Week of Action is just one component of VA's nationwide PACT Act veteran outreach campaign, which is the largest coordinated outreach campaign in VA history (details in the release). The campaign has one goal: ensuring every eligible Veteran and survivor gets the PACT Act-related health care and benefits they have earned.



Participating in a photoline with the President at Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard / Reserve Center, New Castle, Delaware:
John Carney, Governor of DelawareSecretary Denis McDonough, U.S. Department of Veterans AffairsSenator Tom Carper (DE)Senator Chris Coons (DE)Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At-large District)Dr. Shereef Elnahal, Under Secretary of Health for the U.S. Department of Veterans AffairsBethany Hall Long, Lieutenant Governor of DelawareMajor General Michael Berry, Delaware National Guard



December 16, 202212:31

Out-of-town travel pool #5 - POTUS speaking
POTUS started speaking at 12:30 p.m.
Here is an Otter link in case there are issues with the livestream:
https://otter.ai/u/6al4tTkS41dpQHmMpFCeqtNMPYk
VA Secy McDonough mentioned POTUS' "sacred obligation" to military service members and veterans, including through the PACT Act:
"You serve us, we will serve you. Our nation as a whole makes that promise, but it's our mission here in Delaware and across the country to keep that promise to all veterans, their families, their caregivers."
"President Biden is leading the way in keeping that promise. We will not rest until every single veteran and survivor knows about this new law, understands what it means for them, and gets the care and benefits."
Sen. Carper spoke of the personal nature of the legislation. Carper is the last serving Vietnam War veteran in the U.S. Senate:
"To put it bluntly, this bill is going to save lives."



December 16, 202212:54

Out-of-town travel pool #6 - POTUS concludes
POTUS finished speaking at 12:52 p.m.
Photo:
https://twitter.com/naomitlim/status/1603810479880781835?s=46&t=sG3AbJbr...
POTUS said arriving and leaving at/from DANG and the nearby Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center, named for his late son, leaves him with "a lump in his throat." He added FLOTUS, who remained at the White House for another holiday reception, warned him not to get "emotional."
POTUS spoke of the "greatest generation," adding their sacrifices do not go "unnoticed."
POTUS left the podium to roam with a handheld microphone for some of his remarks:
"As Americans, we only have one sacred obligation."
At one point, he raised his voice when he mentioned military suicides, underscoring his increase in VA funding and investment in resources:
"I think we're making progress. I think we're making genuine progress."
Of burn pits, POTUS thanked former late night TV host Jon Stewart for his advocacy of the cause. He said he would have pushed Congress to pass the PACT Act, "come hell or high water." He also referenced his numerous trips to Iraq, while amplifying how the law streamlines the benefit qualification process:
"We also need to pass the bipartisan government funding bill, so we can deliver on the last promise as well."



December 16, 202212:58

Out-of-town travel pool #7 - Rolling to DANG
The motorcade started rolling to DANG at 12:57 p.m.
Please note this key quote from POTUS' remarks:
"I made it real clear the United States Congress, if they didn't pass this damn burn pit bill, I was going to go on holy war. Not a joke."



December 16, 202213:04

Out-of-town travel pool #8 - Wheels up at DANG/Comment on Ukraine
The motorcade arrived at DANG at 1:01 p.m. and POTUS stepped out of the Beast at 1:02 p.m.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 1:03 p.m. He responded to a question about sending air support to Ukraine and said: "You'll hear in a few minutes."
We'll be wheels up shortly. It's a roughly 35-minute flight to JBA.



December 16, 202213:47

Out-of-town travel pool #9 - Wheels down at JBA/POTUS signing the CR
Wheels were up at DANG at 1:12 p.m. Wheels down at JBA at 1:37 p.m.
To clarify the question from DANG, CNN's DJ Judd asked POTUS whether he's sending Patriot Air Defense Missile Systems to Ukraine.
POTUS is also signing the one-week continuing resolution this afternoon, which is why he flew back to the White House this afternoon before returning to Delaware tonight for the 50th anniversary of the deaths of his first wife Neilia and their one-year-old daughter, Naomi.



December 16, 202213:56

Out-of-town travel pool #10 - M1 liftoff
POTUS deplaned AF1 at 1:49 p.m. He spoke with the greeter as they walked toward M1, but did not respond to shouted questions about the border or to clarify his position on sending Patriot Air Defense Missile Systems to Ukraine.
POTUS boarded M1 at 1:50 p.m. M1 lifted off at 1:56 p.m.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff




 
Pool Reports below by Laura Figueroa Hernandez, Newsday 



Sent:
Reports:




December 16, 202214:12

In-Town Pool Report #1 -- WH Arrival
Good Afternoon,
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 2:06pm
POTUS walked over to the Oval and entered at 2:10pm without stopping to take questions.
Side note: Actress Sophia Bush was on hand to watch the president's arrival. She was off to the side and captured the M1 arrival on her phone.



December 16, 202215:13

In-Town Pool Report #2 -- Dinner lid until 8:30p.m.
The press office has called a dinner lid until 8:30p.m.



December 16, 202215:24

In-Town Pool Report 3 -- POTUS meeting w/ new mayors
Via the WH Press Office:
The President dropped by a meeting of newly elected mayors in the Roosevelt Room hosted by the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs.
Attendees
Secretary Marcia Fudge, U.S. Department of Housing & Urban DevelopmentJulie Rodriguez, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental AffairsGabe Amo, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Intergovernmental AffairsAshleigh Aitken, Mayor of Anaheim, CaliforniaChris Hoy, Mayor of Salem, OregonBecky Daggett, Mayor-elect of Flagstaff, ArizonaPamela Goynes-Brown, Mayor of North Las Vegas, NevadaCraig Greenberg, Mayor-elect of Louisville, KentuckyGarnett Johnson, Mayor-elect of Augusta, GeorgiaPhillip Jones, Mayor-elect of Newport News, VirginiaMatt Mahan, Mayor-elect of San Jose, CaliforniaRex Richardson, Mayor-elect of Long Beach, CaliforniaBrett Smiley, Mayor-elect of Providence, Rhode IslandSheng Thao, Mayor-elect of Oakland, CaliforniaHarvey Ward, Mayor-elect of Gainesville, FloridaHollies Winston, Mayor-elect of Brooklyn Park, Minnesota



December 16, 202220:28

Pool Report 4- WH Departure
POTUS exited the WH at 8:22p, joined by FLOTUS and walking hand in hand with his grandson Baby Beau.
He did not stop for questions.
M1 was wheels up at 8:26p.
Via WH Press Office:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, Delaware:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady




 
Pool Reports below by Matt Viser, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




December 16, 202221:27

Supplemental pool #1 / POTUS arrival
POTUS arrived back in Delaware at 9:12pm, landing at DANG less than 8 hours after he left for an afternoon and early evening at the White House.
On a crisp and partly cloudy night, he got off Marine One followed by First Lady Jill Biden. Also spotted getting off and boarding one of the cars was Hunter Biden and his wife, Melissa Cohen, and their young son Beau.
POTUS did not hear, or respond to, shouts from the pool to come over and speak.
Motorcade started rolling at 9:19pm.



December 16, 202221:39

Supplemental pool #2 / residence and lid
After a swift and uneventful motorcade, POTUS arrived at his residence around 9:32pm.
A few minutes later, at 9:35pm, a lid was called.




  