
    To the Senate of the United States: 
I transmit herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to their ratification, two bilateral maritime boundary treaties: the Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Kiribati on the Delimitation of Maritime Boundaries, signed at Majuro on September 6, 2013; and the Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia on the Delimitation of a Maritime Boundary, signed at Koror on August 1, 2014. I also transmit, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Department of State with respect to the treaties.
The purpose of the treaties is to establish our maritime boundaries in the South Pacific Ocean with two neighboring countries. The treaty with Kiribati establishes three maritime boundaries totaling approximately 1,260 nautical miles in length between Kiribati and the United States islands of Palmyra Atoll, Kingman Reef, Jarvis Island, and Baker Island. The treaty with the Federated States of Micronesia establishes a single maritime boundary of approximately 447 nautical miles in length between the Micronesian islands and the United States territory of Guam. The boundaries define the limit within which each country may exercise maritime jurisdiction with respect to its exclusive economic zone and continental shelf.
I believe these treaties to be fully in the interest of the United States. They reflect the tradition of cooperation and close ties with Kiribati and with the Federated States of Micronesia in this region. These boundaries have never been disputed, and the delimitation in the treaties conforms closely to the limits the United States has long asserted for our exclusive economic zone in the relevant areas.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to the treaties, and give its advice and consent to ratification.
BARACK OBAMA
The White House,
December 9, 2016.
  