
    Pool Reports by Kevin Robillard, Huff Post 



Sent:
Reports:




December 12, 202211:27

Pool report #1 — checking in
Hey all,
I'll be your pooler today, a cool and cloudy day in Washington. The only event on President Biden's schedule today is a Marine Corps reserve Toys for Tots at Joint Base Fort Myer-Henderson Hall in Arlington, Virginia.
The press briefing is set for 3 pm, with National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan joining.



December 12, 202211:54

Pool report 2 — gathering
Pool has gathered at the stakeout location for the President and FLOTUS' trip out to Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall.



December 12, 202212:20

Pool report 3 — rolling/who's accompanying POTUS and FLOTUS
Pool is loaded into vans and rolling at 12:19 p.m.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, Arlington, Virginia:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyElizabeth Alexander, Deputy Assistant to the President & Communications Director for the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary and Senior AdvisorRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of StaffJordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First LadyTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesRory Brosius, Special Assistant to the President & Executive Director of Joining ForcesLibby Jamison, Joining Forces Senior Advisor



December 12, 202212:24

Pool report 4 — more background from the WH
Here is a lot more background on Toys for Tots and Joining Forces from the White House, including the speaking program for today's event:
Background:
Today, as part of the First Lady's Joining Forces initiative, the President and the First Lady are traveling to Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall in Arlington, Virginia to participate in a U.S. Marine Corps (USMC) Reserve Toys for Tots event, in celebration of Toys for Tots' 75th anniversary. They will join spouses of senior Department of Defense and Service Leadership and local military children in sorting donated toys for distribution to families in need ahead of the holidays.
In 2021, the First Lady participated in the annual drive at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall. This year, the First Lady continues to raise awareness for the program and encourage holiday gift donations for children across the nation. This event is part of the First Lady's Joining Forces initiative to support those who also serve: families of service members and veterans, caregivers, and survivors.
The President and First Lady will be joined by:

The Honorable Carlos Del Toro, Secretary of the Navy
Ms. Betty Del Toro, Spouse of the Secretary of the Navy
Lieutenant General David G. Bellon, Commander, U.S. Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Forces Reserve
Mrs. Susan "Sue" Bellon, Spouse of the Commander, U.S. Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Forces Reserve
Sergeant Major Carlos Ruiz, Sergeant Major, United States Marine Corps Reserve 
Lieutenant General Laster,U.S. Marine Corps (Retired),President & CEO of the Marine Toys for Tots Foundation

Speaking program:

Lieutenant General David Bellon, U.S. Marine Corps, Commander, Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Forces Reserve
First Lady Jill Biden
Samara Donahue, military child, daughter of Colonel Shane Donahue, U.S. Marine Corps, and Gulnaz Donahue
President Joe Biden

U.S. Marine Corps Reserve's Toys for Tots Program: 
The mission of the Marine Toys for Tots Foundation is to assist the U.S. Marine Corps in achieving its goal of delivering hope and happiness in the form of gifts to less fortunate children at Christmas, during disaster recovery, and other areas in need of emotional support. The U.S. Marine Corps Reserve Toys for Tots Program is an official activity of the U.S. Marine Corps and the Marine Corps' premier community action program. From 1947- 2021, U.S. Marines and volunteers distributed 627 million toys to over 281 million less fortunate children. Today, Toys for Tots is our Nation's flagship Christmas charitable cause with local Toys for Tots campaigns conducted from October through December each year in over 800 communities throughout the country.
About Joining Forces: 
First Lady Jill Biden reignited Joining Forces in April 2021, after its inception with former First Lady Michelle Obama in 2011. Joining Forces is First Lady Jill Biden's initiative to support military families, which includes: families of service members and veterans, caregivers and survivors. Joining Forces' work is driven by their experiences. Learn more here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/joiningforces/



December 12, 202212:35

Pool report 5 — arrival
After an uneventful drive through D.C. and Arlington, pool arrived at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall at 12:31.
The event is set for a gym on the base. The tots have gathered in front of the podium, with plenty of unwrapped toys surround them. Toys for Tots boxes are stacked throughout the gym.



December 12, 202212:36

Pool report 5a — who greeted the president
From the WH:
The President and the First Lady were greeted upon arrival at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, Arlington, Virginia by:
Secretary of the Navy Carlos Del ToroMrs. Betty Del Toro, Spouse of the Secretary of the NavyLieutenant General David Bellon, U.S. Marine Corps, Commander of Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Forces ReserveMrs. Sue Bellon, Spouse of Lieutenant General David BellonSergeant Major Carlos Ruiz, U.S. Marine Corps, Sergeant Major of Marine Forces South and Marine Forces ReserveLieutenant General James Laster, U.S. Marine Corps (Ret.), President and Chief Executive Officer of Marine Corps Toys for Tots Foundation



December 12, 202212:58

Pool report 6 — Toys for Tots event part 1
The event opened with Lt. Gen. David Bellon, commander of Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Corps Reserve, discussing how Toys for Tots had helped 281 million children over 75 years before introducing FLOTUS.
FLOTUS discussed her love for the book "How The Grinch Stole Christmas!," mentioning she dressed up as the Grinch for an event when she was Second Lady. She then invited up a child to read a few pages from the book.
She talked with the children about their life as military children, and asked them to guess how many Christmas Trees were at the White House. (The correct answer: 77.)
FLOTUS then introduced Samara Donahue, the daughter of Col. Shane Donahue, who plans to follow Biden as president of the United States. "She just needs to finish school first, and wait 25 years until she becomes eligible," Jill said.
Donahue introduced POTUS.
"When I was that age, I could hardly say my name public," Biden said, complimenting Samara.
"Jill and I know how much you sacrifice," Biden said to the gathered marines. "When our son Beau was deployed to Iraq, it was hard to look at the empty chair at our table every night during the holidays. And it was hard for our granddaughters when their dad wasn't there on Christmas morning."
"You have to be brave, even when your mommies and daddies are far away. They're so proud of you," Biden said to the children.
"Now let's get sorting these gifts," Biden said, shortly before a Marine band started playing "We Wish You A Merry Christmas."



December 12, 202213:09

Pool report 6a — toy sorting
President Biden, FLOTUS some of the gathered Marines and the children all sorted toys, with the president stopping frequently to chat with marines and children.
Pool was hustled out of the gym at 1:04 p.m.
The President and the First Lady sort toys with Department of Defense Senior Spouses.
AttendeesLieutenant General David Bellon, USMC, Commander, Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Forces ReserveMrs. Sue Bellon, Wife of Lieutenant General David BellonSamara Donahue, Daughter of Colonel Shane Donahue, U.S. Marine Corps, and Mrs. Gulnaz DonahueMrs. Hollyanne Milley, Spouse of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Mark A. MilleyMrs. Maria McConville, Spouse of the U.S. Army Chief of Staff General James C. McConvilleMrs. Donna Berger, Spouse of the Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps General David H. BergerMrs. Stacie Black, Spouse of the Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps Sergeant Major Troy E. BlackMrs. Jennifer Saltzman, Spouse of the Chief of Operations of the Space Force General B. Chance SaltzmanMs. Rachel Rush, Spouse of the Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force Chief Master Sergeant Roger A. TowbermanMrs. Kelly Hokanson, Spouse of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau General Daniel R. HokansonMrs. Sherry Poulin, Spouse of the Vice Commandant of the Coast Guard Admiral Steven D. PoulinMrs. Janet Colón, Air Force Veteran and spouse of the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Ramón Colón-LópezMrs. Evelyn Honea, Spouse of the Senior Enlisted Leader of the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Fleet Master Chief James Honea, U.S. Navy



December 12, 202213:23

Pool report 7 — rolling back/photo line
Pool has gathered back in vans and is heading back to the WH at 1:22 p.m.
More background from the WH:
Prior to the United States Marine Corps Reserve Toys for Tots event, the President and the First Lady participated in a photoline with:
Secretary of the Navy Carlos Del ToroMrs. Betty Del Toro, Spouse of the Secretary of the NavyLieutenant General David Bellon, U.S. Marine Corps, Commander of Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Forces ReserveMrs. Sue Bellon, Spouse of Lieutenant General David BellonSergeant Major Carlos Ruiz, U.S. Marine Corps, Sergeant Major of Marine Forces South and Marine Forces ReserveLieutenant General James Laster, U.S. Marine Corps (Ret.), President and Chief Executive Officer of Marine Corps Toys for Tots FoundationColonel Shane DonahueMr. Andrew Ryan, Deputy for Operations and Strategic Communications for the Office of Marine Forces ReserveMajor John Pomy, Materiel Coordination Officer for the Office of Marine Forces ReserveSecond Lieutenant Kara Paradowski, Action Officer for the Office of Marine Forces ReserveSecond Lieutenant Kara Kelly, Action Officer for the Office of Marine Forces ReserveStaff Sergeant Fay Stafford, Senior Enlisted Advisor / Admin Chief, Office of the Marine Forces ReserveStaff Sergeant James Kim, Operations Chief, Office of the Marine Forces ReserveSergeant Bryon Mesa, Operations Non-Commissioned Officer, Office of the Marine Forces ReserveCharles Fazzino, Artist and Designer of this year's Toys for Tots ArtSue Kelly, Spouse of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Mark A. Milley



December 12, 202213:39

Pool report 8 — back to WH
Pool arrived back at the WH at 1:34 p.m.



December 12, 202213:41

Pool report 8a — lunch lid
The WH has called a lunch lid. The briefing is at 3 p.m.



December 12, 202215:23

Pool report 9 - two-minute warning for briefing
There was a two-minute warning for the press briefing at 3:22 p.m.



December 12, 202216:32

Pool report 10 - briefing over
The briefing ended at 4:31 p.m.



December 12, 202216:41

Pool report 10a – lid
As of 4:36 p.m., we have a lid. Have a good evening, everyone.




  