
    Pool Reports by Sophia Cai, Axios 



Sent:
Reports:




December 9, 202214:13

SGOTUS Pool Report #1 - Legal Aid Roundtable background
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff is participating in the 2022 Legal Aid Interagency Roundtable with the following. It’s about to begin.
Attorney General Merrick Garland,
White House Counsel Stuart Delery
Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough
Some background on this DOJ initiative that started during the Obama years:
It’s an annual event convening the interagency to discuss access to civil legal aid — free counsel and legal advocacy for low-income folks on issues like housing, domestic abuse, foreclosure, etc. etc.
https://www.justice.gov/atj/legal-aid-interagency-roundtable



December 9, 202214:58

SGOTUS Pool Report #2 - Legal Aid Roundtable
1. Emhoff kicks off the program:
"I am helping along with this administration layer. And others, to make sure that everyone has access to the legal support that they need."
"…millions of folks are shut out of the civil court system because they just don't have the access to legal and when access to legal representation fails, Americans are left to navigate the complex and often confusing legal processes alone."
Emhoff also highlighted VP Harris record advocating for legal aid and access to justice in California and in the Senate
2. AG Garland:
Took victory lap for standing up the DOJ Office of Access to Justice
Then notes the theme for this year's round table and forthcoming report: access to justice through simplification
Provides example: DOJ Civil Rights Division redesigned ADA.gov after the division adopted a practice of using plain language for its public facing documents to help people understand their legal rights and obligations.
3. WH Deputy Counsel Stacey Grigsby (here in place of WH Counsel Delery)
4. Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta:
"Simplifying government forms and processes can really be the key to unlocking benefits and services especially when legal help isn't available.
Provided examples of simplification:
-"using plain language instead of jargon and legalese on websites, forms and other materials.
-"eliminating unnecessary requirements that make access to government services more onerous without any corresponding benefit.
-"streamlining processes"
Ping me if you want more details. Thanks




  