
    Member families hail from Story, Washington, Johnson and Clayton counties
ANKENY, Iowa — Expanding on recent growth in Iowa for the "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today additions to the pro-Paul families that value education choice.
Melinda Wadsley of Ames has chosen to homeschool her three children since day one — six years and counting.
"Ron Paul is the only candidate who is going to extend and protect my personal freedoms. I believe in Ron Paul and trust that he knows what is best for this country," said Ms. Wadsley.
Wellman-area home educator and father of three Aaron Fleming has been homeschooling for seven years now, and offered why he as a homeschooling dad supports Ron Paul.
"Ron Paul has always been focused on civil liberties and bringing control of education closer to home instead of leaving education in the hands of Washington bureaucrats. Whether you homeschool or not, I believe you can stand with Ron Paul's values of freedom, choice, and accountable education," said Mr. Fleming.
Dustin and Derricca Krutsinger of Coralville are proud parents of a five-year-old daughter and a 15-month-old son. Using organized curriculum, they've been teaching their daughter for two years and explained their thoughts about Dr. Paul's candidacy.
"We support Dr. Ron Paul for many reasons but the main reason is education freedom. While our children are very young, we have choices in educational pathways. As they get older, our government places more and more restrictions on our options, and so we trust Ron Paul to limit government and expand freedom in our private lives, including the freedom to choose how to best educate our children," wrote the couple.
Chelsy Askren of Garnavillo, homeschooled by her parents, shared her thoughts on the 12-term Congressman from Texas's record.
"Ron Paul has long been a strong supporter of homeschooling. That's why while in Congress, he has introduced legislation to make diplomas earned through home education equal and provide parents a tax credit to help offset costs," said Ms. Askren.
"When protecting life and healthcare choice, Ron Paul does not pick and choose when he will defend the Constitution — he defends it across the board, and as president there would be no greater friend to the homeschooling community or our Constitution than Dr. Paul," added Ms. Askren.
As a first basic step, those interested in joining the "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page by clicking here. If residing in the Hawkeye State, they may send an email inquiry to Meghann Walker, Director of Iowa Voter Outreach for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign, atmeghannw@ronpaul2012.com.
For more information on Ron Paul's stance on education freedom, click here.
  