
    Pool Reports by Lissandra Villa de Petrzelka, The Boston Globe 



Sent:
Reports:




December 2, 202209:00

In-town pool report #1: checking in
Hi everyone,
This is Lissa with The Boston Globe, I'm your in-town pooler for the day.
Passing along this updated guidance from the White House:
"This morning President will deliver remarks and sign H.J.Res.100, providing a resolution to avert a nationwide rail shutdown. This event in the Roosevelt Room will be cover by the in-house pool.
Updated Call Time: 9:30 AM
Roosevelt Room Preset: 9:30 AM (Brady Briefing Room Doors)
Final Gather: 10:05 AM (Brady Briefing Room Doors)"



December 2, 202210:16

In-town pool report #2: New gathering time for Roosevelt Room event
Hi all, per the White House, POTUS remarks have been pushed back. New gathering time is ~10:30 a.m.
"Please check your email for updates and listen for overhead announcements."



December 2, 202210:43

In-town pool report #3: Gathering now
In press room to head over



December 2, 202210:53

In-town pool report #4: Cabinet members joining POTUS
POTUS will be joined by Secretaries Walsh, Buttigieg, and Vilsack. Just got two minute warning at 10:52a.m. EST.



December 2, 202211:04

In-town pool report #5: Roosevelt Room color
The president walked into the Roosevelt Room at 10:53 a.m. and started speaking immediately.
He praised his team for moving on this legislation so quickly. "We have spared the country a catastrophe."
"I know this was a tough vote for members of both parties, it was tough for me." But said it was the right thing to do in the moment.
During his remarks, the secretaries stood to the side
He signed H.J. Res. 100 at 10:58 a.m. EST. flanked by the others in the room. Placed the signing pen exactly in the center of the holder.
Asked why he's not going to Georgia, he said he is helping Warnock by going up to Boston to do a fundraiser for him there.
Asked how soon should rail workers expect paid sick leave, Biden said "as soon as I can convince Republicans to see the light."
He left the room at 10:59 a.m.



December 2, 202211:34

In-town pool report #6: Also in the room
FYI: Also there for the Roosevelt Room signing, standing with the secretaries during POTUS's remarks were Brian Deese and Celeste Drake.



December 2, 202212:42

In-town pool report #7: White House departure
Motorcade rolling for JBA at 12:41 p.m. EST.
Per White House:
"Traveling via motorcade with the President en route Joint Base Andrews:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director"



December 2, 202213:14

In-town pool report #8: JBA
Motorcade came to a stop at JBA at 1:03 p.m. EST after an uneventful ride. Beautiful, chilly weather in DC and tourists lined up on sidewalks to record the motorcade.
POTUS stepped onto AF1 at 1:04 p.m. AF1 was wheels up at 1:13 p.m. EST. Will let out-of-town pool take it from here.




 
Pool Reports below by Courtney Subramanian, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




December 2, 202212:28

Travel pool report #1 - Checking in
Hello from Joint-Base Andrews, where it's a sunny but cold 47 degrees.
I'll be your print pooler for the president's trip to Boston today. Pool has been swept and we're awaiting POTUS' arrival.
Please feel free to reach out with any questions. Here's today's schedule:
12:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Joint Base AndrewsNorth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool (Gather 12:05 PM – Stakeout Location) 
12:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Boston, MassachusettsJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool 
2:15 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Boston, Massachusetts Boston Logan International Airport, Boston, MassachusettsOpen Press
2:50 PM THE PRESIDENT greets His Royal Highness The Prince of WalesJohn F. Kennedy Library and Museum, Boston, MassachusettsOut-of-Town Pool
4:10 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in an International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) phone bankInternational Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 103, Boston, MassachusettsPooled for TV and Open for Editorials
5:45 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a reception for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign CommitteeRestricted Out-of-Town PoolBoston, Massachusetts
6:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Boston, Massachusetts en route Joint Base Andrews Boston Logan International Airport, Boston, MassachusettsOpen Press
8:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base Andrews Joint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
8:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Camp David Joint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool



December 2, 202213:13

Travel pool report #2 - Wheels up for Boston
The motorcade arrived at 1:02pm ET and POTUS stepped out at 1:03pm ET. He was wearing a Team USA soccer scarf and clutching a red file folder. He briefly spoke to his greeter, Colonel Carlos Alford, 89th Wing Airlift Commander, but did not stop to speak to press before he boarded AF1 at 1:04pm.
We are wheels up for Logan International Airport at 1:11pm ET.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Boston, Massachusetts:Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol for the United StatesCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



December 2, 202214:39

Travel pool report #3 - Boston arrival
AF1 was wheels down at 2:16pm ET.
Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled for about 15 minutes before landing. You can find a recording of that at Whitehouse.gov/live
She said POTUS looked forward to meeting Prince William and discussing shared climate goals and mental health.
On the week ahead she said POTUS and the First Lady will return to DC from Camp David on Sunday to hose the Kennedy Center honorees in the East Room, including George Clooney, Amy Grant, Gladys Knight and U2. They will later attend the 45th Annual Kennedy Center Honors.
On Monday Biden will host the Congressional Ball and Tuesday he'll travel to Phoenix.
POTUS deplaned at 2:24pm and spoke to his greeters (listed below) for several minutes before he climbed into the Beast at 2:29pm ET. He is no longer wearing the Team USA scarf. At one point Sen. Markey gestured to the press and the group turned and faced reporters, but POTUS did not respond to a shouted question.
We're rolling at 2:31pm ET.
Per WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Boston Logan International Airport
Senator Ed Markey (MA)Mayor Michelle Wu (MA)Lisa Wieland, CEO of Massport



December 2, 202214:58

Travel pool report #4 - JFK library arrival
Pool arrived at the John F Kennedy Library and Museum at 2:50pm after an uneventful ride save for a few scattered groups of onlookers on UMass Boston's campus.
Upon arrival, pool heard protesters chanting in the distance, but we couldn't make out what they were saying beyond the president's name. Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS before we were ushered down steps to the back of the building.
We're positioned outside the library, overlooking the water, and waiting for POTUS and Prince William's arrival.



December 2, 202215:14

Travel pool report #5 - greeting with Prince William
POTUS arrived first at 3:02pm and walked over to the edge of the pavilion with the city and water behind him. Asked where his scarf went, POTUS said he left it on the plane. He told reporters he thought the State Dinner went well.
Prince William descended the steps to the pavilion shortly after and marveled at the backdrop.
"What a spectacular view," William told Biden as he greeted him.
The two shook hands and stood and spoke for a few minutes before walking along the edge of the pavilion toward the building entrance at 3:05pm.
Pool was ushered back to the vans and is holding.



December 2, 202215:39

Travel pool report 6 - Rolling for IBEW
Please check against audio but one correction from the last report: William said, "what a spectacular setting," upon his arrival (not "view").
Pool is rolling at 3:37pm ET for the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 103, where POTUS will phone bank for the Warnock campaign.



December 2, 202215:57

Travel pool report #7 - IBEW arrival
The motorcade arrived at Local IBEW 103 at 3:33pm.
Pool saw more crowds of onlookers filming the motorcade as we passed through the UMass campus. Also spotted: wild turkeys crossing the street.
Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS before we were escorted inside through a hallway where dozens of pizza boxes were displayed on tables alongside the left wall.
Pool entered a hall where about 80-100 IBEW volunteers were making phone calls at long rows of tables, some in the shape of a U. "Labor for Warnock" signs lined two walls in the room.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren warmed up the crowd by reflecting on her own election, attributing her win to support from labor. She said she spoke to Warnock earlier this week and told him "Labor is going to be making calls for you in Georgia, and Raphael said, 'we're going to get it done.'"
We're waiting on POTUS, who Warren said was posing for photos backstage.



December 2, 202216:43

Travel pool report #8- IBEW phone banking
The President will participate in an International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) phone bank.
Attendees
Massachusetts members from the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW)
Speaking Program
Lou Antonellis, Business Manager of IBEW Local 103
The President
**please check against audio**
POTUS entered at 4:02 pm to cheers and a standing ovation. "We love you Joe!" One volunteer shouted.
Antonellis spoke first, praising Biden for having the back of working Americans.
He then gave a shoutout to Sec. Marty Walsh: "Let's not forget, theres a guy that grew up two blocks from here that serves in a Cabinet position," he said with a perfect Boston accent.
Biden took the mic at 4:05pm and said he wouldn't be president without the IBEW.
He gestured to Warren and Markey and said they believed in the middle class. "I'm tired of trickle down economics," he said to applause.
"This race in George is really, really critical," Biden said.
On the 50-50 split in the Senate, POTUS says "that means you got 50 presidents -- anyone could decide to change the direction of the country."
"And we're diverse party... but we still have all stuck together on a major, major issues. And one of the things that we need -- we need that 51st vote."
He reflected on his wife and daughter's death when he first was elected to the Senate, saying the late Sen. Ted Kennedy - his mentor - came to his rescue. And in trying to connect it back to Georgia, he said Warnock is the same type of guy.
"And you know, this is not this is not a referendum," Biden said. "This is a choice. A choice between two men."
"One doesn't deserve to be in the United States Senate based on his veracity and what he said and what he hadn't said," Biden said. "The other man is really truly decent, honorable guy.
Said he's been told turnout for early voting looks really good for Democrats.
POTUS finished after 4:24pm and briefly turned to Warren and offered her the mic (she shook her head "no").
Pool was briefly ushered out to the vans and then told to come back in as POTUS began making calls. Pool did not see POTUS make a call but was told he made two calls.
We returned to the vans and were still holding.



December 2, 202216:54

Travel pool report #9 - rolling for fundraiser
At 4:52pm ET.



December 2, 202218:25

Travel pool report #10 - DSCC event arrival
The motorcade arrived at 5:06pm ET in the Beacon Hill neighborhood. Uneventful ride and pool did not see POTUS exit the Beast.
The president is attending a reception for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee at the home of Jim and Cathy Stone.
Pool was escorted down a closed residential street lined with brick buildings and held outside as POTUS participated in a photo line. Some people peered out the windows overlooking the street, filming the running presidential vehicle parked outside the residence.
We were eventually led inside through a back staircase and into a large library with exposed brick and two crystal chandeliers. Pool overheard someone say there's an original Picasso in the next room.
Jim Stone first introduced Sen. Warren, who again warmed up the crowd by touting Biden's record. She reminded the crowd that a month ago, Democrats were told to prepare for a "red wave."
"And well it turned out the voters actually had very different view of what was happening in America," she said.
She said Republicans want to undo everything Dems have accomplished and guests are there tonight because they need "one more fighter" in the Senate: Raphael Warnock.
Biden started speaking at 5:41pm
I'd do a lot better if I had her introduce me everywhere I go, Biden quips.
On why guests are there, Biden says 51 means that there no longer 50 presidents. "Everyone is a president."
"We're all good people. Joe Manchin is a good man. He really is. But he has a different view," Biden says, and he represents a different constituency.
Biden says he knows he was "criticized very harshly" for his Independence Hall speech in which he said democracy was under siege.
Says "we need a little bit of insurance, maybe a little bit of insurance for not only the things we've done, but so much more," he says, referring to the Georgia run-off.
"Elections are the choice."
"This Republican Party today is the most devoid Of any serious ideas that I've ever dealt with."
POTUS says they need Raphael Warnock so they're not "hanging on a thread" on every single vote. He notes they've lost control of the House by a "handful of votes."
Says inflation is still a "legitimate concern."
He said when Republican leadership came to visit him earlier this week, they told him all of the things they planned on doing in the new Congress. Biden said he then held up a pen and scratched his head with it. When they asked what he was doing, he paused and held the pen up and said: "veto."
He said a veto pen can stop bad things from happening but can't start or generate things, which is why electing Warnock is important.
Biden closes by reiterating his message he thinks the country is at an "inflection point."
"Imagine four years of the last guy coming up," he said, appearing to refer to Trump.
He again said "I know I got criticized for talking about the demise of democracy but it matters."
Biden said if they continue these next two years and "nail down what we started, we're going to be in a position for the next 10 to 20 years where America's going to be in pretty good shape."
POTUS finished speaking at 6:06pm and pool was ushered out and back to the press vans.
We're holding outside the residence.
Per the WH:
Participating in a photoline with the President at a reception for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee:
Senator Ed Markey (MA)Senator Elizabeth Warren (MA)Rep. Peter Welch (VT-At Large)
Speaking Program
Jim and Cathy StoneSenator Elizabeth Warren (MA)The PresidentSenator Ed Markey (MA)



December 2, 202218:56

Travel pool report #11 - rolling for the airport
Rolling for the airport at 6:54pm.



December 2, 202219:15

Travel pool report #12 - Departure
The motorcade arrived at Logan International at 7:04pm ET.
Lots of people piled into the street to watch as we weaved through the Beacon Hill neighborhood. One woman getting her hair cut came outside of the salon to see the presidential motorcade.
Pool did not see POTUS exit the motorcade but saw him board at 7:06pm. He turned and waved before he boarded.
We're headed back to JBA, where POTUS will lift for Camp David for the weekend.
We're taxiing at 7:12pm.
Per WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



December 2, 202220:38

Travel pool report #13- JBA arrival
AF1 was wheels down at 8:21pm ET.
Pool had no visitors to the back of the plane.
POTUS deplaned at 8:30 pm ET and he did not stop to talk to press.
Marine One lifted for Camp David at 8:36pm.
Per WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Carlos Alford, 89th Wing Airlift Commander
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Camp David:Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary



December 2, 202220:47

Travel pool report #14 - travel/photo lid
At 8:42pm.
Have a great weekend.



December 2, 202221:23

Travel pool report #15 -Camp David arrival
One post-lid note, per WH:
The President was wheels down at Camp David at 9:14 PM.




  