
    Gov. Huckabee Claims Foreign Policy Advisers Who Aren't Advising Him
The No Laughing Matter!: A serious look at Gov. Mike Huckabee's record and policy beyond the one-liners. As in:
- Gov. Mike Huckabee: "And the ultimate thing is, I may not be the expert that some people are on foreign policy, but I did stay in a Holiday Inn Express last night." ("Imus In The Morning," 12/4/07)
- National Review: "The Holiday Inn Express Candidate." "In sum, conservatives should have worries about the depth and soundness of Mike Huckabee's foreign-policy views. And staying at a Holiday Inn Express is not going to be enough to allay them." (Editorial, "The Holiday Inn Express Candidate, National Review, 12/10/07)

Confronted With Misstatements On Foreign Policy, Gov. Huckabee Insists He Is Authentic And Honest:
Gov. Huckabee Says That People Are Looking For "Authenticity" And "Honesty." NBC's LESTER HOLT: "But can you afford those kind of misstatements when the spotlight is on you and people are looking for credible foreign policy credentials?" GOV. MIKE HUCKABEE: "What they're looking for is authenticity, they're looking for honesty." (NBC's "Today," 12/29/07; www.msnbc.msn.com/)
Yet, Gov. Huckabee Continues To Insist He Is Being Advised By Former Ambassador John Bolton:
On Thursday, Gov. Huckabee Said That Ambassador John Bolton Had Agreed To Help Him Formulate Foreign Policy. "At a Thursday evening news conference, Huckabee said, 'I've corresponded with John Bolton, who's agreed to work with us on developing foreign policy.'" (Lisa Lerer, "Huckabee's Foreign Affairs Lapses," The Politico, 12/29/07)
On Friday Morning, Gov. Huckabee Said That He Had Spoken With Amb. Bolton About Foreign Policy. "On Friday morning, Huckabee listed former U.N. Ambassador John Bolton as someone with whom he either has 'spoken or will continue to speak.'" (Lisa Lerer, "Huckabee's Foreign Affairs Lapses," The Politico, 12/29/07)
By Friday Evening, Amb. Bolton Had Said He Hadn't Spoken With Huckabee, Nor Agreed To Be His Adviser. "Bolton, however, has a different view. 'I'd be happy to speak with Huckabee, but I haven't spoken with him yet,' said Bolton, now a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank in Washington. "'I'm not an official or unofficial adviser to anyone,' said Bolton, who mentioned he'd had conversations with other Republican candidates but declined to name any names." (Lisa Lerer, "Huckabee's Foreign Affairs Lapses," The Politico, 12/29/07)
On Saturday Afternoon, Gov. Huckabee Was Still Claiming That Amb. Bolton Had Agreed To Be His Adviser. REPORTER: Governor, you mentioned John Bolton as someone who is helping you to shape your foreign policy proposals. He says he hasn't had communications or conversations with you. And he wasn't the only person who you mentioned in your list of people you have talked to, to get advice from, who have said they haven't spoken to you. Can you clear that up? GOV. MIKE HUCKABEE: "Well, I had an e-mail exchange with John Bolton, and he has agreed to be a part of the group. He has not endorsed me. he has not indicated he would be supporting my candidacy, but he is one of many people who would be willing to have conversations. And we did have that e-mail exchange." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Press Conference, 12/29/07; www.youtube.com/watch?v=R8A6KCXwgv8)
Gov. Huckabee Also Wrongly Claimed That Former National Security Adviser Richard Allen Advised Him:
"Huckabee Said He Had Also Spoken With... Former National Security Adviser Richard Allen." "Huckabee said he had also spoken with former State Department official Richard Haass (now president of the Council on Foreign Relations); military analyst Ken Allard; former national security adviser Richard Allen; former House Speaker Newt Gingrich; Frank Gaffney, founder of the Center for Security Policy, a conservative think tank; and a 'number of military personnel.'" (Lisa Lerer, "Huckabee's Foreign Affairs Lapses," The Politico, 12/29/07)
Yet, Allen Also Says He Has Not Spoken With Gov. Huckabee. "Reached via e-mail, Allen said an intermediary asked him to speak with Huckabee, but he hadn't yet agreed. 'I'm gradually getting older, but am fully capable of recalling with whom I have spoken,' said the former Nixon and Reagan foreign policy campaign adviser." (Lisa Lerer, "Huckabee's Foreign Affairs Lapses," The Politico, 12/29/07)
  