
    Mr. Prime Minister, or Mr. President as you may be called, President Pompidou, all of the distinguished guests here this evening:
As the one who has the privilege of offering the last toast of the evening, I first say my respects to those that have preceded me.
As we sit around this table, I am sure that all of us are aware of the fact that perhaps never before in the history of our nations, or the history of the world, have the President of France, the President of the United States, and the Prime Minister of Portugal been so honored at a dinner of this type, and I join President Pompidou in expressing our very warm appreciation to our host for giving us such a generous welcome on Portuguese soil.
President Pompidou and the Prime Minister have both spoken eloquently of the historical backgrounds of our various countries. I come from what is usually described as the New World, but it has just occurred to me how much that New World, the American hemisphere, owes to the Old World, and particularly to the two countries represented at this table from that Old World.
For example, last week I met in Washington the President of the largest country in South America and the Prime Minister of the largest country in North America. The President of Brazil spoke Portuguese, and his great country represents the enormous contribution that was made by the Portuguese settlers in that part of the world.
The Prime Minister of Canada spoke English, but he came from the French part of Canada, and his presence and what he spoke of indicated the enormous contribution that France has made not only to Canada but to the United States and all the New World.
We, of course, in the United States owe so much to France from the time that we became a nation during our Revolution-and speaking as a native of the State of California, I am aware of the fact that my State was first discovered by a Portuguese captain, Cabrillo.
So what the New World is and what it may become is due to the ability, the exploration, the genius that we have inherited from the Old World, and particularly from these nations that are represented here tonight.
Now, as we meet, we find that sometimes we are competitors, we in the New World and those in the Old World, in Europe particularly.
When I arrived at the airport on the Spirit of '76, a Boeing 707, I saw parked in front of me a Concorde which had carried the President of France.1 Our Ambassador to France, Mr. Watson, pointed out that he had come from France at a speed three times as fast as we had come from the United States. I do not speak in envy; I only wish we had made the plane ourselves.
We do live in a time, a fortunate time, when the competition between our great countries is competition which builds progress for all of our people that can be shared in a peaceful way. It is inevitable that there will be problems arising in trade and monetary affairs, in all those areas where advanced societies may compete. But where those problems can be settled peacefully, as they always will between our countries, it can only mean that the whole world benefits from the competition that each gives to others.
A nation or a people that lives as an island unto themselves inevitably will fall behind the rest of the world. There are some voices in our country who speak of turning inward, of turning away from responsibilities in the world. But those are not the voices that will make the future of America. The future of America will be made by a people who will welcome the opportunity to compete with other nations in the world, and to play our role, bear our fair share of the burdens which are involved in world leadership.
I have spoken of what the New World owes to the Old World, and particularly what the Americans owe to Portugal and to France. What can the New World do, and particularly what can America do to repay that debt?
We can be responsible partners in the world community. And in this Christmas season, with these Christmas flowers, and on this island with the Christmas name, Jesus Christ, we can think of a world which we hope will be a peaceful world. France, Portugal, the United States may have some differences in trade, in other areas, but we are totally united in our devotion to peace and in building a world in which all nations may enjoy the blessings of peace.
It is my sincere hope, as the President of France and the President of the United States meet here as guests of the Prime Minister of Portugal, on Portuguese soil, that our meetings will not only contribute to the solution of our temporary economic differences, but that in the great tradition of our two countries, our meetings will contribute to the cause of peace and freedom in the world. There would be no better Christmas present for the world than to have a meeting such as this, between the heads of state and heads of government of two great nations, make progress toward the goal of a more peaceful world.
It is in that spirit, in the true spirit of Christmas, that I offer a toast to the Prime Minister of Portugal, to the President of Portugal, and to the President of the French Republic.
  