
    Reforming our outdated, complex, and overly burdensome tax code and cutting taxes for hardworking families has the critical support of State and local officials across the country. As Congress works to have a bill on President Donald J. Trump's desk before the end of the year, a majority of governors have indicated their support for tax reform and 21 governors recently signed a letter to congressional leadership supporting the effort. The governors urge the two chambers to swiftly pass meaningful tax reform legislation, writing, "We've proven in our states that you can cut taxes, create jobs, and generate budget surpluses all at the same time. If it can work in our states, it can work for America."
GOVERNORS
Governor Doug Ducey (R, AZ): "Make no mistake, special interests will fight like crazy to keep their loopholes and special treatment. But government shouldn't be in the business of picking winners and losers. We need to set a rate for businesses that's fair, close the loopholes and make our tax code simpler and more equitable for everyone."
Governor Paul LePage (R, ME): "From his long and successful career in business, President Trump knows firsthand that a burdensome tax code doesn't create jobs, it kills them. When he outlined his vision for tax reform last week, I was pleased to see it will help Maine families keep more of their hard-earned paychecks."
Governor Chris Sununu (R, NH): "America's business tax rates are probably the most self-destructive feature of the current system. By reducing the highest business tax rate in the developed world, something that we have shown, right here in New Hampshire, is a huge boost to competitiveness that creates new jobs and higher wages. And finally repealing the death tax is long overdue."
Governor Kim Reynolds (R, IA): "Iowa families are burdened with high income taxes that lower their take-home pay and business tax rates that limit economic opportunities and wage increases. Because up to 75 percent of the burden of business tax rates falls on workers, paychecks are smaller and raises are all too rare. When working families should be dedicating money to savings, college and retirement accounts, they're sending too much out of their hard-earned paychecks to Washington, D.C., instead."
Governor Rick Snyder (R, MI): "It has been more than 30 years since Washington, D.C. passed major tax reform. Since then, the tax code has become a 74,000-page Goliath puzzling American families and businesses. We need reform now to ensure Americans receive much-needed tax relief, provide a boost to our nation's economic growth and allow millions of workers to keep more of their hard-earned money."
Governor Phil Bryant (R, MS): "With a level playing field, American businesses and workers will once again dominate a global economy. I am grateful the president and the Republican congressional leadership are committed to making that happen. The framework deserves to become legislation and should pass Congress. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that we cannot afford to miss."
Governor Henry McMaster (R, SC): "For too long, our tax code has been overcomplicated and uncompetitive, placing an outsized burden on business while perplexing the average American. This is a rare opportunity to fix a broken system, putting money back in taxpayers' pockets and encouraging more companies to invest, expand, hire and profit. It's a win for South Carolina."
Governor Jim Justice (R, WV): "President Trump is continuing to keep his promise to Americans to help grow our country by providing our average families with significant tax relief."
Governor Matt Bevin (R, KY): "Recently, our national economy has been rebounding following a long period of tepid recovery. That makes this the perfect time to tackle federal tax reform and I applaud President Trump for his leadership on this issue."
Governor Asa Hutchinson (R, AR): "Washington's system of taxation takes too much money, is too complicated and hampers economic growth. The result is a system that places too heavy a burden on our businesses and citizens. It places our country at a disadvantage in an increasingly competitive and mobile world."
Governor Eric Greitens (R, MO): "For too long, our tax system has been complex, corrupt, and high. We need a system that is simple, fair, and low. In Missouri, we're trying to do our part at the state level—but the biggest changes that small business owners need begin at the federal level. The President understands this. We were pleased that he chose Springfield, Missouri, to announce his effort on tax reform. And we were glad to host him in St. Charles, Missouri, on Wednesday, where he again sent a message to Congress to get tax reform legislation done and delivered."
Governor Gary Herbert (R, UT): "If we want businesses to come to the United States and stay, we have to create the right conditions. I commend Congressional leaders for their efforts to lower the U.S. corporate tax rate and move to a system that will encourage companies to bring their profits to the United States and invest in the American economy. Our corporate rate—highest in the industrialized world—and our treatment of overseas earnings are glaring exceptions to an otherwise business friendly environment. Lower taxes and a simpler tax code means faster economic growth, more jobs, and higher wages. There are still important differences to be ironed out, but it's refreshing to see Washington tackling something difficult but necessary. Let's hope it's the beginning of a new trend."
Governor Matthew Mead (R, WY): "Eliminating onerous restrictions and regulations would allow businesses to afford to pay employees higher wages and reinvest in their own growth."
Governor Mary Fallin (R, OK): "Our nation's tax code, on the other hand, is outdated and in desperate need of reform. Due to incomprehensible regulations and untold pages of forms and instructions, nearly 90% of taxpayers need external help to simply pay their taxes."
Governor Susana Martinez (R, NM): "New Mexicans deserve a tax system that puts their household budget ahead of more government bureaucracy. Real tax reform on the federal and state levels is long overdue and it is now time we put our communities and businesses first."
Governor Greg Abbott (R, TX): "Listen, the fact of the matter is that it has been far too long since we've had tax reform in the United States of America. This is a meaningful step toward the kind of tax reform that the United States needs. I think it is important especially at the corporate level so that internationally we will be more competitive. ... We will be advancing the United States of America economically if this tax plan passes and so I hope it does."
Governor Rick Scott (R, FL): "My budget cuts $180 million in taxes to build on our success of cutting taxes 75 times saving Floridians more than $7.5 billion. DC needs to follow our lead and get tax reform done now."
Governor Pete Ricketts (R, NE): "I applaud the President and congressional leadership for making tax reform a top priority this year . . . . Providing relief will put more money back into the pockets of hardworking families and unleash economic growth in communities across our nation."
Governor Bill Walker (I, AK): The House and Senate conference committee on tax legislation has a singular opportunity to open one of the most prospective onshore areas in the world to safe oil and gas exploration and development – limited to 1/750th of the Coastal Plain or 1002 Area, which itself is just eight percent of ANWR – right here in the United States, on the North Slope of Alaska. It is critical that Congress act and get this legislation over the finish line to put the national resources of the Coastal Plain to use for the good of the country. Alaska's economy needs this boost, and our nation needs a strong Alaska.
Governor Doug Burgum (R, ND): "North Dakota leaders have worked hard over the past 25 years to reduce individual and corporate income tax rates, pass sensible regulations and foster a business-friendly environment that stimulates investment and job creation, and we appreciate President Trump recognizing those continuing efforts . . . . We share the president's goals for tax reform: simplify the tax code, lower rates to ease the burden on middle-class families and set corporate tax rates at levels that allow U.S. businesses to better compete in the global economy, bringing back jobs and wealth from overseas. And we urge Congress to work with the administration to achieve meaningful tax reform that encourages economic growth and saves taxpayers time and money."
Governor Dennis Daugaard (R, SD): "I thank @SenJohnThune, @SenatorRounds and @RepKristiNoem for their support of tax reform. They understand that responsible reform can jumpstart our economy."
Governor Scott Walker (R, WI): "Our nation's tax code, on the other hand, is outdated and in desperate need of reform. Due to the incomprehensible regulations and untold pages of forms and instructions, nearly 90 percent of taxpayers need external help to simply comply with paying their taxes. Across the country, this time and energy spent adds up to some 6 billion hours and $15-16 billion in tax compliance costs, according to the Internal Revenue Service and the National Federation of Independent Business."
Governor Kay Ivey (R, AL): "President Trump is proposing the largest tax cut for American families and businesses in decades . . . . The current tax structure is oppressive to families and businesses alike, and it simply sets us up for failure in today's global economy. We've proven in Alabama, with the lowest unemployment rate in history, lower taxes and less government regulation produces jobs – it's time Washington joins us in our efforts."
Governor Eric Holcomb (R, IL): "We must simplify, close loopholes, institute fairness and lower overall rates—especially for small business."
Governor Brian Sandoval (R, NV): "Reforming the nation's tax code is an incredibly complex task that is long overdue. I applaud the President for making this a priority in this Congress, and I appreciate Congress' attention as they reform our tax code with a focus on fairness, competitiveness and economic growth. I continue to appreciate the leadership of Senator Heller and our entire Congressional delegation; their willingness to work with the state will help ensure the final legislative product will be one that will help Nevada grow, put more Nevadans to work, and allow Nevadans to keep more of their hard-earned money."
LT. GOVERNORS
Lt. Governor Casey Cagle (R, GA): "To reach our nation's potential we need a tax system that empowers entrepreneurs and businesses to invest in our workforce. Our leaders have an opportunity to set us on a path of economic growth, job creation, and prosperity to enable more of our families to climb up the economic ladder. I applaud the leadership of President Trump and our state's congressional delegation for their support of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, delivering hardworking Georgians the tax relief they deserve. Americans have waited 31 years for meaningful tax reform, and the stakes have never been greater."
Lt. Governor Rebecca Kleefisch (R, WI): "I am grateful that President Donald Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan are finally tackling reform of our broken federal tax code. They're working right now on an ambitious plan to make the federal tax code simpler, flatter and fairer."
Lt. Governor Mary Taylor (R, OH): "The President is proposing the biggest tax cut to small and midsize businesses in 80 years, and as we have seen in Ohio, this will jumpstart the nation's economy. The Council of Economic Advisors has estimated that the average American household income could increase between $4,000 and $9,000 a year in wages and salary alone from this proposal."
Lt. Governor Brian Calley (R, MI): "The reform plan President Trump unveiled last month will be a game changer for all Americans. We know its principles are sound because of our experience here in Michigan. A simple, fair and efficient tax code will go a long way for everyone."
Lt. Governor Mike Foley (R, NE): "President Trump is following through on his commitment to help grow America's middle class with federal tax reform."
Lt. Governor Mike Parson (R, MO): "The President of the United States is offering a tax plan that would greatly benefit Missouri families . . . . The President's plan would reduce taxes and allow families to keep more of their hard-earned money. It would also allow the next generation of Missouri workers to invest in themselves, afford a quality education, and get a good job here in our state."
Lt. Governor Tim Griffin (R, AR): "Individuals and families know how to spend the fruits of their labor and provide for their families better than bureaucrats a thousand miles away. Tax reform will allow Arkansans to save for the future, pay off credit-card debt, or simply make ends meet."
STATEWIDE OFFICALS
Bill Schuette, Attorney General (R, MI): "The last president to reform America's tax code was Ronald Reagan. During his time in office, America added 15.9 million jobs, an increase in the nation's workforce of more than 17 percent. Now more than ever, our economy needs a booster shot. President Trump's tax reform is just what the doctor ordered to simplify the code, create more jobs and spur greater growth in our economy."
Josh Hawley, Attorney General (R, MO): "President Trump has a bold plan to change course and give working Missourians a chance to move ahead. His plan honors real work and prioritizes the taxpayers instead of the tax takers."
John McMillan, State Agricultural Commissioner (R, AL): "Farmers in Alabama and across the nation face natural disasters, significant price fluctuations in the market, increased regulations and many other challenges. Without comprehensive tax reform, the American farmer may eventually be taxed out of business or at least taxed where he or she can no longer pass the farm on to the next generation. The elimination of the estate tax is just one of the revisions in the Tax Reform plan that provide farmers hope."
Jeff Witte, State Agricultural Director (NM): "The farm and ranch property often has to be split and sold to satisfy estate taxes upon the death of a family member. This predicament leads to the next generation having to take family assets to satisfy the tax in order to preserve the enterprise as a whole, leaving these individuals in a position in which they cannot succeed financially, eventually losing the family business."
Mike Strain, State Agricultural Commissioner (R, LA): "A lowering and restricting of tax rates will put more money in the pockets of our citizens and will ultimately allow farmers and other business owners to have more money to invest and help grow the economy. Lower tax rates for consumers will also increase their purchasing power for better nutrition for all American families."
Dave Yost, State Auditor (R, OH): "Tax reform would be good for the economy, and it will be good for Ohio families. The President's plan will double the standard deduction so that more income is taxed at zero percent. It will increase and expand the Child Tax Credit to help more middle-class families and -- finally! -- eliminate the marriage penalty."
Ron Knecht, Controller (R, NV): "The special interests that benefit from exemptions, deductions and credits available only to some parties are few in number, but each member of the group has a large stake in keeping these provisions."
John Dougall, State Auditor (R, UT): "As the Republican Congress and President Trump take up the daunting issue of tax reform, we encourage our federal colleagues to follow Utah's lead and create a system that is simple, equitable, and stable for American taxpayers."
Walker Stapleton, State Treasurer (R, CO): "I applaud and support the efforts of federal lawmakers and President Trump to simplify our nation's tax code and jump-start our economy. As Treasurer, I know Colorado families and small businesses will benefit from a tax plan that is simpler and our economy will thrive with a lower corporate rate. It will bring jobs and investment back to America and make us more competitive in a global economy . . . . This is a once in a generation opportunity to fundamentally change the structure of our complicated and burdensome tax code. I support the efforts of Congress and the President to get it done."
SPEAKERS OF THE HOUSE
House Speaker Mike Turzai (R, PA): "It's the number one policy initiative . . . and nothing will help families and employees and jobs more."
House Speaker Richard Corcoran (R, FL): "Nationally, it's clear that we need broad tax reform, and I'll gladly support any effort to simplify the tax code and cut rates. Luckily for the nation, the conservative spirit that drove Florida's success is alive and well in the tax framework that Trump laid out."
House Speaker Brian Bosma (R, IN): "With one of the top business climates in the nation, Indiana's economic environment stands in stark contrast to the dysfunction of federal tax policy and job-killing regulations."
House Speaker Tim Moore (R, NC): "Tax relief is about protecting hard-earned paychecks and empowering all families in the workforce to succeed together in the entrepreneurial spirit of the United States. It's about helping everyday people provide themselves a higher quality of life and build opportunities without an excessive burden on their bottom line. Again, for Congress and President Trump to realize the full potential of the American economy, North Carolina is the bellwether state when it comes to tax reform."
House Speaker Tim Armstead (R, WV): "President Trump's plan would provide significant tax relief to the backbone of West Virginia's economy – our small businesses. Perhaps no segment of West Virginia's economy has had to weather the economic storm more than our small and family-owned businesses. The President recognizes the challenges our small businesses must meet and has proposed to cap the maximum tax rate these businesses must pay. This step will provide a much-needed boost to these struggling small businesses who mean so much to our neighborhoods across West Virginia."



  