
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The passage between childhood and adulthood constitutes one of the most eventful stages of our life's journey. The teen years are as challenging as they are exciting, and at a time when young Americans are facing more serious pressures than ever before--from substance abuse and violence to sexual promiscuity and dropping out of school--it is fitting that we set aside this day to reaffirm the unique, God-given potential of every teenager.
Today millions of American teenagers are setting examples for others by demonstrating love and respect for their parents, by meeting their responsibilities at home and in school, by participating in their places of worship, and by showing consideration and concern for their classmates and neighbors. They are also enjoying the rewards of voluntary service to others, thereby contributing to our communities and Nation as Points of Light. These teens are making the most of their talents and opportunities and, through their determination and hard work, are building the foundation for a bright future.
It is vital that we recognize and reinforce good behavior among teens and instill in every child a positive sense of responsibility, self-control, and self-worth. The pursuit of freedom and independence is characteristic of adolescence. Yet, while most adolescents demand increasing autonomy, they also continue to need and seek their parents' reassurance, guidance, and support. For teenagers who are struggling to cope with the many physical and emotional changes of adolescence, as well as the external pressures that weigh so heavily on young people today, such encouragement and guidance are essential.
We must provide our teens with opportunity and hope, with firm yet loving moral guidance and discipline, and--most important--with clear, consistent examples of personal responsibility and virtue.
No child is destined to become a "bad teen." Through loving, responsible parenting and through the support of schools, churches, and communities that set high standards of character and conduct for people of all ages, we can help every young American to recognize and attain his or her fullest potential. On this occasion, let us resolve to do exactly that.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 409, has designated January 16, 1993, as "National Good Teen Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim January 16, 1993, as National Good Teen Day. I invite all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities in honor of America's teenaged citizens.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  