
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




December 23, 202208:31

WH pool report #1 - check in/call time moved back
Good morning from a rainy Washington D.C.
FYI: Pool's 9 a.m. call time has been moved back to 11 a.m.
All that is on POTUS' schedule today is a visit by him and FLOTUS to Children's National Hospital:
Here is background material on the visit from the White House:
Background from the White House: President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden Visit Children's National Hospital 
On Friday, December 23, the President and the First Lady will visit Children's National Hospital in Washington, D.C. to meet with pediatric patients and their families and thank the doctors, nurses, and staff supporting patients this holiday season. The visit continues the annual tradition of First Ladies visiting Children's National to celebrate the holidays with children and their families. In December 2021, President Biden and Dr. Biden made a holiday visit to Children's National. Last year's visit by President Biden marked the first time a sitting President made a holiday visit to Children's National. Today marks Dr. Biden's third visit to Children's National as First Lady.
Upon arrival, the President and the First Lady will greet with hospital leadership and Emergency Department (ED) staff. This greet will be closed press.
After, the President and the First Lady will host a book reading of The Snowy Day with a group of pediatric patients. Patients will also participate virtually from their hospital room. This year marks the 60th anniversary of the publishing of Ezra Jack Keats's book The Snowy Day.
Finally, the President and the First Lady will visit children and families in the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit (CICU), and thank staff. This portion of the visit will be closed press.
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White House en route Children's National Hospital South GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool (Gather 3:40 PM – Palm Room Doors)
4:15 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at Children's National HospitalChildren's National Hospital, Washington, DCIn-Town Travel Pool
5:05 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY make a holiday visit to Children's National HospitalChildren's National Hospital, Washington, DCIn-Town Travel Pool
5:45 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Children's National Hospital en route the White HouseChildren's National Hospital, Washington, DCIn-Town Travel Pool
6:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at the White HouseSouth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool
Please reach out if you need anything.



December 23, 202210:11

WH pool report #2 - call time pushed back
Pool's call time has been pushed back again to 1:30 pm.



December 23, 202215:56

WH pool report #3 - POTUS spotting
As the pool headed to the vans on the South Lawn driveway at 3:49 pm, POTUS came out of the Oval Office and walked down the Rose Garden sidewalk with a man the pool could not immediately identify.
POTUS was not wearing a coat on this chilly day. He walked into the Palm Room as pool moved to South Lawn driveway.
Pool is now holding in the motorcade ahead of the Bidens' trip to Children's National Hospital.



December 23, 202216:16

WH pool report #4 - rolling to Children's National Hospital
Motorcade is rolling to Children's National Hospital at 4:15 pm.
Pool caught a brief glimpse of POTUS and FLOTUS getting into the Beast. FLOTUS is wearing a bright purple coat.
Note: The man President Biden was walking with in the Rose Garden was Steve Ricchetti (hat tip to AP's Darlene Superville).



December 23, 202216:30

WH pool report #5 - arrival at Children's National Hospital
Motorcade arrived at Children's National Hospital at 4:26 pm.
Pool did not see the Bidens enter the hospital and is holding in the room where the book reading will take place.
This will air on White House Live: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route Children's National Hospital, Washington, DC:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorVanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First LadyEmilie Simons, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
And including again the background on this visit that I sent in first pool report of the day:
Background from the White House: President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden Visit Children's National Hospital 
On Friday, December 23, the President and the First Lady will visit Children's National Hospital in Washington, D.C. to meet with pediatric patients and their families and thank the doctors, nurses, and staff supporting patients this holiday season. The visit continues the annual tradition of First Ladies visiting Children's National to celebrate the holidays with children and their families. In December 2021, President Biden and Dr. Biden made a holiday visit to Children's National. Last year's visit by President Biden marked the first time a sitting President made a holiday visit to Children's National. Today marks Dr. Biden's third visit to Children's National as First Lady.
Upon arrival, the President and the First Lady will greet with hospital leadership and Emergency Department (ED) staff. This greet will be closed press.
After, the President and the First Lady will host a book reading of The Snowy Day with a group of pediatric patients. Patients will also participate virtually from their hospital room. This year marks the 60th anniversary of the publishing of Ezra Jack Keats's book The Snowy Day.
Finally, the President and the First Lady will visit children and families in the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit (CICU), and thank staff. This portion of the visit will be closed press.



December 23, 202216:49

WH pool report #6 - 2 min warning
Two minute warning to the program.
Reminder it's airing on White House Live: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
From the White House:
The President and the First Lady were greeted upon arrival at Children's National Hospital by:
Dr. Kurt Newman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Children's National HospitalMary Anne Hilliard, Chief Legal Officer and Acting Chief Operating Officer of Children's National HospitalLinda Talley, Chief Nursing Officer of Children's National Hospital
Participating in a photoline with the President and the First Lady at Children's National Hospital:
Hospital staff, patients, and their parents



December 23, 202217:09

WH pool report #7 - event details
POTUS and FLOTUS were escorted in the room at 4:51 pm by 5-year-old Miles Barnes (in a green suit) and 10-year-old Aubrey Klinger (in a green dress).
FLOTUS was seated on a red chair in front of a giant Christmas tree. POTUS was on a green cushion chair to her left. Presents and poinsettias surround them.
Both Bidens are wearing face masks as is everyone in the room.
Dr. Biden read The Snowy Day. POTUS helped hold the book up so the kids could see the pictures while Dr. Biden read from it.
"We had a little snow today," she noted before starting the reading.
After she read the story, Dr. Biden thanked everyone for coming and listening to her read while the president held the book.
"That's my job," POTUS said.
He told the crowd the Bidens have spent a lot of time in children's hospitals. "It's going to be okay," he said.
He also addressed a very young girl on her mom's lap (she is 21 months old her mom told your pooler later). "You are so cute, little tyke. You can tell she's working it," he said.
"See you guys," POTUS said as the Bidens left at 4:58 pm.
As always please check the transcript.
The room is festive with three Christmas trees, stacks of presents and rows of poinsettias.
There appear to be about 20 kids in the room and they have adults with them. Two of the children are in wheelchairs. There are also hospital staff present.
The program is being streamed into hospital rooms.
From the White House:
The President and the First Lady host a book reading of The Snowy Day by Ezra Jack Keats.
EscortsAubrey Klinger (age 10)Miles Barnes (age 5)
AttendeesHospital staff, patients, and their parents
Pool is holding in vans as POTUS and FLOTUS greet patients and take photos.



December 23, 202217:39

WH pool report #8 - leaving Children's National Hospital
The motorcade is rolling from Children's National Hospital at 5:38 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS and FLOTUS get in the Beast.
Here is a link to the media kit from Children's National Hospital with information about the patients the Bidens visited. Their comms person said they would also be posting pics they took of the Bidens' visit: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1QE6c7n-M5MHeFN7gi7myV28UCLqt7b9P
From the White House:
The President and the First Lady participate in a greet with:
Dr. Yves d'Udekem, Chief of Cardiac Surgery at Children's National HospitalLucy Burrell, Nurse Manager for the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit of Children's National HospitalDr. Annette Ansong, Medical Director of Outpatient Cardiology at Children's National HospitalDr. Ricardo Munoz, Chief of Cardiac Critical Medicine at Children's National HospitalPatients and their families



December 23, 202217:50

WH pool report #9 - arrival at White House
Motorcade arrived back at White House at 5:47 pm.
Pool did not see the Bidens exit the Beast.



December 23, 202217:54

WH pool #10 - travel photo lid
At 5:52 pm we have a travel photo lid.
Stay warm, keep safe and happy holidays!




  