
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Import limitations have been imposed on certain dairy products, including certain cheese and chocolate crumb, pursuant to the provisions of Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 624, (Section 22). Those limitations are set forth in Part 3 of the Appendix to the Tariff Schedules of the United States (TSUS).
Sections 701 and 703 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979, P.L. 96-39 (The Act), require that the President proclaim a) limitations on the quantity of types of cheese specified therein which may enter the United States in any calendar year after 1979 to an annual aggregate quantity of not more than 111,000 metric tons and b) increases in a specified manner, of the quantity of chocolate crumb now subject to certain import quotas which may be entered in any calendar year after 1979. Such limitations and increases are required to become effective on January 1, 1980.
It is provided in Sections 701 and 703 of the Act that such proclamation shall be considered a proclamation issued under Section 22 and which meets the requirements of such section.
The Act also approved bilateral agreements entered into during the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN) by the United States and certain foreign countries with respect to the quantity of cheese and chocolate crumb subject to such limitations that may be imported from such countries. These agreements contained the provision that "the United States agrees to take all necessary measures to permit the maximum utilization of the quotas."
On the basis of the information submitted to me, I find and declare that the import limitations hereinafter proclaimed with respect to cheese and chocolate crumb are in accord with the requirements of Sections 701 and 703 of the Act and the bilateral agreements approved by such Act which were entered into by the United States and certain foreign countries with respect to the quantity of cheese and chocolate crumb subject to such limitations that may be imported from such countries.
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me as President, and in conformity with the provisions of Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, as amended, the Tariff Classification Act of 1962, the Trade Act of 1974, the Trade Agreements Act of 1979, and the bilateral agreements relating to cheese and chocolate crumb approved by the Trade Agreements Act of 1979, do hereby proclaim that Part 3 of the Appendix to the Tariff Schedules of the United States is amended, effective January 1, 1980, as set forth in the Annex to this proclamation.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.

JIMMY CARTER
  