
    WASHINGTON – The White House announced today the recipients of the 2007 Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, the Nation's highest honor for professionals at the outset of their independent scientific research careers. Sixty-seven researchers were honored today in a ceremony presided over by Dr. John H. Marburger III, Science Advisor to the President and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, established in 1996, honors the most promising researchers in the Nation within their fields. Nine federal departments and agencies annually nominate scientists and engineers who are at the start of their independent careers and whose work shows exceptional promise for leadership at the frontiers of scientific knowledge. Participating agencies award these talented scientists and engineers with up to five years of funding to further their research in support of critical government missions.
The recipients of the 2007 Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, along with their nominating federal department or agency are:
Department of Agriculture
Valerie T. Eviner, University of California, Davis - USDA, Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service
Wendell R. Haag, USDA, Forest Service
Zhongli Pan, USDA, Agricultural Research Service
Department of Commerce
Yi Ming, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
William H. Rippard, National Institute for Standards and Technology
Raymond Simmonds, National Institute for Standards and Technology
Department of Defense
Mung Chiang, Princeton University
Stefano Curtarolo, Duke University
Chad D. Fertig, University of Georgia
Maya Gupta, University of Washington
Brian A. Lail, Florida Institute of Technology
Zhenqiang Ma, University of Wisconsin, Madison
Ravi Ramamoorthi, Columbia University
Purnima Ratilal, Northeastern University
Tim Roughgarden, Stanford University
Rachel A. Segalman, University of California, Berkeley
Max Shtein, University of Michigan
Enrique R. Vivoni, New Mexico Institute of Mining & Technology
Krista S. Walton, Kansas State University
Haiyan Wang, Texas A&M University
Shengli Zhou, University of Connecticut
Department of Education
Gregory A. Fabiano, University of Buffalo
Nicole M. McNeil, University of Notre Dame
Department of EnergyMickey G. Chiu, Brookhaven National Laboratory
Hooman Davoudiasl, Brookhaven National Laboratory
Bert Debusschere, Sandia National Laboratories
Jennifer S. Martinez, Los Alamos National Laboratory
Wei Pan, Sandia National Laboratories
Robin Santra, Argonne National Laboratory
Yugang Sun, Argonne National Laboratory
Jeanine Cook, New Mexico State University
Department of Health and Human Services:
National Institutes of Health
Daphne W. Bell, National Human Genome Research Center, National Institutes of Health
Thomas A. Blanpied, University of Maryland, School of Medicine
Kevin C. Eggan, Harvard University
Raymond Habas, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey
Amy Heimberger, University of Texas
James C. Iatridis, University of Vermont
Francis S. Lee, Cornell University
Michael J. MacCoss, University of Washington
Elliott H. Margulies, National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health
Suchitra Nelson, Case Western Reserve University
Laura E. O'Dell, University of Texas, El Paso
Li Zhang, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
Department of Veterans AffairsMary Bethe Humphrey, Oklahoma City VA Medical Center
National Aeronautics and Space AdministrationCharles Kankelborg, Montana State University
Anna M. Michalak, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Merav Opher, George Mason University
National Science FoundationMonica Medina, University of California, Merced
Michael Elowitz, California Institute of Technology
Sonia Alitzer, University of Georgia
Subhasish Mitra, Stanford University
Stergios I. Roumeliotis, University of Minnesota
Sanjit Seshia, University of California, Berkeley
Nicholas Feamster, Georgia Institute of Technology
Jeremy Gray, Yale University
Maura J. Borrego, Virginia Tech University
Xi Chen, Columbia University
Sanjay Lall, Stanford University
Andre W. Marshall, University of Maryland, College Park
Aaron M. Thomas, University of Idaho
Joan L. Walker, Boston University
Kim M. Cobb, Georgia Institute of Technology
Michael Yu, John Hopkins University
Alexander Gamburd, University of California, Santa Cruz
Anastasia VolOvich, Brown University
Kathrina M. Miranda, University of Arizona
Paul Torrens, Arizona State University
  