
    Scott County pastor cites Dr. Paul's "stance on issues, his personal character, and his electability."
ANKENY, Iowa — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by the Rev. Christopher J. Neuendorf, pastor of Holy Cross Evangelical Lutheran Church in Davenport.
"Ron Paul is the clear choice to me as a pastor on at least three fronts: his stance on issues, his personal character, and his electability.
"When it comes to issues such as abortion, same-sex marriage, foreign policy, and economics, Ron Paul's positions favor respect for human life, fundamental morality, and overall prosperity for the United States and our neighbors throughout the world.
"In the realm of character, while other candidates pay lip service to fairly good positions on the issues, none exhibits the consistency, honesty, and determination of Ron Paul.
"As for electability, since many of his positions, particularly on foreign wars, appeal to a broad base beyond the confines of the Republican Party, Ron Paul stands the best chance of defeating President Barack Obama in 2012," said Rev. Neuendorf.
In making his endorsement, the Rev. mentioned that he was endorsing Ron Paul as an individual, not on behalf of the Holy Cross congregation. As a member congregation of The Lutheran Church—Missouri Synod, the church publicly opposes abortion and same-sex marriage, but its individual members are not required, expected, or even encouraged to vote for a particular candidate. That remains a matter of individual conscience.
Ron Paul 2012 Iowa Chairman Drew Ivers responded to the endorsement saying, "We welcome Rev. Neuendorf's endorsement and kind words on the very day Ron Paul is campaigning in Eastern Iowa. The endorsement of the Rev. and other faith leaders promises to make a strong top-three caucus showing more likely."
Mike Heath, Iowa State Director for the Ron Paul 2012 campaign, is visiting Christian churches across Iowa to do outreach and discuss Ron Paul's candidacy. To date, Heath has visited 256 houses of worship across the state toward that end. Heath is an ordained Christian minister.
If ministering in Iowa, local pastors interested in discussing an endorsement are invited to email the Iowa Director of Voter Outreach, Meghann Walker, at meghannw@ronpaul2012.com.
  