
    Pool Reports by Courtney Rozen, Bloomberg Government 



Sent:
Reports:




December 1, 202207:20

Dec. 1 Pool Report 1 - Day ahead
Good morning from the White House.
Today President Biden and Dr. Biden will welcome French President Emmanuel Macron and Mrs. Brigitte Macron for a state visit to the U.S. It is the first state visit of Biden's presidency. The president has a packed schedule. It includes an arrival ceremony, bilateral meeting, joint press conference, and state dinner.
This will be President Macron's second state visit to the U.S. as France's leader. President Donald Trump hosted him in April 2018, his first state dinner as U.S. president. The White House Historical Association has this  list of past state dinners with French leaders.
The exterior of the White House is decorated for the holidays. It is chilly and cloudy. The Brady Press Briefing Room is packed with journalists. Pooler also spotted a few buses parked outside the Eisenhower Executive Office Building with logos for the Navy, Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard.
Below is the schedule for the day.
Please note the arrival ceremony has a few parts. Pooler will need to move quickly to cover them and will do her best to send notes as quickly as possible.
EST
8:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed Press
7:10 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY will greet President Emmanuel Macron and Mrs. Brigitte Macron of France for the Official Arrival Ceremony; THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attendSouth LawnOpen Press (FinalPre-Set 7:00 AM, Gather 7:40 AM — Palm Room Doors)
10:00 AM THE PRESIDENT holds a bilateral meeting with President Emmanuel Macron of FranceOval OfficeRestricted In-House Pool Spray (Gather 9:55 AM — Rose Garden)
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT hosts a joint press conference with President Emmanuel Macron of France 
East RoomPre-Credentialed Media (Gather 11:10 AM — Palm Room Doors)
7:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY greet President Emmanuel Macron and Mrs. Brigitte Macron of France on arrival for the State Dinner North PorticoPre-Credentialed Media (Gather 6:30 PM — Palm Room Doors)
7:30 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY participate in a photo opportunity with President Emmanuel Macron and Mrs. Brigitte Macron of France at the Grand Staircase on the occasion of the State DinnerGrand StaircaseIn-House Pool
8:50 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host President Emmanuel Macron and Mrs. Brigitte Macron of France for a State Dinner; THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attendSouth LawnIn-House Pool (Gather 8:10 PM — Palm Room Doors)



December 1, 202207:53

Dec. 1 Pool Report 2 - In place for arrival
The pool is on the South Lawn for the official arrival ceremony of French President Macron and Mrs. Macron. The press area is packed with American and French journalists.
There are hundreds of people here to watch the ceremony. A woman is handing out French and American flags. There is a red carpet. There is a lectern with the presidential seal on top of a riser.
Pool is anticipating the ceremony will start at 9 a.m.



December 1, 202209:12

Dec. 1 Pool Report 3 - attendees
See below from press office.
The President and the First Lady greet President Emmanuel Macron and Mrs. Brigitte Macron of France for the Official Arrival Ceremony.
Attendees
The Vice President
The Second Gentleman
Dignitaries, Officials, and students from Rochembeau International French School, DCPS School Without Walls of Washington DC, and DCPS Jackson Reed High School (formerly Wilson High)
United States Official Delegation

T.H. Kamala Harris, Vice President of the United States
Mr. Douglas Emhoff, Second Gentleman
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Evan Ryan, Assistant to the President, Cabinet Secretary, and Spouse of the Secretary of State
T.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the Treasury
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff
T.H. Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff
T.H. Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President and Press Secretary
T.H. Denise Campbell Bauer, U.S. Ambassador to France
Mr. Steven Bauer, Lawyer and Spouse of the U.S. Ambassador to France
T.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs
T.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council
Mr. Benjamin Canavan, Director for European Affairs, National Security Council

United States Welcoming Committee

Admiral Christopher Grady, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Mrs. Christine Grady, Spouse of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Major General Allan Pepin, Commanding General, Military District of Washington
Brigadier General Garrett Hoffman, Director, White House Military Office
Ambassador Hersey Kyota, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps
Mrs. Lydia Kyota, Spouse of the Dean of the Diplomatic Corps

France Official Delegation

H.E. Bruno Le Maire, Minister of the Economy, Finance and Industrial and Digital Sovereignty
H.E. Catherine Colonna, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs
H.E. Sébastien Lecornu, Minister for the Armed Forces
H.E. Sylvie Retailleau, Minister of Higher Education and Research
H.E. Philippe Etienne, Ambassador of the French Republic to the United States
Admiral Jean-Philippe Rolland, Chief of the Special Military Staff of the President of the Republic
Mr. Emmanuel Bonne, Diplomatic Advisor (National Security Advisor) to the President of the Republic and Sherpa to the G7 and G20
Mr. Frédéric Michel, Special Advisor for Communication and Strategy
Mr. Walid Fouque, Advisor for Asia, the Americas and Oceania
Mr. Tristan Bromet, Advisor to the Presidency of the Republic (Advisor to Mrs. Macron)
Mrs. Victoire Vandeville, Advisor for Exports and Trade Policy
Mr. Matthieu Landon, Advisor for Industry, Research and Innovation
Mr. Philippe Errera, Director General for Political Affairs and Security, Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs
Mrs. Patricia Etienne, Spouse of the French Ambassador to the United States

France Welcoming Committee

Mr. Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Member of Parliament, Head of the Foreign Affairs Committee (representing the House side)
Mr. Christian Cambon, Senator (representing Val-de-Marne), Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee (representing the Senate side)
Dr. Fatoumata Kebe, Astrophysicist
Lieutenant-Colonel Sophie Adenot, Astronaut
Mr. François Jacq, Chairman, Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA)
Mr. Philippe Baptiste, President, National Centre for Space Studies (CNES)




December 1, 202209:18

Dec. 1 Pool Report 4 - ceremony starting
As of 9:17 a.m.



December 1, 202209:59

Dec. 1 Pool Report 5 - Holding for walk
The pool is holding in the Rose Garden. Pool is waiting for the two presidents to walk along the colonnade.



December 1, 202210:18

Dec. 1 Pool Report 6 - Gifts
See below from the press office.
As the official gift, the President and Dr. Biden presented a custom mirror made of fallen wood from the White House grounds by an American furniture maker which is a reproduction of a mirror from the White House collection and hangs in the West Wing. President Biden also gifted President Macron a custom vinyl record collection of great American musicians and an archival facsimile print of Thomas Edison's 1877 Patent of the American Phonograph. Dr. Biden gifted Mrs. Macron a gold and Emerald pendant necklace designed by a French-American designer.



December 1, 202210:36

Dec. 1 Pool Report 7 - Oval Office soon
The two presidents walked along the colonnade at about 10:30. A reporter asked President Biden why he invited President Macron for his first state visit as president.
"Because he is my friend," Biden said.
The pool is holding outside the Oval Office.



December 1, 202211:00

Dec. 1 Pool Report 8 - No questions
The pool entered the Oval Office at 10:44 a.m. President Biden gave a short speech, followed by President Macron. Pooler couldn't hear Biden's speech. Co-poolers assured your pooler no news was made, but tape should be available shortly from networks.
The president took no questions.
Next up is the press conference.



December 1, 2022
[APP Note: Report #9 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


December 1, 202212:22

Dec 1 Pool Report 10 - Presser
Final gather for the Biden/Macron presser is 12:30 p.m. according to the White House press office.



December 1, 202212:44

Dec. 1 Pool Report 11 - Waiting for press conference
The pool is in the East Room waiting for the joint press conference with Presidents Biden and Macron to begin. More journalists are getting set up. No indication yet on when presser will start. Pooler counted five Christmas trees in here. There are headsets on each chair for journalists to listen to translations in French and English.



December 1, 202213:15

Dec. 1 Pool Report 12 - Two minutes
Two minutes until presser called at 1:13 p.m.



December 1, 202213:18

Dec. 1 Pool Report #13 - presser begins
Biden/Macron press conference started at 1:17.



December 1, 202213:26

Dec. 1 Pool Report 14 - attendees
See below from the press office for planned list of attendees for Biden/Macron presser. Pooler has not confirmed that all names on this list are present.
Your pooler also spotted White House communications director Kate Bedingfield. Press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is seated with other U.S. officials in the front row.
--
The President hosts a joint press conference with President Emmanuel Macron of France.
United States Delegation

The President
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the Treasury
T.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Denise Campbell Bauer, Ambassador of the United States to France and Monaco
T.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs
T.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council
Mr. Benjamin Canavan, Director for European Affairs, National Security Council

France Delegation

H.E. Emmanuel Macron, President of the French Republic
H.E. Bruno Le Maire, Minister of the Economy, Finance and Industrial and Digital Sovereignty
H.E. Catherine Colonna, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs
H.E. Sébastien Lecornu, Minister for the Armed Forces
H.E. Philippe Etienne, Ambassador of the French Republic to the United States
Admiral Jean-Philippe Rolland, Chief of the Special Military Staff of the President of the Republic
Mr. Emmanuel Bonne, Diplomatic Advisor (National Security Advisor) to the President of the Republic and Sherpa to the G7 and G20
Mr. Frédéric Michel, Special Advisor for Communication and Strategy
Mr. Walid Fouque, Advisor for Asia, the Americas and Oceania

Speaking Program
The PresidentPresident Emmanuel Macron of France



December 1, 202214:02

Dec. 1 Pool Report 15 - presser over
Presser wrapped at 1:59. A reporter shouted a question to President Biden as he walked out of the room. The reporter asked about Biden's message to Chinese protesters. Biden did not answer the question.
Pool is holding in the East Room.



December 1, 202214:26

Dec. 1 Pool Report 16 - lunch lid
Lunch lid called at 2:19 p.m. until 6:15 p.m.



December 1, 202218:23

Dec. 1 Pool 17 - Guest list
There is going to be a press release shortly with written list.



December 1, 202218:38

Dec. 1 Pool Report 18 - Gathering
Pool is gathering at Palm Room doors for arrival.



December 1, 202219:14

Dec. 1 Pool Report 19 - Waiting for arrival
Pool is holding on risers in front of the North Portico. There are two Christmas trees. No word on start time yet. There are at least three dozen journalists here.



December 1, 202219:25

Dec. 1 Pool Report 20 - arrival
Amb. Rufus Gifford, chief of protocol at the State Department, walked out the doors to the North Portico ahead of the Bidens.
Dr. Biden wore a lace dress and dangly silver earrings.
The car carrying the Macrons pulled up at 7:07.
Dr. Biden said welcome to the Macrons. The Macrons embraced the Bidens and posed for a photo.
Dr. Biden told the press: "Enjoy the evening."
The four walked into the White House at 7:09.
Pool will move shortly.



December 1, 202219:28

Dec. 1 Pool Report 21 - dress
From the First Lady's office: FLOTUS is wearing a navy, floral evening gown by Oscar de la Renta.



December 1, 202219:53

Dec. 1 Pool Report 22 - stairs
Pool stood in the Entrance Hall (near the paintings of former Presidents Obama and George W. Bush). The band started to play at 7:38 p.m. Members of the military walked down the Grand Staircase carrying flags. President and Dr. Biden, followed by President and Mrs. Macron, walked down the stairs.
The four posed for pictures and then walked out of the Entrance Hall.
Pool exited out of the North Portico doors and is now holding in the briefing room.
Pool expects to see the president again in about an hour for his toast.



December 1, 202222:11

Dec. 1 Pool Report 23 - toasts
The pool exited the White House from the Palm Room doors. We walked across the South Lawn to a pavilion built next to the fountain. The White House was lit up with Christmas lights. A few trolleys were parked near the South Portico to carry guests to the dinner.
Pool entered the pavilion at 9:34 p.m. The entrance was draped in flowers.
Each table had a gold candelabra with red candles. The area behind the stage had a picture of the Statue of Liberty. Roses were drawn on the walls. It reminded several of the members of the pool of the film "Beauty and the Beast."
Pooler stood at the back of the room behind Table 5. Seated at Table 5 was Amb. Susan Rice, domestic policy adviser to the president, and Sen. Chris Coons (D-Colo.).
The two presidents entered the room at 9:43 p.m. as Hail to the Chief played. The guests all stood and applauded.
President Biden gave his toast first. Some highlights:
"France was our first ally. The first country to fly an American flag after our revolution." (Applause)"I actually grew up in a place called New Castle, Delaware County, near Brandywine Battlefield. Where a young man named Marquis de Lafayette fought for the American cause and became close friends with a fellow named George Washington."
The guests clinked glasses. President Macron spoke next.
Pool exited shortly after.
Next time pool expects to see the president will be during the entertainment part of the evening. It will be the pool's last event of the day.



December 1, 202223:22

Dec. 1 Pool Report 24 - back to the dinner
Pool is gathering at the Palm Room doors as of 11:21 p.m. Pool will shortly walk to the pavilion for the entertainment part of the dinner.



December 1, 202223:35

Dec. 1 Pool Report 25 - head table
See below from the press office.
Joining the President and the First Lady at the Head Table:
His Excellency Emmanuel Macron, President of the French Republic and Mrs. Brigitte MacronThe Honorable Nancy Pelosi, U.S. Representative & Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives & Ms. Alexandra PelosiMr. Timothy Cook & The Honorable Lisa Jackson, Former Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection AgencyMr. Bernard Arnault & Ms. Hélène Marie Mercier ArnaultMr. Henry Muñoz III & Ms. Ariana DeBoseDr. Tara Westover & Mr. Santiago ArauMs. Natacha RafalskiMr. Florian ZellerMr. Lonnie Stephenson & Ms. Dawn Stephenson



December 1, 202223:56

Dec. 1 Pool Report 26 - music
The pool entered the pavilion at 11:40 p.m. Dr. Biden was speaking at the mic and violinists were circling the room. Pooler didn't spot the president.
Dr. Biden introduced Jon Batiste at 11:42 p.m. He sat at the piano and played a song. The pool left at 11:48 p.m.
See below message from the press office.
Performing at the State Dinner:
Jon BatisteMichael Batiste"The President's Own" United States Marine Band



December 1, 202223:57

Dec. 1 Pool Report 27 - lid
Travel/photo lid called at 11:53 p.m.




 
Pool Reports below by Kethevane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




December 1, 202207:37

Foreign pool report #1 - Background
Bonjour à tous!
I'll be your foreign pooler for French President Emmanuel Macron's state visit (a big day for this Franco-American)
The arrival ceremony is scheduled for 9am. Followed by a bilat at 10am and a joint press conference at 11:45am.
Meetings:
This is the first State visit of the Biden administration.
Emmanuel Macron was also the first state visit of the Trump administration and former French President Francois Hollande was the first state visit of Obama's second term.
The 2 Presidents have met several times since POTUS took office and regularly get together during international summits, most recently at the G20 in Bali earlier this month.
Their last one-on-one meeting was the "not a bilat" 45-minute-long pull-aside on the sidelines of the UNGA in September. Priorities for bilat: 
The war in Ukraine will of course be top of the agenda as will Iran, Africa, climate.
France shares the US' concerns regarding China, which a french official called "a partner, a competitor and a systemic rival." But it also wants to make clear that Europe cannot deal with China in the same way as the US. "We are allies of the US and we are partners of China."
One major sticking point for the French, the impact of the IRA on Europe. The French (& europeans) have said they would like to see some exemptions for european industries.
On wednesday evening, during a speech at the French embassy, President Macron said this:
"There is a risk today, that we must discuss among friends. The risk is that, in the face of the challenges I mentioned, the US looks first to the US, which is normal, we do the same, then looks at its rivalry with China, and that Europe, and therefor France, becomes a sort of adjustment variable (...) The cost of the war is not the same in Europe and in the US. But most importantly, the choices made, whose goals I share, especially the IRA or the Chips Act, are choices that will fragment the West because they create such differences between the US and Europe, that those who work in these companies/industries will simply decide not to keep investing on the other side of the Atlantic. These choices can only work if there is coordination between us." Schedule: 
EM arrived in Washington on Tuesday evening.
Wednesday:
EM had a Working session on France-US cooperation in Space at NASA HQ with VP Harris.
He had a working lunch on climate and biodiversity issues with members of Congress and key American stakeholders at the Library of Congress.
He attended a Ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery then a reception in honor of the French community where he decorated 5 American WW2 veterans.
He held a working meeting on nuclear issues.
In the evening, he and his wife Brigitte had a private dinner with POTUS & FLOTUS at Fiola Mare.
Thursday:
After the bilat and joint press conference, EM will go to the State Department for lunch with the VP and Sec of State Tony Blinken (and their respective spouses)
At 3pm, EM will be on Capitol Hill for a meeting with Congressional leadership (bipartisan & bicameral).
EM will return to the WH at 7pm for the State Dinner. There will be a photo op and the dinner is scheduled for 8:50pm.
Friday:
He will have a meeting on Tech before heading off to Louisiana for the final part of the trip. Main members of the Delegation for State visit per French embassy: 
Ministers: M. Bruno LE MAIRE, Economy & Finance, Mme Catherine COLONNA, Foreign Affairs, M. Sébastien LECORNU, Defense, Mme Sylvie RETAILLEAU, Higher Education & research, Mme Rima ABDUL-MALAK, Culture
Members of Parliament, CEOs like Bernard Arnault (LVMH) and Patrick Pouyanne (Total) as well as American novelist Douglas Kennedy, director Claude Lelouch, choreographer Benjamin Millepied and designer Christian Louboutin. (I can send you the full list of delegation members if needed, just reach out.)
I will send the bilat participants as soon as the French share the list.
Bio:
Emmanuel Macron is 44 years old. He was first elected in May 2017, becoming at 39, the youngest ever French President. He was reelected to a 2nd term this past April.
Although he had been a member of the Socialist Party earlier in life and served under a Socialist President, he ran on a centrist, pro-European movement En Marche, which he founded a year prior to the Presidential election.
Before running for President, Macron served as Economy Minister from 2014 to 2016 under Socialist President Francois Hollande. Before serving in government, Macron was a senior civil servant as well as an investment banker. Bon courage!



December 1, 202208:05

Foreign pool report #2 - French gifts
Per Elysée on gifts:
Here are a few elements from the Elysee on the Gifts offered by Pdt Macron to Mr. Joe BIDEN, President of the United States of America:
- A Vinyl and CD of the original soundtrack of Claude LELOUCH's film "Un Homme et une Femme" (1966) - music by French composer Francis LAI - Palme d'Or. This is the film that President Joe BIDEN and Mrs. Jill BIDEN went to see on their first date.
- A cup from the house Christofle, created in 2012, in tribute to the great era when Christofle crossed the Atlantic aboard the ship Normandie. This cup symbolizes the first links between France and the United States of America. The cup integrates in the bottom of it the "Présidence de la République" lictor beam.
- A sweater from the House SAINT JAMES
- A watch from LIP Horlogerie
Gifts offered by Pdt Macron to Dr. Jill BIDEN :
- Madame Bovary", by Gustave Flaubert
- The Plague, The Fall, Exile and the Kingdom, and Selected Essays", by Albert Camus
Gifts offered by Pdt Macron to Mrs. Kamala HARRIS, Vice-President of the United States of America:
- A model of the Ariane 5 rocket



December 1, 2022
[APP Note: Report #3 does not exist or was not received bythe APP.]


December 1, 202209:54

Foreign pool report #4
French President Emmanuel Macron and his wife Brigitte arrived at 9:18am and were greeted by POTUS & FLOTUS.
Brigitte Macron is wearing a green coat and scarve.
The 2 Presidents went over to the officials to shake hands and exchange a few words.
The Marseillaise was performed alongside a 21 gun salute followed by the Star-spangled banner.
At 9:28am, the presidents started reviewing the troops.
POTUS started speaking at 9:34am and spoke for 6mn.
President Macron started speaking at 9:41am, "Dear Joe, Dear Jill"
"Honored & moved to be here today at the White House"
"As war returns to Europe (…) we need to become brothers in arms once more."
"Our democracies on both sides of the ocean share the same doubts."
"This friendship is rooted through the ages"
He wrapped at 9:47am
There was consecutive translation for both remarks.
Ceremony wrapped at 9:49am with the presidential couples going up the stairs to wave from the balcony. They were met with cheers from the crowd waving little french & US flags.



December 1, 202210:42

Foreign pool report #5
We are currently holding outside the oval. At 10:30 the 2 presidents walked down the colonnades. President Macron greeted the press: "Hi how are you?"
Before they entered the oval, Biden was asked why he chose Macron for his 1st state visit. Biden said "because he's my friend"
Macron did not answer question on how this Visit compared with his last state visit. Before walking out their was the gift exchange & guest book signing.
Per White House:
As the official gift, the President and Dr. Biden presented a custom mirror made of fallen wood from the White House grounds by an American furniture maker which is a reproduction of a mirror from the White House collection and hangs in the West Wing. President Biden also gifted President Macron a custom vinyl record collection of great American musicians and an archival facsimile print of Thomas Edison's 1877 Patent of the American Phonograph. Dr. Biden gifted Mrs. Macron a gold and Emerald pendant necklace designed by a French-American designer.



December 1, 202211:15

Foreign pool report #6 - oval remarks
Pool was ushered in at 10:44am.
POTUS spoke first followed by President Macron.
Macron remarks (check against tape)
"I'm happy and honored to be here for the first state visit of your administration.
Russian war in Ukraine "will be the first topic of discussion." We want to be build "sustainable peace."
"It's extremely important to have close coordination between us on these different issues. We want to fix the direct and indirect consequences of the war on our economies and our people."
He thank POTUS and FLOTUS for the "wonderful dinner we had yesterday, for the friendship and really for the quality of the discussions we have and the common decision we take in this so difficult time."
"This friendship always prevailed with quite good results by the way."



December 1, 202214:03

Foreign pool report #7
Biden & Macron to the podiums at 1:18pm
Biden spoke first.
(Rough quotes, please check against tape.)
France is our strongest and oldest ally but Emmanuel Macron has also become a friend.
We have some disagreements but never in a fundamental way.
Macron: (my translation not thebofficial translation)
Each time vital & essential things were at stake, we were here for one another.
We had a good discussion on the IRA… and we decided to synchronize our agendas… we share the same vision and the same will.
Macron hailed the US's return on the world stage on climate and health.
I could spend the afternoon listing all the issues on which we work together.
Joe Biden has also become a friend.
Macron going back and forth between the formal "vous" and the more personal "tu" to speak to POTUS directly.
Questions:
-Exemptions to face consequences of IRA?
Biden: US makes no apology for that legislation but obviously there can be glitches… There's tweaks that we can make… Never intended to exclude folks who cooperate with us…
Macron: it's very clear that it was not the goal of the US, but the consequences are real. France did not come to ask for exemptions for its own economy.
Macron: we are going to continue as europeans… We can't ask the US to pass a law to deal with europe's problem.. Great strategic clarity following this morning's conversation.
I leave very confident.
-confidence in US continuing to support Ukraine despite Republicans controlling the House
Macron:
war in Ukraine is about our values and our principles. I'm confident because I think Congress understands these values.
We will never urge ukrainians to make a compromise they don't choose.
-do you approve of Macron's approach to Putin
Biden: i have no immediate plans to contact Mr Putin.
Macron: our duty is to work with him (Zelenskyy).
They wrapped at 2pm after taking two rounds of questions from both the french and US side.



December 1, 202219:22

Foreign pool report #8 - arrival
President Macron & his wife arrived at the North Portico at 7:07pm.
Brigitte Macron was wearing a long ivory dress with silver details and a slit on the side.
The Presidential couple exchanged "la bise" and posed for pictures before walking into the White House.



December 1, 202219:47

Foreign pool report #9
POTUS & FLOTUS walked down the Grand staircase at 7:40pm, followed by President Macron and his wife. They posed for a few pictures before heading into the Blue Room.



December 1, 202220:08

Foreign pool report #10
Per French team, Brigitte Macron is wearing a Louis Vuitton dress.



December 1, 202222:02

Foreign pool report #11
The 2 Presidential couples came in at 9:44pm.
Biden spoke first for a couple of minutes.
Please check quotes against tape.
Biden: Please join me in raising our glasses to President & Mrs Macron, to France.
"Vive la France and God Bless America"
Macron: "It means a lot for us"
We come from the same values, principles.
These principles are at risk, are challenged even in our societies, in our democracies, a lot of people just want to jeopardize or reverse these principles, challenging elections…
"Vive les Etats unis d'amerique
Vive la France et vive l'amitié entre nos deux pays"
(Long live the Uniteds States of America, Long live France and long live the friendship between our two countries)




  