
    Working for Change, Working for You
Fresh off receiving the much-coveted Des Moines Register endorsement, the momentum in Iowa is with the Clinton campaign as it launches the "Every County Counts: Working For Change, Working For You" Tour. Today's kick-off follows a week that featured a strong debate performance and a big endorsement from Rep. Leonard Boswell, putting Hillary in a position of strength going into the closing weeks of the Iowa campaign.
Hillary and her top surrogates are fanning out across the Hawkeye state over the next five days, visiting all 99 of Iowa's counties in an effort to energize our supporters, strengthen our organization, and make our case to people who have not yet made up their minds about who to support on January 3rd.
With just 18 days to go until the caucuses, the campaign will use this blitz to highlight why Hillary is the candidate best able to deliver the change Iowans want. In its endorsement, the Des Moines Register wrote: "The times demand results. We believe as president she'll do what she's always done in her life: Throw herself into the job and work hard. We believe Hillary Rodham Clinton can do great things for our country."
Each of the candidates in this campaign has an idea about how to get change. Some believe you make change by demanding it. Others believe you make change by hoping for it. Hillary believes you make change by working hard for it. That's what she's done her entire life and that's what she'll do as president. And that's what each day of the blitz will illustrate.
On Sunday, Hillary travels to Council Bluffs where she'll be endorsed by former Senator Bob Kerrey before heading by "Hill-A-Copter" to Dunlap and Le Mars. At each stop, Hillary will talk about why every county counts, emphasizing that every pocket of Iowa will play a major role in determining the outcome of the caucuses while pledging to work for change every day she is President.
In addition, Gen. Claudia Kennedy, longtime Hillary friend Betsy Ebeling, Gov. Tom Vilsack, Christie Vilsack, former Gov. Gary Locke and former FEMA Director James Lee Witt hit other counties in the state as part of the overall effort to connect with current and prospective supporters. In total, the campaign expects to have a presence in 26 Iowa counties on Sunday.
In addition to campaign events, surrogates will spend time with Iowans in their communities. For example, James Lee Witt is expected to visit a HyVee grocery store in Oskaloosa and Governor Gary Locke will attend the closing ceremony of a Chinese Language School in Johnston.
The campaign will emphasize its efforts to both reach out to undecided caucus goers and mobilize our supporters. With a good number of proven caucus-goers not yet decided about which candidate they are going to support on January 3rd, Hillary's team will lead canvassing, phone banks, and other organizing efforts in an effort to attract new supporters while she lays out her case for why she is best able to lead and make change.
With a majority of Hillary's supporters new to the caucuses, the campaign is also using the "'Every County Counts: Working for Change, Working for You' tour to show them that caucusing is easy. We're encouraging them to "buddy" up with a friend to caucus together and urging them to talk up Hillary's record and vision for the future.
People forget that just a decade ago so many poor children didn't have health care. Well, Hillary changed that. She delivered health care for six million children by helping create the Children's Health Insurance Program. Five years ago, National Guardsmen and Reservists didn't have access to health care. Hillary changed that too. She reached across the aisle in the Senate to deliver those critical benefits. She changed the way we think about health care when she fought her heart out for universal health care even when it wasn't a popular cause. And Hillary changed the way the world looked at women's rights when she stood up to the Chinese government in Beijing and declared that "women's rights are human rights."
That's not just hoping for change or demanding change. That's working for change. And that's what Hillary will keep doing when she's President.
  