
    "According to news accounts, Treasury Secretary Paulson said that the Administration is putting forward a proposal, as part of its response to the foreclosure crisis, to allow state and local governments to temporarily broaden their tax-exempt bond programs to include mortgage refinancing.
"I think this is an excellent idea that the administration should have been adopted two months ago when I proposed it.
"The Mortgage Revenue Bond program (MRB) needs to be modified to help families replace unworkable adjustable rate mortgages with stable, fixed-rate loans. Under the MRB, state housing finance agencies use the proceeds of tax-exempt bond issuances to provide low-cost mortgages to low- and moderate-income families. I proposed to modify the program in two ways to address the foreclosure crisis: First, state agencies would be permitted to use MRBs to refinance mortgages (under current law, MRB funds can only be used for original mortgages). And second, I would increase the federal cap on the MRB program by roughly 25% to provide an additional $2.5 billion in refinancing capacity.
"Policies like my MRB proposal are desperately needed right now. The foreclosure crisis is harming families, communities, and the economy.
"This morning I wrote to Secretary Paulson to insist that the Administration and the mortgage industry quickly fashion an agreement to end this crisis. I informed the Secretary that a satisfactory agreement must do at least three things:

Impose a foreclosure moratorium of at least 90 days on subprime, owner-occupied homes.

Freeze the monthly rate on subprime adjustable rate mortgages, with the freeze lasting at least 5 years or until the mortgages have been converted into affordable, fixed-rate loans.

Require the mortgage industry to provide status reports on the number of mortgages it has modified.


"If the Administration fails to produce an agreement adequate to the scale of the problem, I will consider legislation that enables lenders and servicers to convert unworkable mortgages into stable, affordable loans without the permission of investors."
  