
    Governor Mitt Romney today announced the support of former Iowa House Speaker Brent Siegrist (R-Council Bluffs) and former New Hampshire House Speakers Harold Burns (R-Whitefield) and George Roberts (R-Gilmanton). They join former Iowa House Speaker Chris Rants (R-Sioux City) and former New Hampshire House Speakers Donna Sytek (R-Salem), John Tucker (R-New London) and Doug Scamman (R-Stratham) in supporting Governor Romney.
"I am proud to have the support of these distinguished Iowa and New Hampshire House Speakers. They have made a significant contribution to their states and have taken a strong stand for the fiscally conservative principles of limited taxation and smaller government," said Mitt Romney. "I look forward to campaigning with them across Iowa and New Hampshire in the final weeks before the caucuses and the first in the nation primary."
"Iowans and all Americans are looking for a president who will jumpstart our economy and get people working again," said Speaker Chris Rants. "As a conservative businessman with twenty-five years of experience in the private sector, Mitt Romney understands how jobs are created and has put forth a pro-growth plan that will help turn around our economy at a time when we need it most. With a strong record of success in business, at the Olympics, and as Governor, Mitt Romney is a proven, competent leader who is the best candidate running, and would be the best candidate to defeat Barack Obama next November."
"In 2012, Republicans need to nominate a strong and capable candidate who can defeat Barack Obama. We need a thoughtful, trustworthy, responsible leader who will never embarrass our party," said Speaker George Roberts. "Mitt Romney has proven that he has the skills and experience needed to fix our economy and create jobs. As a governor and a successful businessman, he has cut taxes and balanced budgets. Mitt is head and shoulders above the rest of the Republican field and by far the most qualified candidate to take on President Obama."
Background on former Iowa House Speakers endorsing Governor Romney:

Brent Siegrist Served As Iowa House Speaker From 1998-2002. He served in the Iowa House of Representatives from 1984-2002.


Chris Rants Served As Iowa House Speaker From 2003-2006. He served in the Iowa House of Representatives from 1993-2010. He also served as the leader of the House Republican caucus from 1998-2008. 

Background on former New Hampshire House Speakers endorsing Governor Romney:

George Roberts Served As New Hampshire House Speaker From 1975-1980. He also served as a Gilmanton town moderator for 35 years.


John Tucker Served As New Hampshire House Speaker From 1981-1986. A long time businessman, now retired, Tucker served in the New Hampshire House from 1971-1986.


Harold Burns Served As New Hampshire House Speaker From 1991-1996. He also served in the New Hampshire State Senate and currently serves as Whitefield's town moderator.


Donna Sytek Served As New Hampshire House Speaker From 1997-2000. She also served as Chairman of the New Hampshire Republican State Committee.


Doug Scamman Served As New Hampshire House Speaker From 1987-1990 And From 2005-2006. He also served as Budget Director for former New Hampshire Governor Steve Merrill.

  