
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE ON DECEMBER 23, 2009:
Daniel J. Becker, of Utah, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Robert Nelson Baldwin, term expired.
André Birotte, Jr., of California, to be United States Attorney for the Central District of California for the term of four years, vice Thomas P. O'Brien.
David A. Capp, of Indiana, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Indiana for the term of four years, vice Joseph S. Van Bokkelen.
James R. Hannah, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Joseph Francis Baca, term expired.
Beatrice A. Hanson, of New York, to be Director of the Office for Victims of Crime, vice John W. Gillis.
Richard S. Hartunian, of New York, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of New York for the term of four years, vice Glenn T. Suddaby, resigned.
William Joseph Hochul, Jr., of New York, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of New York for the term of four years, vice Terrance P. Flynn, resigned.
Ronald C. Machen, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be United States Attorney for the District of Columbia for the term of four years, vice Kenneth L. Wainstein, resigned.
Noel Culver March, of Maine, to be United States Marshal for the District of Maine for the term of four years, vice David Donald Viles.
Gayle A. Nachtigal, of Oregon, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Sophia H. Hall, term expired.
John B. Nalbandian, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Keith McNamara, term expired.
Anne M. Tompkins, of North Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina for the term of four years, vice Gretchen C. F. Shappert, resigned.
George White, of Mississippi, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Mississippi for the term of four years, vice Nehemiah Flowers.
Sally Quillian Yates, of Georgia, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice David E. Nahmias, resigned.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE ON DECEMBER 23, 2009:
Suedeen G. Kelly, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2014. (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on July 28, 2009.
  