
    Pool Reports by Rob Crilly, Washington Examiner



Sent:
Reports:




 December 3, 2020 10:17

 Print pool report #1: Good morning 
Greetings from the White House.
Pool has been tested for COVID-19.
There are currently no schedule changes. POTUS has two closed press events on his schedule so far. 


 December 3, 2020 11:43

 Print pool report #2: pool gather 
Pool has been called to gather in collonade ahead of Lou Holtz event. 


 December 3, 2020 11:51

 Print pool report #3: Presidential Medal of Freedom 
Pool entered v crowded Oval at 11:46. At least 30 people present, mostly unmasked. Couches are pushed out of the way to make room. POTUS at a lectern.
POTUS welcomes everyone and says event is for "One of the greatest coashes in American history."
Guests include:
Lindsey GrahamPat Cippolone - Notre Dame fan
POTUS speaking now, describing Lou Holtz's career. 


 December 3, 2020 11:54

 Print pool report #4: images 
Scene inside Oval Office 


 December 3, 2020 12:06

 Print pool report #5: medal plus POTUS on Covid relief and Bill Barr 
POTUS described Holt's time at Notre Dame and other career highlights.
"You do like money a little bit" jokes POTUS about Holtz's move to South Carolina.
"Wherever Lou went football glory followed."
"Everybody loves him. Everybody respects him. Tough as hell."
"I never coached football, I coached life, he said," refereeing to Holtz quotes.
"He's one of the greatest titans in American football history."
"He teaches people how to live and how to live properly."
This Jets fan did not catch any reference to Holtz's NFL dalliance.
Holtz invited to speak to chants of "Lou, Lou"
Said he was humbled to receive medal of freedom.
"I'm even prouder to receive it from Presudebt Donald Trump .... Greatest president in my lifetime"
"This award as great as it is does not dfein who Lou Holtz is ..." Says it is his family makes him who he is
Potus asked about whether he will support Covid relief bill."I will and I think we're getting very close."
Asked about certifying results"Theta re finding tremendous volumes... It's massive fraud... Whether you go to Wisconsin, Michigan...
Do you still have confidence in Bill Barr?"Ask me that in a number of weeks from now."
Pool led out at 12:04 


 December 3, 2020 12:15

 Print pool report #6: More POTUS on Covid and Bill Barr 
Is Covid relief in sight? Will you support this bill?"I will and I think we are getting very close. I want it to happen. And I believe we are getting very close to a deal."
Will you support it?"I will"
Response to AG saying he has not seen enough fraud to overturn the election. Why is now not the time to concede?"He hasn't done anything yet. When he looks he'll see the kind of evidence that right now you are seeing in the Georgia senate. They are going through hearings right now in the Senate and they are finding tremendous volumes. So they haven't looked very hard. Which is a disappointment to be honest.
Do you still have confidence in Bill Barr?Pause. "Ask me that in a number of weeks from now. They should be looking at all of this fraud. This is not civil. This is criminal stuff. This is very bad criminal stuff."
more tk 


 December 3, 2020 12:24

 Print pool report #7: End of POTUS comments on election 
Clarifying pool report #6, exact Covid question was:
"Mitch McConnell says Covid relief may be in sight. Will you support this bill, do you support ..."
And end of remarks ran out like this:
Do you still have confidence in Bill Barr?Pause. "Ask me that in a number of weeks from now. They should be looking at all of this fraud. This is not civil. This is criminal stuff. This is very bad criminal stuff.
"I'll just say this. We went through an election. At 10 o'clock everybody said that was an easy victory for Trump. All of a sudden the votes started disappearing. Miraculously disappearing.
"We found much of it. But we found far more votes than we need in almost all of these states.
"I think I can say in all of these states. Far more votes than we need to win every one of them.
"I just want to thank my team because my team is doing an unbelievable job. And more importantly I want to thank the 74 million plus people that voted, which … the largest amount of people that a sitting president has ever had… 74 million plus.
"Because the level of loyalty, I've never seen anything like it. All over the country… they know it was a fixed election. It was a rigged election. They know it and appreciate their support." 


 December 3, 2020 12:28

 Print pool #8: Lunch lid 
And we have a lunch lid until 13:30. 


 December 3, 2020 12:58

 Print pool note: lid lifted (or closed etc) 
Pool was summoned back for 13:00 (1pm) with an early end to lid. There is currently no change to POTUS's schedule but pool will endeavour to let you know if that changes. 


 December 3, 2020 16:52

 Pool report #9: Alyssa Farah 
?Pool just bumped into Alyssa Farah who confirmed she is to leave the White House.
A statement is being sent out by press office. 


 December 3, 2020 19:16

 Print pool report #10: Lid 
?Travel/photo lid called at 19:15.
Have a pleasant evening. 


 December 3, 2020 21:35

 Print pool report #11: El-Sisi readout 
?Judd Deere sends along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of Egypt. The two leaders discussed regional and bilateral issues. President Trump reiterated the commitment of the United States to facilitate peace and economic prosperity with the Middle East and Gulf region and extended well wishes to the Egyptian people. 



  