
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate twelve individuals and appoint twenty-two individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Robert B. Holland to be United States Alternate Executive Director of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of two years. Holland is currently the Managing Partner of Texas Limited, a consulting and investment partnership in Dallas, Texas. From 1993 to 1999, Holland was General Counsel, chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Triton Energy Limited, and from 1977 to 1994, he practiced law with the Texas law firm, Jackson Walker. Holland is a graduate of Stanford University and the University of Texas Law School.
The President intends to nominate Arthur Jeffrey Hedden to be the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Tennessee. Hedden has been employed by the U.S. Marshals Service since 1983. He served as Deputy U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Tennessee from 1983 to 1986, and he has served as Deputy in Charge of the Greenville, Tennessee, sub-office since 1986. Hedden is a graduate of Appalachian State University.
The President intends to nominate the following ten individuals to serve as Members of the National Council on Disability:
For three year terms expiring September 17, 2004: Lex Frieden of Texas and upon confirmation will be designated Chairperson Jacqueline Kelly Collamore of Maryland Carol Hughes of Georgia
For the remainder of a three year term expiring September 17, 2002: Barbara Gillcrist of New Mexico Graham Hill of Virginia Patricia Pound of Texas
For the remainder of a three year tem expiring September 17, 2003: Robert Davila of New York Young Woo Kang of Indiana Stephanie Smith Lee of Virginia Kathleen Martinez of California
The President intends to appoint the following twenty-two individuals to serve as Members of the Presidents Council of Advisors on Science and Technology:
Charles Joel Arntzen of Arizona.
Norman R. Augustine of Maryland
Carol Ann Bartz of California
M. Kathleen Behrens of California
Erich Bloch of the District of Columbia
Stephen B. Burke of Pennsylvania
Gerald Wayne Clough of Georgia
Michael S. Dell of Texas
Raul Fernandez of Maryland
Marye Anne Fox of North Carolina
Martha Diane Winters Gilliland of Missouri
Ralph E. Gomory of New York
Bernadine Patricia Healy of Ohio
Robert John Herbold of Washington
Barbara Kilberg of Virginia
Walter Eugene Massey of Georgia
Gordon E. Moore of California
Kenneth Nwabueze of California
Steven Gerald Papermaster of Texas
Dr. Luis M. Proenza of Ohio
George Martin Scalise of California
Charles M. Vest of Massachusetts
  