
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 18
In the afternoon, the President had telephone conversations with Senate majority leader Bob Dole and Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich on budget negotiations.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert M. Lyford to the U.S. Military Academy Board of Visitors.
December 19
In the late afternoon, the President had separate meetings with Senate majority leader Bob Dole and Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, and Senate minority leader Thomas A. Daschle and House minority leader Richard A. Gephardt to discuss budget negotiations.
In the evening, the President had telephone conversations with Senators Arlen Specter and Christopher J. Dodd on securities legislation.
December 20
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Senate majority leader Bob Dole and Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich on budget negotiations.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Georgia as a result of severe storms and tornadoes on November 7 and 8.
December 21
The President announced his intention to appoint Gerard D. DiMarco to the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Elmo R. Zumwalt, Jr., and reappoint Ann Caracristi as members, and to reappoint Warren B. Rudman as Vice Chairman and member of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
December 22
In the afternoon, the President hosted a Christmas celebration for children in the East Room.
The President announced that he has named Victoria L. Radd to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Communications.
The President announced that he has named Michael Waldman to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Speechwriting; Carolyn Curiel to be Special Assistant to the President and Senior Presidential Speechwriter; and Terry Edmonds, Jonathan Prince, and David Shipley to be Special Assistants to the President.
  