
    President George W. Bush today announced that he intends to nominate two individuals and appoint 18 individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Roszell Dulany Hunter, of Virginia, to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Mr. Hunter currently serves as a Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director in the Directorate for International Economics at the National Security Council. Earlier in his career, he served as Special Counsel in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. Mr. Hunter earned his bachelor's degree from Hampden-Sydney College and his JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Brad Cole, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Corporation for National and Community Service, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 10/06/12.
The President intends to appoint James W. Ceaser, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Historical Publications and Records Commission, for a four-year term beginning 12/27/08.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, for the remainder of four-year terms expiring 04/19/12:

B. John Garrick, of California, and upon approval designate Chair;
William Howard Arnold, of Michigan;
George Milton Hornberger, of Virginia;
Andrew C. Kadak, of Rhode Island;
Ali Mosleh, of Maryland;
Henry Petroski, of North Carolina.

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of the American Latino:

Anna Regula Haug de Cablik, of Georgia;
Gilberto Cárdenas, of Indiana;
Doreen M. Colon Camacho, of Puerto Rico;
Dorene C. Dominguez, of California;
José B. Fernández, of Florida;
Patrick Alexander López Negrete, of Texas;
Ricardo Romo, of Texas.

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy, for three-year terms beginning 12/31/08:

Randolph D. Brock III, of Vermont;
Frederic V. Malek, of Virginia.

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy:

Nancy L. Johnson, of Connecticut, for an additional three-year term beginning 12/31/08;
Albert Hawkins III, of Texas, for a three-year term beginning 12/31/08.

  