
    My Administration will do everything possible to provide our children, especially kids in underserved areas, with access to high-quality education in science, technology, engineering, and math.President Donald J. Trump
IMPROVING STEM EDUCATION: President Donald J. Trump is releasing a plan to strengthen education in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM).

The President's plan seeks to ensure that all Americans have access to quality STEM education and safeguard America's place as the global leader in STEM innovation and employment.
The Administration's goals include building a strong foundation of STEM literacy, increasing diversity in STEM careers, and preparing the STEM workforce of the future.
The plan lays out key pathways to achieve these goals, including:

Developing and enriching strategic STEM partnerships
Engaging students where disciplines converge
Advancing computational thinking as a critical skill for America's future workforce



REALIZING A SHARED VISION: The plan advances the shared goal of educators and the Administration to improve STEM education and employment opportunities. 

The plan was developed by the National Science and Technology Council Committee on STEM Education and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The Administration engaged extensively with the education community in developing this plan, listening to their concerns and experiences.

This effort included hosting a State-Federal STEM Education Summit that brought together STEM education specialists from all 50 States.



EXPANDING STEM OPPORTUNITIES: This plan continues President Trump's commitment to expand STEM education and employment opportunities for all Americans. 

Since taking office, President Trump has worked to improve STEM education, increase STEM employment, and prepare our workers and students for the jobs of the future.
The President established the National Council for the American Worker to develop a strategy to ensure American students and workers have access to the training and education they need.
President Trump signed the reauthorization of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act to support career and technical education programs for American students.
In June 2017, President Trump signed a presidential memorandum directing the Department of Education to make STEM and computer science education a top priority.

The President's memorandum called for the Secretary of Education to set a goal of devoting at least $200 million per year toward STEM education.
In FY 2018, the Department spent $279 million in discretionary STEM grants.


President Trump has worked to advance opportunities for women in STEM careers.

The President signed the INSPIRE Act directing NASA to encourage women to study STEM and to pursue aerospace careers.
President Trump signed legislation enabling the National Science Foundation to better support women inventors.



Read "Charting a Course for Success: America's Strategy for STEM Education" here.
  