
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Romney for President launched its newest television ad, "Choice: The Record." The ad highlights the very important choice voters will have to make when it comes to confronting illegal immigration. While Governors Romney and Huckabee both believe in protecting life and traditional marriage, they have very different records on enforcing our immigration laws. In Massachusetts, Governor Romney stood up and vetoed in-state tuition for illegal immigrants and opposed driver's licenses for illegal immigrants. In Arkansas, Governor Huckabee supported in-state tuition breaks and taxpayer-funded scholarships for illegal immigrants.
The ad will begin airing tomorrow as part of the campaign's rotation in Iowa. Script and viewing links are below.
Script For "Choice: The Record" (TV:30):
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
ANNOUNCER: "Two former governors, two good family men.
"Both pro-life, both support a Constitutional amendment protecting traditional marriage.
"The difference?
"Mitt Romney stood up, and vetoed in-state tuition for illegal aliens, opposed driver's licenses for illegals.
"Mike Huckabee? Supported in-state tuition benefits for illegal immigrants.
"Huckabee even supported taxpayer-funded scholarships for illegal aliens.
"On immigration, the choice matters."
To watch "Choice: The Record," please see: http://tv.mittromney.com/?showid=718462
AD FACTS: Script For "Choice: The Record" (TV:30):
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message." ANNOUNCER: "Two former governors, two good family men. Both pro-life, both support a Constitutional amendment protecting traditional marriage."
- Governor Romney Has Been Recognized For His Pro-Life Leadership In Massachusetts. "Mitt Romney was a great Governor, who served with honor and distinction. But most importantly, he was a pro-life Governor. He vetoed a number of pro-abortion pieces of legislation and made many pro-life appointments. He was always there for us. He's a busy man these days and we are extra fortunate that he and his wife Ann could be with us. Governor, you have been an inspirational leader in many ways. And if I may say so, Mitt, you're looking very presidential. Ladies and gentlemen, please join me in welcoming our friend, Governor Mitt Romney, to the podium as our 2007 Mullins Award Winner for Outstanding Political Leadership." (Kevin Jourdain, Remarks, Agawam, MA, 5/10/07)
- Governor Romney Supports A Constitutional Amendment Defending Traditional Marriage. "While Romney is willing to generally leave it to states to decide how to set up health care coverage plans, he said it shouldn't be left to states to decide same-sex marriage issues. 'It's a status that lasts a lifetime. And so, if somebody is married in one state and they move to another state, that status travels with them. And so, if you have gay marriage in one state, whether you want it or not, you have gay marriage in all states,' Romney told reporters after speaking at a Greenville, S.C., restaurant." (Amy Lorentzen, "Iowa Gay Marriage Ruling Stirs 2008 Race," The Associated Press, 9/1/07)

ANNOUNCER: "The difference? Mitt Romney stood up, and vetoed in-state tuition for illegal aliens, opposed driver's licenses for illegals."
- Governor Romney Vetoed In-State Tuition For Illegal Immigrants. "Mr. Romney also cut several outside sections, including a plan that would allow illegal aliens to pay in-state tuition rates at state colleges and universities; he said the plan would encourage illegal immigration." (Shaun Sutner, "Romney Approves $22.5B Budget," Telegram & Gazette, 6/26/04)
- Governor Romney Opposed Efforts To Give Driver's Licenses To Illegal Immigrants. "'Those who are here illegally should not receive tacit support from our government that gives an indication of legitimacy,' the governor said, echoing arguments that opponents have voiced in the Commonwealth and in other states considering similar license measures. 'If they are here illegally, they should not get driver's licenses,' he said." (Scott S. Greenberger, "Romney Stand Dims Chances Of License For Undocumented," The Boston Globe, 10/28/03)

ANNOUNCER: "Mike Huckabee? Supported in-state tuition benefits for illegal immigrants. Huckabee even supported taxpayer-funded scholarships for illegal aliens. On immigration, the choice matters."
- Huckabee Fought To Pass A Bill Which Granted In-State Tuition Breaks For Illegals. "Other than the highway plan, the only bill in the governor's 21-bill legislative package that failed to win legislative approval was a proposal to make the children of illegal immigrants eligible for state-funded scholarships and in-state tuition to Arkansas colleges. After passing the House relatively early in the session, the bill faltered in the Senate where it was amended to remove the scholarship provision but fell just short of passage Tuesday and Wednesday. Huckabee said his office worked throughout the day Wednesday for the two Senate votes needed to pass the bill." (Melissa Nelson, "Governor Touts Successful End To Legislative Session," The Associated Press, 4/13/05)
- "'I Don't Understand The Opposition To It, I Just Honestly Don't,' Huckabee Said." (Melissa Nelson, "Governor Touts Successful End To Legislative Session," The Associated Press, 4/13/05)
- Huckabee Proposed Extending Taxpayer-Funded College Scholarships To Illegal Aliens. "Gov. Mike Huckabee is proposing extending eligibility for state-funded college scholarships to illegal aliens who graduate from Arkansas high schools - an idea that several legislators predicted will go nowhere" (Laura Kellams, "Huckabee Plan Would Aid Illegal Aliens," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 1/12/05)
- Huckabee Said It Was "Terribly Unjust" That Illegal Aliens Couldn't Have Taxpayer-Funded College Scholarships. "Huckabee said it's 'terribly unjust' for a child who arrived in Arkansas at a young age and graduated from high school to be denied state-funded college scholarships because of a 'a status that he had no control over.'" (Laura Kellams, "Huckabee Plan Would Aid Illegal Aliens," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 1/12/05)

To watch "Choice: The Record," please see: http://tv.mittromney.com/?showid=718462
  