
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint two individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate James I. Finley, of Minnesota, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology. Mr. Finley currently serves as President of The Finley Group, LLC, a consulting company he formed in 2002. Prior to this, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of SMARTSKIN, Inc. Mr. Finley has served in a managerial capacity for General Electric, Singer, Lear Siegler, United Technologies and General Dynamics, where he was a Corporate Officer, President of Information Systems and Chair of the Business Development Council. Mr. Finley received his bachelor's degree from the Milwaukee School of Engineering and his master's degree from California State University.
The President intends to nominate Sharee M. Freeman, of Virginia, to be Director of Community Relations Service at the Department of Justice, for a term of four years. Since November, Ms. Freeman has served as Counselor to the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice. Previously, she served a four year term at the Department of Justice as the Director of Community Relations Service. Prior to this, she served as Counsel for the House International Relations Committee and Legislative Counsel for Chairman Henry J. Hyde's congressional office. She also served as Full Committee Counsel for the House Committee on the Judiciary. Earlier in her career, Ms. Freeman served in various capacities at the Department of the Interior, such as an attorney and Acting Assistant Solicitor for General Indian Legal Activities. Ms. Freeman received her bachelor's degree from Saint Lawrence University and her JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Stephen Goldsmith, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring October 6, 2010.
The President intends to appoint Rodney R. McInnis, of California, to be a Member of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (Department of Commerce, National Maritime Fisheries, NOAA Member).
The President intends to appoint Charles S. Robb, of Virginia, to be a Member of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, for a two-year term.
The President intends to designate Sharee M. Freeman, of Virginia, to be Acting Director of the Community Relations Service at the Department of Justice.
  