
    
  Endorsement of Former Bush Regional Administration Official for the United States EPA

HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Alan Steinberg, former Regional Administrator for the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the administration of former President George W. Bush. During his time at the EPA, Steinberg made history by having a formerly delisted Superfund site in New Jersey restored to the Superfund National Priorities List (NPL) — the first time a previously delisted site had been restored.
"I am thankful to have the support of Mr. Steinberg," said Cruz. "He is a public servant with a diverse and impressive background. He is a very capable individual who was trusted to protect the health and livelihood of millions of people. He will be a real asset to our campaign."
Today, Steinberg is an adjunct professor at Monmouth University in New Jersey where he has taught courses in environmental policy, state and local government, and public administration. He served in the Judge Advocate General's Corps of the U.S. Navy, as a consultant to various corporations and as the senior policy advisor in the New Jersey Assembly Republican Office.
"Ted Cruz is the most competent candidate for the Republican presidential nomination on foreign policy issues since Ronald Reagan. Like Reagan, he believes that our foreign policy and international military involvements should be governed by one criterion: the vital interests of the United States. Like Reagan, he rejects the policies of both isolationists and out-of-control interventionists."
"Ted Cruz is a candidate of unsurpassed intellect, scintillating intelligence, and unquestionable ethics. As an Orthodox Jew, I have a special feeling for him — he is by far the most committed supporter of Israel among all the candidates for president in either party in Campaign 2016. Like Ronald Reagan, he will become a great President of the United States."
Mr. Steinberg is the author of American Jewry and Conservative Politics: A New Direction, and has served as regular columnist for New Jersey's leading political website, PolitickerNJ.com.
  