
    "Together" Will Air on Cable in Early States, Select National Markets
Targeted Specifically at Debate Watchers, Ad Is Opening Salvo in Cory 2020's Announced TV Advertising Campaign
Newark, NJ — Cory 2020's first television ad will run today during the Democratic debate.
In the 30-second spot, titled "Together" and targeted specifically at Democrats tuning in to the debate tonight, Cory Booker notes that although he will not be on the December debate stage, he will still win the election by bringing people together in common cause and common purpose to tackle big challenges.
"Together" is the first part of a $500,000 down payment on television and digital advertising aimed at convincing voters to support Cory Booker that the campaign announced last week.
Cory 2020 will run the new ad on cable TV in 22 markets nationwide, including the four early states -- Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, and South Carolina -- and New York, Washington, DC, and Los Angeles. The ad will run during the debate, which is being broadcast by PBS and simulcast on CNN.
This weekend, nine Democratic presidential candidates, including every candidate on the December debate stage, urged the DNC to rethink the January debate qualification thresholds to ensure that the debate stage includes all viable candidates and fully reflects the diversity of the Democratic Party.
The debate qualification thresholds for the January debate have not yet been announced, but four public polls released in the past 10 days have shown Booker at four percent or higher in support, including three state-level polls (in Iowa, South Carolina, and Wisconsin). No state-level debate qualifying polls were released between the November debate and the December debate qualifying deadline.
Since the November debate, Cory 2020 has seen a surge in financial support and interest from voters in early states. After traveling to Nevada yesterday, Booker will spend the next five days in Iowa, launching a bus tour of the state tomorrow and hosting a flurry of events across the state.
Cory 2020's new 30-second television ad can be viewed HERE:
Below is a transcript of the ad:
BOOKER: How long are these things? 30 seconds? Are you sure we can afford this?
You're only gonna see this ad once because I'm not a billionaire. I won't be on tonight's debate stage, but that's okay because I'm going to win this election anyway. This election isn't about who can spend the most, or who slings the most mud. It's about the people. It's about all of us, standing together, fighting together. Not just to beat Donald Trump, but to bring about the transformative change we need.
Go to CORYBOOKER.COM, join us. I'm Cory Booker, and I approve this message.
  