
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint five individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Yousif B. Ghafari, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Ghafari currently serves as Chairman of Ghafari Companies. He received his bachelor's degree and master's degrees from Wayne State University and his MBA from Michigan State University.
The President intends to nominate James K. Glassman, of Connecticut, to be Under Secretary of State (Public Diplomacy) with the Rank of Ambassador. Mr. Glassman currently serves as Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. He also serves as a Senior Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. Earlier in his career, he served as a Columnist at the Washington Post. Mr. Glassman received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Stanley C. Suboleski, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy). Dr. Suboleski currently serves as a self-employed Consultant. Prior to this, he served as a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. Earlier in his career, he served as Interim Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President of Massey Energy Company. Dr. Suboleski received his bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University, his master's degree from Virginia Polytechnic and State University, and his PhD from Pennsylvania State University.
The President intends to nominate Jon Wellinghoff, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 06/30/13. Mr. Wellinghoff currently serves as a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Prior to this, he served as a Partner at Beckley Singleton. Earlier in his career, he served as Staff Counsel to the Nevada Public Utilities Commission. Mr. Wellinghoff received his bachelor's degree from the University of Nevada, his master's degree from Howard University, and his JD from Antioch School of Law.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations, for a term of four years:
Sheldon G. Adelson, of Nevada;
Phil Gramm, of Texas;
Harold McGraw, III, of Connecticut;
George Perdue, of Georgia;
Faryar Shirzad, of Virginia.
  