
    I made a promise to do everything in my power to ensure that all Americans have access to quality, affordable health care, because I believe that health care is a right, not a privilege.
As 2021 draws to a close, I am proud to say that more than 4.6 million Americans have gained health coverage through the Affordable Care Act since I took office. From November 1 to December 15 alone, more than 13.6 million Americans signed up for coverage through healthcare.gov and the State-based marketplaces, an alltime high. That includes 1.8 million new enrollees, a significant accomplishment that builds on the success of our earlier special enrollment period. Americans who haven't yet renewed their coverage or shopped for a plan can still visit healthcare.gov through January 15 to sign up.
This record enrollment is a product not only of expanded access, but of the actions my administration has taken to lower the cost of health coverage. Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, we've made quality coverage through the ACA more affordable than ever, with families saving an average of $2,400 on their annual premiums and four out of five consumers finding quality coverage for under $10 a month.
But as long as there are Americans who still lie awake at night, wondering how they're going to make it if an accident or illness hits home, we know we still have work to do. As we keep up our fight against the pandemic, it is more important than ever that we continue to expand coverage and lower costs. My Build Back Better Act would do just that, reducing premiums for more than 9 million Americans, covering 4 million Americans in States that have failed to expand Medicaid, expanding Medicare to include hearing coverage, lowering prescription drug costs, and bringing down the price of insulin to no more than $35 for a month's supply.
My Build Back Better Act represents the single most consequential expansion of affordable health care since the Affordable Care Act a decade ago. We will press forward on passing Build Back Better, work to cut health care costs, and deliver greater peace of mind to American families in the new year.
  