
    
  Cites Perry's unwavering commitment to protecting life

AUSTIN — Kurt Wuelper, President of New Hampshire Right to Life, today announced his support for Texas Gov. Rick Perry for president.
"I am honored to have Kurt's support and the support of so many other pro-life Americans," said Gov. Perry. "As governor of Texas, I signed more pro-life legislation than any other governor in history. Our nation needs a president committed to protecting the rights of innocent unborn children."
"I know that Gov. Perry unequivocally believes that life begins at conception and does not waiver in his protection of the unborn, unlike some self-professed pro-life candidates," said Wuelper. "But more than just talking the talk, Rick Perry has shown he is a man of strong faith and strong action. He has a proven consistent record of protecting innocent human life and has signed more pro-life legislation than any governor in Texas history, including the Parental Notification Act, the Parental Consent Act, the Prenatal Protection Act, and the Woman's Right to Know Act. That's why I am supporting him for President."
"In Texas, Gov. Perry successfully de-funded the nation's leading abortion provider, Planned Parenthood," Wuelper added. "His courage and convictions are just what America needs right now as it tries to find its way through these tough times. I am so very proud to support Gov. Perry for president and encourage anyone who cares about fostering a culture of life in America to consider doing the same."
Gov. Perry's defunding of Planned Parenthood resulted in the shutdown of 12 Planned Parenthood clinics in Texas. Since 2005, Gov. Perry has signed budgets that include millions for pregnancy resource centers and other pro-life agencies that assist pregnant women. The governor also signed a ban on late-term abortions and a law that requires a doctor to perform a sonogram on an expectant mother before performing an abortion. Additionally, every Texas budget signed by Gov. Perry prohibits funding of abortions by tax dollars.
"He doesn't just fight against abortion, Gov. Perry fights for life," concluded Wuelper. "His dedication to providing assistance to pregnant women and encouraging them to choose life makes him exactly the kind of positive leader I want in the White House."
  