
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Pamella DeVos, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Robert Castellani, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Brian D. Ballard, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Mary Helen Bowers, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
David Marchick, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
Jeffrey Miller, of Texas, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
Adam S. Boehler, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
Jimmy Resnick, of Florida, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
Daniel Huff, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council. 
Heidi H. Stirrup, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy.
Wes Spurlock, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy.
John Coale, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy.
Eugene R. Lutz, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Professor Steve H. Hanke, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences.
Dale Ahlquist, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences.
Thomas Emanuel Dans, of Texas, to be a Member of the Arctic Research Commission.
Crawford Patkotak, of Alaska, to be a Member of the Arctic Research Commission.
Robert Benedict Bowes, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory Board.
Garrick Davis, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center.
Yesli Vega, of Virginia, to be a Member of the President's Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity.
Marcia Lee Kelly, of California, to be a Member of the Committee for the Preservation of the White House. 
Brian H. Hook, of Iowa, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in the Smithsonian Institution. 
Ray W. Washburne, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Security Education Board.
David R. Legates, of Delaware, to be a Member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science.
  