
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      David Mills, Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Export Enforcement), Department of Commerce
•      Douglas Rediker, United States Alternate Executive Director, International Monetary Fund Board
President Obama said, "I am happy to announce that these two experienced and committed individuals will join my administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
David Mills, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Export Enforcement), Department of Commerce
David Mills is an experienced lawyer and public servant. He has spent the past three years in private practice, currently at DLA Piper and previously at Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell & Berkowitz. At both firms Mr. Mills worked on OFAC cases as well as anti-money laundering audits, export control and antiboycott matters. Mr. Mills spent 20 years in government service, including 18 years in the United States Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). He left OFAC in 2005 as the Chief of Licensing. Mr. Mills started his federal government career in the Bureau of Export Administration at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Mills received his B.A. from Colby College and his J.D. from the University of Miami School of Law in Coral Gables, Florida.
Douglas A. Rediker, Nominee for United States Alternate Executive Director, International Monetary Fund Board
Douglas A. Rediker is currently the Director of the Global Strategic Finance Initiative at the New America Foundation, which focuses on the relationship between global finance, capital flows and foreign policy. Prior to his public policy work with New America, he lived and worked in Europe for sixteen years, holding senior positions in emerging markets and telecommunications investment banking and private equity for Salomon Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Lehman Brothers and TD Capital. He began his career as an attorney at Skadden Arps in Washington, DC and New York. As Head of European Emerging Markets Investment Banking during the period of post-communist transition, he originated and executed pioneering transactions and oversaw the establishment and management of operations throughout Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. He has worked closely with governments, central banks, financial institutions and private companies on privatizations, mergers and acquisitions, debt and equity capital markets transactions. He was named an "Emerging Markets Superstar" by Global Finance Magazine. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the International Institute for Strategic Studies, the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House) and serves on the advisory board of the Lisbon Council in Brussels. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees of Aidan Montessori School in Washington, DC. He holds degrees from Vassar College and the Fordham University School of Law and also attended the John F. Kennedy School at Harvard University.
  