
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of former South Carolina Congressman Tommy Hartnett and former Newberry County GOP Chairman Alan Gardner.
"I am so proud to have the support of distinguished leaders like Alan and Tommy," said Mitt Romney. "Throughout their time in public life, they have consistently stood up to stop out of control spending and bigger government. I look forward to working with them to spread my conservative message of smaller, simpler, and smarter government."
"Plain and simple, Mitt Romney is the most qualified conservative candidate in the race," said Congressman Tommy Hartnett. "The middle class has taken the brunt of President Obama's failed economic policies. We need a candidate who knows how to create jobs, grow the economy, and make America prosperous for all once again. Whether it was his time as a conservative businessman, leading the Olympics, or working to bring the state of Massachusetts out of a massive deficit, Mitt Romney has shown he can be brought into difficult situations and turn them around. This is what our country needs today and this is why our country needs Mitt Romney."
Announcing his support, former Newberry County GOP Chairman Alan Gardner said, "For the last three years, President Obama has raised taxes and dramatically increased our national debt, all while the unemployment rate has remained unacceptably high. Mitt Romney has spent his life as a conservative businessman. He knows what it takes to run a business. That's why he is the candidate who will be a friend to small business owners like me and help rebuild the middle class."
Background on Congressman Tommy Hartnett:
Tommy Hartnett served South Carolina's 1st district from 1981 until 1987. Harnett is currently the president of Hartnett Realty. Before being elected to Congress, he served four terms in the South Carolina House of Representatives and two in the State Senate. Congressman Hartnett also served his country in the Air Force Reserve.
Background On Alan Gardner:
Alan Gardner was the Newberry County GOP Chairman from 2004-2008. He is also the owner of the Gardner Insurance Agency in Newberry. Gardner was appointed to the State Parole Board in 2009. Previously, he was Chief of Staff to Lieutenant Governor Andre Bauer. In 2009, he was awarded the Order of the Palmetto—the highest civilian honor in South Carolina.   
  