
    President Bush Today Announced His Nomination of One Individual, His Intention to Nominate One Individual and His Intention to Appoint One Individual
President George W. Bush today announced his nomination of one individual, his intention to nominate one individual and his intention to appoint one individual.
The President has nominated Grant S. Green to be Deputy Secretary for Management and Resources at the Department of State. Green has been serving at the State Department as Under Secretary for Management since his confirmation by the Senate in March. Before joining the State Department, Green was Chairman and President of GMD Solutions, a global marketing and development company. He was Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management and Personnel as well as a member of the National Security Sector. Green served in the U.S. Army for twenty-two years and received an undergraduate degree from the University of Arkansas and a Master's degree from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Kathie L. Olsen to be Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. She has been Chief Scientist at NASA since May, 1999, and Acting Associate Administrator for the Office of Biological and Physical Research since July, 2000. Olsen worked at the National Science Foundation from 1984 to 1996 and then returned in 1997. During her tenure at the NSF, she held various positions including Director of the Neuroendocrinology program and division and Special Assistant for Neuroscience in the Office of the Assistant Director for Biological Sciences. Olsen received an undergraduate degree from Chatham College and a Ph.D. from the University of California at Irvine.
The President intends to appoint Peter N. Kirsanow to be a Member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights for the remainder of a term expiring November 29, 2007. Kirsanow is currently a Partner with Benesch, Friedlander, Coplan and Aronoff in Cleveland, Ohio, where he practices labor and employment law. From 1990 to 1996, he was Senior Labor Counsel for Leaseway Transportation Corporation, and from 1984 to 1990, he was Labor Counsel for the City of Cleveland under then-Mayor George Voinavich. He is a graduate of Cornell University and Cleveland Marshall College of Law.
  