
    To the Congress of the United States: 
Pursuant to section 233(e)(1) of the Social Security Act, as amended by the Social Security Amendments of 1977 (Public Law 95-216, 42 U.S.C. 433(e)(1)), I transmit herewith a social security totalization agreement with Brazil, titled "Agreement on Social Security between the United States of America and the Federative Republic of Brazil," and a related agreement titled "Administrative Arrangement between the Competent Authorities of the United States of America and the Federative Republic of Brazil for the Implementation of the Agreement on Social Security" (collectively the "Agreements"). The Agreements were signed in Washington, D.C., on June 30, 2015.
The Agreements are similar in objective to the social security agreements already in force with most European Union countries, Australia, Canada, Chile, Japan, Norway, the Republic of Korea, and Switzerland. Such bilateral agreements provide for limited coordination between the United States and foreign social security systems to eliminate dual social security coverage and taxation and to help prevent the lost benefit protection that can occur when workers divide their careers between two countries.
The Agreements contain all provisions mandated by section 233 of the Social Security Act and other provisions that I deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of section 233, pursuant to section 233(c)(4) of the Social Security Act.
I also transmit for the information of the Congress a report required by section 233(e)(1) of the Social Security Act on the estimated number of individuals who will be affected by the Agreements and the Agreements' estimated cost effect. The Department of State and the Social Security Administration have recommended the Agreements to me.
I commend the Agreement on Social Security between the United States of America and the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Administrative Arrangement between the Competent Authorities of the United States of America and the Federative Republic of Brazil for the Implementation of the Agreement on Social Security.
BARACK OBAMA
The White House,
December 8, 2016.
  