
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•        Jason Glass – Member, Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences
•        Susanna Loeb – Member, Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences
•        Lesley Israel – Member, Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad
•        Sheila Lirio Marcelo – Member, Library of Congress Trust Fund Board
•        John W. Miller – Member, Library of Congress Trust Fund Board
•        Rickey D. James – Commissioner, Mississippi River Commission
•        Rear Admiral Shepard Smith – Commissioner, Mississippi River Commission
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these talented and dedicated individuals have agreed to take on these important roles and devote their talents to serving the American people. I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dr. Jason Glass, Appointee for Member, Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences
Dr. Jason Glass is Superintendent of the Eagle County School District in Colorado, a position he has held since 2013. Previously, Dr. Glass served as Chief School Officer for the State of Iowa, a position he held from 2010 to 2013. Prior to his work in Iowa, Mr. Glass was the Senior Director of Human Capital Strategy with Battelle for Kids in 2010. From 2007 to 2010, Mr. Glass served as the Director of Human Resources and Director of Research and Assessment with Eagle County Schools. He has also served as Vice President of Quality Ratings with Qualistar Early Learning, held several posts with the Colorado Department of Education, and worked as a university instructor and high school teacher in Kentucky. Dr. Glass received a B.A and two M.A.s from the University of Kentucky and a Ph.D from Seton Hall University.
Dr. Susanna Loeb, Appointee for Member, Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences
Dr. Susanna Loeb was previously appointed to the Board of Directors of National Board for Education Sciences in 2012. Dr. Loeb is the Barnett Family Professor of Education at Stanford University. She also serves as a Senior Fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, Director of the Institute for Research on Education Policy and Practice, and Co-Director of Policy Analysis for California Education. In addition to her work at Stanford, Dr. Loeb is currently a policy council member with the Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management, co-editor of Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, and a Faculty Research Fellow with the National Bureau of Economic Research. From 2010 to 2011, Dr. Loeb served as President of the Association for Education Finance and Policy. She previously served as a member of the National Research Council Committee on Test-Based Accountability and the Council Committee on Evaluation of the Impact of Teacher Certification by the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards. Dr. Loeb received a B.A. in Political Science and a B.S. in Stanford University, and an M.P.P. and Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
Lesley Israel, Appointee for Member, Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad
Lesley Israel has served on the Board of Directors for the International Foundation on Electoral Systems since 1995, and served as its Treasurer since 2005. Ms. Israel was President of the National Coalition Supporting Eurasian Jewry from 2006 to 2008, President and Chief Executive Officer of Politics Inc. from 1978 to 1995, and Senior Vice President of the Kamber Group from 1981 to 1995. She serves as Director and Treasurer of Bosnian Handicrafts Inc. and as a member of the National Executive Committee of the Anti-Defamation League. Ms. Israel previously served as Chair of the Washington Regional Board of the Anti-Defamation League and President of the Jewish Community Center of Greater Washington. Ms. Israel received a B.A. from Smith College.
Sheila Lirio Marcelo, Appointee for Member, Library of Congress Trust Fund Board
Sheila Lirio Marcelo is Founder, Chairwoman, and Chief Executive Officer of Care.com, positions she has held since 2006. Ms. Marcelo was an Entrepreneur in Residence at Matrix Partners in 2006, Vice President and General Manager of TheLadders.com from 2005 to 2006, and Vice President of Product Management and Marketing at Upromise from 2000 to 2005. She was a Graduate Teaching Fellow at Harvard Business School from 1998 to 1999, a Consultant at the Monitor Group from 1996 to 1998, and a Consultant at Pyramid Research from 1995 to 1996. Ms. Marcelo was also an Analyst at Putnam Hayes & Bartlett from 1993 to 1994. She is on the Board of Trustees of the Philippine Development Foundation. Ms. Marcelo received a B.A. from Mt. Holyoke College and an M.B.A. and J.D. from Harvard University.
John W. Miller, Appointee for Member, Library of Congress Trust Fund Board
John W. Miller is Founder and Principal of Arenberg Holdings, positions he has held since 2015. Mr. Miller was President and Chief Executive Officer of Miller-St. Nazianz Inc. from 2008 to 2014, where he also served as Vice President and General Counsel from 2006 to 2008. He was Deputy Chief of Staff to Congressman Jerry Kleczka from 1997 to 2003 and Campaign Manager for Kleczka for Congress in 1998 and 2002. Mr. Miller serves on the Board of the United Way of Greater Milwaukee and the University of Wisconsin Law School. Mr. Miller received a B.A. from Marquette University, an M.A. from Georgetown University, and a J.D. from the University of Wisconsin Law School.
Rickey D. James, Appointee for Commissioner, Mississippi River Commission
Rickey D. James is Managing Member of A.C. Riley Company, LLC, a position he has held since 2001. Mr. James worked at A.C. Riley Company as Manager from 1975 to 2001 and as Operations Manager from 1971 to 1975. He worked with the Kentucky Department of Water Resources Engineering Office from 1970 to 1971. Mr. James served on the Boards of Directors and Executive Committees of the Southern Cotton Ginners Association, the Cotton Producers of Missouri, the U.S. Bank of Sikeston, Missouri, and the New Madrid County Board of Education. He was appointed to the Mississippi River Commission in 1981 and was reappointed in 1991 and 2003. Mr. James received the Sikeston Area Chamber of Commerce 2007 Agri-Business Award and was the New Madrid County Outstanding Conservation Farmer of 1987. Mr. James received a B.S. from the University of Kentucky.
Rear Admiral Shepard Smith, Appointee for Commissioner, Mississippi River Commission
Rear Admiral Shepard Smith is Director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Office of Coast Survey, a position he has held since 2016. Rear Admiral Smith has held numerous roles at NOAA since he was first commissioned as an ensign in 1993, including Commanding Officer of the NOAA Ship Thomas Jefferson, Chief of the Marine Chart Division, and Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary of Environmental Observation and Prediction. Rear Admiral Smith received a B.S. from Cornell University and an M.S. from the University of New Hampshire.
  