
    Pool Reports by Rozina Sabur, The Telegraph 



Sent:
Reports:




December 7, 202213:35

VP Pool #1 gathering for bilat
Hi all, I'll be your print pooler for the Vice President's meeting with Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė of Lithuania this afternoon.
We are in the EEOB waiting to head to the VP's Ceremonial Office, where the bilat is taking place.



December 7, 202214:31

VP pool #2 remarks and background on VP's meeting with Lithuanian PM
Vice President Harris and Prime Minister Šimonytė entered at 1.47 pm. They stood at podiums flanked by US and Lithuanian flags
The VP began by addressing Russia's latest missile strikes this week. She said: "To the people of Ukraine I say: You are brave, you are courageous, and you have exhibited real courage in the face of an unprovoked inhumane attack and the United States stands with you."
Ms Harris turned to the Prime Minister and said: "The United States commitment to NATO's Article Five is ironclad. We will defend every inch of NATO territory and an attack on any is an attack on all. Lithuania is a critical ally of the United States and is on the frontline of Russian aggression. And we stand with you."
She also congratulated Ms Šimonytė for receiving the 2022 Madeleine Albright Democracy Award. VP said: "I knew Madeleine Albright... She was an extraordinary leader, and a world leader, and knowing her as I did, I know that she would be so very proud to know that you are the recipient of an award in her name."
Prime Minister Šimonytė said the award was a "great honour". She added: "I take it as a reminder that this is our common responsibility to help people who suffer and who fight for freedom and democratic values."
She added: "It is very symbolic that I happened to be here in the year where we celebrate the centenary of our diplomatic relations."
The Lithuanian Prime Minister stressed the importance of continued US support for Ukraine. She said: "I want to thank you for the stance that this administration is taking in supporting Ukraine from the moment zero, from the day zero when this invasion started. And I think it is important that the bipartisan support in Congress strengthens this belief that Ukraine will be supported as long as needed and as much as needed.
She added: "I was in Kyiv 10 days ago. It is sad to see a city which is darkened, silenced... But the sense of resolve, the sense of resilience that you feel everywhere, when you see Ukrainians on the streets, in the meetings is invincible. That's why I think we must make absolutely sure that we will not let Ukrainian people down."
Sending along some details on the bilateral on background from a White House official:
Vice President Harris is meeting with Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė of Lithuania.
U.S. Delegation:- Vice President Kamala Harris- Lorraine Voles, Chief of Staff to the Vice President- Philip Gordon, National Security Advisor- Rebecca Lissner, Deputy National Security Advisor- Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs, U.S. Department of State- Amanda Sloat, Senior Director for Europe, NSC- Alton Buland, Special Advisor for Europe and Russia- Lisa Sawyer, Special Advisor
Lithuania Delegation:- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė, Lithuania- Adura Plepytė, Ambassador of Lithuania to the United States- Rolandas Kriščiūnas, First Deputy Chancellor of the Government- Ieva Skarelytė, Head of the Bureau of the Prime Minister- Artūras Vazbys, Deputy Chief of Mission and Minister Plenipotentiary, Embassy- Kęstutis Vaškelevičius, Head of International Relations and EU Group- Marijus Petrušonis, First Secretary, Embassy of the Republic of Lithuania



December 7, 202214:44

VP pool #3 VP remarks on Republicans supporting Ukraine and Georgia runoff
In response to a pool question on continued bipartisan support for Ukraine following Kevin McCarthy's "no blank checks" comment, the VP said:
"There is no question in my mind, and among reasonable people, that the matter of Ukraine and the atrocities by Russia as it relates to Ukraine, raise fundamental values about who we are and what we stand for, as the United States of America.
"We stand with our allies, we stand with our friends, we stand to defend and protect rules and norms such as the integrity and importance of sovereignty and territorial integrity.
"And we will not be distracted by any partisan suggestion that it is anything other than a representation of who we are as Americans, regardless of political party."
Prime Minister Šimonytė nodded vigorously as the VP spoke but did not offer any remarks herself.
Vice President Harris was also asked for her reaction to Senator Warnock's win in the Georgia runoff election last night.
With a broad smile on her face, she said: "I congratulate Senator Warnock."
She called his victory a "very important statement" about the people of the state of Georgia and America, saying: "you know, some people call it the new South".
"He's an extraordinary public servant. And I think his win also speaks volumes about the desire of the American people to expand a majority of the United States Senate that concerns itself with solutions and actually getting things done."
She added: "So I sent him my heartiest congratulations. I did speak with him today and I look forward to his continued leadership in the United States Senate."
Pool was ushered out shortly after 2pm. This will be the final pool report from me, feel free to reach out with any questions.




  