
    
We should treat caretakers like heroes.
11 million Americans rely on caretakers—the folks whose job it is to step in when you, or your loved ones, are most vulnerable. Caretakers do an enormous service to patients and families who need help providing care, and Regina Sutton is one of them.
Regina is a professional caretaker, which means she takes care of people with serious medical needs. She takes on the everyday tasks that to most seem routine—getting dressed, preparing meals, cutting food, and taking patients to their doctors' appointments.?


Caretaking is more than just a day job. It's part spiritual, part hard work, but most of all it's about showing compassion to those who need it most.?
Sometimes, Regina takes on extra tasks like spending an extra hour sweeping the floor or cleaning up the kitchen because she knows that if she doesn't do it, it won't get done.?
Despite the monumental responsibility, caretakers are chronically underpaid, with some making as little as little as $7.25, the minimum wage, and the average care worker making just over $9.00 an hour.?
If they aren't feeling well, they face a moral dilemma: stay home, and there's a chance nobody else can take care of their patient.
Worse still, many home care workers don't have benefits like paid leave.
A few months ago, Regina had the opportunity to sit down with Hillary Clinton alongside other caretakers to talk about the challenges they face.?



  " We were all nervous. I personally felt a little starstruck. ... When Secretary Clinton walked in and said ?We are just going to have a conversation,' it was a relief."—Regina Sutton



There were tears as caretakers from around the country shared their stories.


  " And right now I'm hitting on 60 years old. It's going to be my turn to be the client. And what is there for me? Nothing, if I quit tomorrow I have nothing. I have nothing to show for 42 years of my life working for people. And that's what I do. I mean I don't give it up. Everybody tells me why don't you quit? I can't. It's my passion. And I feel for those people that are left in their homes all day and nobody knows what they're going through. ...[W]e're the only people that they see. So we're their miracle workers. But, my thing is I don't care how long I've been doing it, when I leave and they give you a smile that's all I need."—Lulu G.




  " [I]n my career of being a home care worker, I've had two babies and both via C-section. And I had to return to work a week after having a C-section. And I just really don't think that anybody should have to make that choice either to take care of themselves or put food on the table."—Summer S.

Hillary listened to the stories and summed up how anybody would feel after hearing them.

—Hillary Clinton
That's why Hillary has a plan to invest in what she calls the "caring economy," which recognizes the value of family caregivers and home care workers.?
As president, she'll provide tax relief to family members who care for ailing parents and grandparents. She'll launch a Care Workers Initiative to coordinate efforts across the federal government, expand Social Security benefits to caregivers, and build on the Caregiver Respite program to make sure families who provide full-time care also have the opportunity to care for themselves.
It's the least we can do for the unsung heroes among us who work to bring hope to those in need.
  