
    
  Reverend Phillip Knight and Dr. Benny Tate Support Thompson

McLean, VA - Today, at a press conference at the State Capitol in Jackson, Mississippi, Fred Thompson received the endorsement of the leaders of the Wesleyan Center for Strategic Studies, the Reverend Phillip Knight and Dr. Benny Tate.
"Senator Thompson is clearly the most capable and the best qualified to lead America," said Reverend Knight. "While some of the other candidates seem to be admirable people with some excellent traits, Senator Fred Thompson has remained consistently conservative regarding our values. In the areas of defense, fiscal policy and moral truth, Fred Thompson has never ventured down the path toward liberalism."
The Reverend Phillip Knight and Dr. Benny Tate founded and lead the Wesleyan Center for Strategic Studies. The idea for the WCSS was formed from the Wesleyan Leaders Summit, an annual meeting of the leaders of the conservative Wesleyan/Methodist denominations from across America. The objective of WCSS is to give the conservative Methodist movement a stronger voice regarding the issues that directly affect the life and soul of America. Groups involved with the WCSS include over thirty different Wesleyan/Methodist denominations and groups.
"Senator Thompson has a history of not wavering or wobbling on issues such as life, lower taxes and a strong defense," said Dr. Tate. "He says what he means and means what he says. I am honored to endorse the man I believe is best suited to be the President of the United States, Senator Fred Thompson."
"I am honored and blessed to receive the endorsement of these two men who represent 40 million people around the nation from 42 different Wesleyan denominations," said Senator Thompson. "I thank Reverend Knight and Dr. Tate for the leadership they have provided in the Wesleyan church. We share the same values and conservative principles and we understand that our basic rights come from God, not government. I look forward to working with these men to spread our shared message of consistent conservatism along the campaign trail."
  