
    Pool Reports by Cassie Semyon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




December 20, 202215:49

VP Pool Report #1 / Ceremonial Swearing Ins
Hello all -
Pool has gathered for 4 swearing in ceremonies at the EEOB this afternoon. We are expected to get underway here shortly, but here is some background:
On Background from a White House Official:
The Vice President will ceremonially swear in Kiran Ahuja, Director of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. She is joined by the guests below:
- Javier Guzman, husband- Alethea Predeoux, Deputy Chief of Staff, OPM
Kiran Abuja will be sworn in on the Bible.
The Vice President will ceremonially swear in Sandra Thompson, Director of the Federal Housing Agency. She is joined by the guests below:
- Ronald Miller, cousin- Carlisle Harris, friend- Benny Brooks, friend
Sandra Thompson will be sworn in on the Bible held by her cousin, Ron Miller.
The Vice President will ceremonially swear in Shelly Lowe, Chair of the National Endowment for the Humanities. She is joined by the guests below:
- Daryn Lowe, son (25)- Naythen Lowe, son (24)- Aneeya Lowe, daughter (21)- Cole Etcitty, son (11)
Shelly Lowe will be sworn in on the Navajo Bible held by her youngest son Cole.
The Vice President will ceremonially swear in Maria Rosario Jackson, Chair of the National Endowment for the Arts. She is joined by the guests below:
- David Riddick, husband- Joseph Perry Jr., cousin- Donald Keller, cousin- Sharon Keller, cousin- Toni Keller, cousin
Maria's husband David will hold the Bible during the swearing in.
The swearing-ins will happen one at a time in the Vice President's ceremonial office. Pictures will be taken in front of a fire place that is no longer in use (per the sign in the hearth) and a row of flags that include the American flag and the seal of the President. See attached photo for better visual.
[APP Note: The photo noted above was not included in the report received by the APP.]



December 20, 202216:28

VP Pool Report #2 / Ceremonial Swearing Ins
Vice President Harris entered the room at 4:08pm. She is wearing a black suit, black silk blouse, and heels.
She promptly started the swearing in of Sandra Thompson, now officially the Director of the Federal Housing Agency at 4:09pm.
The Vice President and Thompson and her guests took a photo and then exited the room at approx. 4:10pm.
At 4:11pm, VP returned to the room and jokingly told the pool and guests gathered "quiet on the set!" She then gave Kiran Ahuja, now Director of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management the oath of office at 4:12pm. After a photo, the VP escorted Ahuja out of the room.
At 4:15pm, the VP returned to the room and gave the oath of office to Shelly Lowe, now Chair of the National Endowment for the Humanities. Lowes' guests gave her applause and they took a photo. Then at 4:16pm the VP walked them out of the room.
At 4:20pm the VP returned to the room, escorting Maria Rosario Jackson and her guests into the room. The VP swore in Rosario Jackson, now the Chair of the National Endowment for the Arts, at 4:21pm. They took a photo with her family. The VP gave Rosario Jackson a hug and shook hands before exiting the room with them at approx. 4:23pm. She did not respond to your pooler's question about Title 42.
That's all from me - photos attached and they will also be on my Twitter, @casssemyon.
Thanks all!




  