
    President Biden and the United States government view 5G security as a high priority and advocate for a vibrant digital economy worldwide. 5G is the future of the Internet and will touch every aspect of our lives. Countries and citizens need to be able to trust that 5G equipment and software will not threaten national security, personal privacy, or human rights. The stakes for securing these networks could not be higher. The United States believes 5G security can only be addressed effectively through a truly global approach and we are committed to engaging on this with all of our allies and partners to promote open, interoperable, secure, and reliable information and communications technology infrastructure supported by a supply chain of diverse, trustworthy suppliers.
Reflecting the priority we place on secure and interoperable 5G networks, the United States participated in the third annual Prague 5G Security Conference. We applaud the Czech Republic's release of the "Prague Proposals on Telecommunications Supplier Diversity (Proposals)" and thank them for their leadership and collaboration. These Proposals highlight the vital role of governments in fostering trustworthy, secure and resilient telecommunications, that are foundational to our privacy and security online. The United States supports these Proposals, which build upon prior efforts with the G7 and the Quad and we intend to promote them in our global engagements on 5G, which is the future of internet connectivity.
The United States further appreciates the leadership of the Czech Republic in identifying and seeking to address security challenges posed by the development and deployment of Emerging and Disruptive Technologies and the release of the "Prague Proposals 2.0 on Cyber Security of Emerging and Disruptive Technologies," at the conference. We also applaud the Czech Republic for convening a successful side event on telecoms supplier diversity. Participants, including senior U.S. speakers, discussed the importance of this issue, how the U.S. is advancing it, and emphasized the growing need for shared international principles like those outlined in the Proposals.
  