
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have sent the enclosed notice, stating that the Libyan emergency is to continue in effect beyond January 7, 1999, to the Federal Register for publication. Similar notices have been sent annually to the Congress and published in the Federal Register. The most recent notice was signed on January 2, 1998, and appeared in the Federal Register on January 6, 1998.
The crisis between the United States and Libya that led to the declaration of a national emergency on January 7, 1986, has not been resolved. The Government of Libya has continued its actions and policies in support of terrorism, despite the calls by the United Nations Security Council, in Resolutions 731 (1992), 748 (1992), and 883 (1993), that Libya demonstrate by concrete actions its renunciation of terrorism. Such Libyan actions and policies pose a continuing unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and vital foreign policy interests of the United States. Furthermore, the Libyan government has not delivered the two Lockerbie bombing suspects for trial, even though the United States and United Kingdom accepted Libya's proposal to try the suspects in a Scottish court in a third country. Libya's stalling in handing over the suspects is yet another indication of Libya's continued support for terrorism and rejection of international norms. For these reasons, I have determined that it is necessary to maintain in force the broad authorities necessary to apply economic pressure to the Government of Libya to reduce its ability to support international terrorism.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  