
    On Friday, December 21, 2018, the President signed into law:
H.R. 1222, the "Congenital Heart Futures Reauthorization Act of 2017," which reauthorizes and expand Federal congenital heart disease (CDC) research, data collection, and public awareness activities;
H.R. 1318, the "Preventing Maternal Deaths Act of 2017," which reauthorizes, amend, and expand the Safe Motherhood initiative within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, including authorizing support for State and tribal Maternal Mortality Review Committees that meet certain requirements;
H.R. 4032, the "Gila River Indian Community Federal Rights-of-Way, Easements and Boundary Clarification Act; Requires the Secretary of the Interior to take land into trust for the benefit of the Gila River Indian Community and resolves issues regarding the northern boundary and Federal rights-of-way and easements on the Community's Reservation;
H.R. 6217, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 241 N 4th Street in Grand Junction, Colorado, as the Deputy Sheriff Derek Geer Post Office Building;
H.R. 6405, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 2801 Mitchell Road in Ceres, California, as the Lance Corporal Juana Navarro Arellano Post Office Building;
H.R. 6428, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 332 Ramapo Valley Road in Oakland, New Jersey, as the Frank Leone Post Office;
H.R. 6615, which reauthorizes appropriations for programs and activities relating to the study, prevention, and treatment of traumatic brain injury (TBI);
H.R. 6621, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 530 East Main Street in Johnson City, Tennessee, as the Major Homer L. Pease Post Office;
H.R. 6628, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 4301 Northeast 4th Street in Renton, Washington, as the James Marshall "Jimi" Hendrix Post Office Building;
H.R. 6655, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 44160 State Highway 299 East Suite 1 in McArthur, California, as the Janet Lucille Oilar Post Office;
H.R. 7120, which extends for five years, through December 31, 2023, the authority of the Federal Election Commission to impose civil monetary penalties for violations of disclosure requirements;
H.R. 7230, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 226 West Main Street in Lake City, South Carolina, as the Postmaster Frazier B. Baker Post Office;
S. 1311, the "Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017," which reauthorizes the Domestic Trafficking Victims' Fund through Fiscal Year (FY) 2021; authorizes appropriations through FY 2021 for the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Homeland Security for programs responding to severe forms of human trafficking; expands the Department of Justice's grant program for State and local governments to provide services to victims of human trafficking; and amends Federal criminal law to modify penalties for certain offenses related to human trafficking;
S. 1312, which reauthorizes certain grants for programs that support victims of human trafficking;
S. 2511, the "Commercial Engagement Through Ocean Technology Act of 2018 or the "CENOTE Act of 2018," which authorizes the Department of Commerce's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to evaluate the use of unmanned maritime system technology for use in data collection;
H.R. 6964, the "Juvenile Justice Reform Act of 2018," which authorizes appropriations through Fiscal Year 2023 for the Department of Justice to carry out provisions of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (JJDPA); modifies parameters of the formula grant program under the JJDPA to require States to incorporate evidence-based and trauma-informed practices and programs into plans for improving their juvenile justice systems; and modifies the incentive grant program for local and tribal delinquency prevention efforts;
H.R. 7243, which amends Public Law 115–217 to change the address of the postal facility designated by such Public Law in honor of Sergeant First Class Alwyn Crendall Cashe, and for other purposes;
H.R. 7327, the "Strengthening and Enhancing Cyber-capabilities by Utilizing Risk Exposure Technology Act" or the "SECURE Technology Act," which requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to establish a security vulnerability disclosure policy; requires DHS to establish a bug bounty pilot program to minimize vulnerabilities of DHS information systems; and establishes an interagency Federal Acquisition Security Council to set supply chain risk management standards;
H.R. 6893, the "Secret Service Overtime Pay Extension Act," which extends through 2020 the waiver that allows U.S. Secret Service employees performing protective services to receive premium pay up to level II the Executive Schedule;
H.R. 6348, the "Small Business Access to Capital and Efficiency Act" or the "Small Business ACE Act," which amends the Small Business Investment Act to adjust the real estate appraisal thresholds under the Small Business Administration's 504 loan program to align them with the thresholds used by Federal banking regulators;
H.R. 6167, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 5707 South Cass Avenue in Westmont, Illinois, as the James William Robinson Jr. Memorial Post Office Building;
H.R. 6400, the "United States Ports of Entry Threat and Operational Review Act," which requires the Department of Homeland Security to submit to Congress a threat and operational analysis of U.S. air, land, and sea ports of entry;
H.R. 6160, which clarifies the process of certifying leave for Legislative branch employees who utilize the Federal employee leave benefits of the Wounded Warrior Act;
H.R. 6831, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 35 West Main Street in Frisco, Colorado, as the Patrick E. Mahany, Jr., Post Office Building;
H.R. 6335, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 322 Main Street in Oakville, Connecticut, as the Oakville Veterans Memorial Post Office;
H.R. 6059, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 51 Willow Street in Lynn, Massachusetts, as the Thomas P. Costin, Jr. Post Office Building;
H.R. 6930, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 10 Miller Street in Plattsburgh, New York, as the Ross Bouyea Post Office Building;
H.R. 6780, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 7521 Paula Drive in Tampa, Florida, as the Major Andreas O'Keeffe Post Office Building;
H.R. 6227, the "National Quantum Initiative Act," which establishes a National Quantum Initiative Program to accelerate the development of quantum information science and its technology applications;
H.R. 1162, the "No Hero Left Untreated Act," which requires VA to carry out a pilot program to provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to veterans with certain health care diagnoses;
H.R. 1210, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 122 W. Goodwin Street, Pleasanton, Texas, as the Pleasanton Veterans Post Office;
H.R. 1211, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 400 N. Main Street, Encinal, Texas, as the Encinal Veterans Post Office;
H.R. 1235, the "Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Commemorative Coin Act," which requires the Department of the Treasury to mint and issue coins in recognition of the 60th Anniversary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame;
H.R. 1733, which directs the Secretary of Energy to review and update a report on the energy and environmental benefits of re-refining used lubricating oil and to provide Congress a related strategy for its use;
H.R. 1850, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 907 Fourth Avenue in Lake Odessa, Michigan, as the Donna Sauers Besko Post Office;
H.R. 3184, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 180 McCormick Road in Charlottesville, Virginia, as the Captain Humayun Khan Post Office;
H.R. 3383, which designates a flood control project in Sedgwick County, Kansas as the "M.S. 'Mitch' Mitchell Floodway";
H.R. 4326, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 200 West North Street in Normal, Illinois, as the Sgt. Josh Rodgers Post Office;
H.R. 4431, the "Correcting Miscalculations in Veterans' Pensions Act," which authorizes Federal agencies, and the Senate and House of Representatives, to pay any pension deposit interest that is charged to employees, members, or annuitants as a result of an administrative error;
H.R. 4819, the "Defending Economic Livelihoods and ThreatenedAnimals Act," which requires the U.S. Agency for International Development, in coordination with other Federal agencies, to develop a strategy to promote responsible management of natural resources, water, and wildlife in the great Okavango River Basin in southwest Africa;
H.R. 5205, which designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 701 6th Street in Hawthorne, Nevada, as the Sergeant Kenneth Eric Bostic Post Office;
H.R. 5395, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 116 Main Street in Dansville, New York, as the Staff Sergeant Alexandria Gleason-Morrow Post Office Building;
H.R. 5475, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 108 North Macon Street in Bevier, Missouri, as the SO2 Navy SEAL Adam Olin Smith Post Office;
H.R. 5412, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 25 2nd Avenue in Brentwood, New York, as the Army Specialist Jose L. Ruiz Post Office Building;
H.R. 5787, the "Strengthening Coastal Communities Act of 2018," which revises certain boundaries and removes certain units in the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System;
H.R. 5791, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 9609 South University Boulevard in Highlands Ranch, Colorado, as the Deputy Sheriff Zackari Spurlock Parrish, III, Post Office Building;
H.R. 5792, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 90 North 4th Avenue in Brighton, Colorado, as the Detective Heath McDonald Gumm Post Office;
H.R. 5923, the "Walnut Grove Land Exchange Act," which authorizes the exchange of land within the Ouachita National Forest in Arkansas;
H.R. 6020, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 325 South Michigan Avenue in Howell, Michigan, as the Sergeant Donald Burgett Post Office Building;
H.R. 6216, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 3025 Woodgate Road in Montrose, Colorado, as the "Sergeant David Kinterknecht Post Office;
H.R. 6347, the "7(a) Real Estate Appraisal Harmonization Act," which amends the Small Business Act to adjust the real estate appraisal thresholds under the Small Business Administration's 7(a) loan program to align them with the thresholds used by Federal banking regulators.
H.R. 6513, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 1110 West Market Street in Athens, Alabama, as the Judge James E. Horton, Jr. Post Office Building;
H.R. 6591, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 501 South Kirkman Road in Orlando, Florida, as the Napoleon "Nap" Ford Post Office Building;
S. 3170, the "CyberTipline Modernization Act of 2018," which Modifies the reporting requirements for internet service providers who provide information to the CyberTipline of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children on crimes involving the sexual exploitation of children; and
S. 3749, the "Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform Act," which amends the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 to reform the procedures for the initiation, review, and resolution of claims alleging that employing offices of the legislative branch have violated the rights and protections provided to their employees, including protections against sexual harassment.
  