
    Des Moines, IA -- Today, former Iowa Lieutenant Governor Bob Anderson
announced his support for Barack Obama's campaign for President, citing
his commitment to moving past the failed politics in Washington D.C. to
bring about change we can believe in.
"Senator Obama is running a campaign that focuses on attacking the
problems facing America's families - not fellow Democrats. He is a
leader with the vision to turn away from the failed foreign policies of
past decades," said former Lieutenant Governor Bob Anderson. "Barack
showed wisdom and courage when he spoke out against the war in Iraq
before it began and when it wasn't popular to do so, and has stood
against the Bush administrations march towards war with Iran. As
president, he will challenge conventional foreign policy thinking in
Washington D.C. to set us on a new course and restore America's moral
authority in the world."
Bob Anderson served as Lieutenant Governor of Iowa from 1983 to 1987
after serving in the Iowa legislature. Since then, he has traveled
internationally as a founder and first executive director of the Iowa
Peace Institute and as the president and founder of the Iowa Resource
for International Service. He has managed several State Department and
United States Information Agency programs in countries which include
Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Nigeria, Tanzania,
Zimbabwe, Mongolia, Thailand, Georgia, Armenia, Ukraine, Russia, Norway,
Sweden, Denmark, China and Korea. He holds BA and MA degrees in
journalism from the University of Iowa.
"I am proud to have the support of Lieutenant Governor Anderson for my
campaign to change the politics of Washington D.C.," Senator Obama said.
"He will play an instrumental role in building support for my campaign
in across Iowa."
To date, Senator Obama has received 19 endorsements from Iowa state
legislators, bringing him even with Senator Hillary Clinton in terms of
the number of state legislators who have endorsed their campaigns.
Senator Obama also has the support of Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller
and State Treasurer Mike Fitzgerald and former Iowa Democratic Party
chair Gordon Fischer.
  