
    Pool Reports by Kadia Goba, Axios



Sent:
Reports:




 December 7, 2020 11:42

 In-town pool report 1 
Good Monday morning from the White House.
POTUS will present the Presidential Medal of Freedom to decorated wrestler and coach Dan Gable at 12pm today.
At 12:45pm POTUS will have lunch with Vice President Pence.
Your pooler has been tested for COVID-19 and is standing by. 


 December 7, 2020 12:55

 In-town pool report #2 — Ceremony has started 
Pool entered the Oval at 12:38pm and POTUS immediately started his speech detailing Gable's background and career achievements. Gable is joined by his family including 13 grandchildren.
Sens. Joni Ernst, Chuck Grassley and Rep. Jim Jordan are also present.
POTUS, in the middle of introducing Gable, made several references to the election.
"Well you know in politics, I won too," POTUS said.
More complete quote to come. 


 December 7, 2020 13:07

 In-house pool #2 -- Ceremony has started (CORRECTION) 
Corrected quote from Oval.
As POTUS mentions Gable's achievements he adds:
"Well in politics, I won two. So I'm two and 0 and that's pretty good too. We'll see how that turns out." POTUS said. 


 December 7, 2020 13:30

 In-town pool report #3 Ceremony concludes, comments on Giuliani & election 
Ceremony ended at 12:58pm. Here are additional comments:
POTUS to Gable: Now, I'm larger than you a little bit. You think I can take you in wrestling?Gable responds POTUS would have "no chance."
Later towards the end of the event, after POTUS placed the medal on Gable, POTUS was asked about Rudy Giuliani after it was announced he tested positive for COVID-19.
"Rudy's doing well. He's doing very well. No temperature and he actually called me earlier this morning. Was the first call I got."
POTUS continues:"Greatest mayor in the history of New York and what he's doing now is more important. And he will admit that. He was the greatest mayor, did a fantastic job, especially when you see what's going on nowadays. Rudy Giuliani was a great, great mayor and what he's doing now, and he will say it -- is even more important."
Q: Are you looking to change the outcome of the election or trying to make the case, to the American people, that it wasn't fair.
"I think the case has already been made if you look at the polls. It was a rigged election. If you look at the different states, the election was totally rigged. It's a disgrace to our country. It's like a third world country, these ballots pouring in from everywhere, using machinery that nobody knows ownership nobody knows anything about.
They have glitches -- as they call them glitches. The glitches weren't glitches, they got caught sending out thousand of votes, all against me, by the way.
No, this was like from a third world nation and I think the case has been made. And now we find out what we can do about it. You'll see a lot of big things happening over the next couple of days." 


 December 7, 2020 13:34

 in-town pool report 4 Lunch Lid 
The White House has called a lunch lid called at 1:20 until 2:30pm 


 December 7, 2020 19:32

 In-town pool report #5 Photo/Travel Lid 
?Photo/travel lid called at 7:30pm.
Have a good evening. 



  