
    Members of Congress
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI): "Proud to watch as @POTUS signs this legislation into law, giving our men and women in uniform their largest pay raise in 8 years."
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): "Today, President Trump signed a bill that will make America safer. This defense bill authorizes money for our troops, for our national defense and homeland security, and to make sure America has the best technology in the world to protect ourselves. This bill passed the House 356 to 70, including more than half of the Democratic caucus. It passed the Senate by voice vote—not a single Democrat opposed it."
Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ): "I am encouraged that the President today signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, which authorizes nearly $700 billion of spending for national defense. The NDAA authorizes the resources and provides the policies necessary to begin the process of rebuilding our military—and it is the result of an open and bipartisan legislative process."
House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX): "Having the President sign the NDAA conference report into law is a critical milestone in the effort to rebuild America's military strength, support our troops, and reform the way the Pentagon does business. The policies in this bill reflect months of bipartisan work and agreement."
Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA): "Thank you @POTUS for supporting our troops. With the 'National Defense Authorization Act of 2018' signed into law, we're equipping our U.S. armed forces and personnel with the resources they need to protect America and counter global threats."
Sen. Jerry Moran (R-KS): "@POTUS just signed the bipartisan #NDAA to give our troops their largest pay increase in eight years."
Sen. Roger Wicker (R-MS): "With his signature, President Trump has confirmed the United States' resolve to meet the growing needs of our U.S. Navy. Building up our nation's fleet is essential to protecting our national security and projecting American power around the globe. We are asking too few ships to do too many things, and today the President took a major step toward rectifying that problem."
Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK): "It's official—@POTUS has signed the NDAA and I'm proud of the House and Senate's hard work to make this happen."
Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD): "Today, @POTUS signed the #NDAA for fiscal year 2018 into law. The NDAA is one of the most important pieces of legislation that we pass each year. It authorizes funding for DOD so our armed forces are able to successfully carry out their missions."
Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "With President Trump's signature of the National Defense Authorization Act today, this is the beginning of the rebuilding of the U.S. defense forces after eight years in which we dangerously cut our armed forces, endangering the security of the American people."
Rep. French Hill (R-AR): "I appreciate President Trump signing into law a bill that continues our support for Arkansans - and their families - serving in our nation's military.... Our military is the most effective military in the world, and our brave men and women in uniform deserve the funding, tools, and support to successfully complete their strategic missions around the globe."
Rep. Steve Womack (R-AR): "Today @POTUS signed the #NDAA into law which secures our men and women in uniform the largest pay raise in eight years. This bipartisan legislation restores readiness, resources, and reform to our fighting forces."
Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO): "As chairman of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, and as a Marine Corps combat Veteran, my goal is to ensure that we have the best trained, best equipped, and best led military in the world. The signing of the FY18 NDAA is a very important step in providing the necessary resources to DoD to do just that. I applaud the President for signing the NDAA into law today."
Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA): "Today, we saw another victory for America and Georgia as the President signed the National Defense Authorization Act. Not only does this bill reverse the decade-long trend of dismantling our military, it gives our men and women in uniform a much-deserved pay increase."
Rep. Jim Banks (R-IN): "The FY18 NDAA @POTUS signed today gives our troops their largest wage increase in nearly eight years, significantly boosts active duty end strength for each branch of service and increases funding for military facilities and new oversight tools."
Rep. Larry Bucshon (R-IN): "Today @POTUS signed the National Defense Authorization Act #NDAA that gives our troops the largest pay raise in 8 years."
Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN): "Proud that the @POTUS signed the #NDAA into law today! It provides our servicemen & women the largest pay raise in 8yrs & provides resources needed to keep our nation safe at home & abroad."
Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN): "We have the best military in the world and now, with the National Defense Authorization Act of 2018 signed into law, our troops will have resources they need to protect us, and they will receive the care and pay they deserve. By signing the National Defense Authorization Act of 2018 into law, President .@realDonaldTrump is following through on his promises to strengthen our military and make our world a safer place."
Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA): "Proud to see that President Trump is signing our #NDAA bill into law. Gives troops largest pay raise in 8 yrs & provides resources to rebuild our military."
Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI): "Today President Donald J. Trump signed into law the #FY18NDAA. This bill will help restore our military strength, provide the largest pay raise to our war-fighters in 8 years, and protect our homeland and our allies."
Rep. Paul Mitchell (R-MI): ".@POTUS just signed the #NDAA into law, giving our troops the biggest pay raise in 8 years. @POTUS was correct when he said 'only when the good are strong will peace prevail.' Proud to have supported this important legislation."
Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO): "Thank you @POTUS for signing #NDAA today. This law provides our troops with the tools and equipment that match their skills and proficiency."
Rep. Trent Kelly (R-MS): "Today, President Trump signed the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). I look forward to continuing working with my colleagues to make sure military men and women have the tools they need to keep America safe."
Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC): "Today @POTUS signed the #FY18NDAA to ensure our troops receive a pay raise and have the tools they need to defend our nation both at home and abroad."
Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC): .@POTUS just signed the #NDAA giving our servicemen and women their biggest pay raise in 8 years & also providing our military with the resources they need to keep American safe!
Rep. Mike Turner (R-OH): "Today the President rightfully called again for an end to the sequestration of national defense.... Our troops face enough uncertainty--their budget shouldn't be on the list of things they need to worry about."
Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK): "The FY18 NDAA rebuilds and restores our military by supplying our men and women in uniform with the critical resources needed to protect our country from harm. Our troops work tirelessly to defend our flag. By giving them a well-deserved pay raise, we recognize their constant commitment and lend our gratitude for their brave sacrifice.... I applaud President Trump for his strong support of our nation's military and this year's NDAA."
Rep. Lloyd Smucker (R-PA): "America's military is made up of hardworking men and women who wake up every day to serve others. We should be making it easier for them to transition to civilian life with a steady job, and infuse our workforce with leadership skills only the military can provide.... I am glad President Trump has signed this legislation into law."
Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC): "Grateful that #ndaa is now law. The bill, signed today by @potus, makes critical investments in our military & national security - and it represents a big win for South Carolina. #maga"
Rep. John Carter (R-TX): "BREAKING: @POTUS has signed the #NDAA into law, ensuring our troops have the resources they need to deter and defend!"
Rep. John Culberson (R-TX): "Watch as @POTUS signs #NDAA into law - it provides the LARGEST pay raise in 8 years for our troops & empowers the great men & women that serve our country."
Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA): "I'm grateful to see President Donald Trump sign this bill into law, and commend Rep. Mac Thornberry, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, for his work on behalf of the men and women in uniform who serve our great nation and keep us safe."
Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI): ".@POTUS just signed into law the #FY18NDAA-- now Congress must pass a budget deal to ensure our warfighters have what they need to deter threats, support our allies, and above all, keep the American people safe."
  