
    Pool Reports by Alex Gangitano, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




December 10, 202115:26

FLOTUS pool report #1 
Good afternoon from Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall in Arlington, Va., where First Lady Jill Biden is participating in a Toys for Tots event with military families.
The first lady arrived at 3pm.About 30 children of servicemembers sat on the floor in front of the first lady during her remarks.
"Military children serve too and the president and I thank you for your service to the country, and that goes to all military kids," she said."Merry Christmas! Now how many of you know this book? Wow, everybody knows this book." She said, holding up the Grinch."A few years ago, I might have dressed up as the Grinch for a White House staff event when I was First Lady."She read the excerpt that ends with, "Maybe Christmas doesn't come from a store, maybe Christmas perhaps means a little bit more."
"We all like to get gifts right?" she asked the children."But what makes Christmas so special is it doesn't come from packages boxes and bags, some gifts.…Oh, I have hands raised. What, what would you like to tell me?"The boy who had his hand raised didn't say anything but others raised their hands.One girl, who the First Lady called on, said Christmas is about family time and worshiping God"I love that, that's beautiful, thank you," Biden said.Another child said Christmas is when you get toys.
She replied when a child said Christmas is about loving each other: "I agree, isn't that a beautiful sentiment about Christmas.""Kindness, sharing, generosity, and service. These are the gifts that you're all giving together.""For military kids like you, service is who you are. Just like your parents.""We think of you and we pray for you and your families," she said.
She thanked the Marine Corp Reserve and Toys for Tots "for bringing us all together."
The kids ran over to the toys to start sorting.
Biden stopped to greet a young girl before picking up a backpack, toy car, and box.
She walked back and fourth several times with a few gifts in hand, including Lego's and a scooter. She picked a baby Yoda doll out of the box and handed it to a child.
She walked over to bleachers and took a photo with the group.
"They're going to have a very happy holiday," Biden said to the press when asked if Americans can have a happy holiday with Omicron and inflation.
She then took photos with more groups of people.
Biden was introduced by Giana Ray Allison, a nine year old.
All first ladies since Laura Bush have participated in this event, according to David Cooper, vice president of operations at the Toys for Tots Foundation.
Toys for Tots last year donated 20.1 million toys and 7.4 million children.



December 10, 202115:42

FLOTUS pool report #2 
After the sorting, all the children sat back down and then First Lady stood in front of them.
"I hope Santa is very good to you," she said.Some children raised their hands and told her what they wanted for Christmas."A skateboard!" the First Lady repeated. "And a pink teddy bear." "A drone, wow!""You don't want anything at all?" She said to one child. "Legos," she said to another.
"Have a very Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. Merry Christmas!" She said and the children, as well as their parents on the bleachers, applauded.She then greeted some more service members at the event.
She left at 3:22pm.
The First Lady account tweeted a photograph earlier today from the White House and the pool was told those gifts were brought to this event.https://twitter.com/flotus/status/1469381398804926465?s=21
The children lined up to get white dove cookies, the same cookies the media received when the First Lady unveiled her White House decorations last week.
That's a wrap, let me know any questions.



December 10, 202116:15

FLOTUS pool report #3 
Correcting a quote from pool report #1--
"A few years ago, I might have dressed up as the Grinch for a White House staff event when I was second lady."
The pool report said first lady, apologies.
Thanks all!




  