
    Pool Reports by Melanie Mason, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




December 24, 202113:12

VP travel pool #1 
Good morning from Los Angeles, where the recent rainstorm has let up and the sun is peeking out (yes, this is what counts as winter weather in LA).
I'll be your print pooler for VP Harris' visit with first responders at a fire station in LA's Crenshaw District. Pool has been Covid tested and is awaiting VP's arrival.



December 24, 202115:08

VP Travel Pool #2 - negative COVID test 
On background attribution to a WH official
This morning, the Vice President and Second Gentleman received an antigen test and tested negative. The Vice President also received a PCR test and we will have results later this afternoon.
Pool is still awaiting VP's arrival at first responder event



December 24, 202115:29

VP Travel pool #3 - firehouse visit 
Vice President Kamala Harris and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff arrived at 12:15 to Los Angeles Fire Dept. Station 94 to deliver donuts and holiday greets to roughly 14 firefighters and personnel.
The meet-and-greet was held in the station's garage, with the rear doors open to have an open air feel. Three freshly-polished fire trucks were arrayed in a U-shape and the VP was in the middle. Harris, Emhoff and IAFF General Secretary all spoke for about 5 min combined Harris and Emhoff both effusively thanked the firefighters, And Emhoff talked about how his brother is a firefighter and knows what families go through. Will send remarks shortly.
Harris and Emhoff then introduced themselves to the assembled crowd, gave elbow bumps and took a group photo. The entire visit took around 9 minutes.
Here's additional info on the event and attendees.
Background from a White House OfficialToday the Vice President and Second Gentleman are delivering donuts to LA Fire Department Station 94 to thank these first responders for their service and bring them holiday greetings on Christmas Eve.
The Los Angeles Fire Department Station 94 is located in the Crenshaw area of Los Angeles.
The Vice President and Second Gentleman are joined by Mayor Garcetti, LAFD Chief Ralph M Terrazas, IAFF General Secretary Frank Lima, his daughter Sophia Lima, LAFD Station 94 Captain Stephen Marquez and LAFD Station 94 Captain Daniel Roman.
The donuts and coffee are from M&T DONUTS, a Black owned small business.



December 24, 202115:55

VP Travel pool #4 - VP, SGOTUS remarks 
Here are some key quotes from VP Harris' firehouse event in Los Angeles.
Harris:"I know who you are. I know who you are. You took an oath to take care of perfect strangers. The work you do is the work that is about having the courage to say that you're gonna go out there and run into situations. And you're prepared to make sacrifices for people you may have never met. People whose names you don't even know. And to be a California firefighter – and a firefighter in Los Angeles – that's some tough work."
"In this Christmas season, this holiday season, I just want you to know that we get people give every day and we want you to know that you are so special and we really do appreciate you and we thank you. You're part of what makes us strong and makes us great. I've been traveling around the world now as vice president, and people look to us. They look to us in terms of how we think about public service and democracy. And in that way, when we can show people that we have a force like this – because you choose to, because you want to, not because you have to – it really speaks to so many of the ideals and values that we hold dear in this country. In that way, I know you work for LA City but you represent the United States of America every day. So thank you, on behalf of my husband and myself, thank you thank you thank you."
Emhoff:"Just driving here – to see this beautiful city, our home, and to know you're out here protecting us day and night. Again, it is personal to me and the Vice President. My brother is a firefighter up north. So I know what your families feel. I know how they feel when you leave and I know how they feel when you come home. And it's just personal. So you to your families [resting his hand over his heart] I got it."
IAFF General Secretary Frank Lima to the VP: "We want to thank you for your support for us. Always fighting for us. When you were in the Senate, wildfires, hurricanes – you get it. You get the fight for the working class and we're just honored that you came here to thank the crew, a station that I worked at almost 30 years ago…On behalf of all of us, you know we've got your back."
And with that, your pool is done for the day. Wishing you all a safe and very merry Christmas!



December 24, 202117:04

VP Pool #5 — negative PCR test 
One last update:
Background from a White House official 
The Vice President took a PCR test this morning and tested negative for COVID-19.




  