
    The anti-corruption scholar and professor will join Sanders for the "End Corporate Greed" Tour in New Hampshire
WASHINGTON -- Sen. Bernie Sanders today received the endorsement of Zephyr Teachout, a nationally recognized corruption scholar, and one of the lawyers on the first Emoluments lawsuits against Donald Trump. Teachout is a longtime progressive activist speaking on the danger of foreign and corporate money in American politics.
"Bernie Sanders has built an extraordinary multi-class, multi-race movement grounded in community and compassion," said Teachout. "He's showing us that together, we can beat back the corruption of billionaires, beat the reckless profiteering of corporations, and beat Donald Trump. Bottom line: Bernie Sanders is constitutionally incapable of sucking up, and that's why people love him. They know he'll always be on the side of the little guy against big agriculture, big banks, big pharma, big tech, hate, and fear. He's built the kind of movement that we need to fight the corruption that is killing us."
Teachout's book, Corruption in America, is generally recognized as essential reading in corruption scholarship and a major contribution to understanding the history of corruption law. Her work was cited in the House Judiciary Impeachment Report, as well as by Justice Stevens in his dissent in Citizens United. She was one of the countries' few experts on Emoluments prior to the Trump Presidency, and wrote the first New York Times article raising questions about Trump's pending constitutional violations. She is currently a plaintiff in an ongoing lawsuit attempting to overturn Citizens United.
"Zephyr has dedicated her life to stamping out corruption in our country," said Sen. Sanders. "She has directly taken on the greed of Donald Trump and fought tirelessly for a political system that rejects the influence of big money and special interests. I am honored to receive her endorsement and look forward to working together to defeat Trump and create an economy and a political system that finally works for everyone."
Teachout will join Sanders for the "End Corporate Greed" tour in New Hampshire this weekend, including a Healthcare Affordability Town Hall in Dover, an Environmental and Corporate Greed Panel in Plaistow, a Democracy Town Hall in Concord, and a Town Hall in Newport.
  