
    Following the overwhelming response to the initial Day of Action, Andrew Yang asks supporters to keep living their values with another pledge to give back to their communities
NEW YORK — Ahead of the holiday season, Andrew Yang is calling for supporters and everyone to #PledgeForHumanity again. The first Day of Action, which was held over the Thanksgiving weekend, asked supporters to dedicate one hour of their time to helping out in their communities—be it volunteering at a nearby women's shelter, picking up trash along their county highway, or pitching in at a local soup kitchen. In an expression of their extraordinary compassion and generosity, people pledged over 9,600 hours to making a positive impact in their communities.
"We thought about ways we could actually demonstrate those values, and so many of our supporters around the country are doing incredible work in their communities, so we decided to have another Pledge for Humanity," said Andrew Yang.
The #PledgeForHumanity is a true example of the Yang Gang embodying the campaign's Humanity First values, showing that we don't need to wait to win the White House to start making a real difference in communities across the country. This drive to act instead of just campaign began with the Candidate's pledge to personally provide 3 Freedom Dividends to families across the US, and continued with the expanded Freedom Dividend Pilot Program and the first #PledgeForHumanity.
The Yang Gang has showed up in force to support all of these initiatives, as well as to power the outsider candidate's campaign. Significantly, the first #PledgeForHumanity Day of Action took place during the same weekend the Yang campaign enjoyed its highest fundraising day, raising nearly $750,000 online from more than 18,000 individual contributions in a 24-hour period.
The Yang Gang's outstanding participation in the #PledgeForHumanity illustrates the breadth of support for Andrew Yang and the mounting momentum of this movement. The campaign is proving they can give back to the communities of voters across the country, haul in competitive sums of money, and qualify for presidential debates, all during a five-day-long bus tour across the Hawkeye state.
During the bus tour in Iowa this week, Andrew Yang will host an office opening in Dubuque in conjunction with a food drive, asking for supporters to bring a non-perishable food item or another gift to be donated.
To learn more about the #PledgeforHumanity or to sign-up to participate, please click here.
  