
    The Hillary I Know, Working For Us
Starting the day off with appearances on all six morning shows, Hillary builds on the momentum generated by this weekend's Des Moines Register endorsement by continuing her "Every County Counts: Working For Change, Working For You" Tour.
Today's focus is on highlighting the change that Hillary has made in the lives of the people she has met and known over the years. From the friends she grew up with, to the people she has known, to the Americans she has helped, Iowans will get a glimpse of the kind of change that Hillary has worked for and achieved when she visits Johnston, Des Moines, Davenport, and Coralville today.
At many stops, Hillary will be joined by people like Betsy Ebeling, a friend from childhood; Ann Henry, who hosted the Clintons' wedding reception; Jeff Volk, a Republican whose family was helped by Hillary when they were trapped in New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina; Shannon Mallozzi, a New Yorker whose daughter received care for a brain disease with Hillary's help; among others.
Betsy, Ann, Shannon and many other supporters will be featured on a first-of-its-kind website being unveiled today called "The Hillary I Know." The website features video testimonials from well-known Americans like General Wesley Clark, longtime friends like Betsy as well as regular Americans like Shannon whose lives have been changed by Hillary. Check them out here: http://www.thehillaryiknow.com .
The videos are powerful and serve as a stark reminder that the issues discussed in campaigns impact real people. They also provide insight into the kind of person Hillary is, and put Hillary's lifetime of working for change into a context that policy papers simply do not convey. For example, Shannon, the mother whose daughter Hillary helped, recounts in her video that she wasn't just talking to a senator but a fellow mother when she turned to Hillary. She talks about how Hillary worked outside the view of the media, calling her repeatedly, and putting her in touch with people who could help her daughter get the medical treatment she needed.
To promote the website, the campaign will be launching a major blog-ad campaign on a diverse range of blogs today, including several in the early primary and caucus states. The ads will also be accompanied by a comprehensive web push on the campaign's official website http://www.hillaryclinton.com and blog http://www.hillaryclinton.com/blog/ , social networking sites, and YouTube.
The people featured on www.thehillaryiknow.com, including those joining Hillary at her stops today, will hit the trail to tell Iowa caucus-goers about the Hillary they know, including several of Hillary's New York constituents. They include Marvin Bethea, a first responder at Ground Zero whom Hillary helped after 9/11; Catherine McVay Hughes, a resident of lower Manhattan impacted by the air quality issues that developed at Ground Zero after 9/11.
These New Yorkers will be joined by a women's group including Judy Lichtman, who ran National Partnership for Women & Families (and has known Hillary since she was in law school); Susie Stern, a New Yorker, friend of Hillary, and former head of the United Jewish Communities National Women's Philanthropy in New York; Joanne Howes, an advocate for breast cancer research and treatment; and Susan Wood, the former assistant FDA commissioner who left her position when the agency continued to delay ruling on making Plan B emergency contraception more easily accessible.
In addition, former Iowa Attorney General Bonnie Campbell, former FEMA director James Lee Witt, Gen. Claudia Kennedy, Gov. Tom Vilsack, AFSCME president Gerald McEntee, and Lynn Cutler (Hillary's friend from Arkansas) will be traveling throughout Iowa talking about why Hillary is best able to make change happen. Overall, the campaign expects to have a presence in 37 Iowa counties today.
The "Hillary I Know" surrogates are part of the five-day "Every County Counts Tour" that will reach all 99 of Iowa's counties in an effort to energize our supporters, strengthen our organization, and make our case to people who have not yet made up their minds about who to support on January 3rd.
  