
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      John Lancaster, Member, Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace
•      Nils Daulaire, Representative of the United States of America on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization
•      Terry Lewis, Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
President Obama said, "I am grateful these impressive men and women have agreed to join this Administration, and I am confident they will serve ably in their new roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
John A. Lancaster, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace 
John A. Lancaster recently retired as the Executive Director of the National Council on Independent Living (NCIL), the oldest disability grassroots organization run by and for people with disabilities. NCIL advances the independent living philosophy and advocates for the full integration and participation of people with disabilities in society. Currently, Mr. Lancaster serves as the Treasurer of the Board of Trustees for Handicap International Federation (HI) and serves on the Board of Directors of Handicap International, USA. He also serves as a Board Member of the United States International Council on Disabilities (USICD) as Past President. Mr. Lancaster serves on the Board of the Global Universal Design Commission and the Potsdam (New York) Humane Society. He served in the Federal Government as Executive Director on the President's Committee on Employment of People with Disabilities from 1995-2000, and had been a member of that committee since 1991. From 1981-1987, Mr. Lancaster was the Director of the Office for Individuals with Disabilities for Governor Harry Hughes of Maryland. Mr. Lancaster received his J.D. and B.A. from the University of Notre Dame. As a Second Lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps, he commanded an infantry platoon in combat during the Vietnam War, earning a Purple Heart and Bronze Star in 1968.
Nils Daulaire, Nominee for Representative of the United States of America on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization
Nils Daulaire serves as the Director of the Office of Global Health Affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services. Prior to his appointment, he served for over a decade as President and CEO of the Global Health Council where he coordinated extensively with international leaders, governments, and United Nations organizations to improve public health in the world's poorest communities. From 1993-1998, Dr. Daulaire served as Deputy Assistant Administrator for Policy and as Senior International Health Advisor for the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), where he oversaw an integrated global strategy encompassing health, population, hunger, girls' education and other social sector programs. He was the lead U.S. negotiator on health matters at various international conferences, including the Cairo Conference on Population and Development and the Beijing World Conference on Women, and participated in numerous World Health Organization annual assemblies. Prior to his government service, Dr. Daulaire worked at the John Snow Public Health Group for ten years ending his tenure as Director of the International Center for the Prevention and Treatment of Major Childhood Diseases. Earlier in his career, he held public health positions in Nepal, Haiti, Mali, Bangladesh, and other developing countries, where he managed maternal and child health delivery programs. Dr. Daulaire is a member of the Institute of Medicine as well as the Council on Foreign Relations. He holds a B.A., from Harvard College, an M.D. from Harvard Medical School, and an M.P.H. from the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health.
Terry Lewis, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
Terry Lewis is the principal of LIA Advisors, LLC, a private consulting firm providing advisory services in housing and community economic development. She was formerly Vice President for Cooperative Development with the National Consumer Cooperative Bank (NCB), where she advised internal NCB teams and NCB customers in multiple lines of business on the structuring and development of cooperative and other community ownership entities. Ms. Lewis also served as President and CEO of NCB Community Works, LLC, an affiliated for-profit affordable multifamily housing development organization. She is the immediate past Chair of the Cooperative Development Foundation, where for 8 years she managed governance, strategy, and oversight functions of multiple grant and loan funds. Ms. Lewis was inducted into the Cooperative Hall of Fame in 2008. Her early career was spent as a private attorney in Michigan, specializing in multifamily housing, structuring business entities, and negotiating business transactions. Ms. Lewis received her law degree cum laude from the University of Michigan School of Law.
  