
    Mitt Romney today announced additional endorsements in Indiana. "This election is the most important in a generation," said Mitt Romney. "Indiana has not been served well by President Obama. He has failed on his promise to fix the economy and must be held accountable. With the help of these men and women, we will put our country on the right path again." "Mitt Romney is the candidate best suited to meeting the challenges our country faces," said State Senator Jim Merritt. "On the issue with which Americans are most concerned, the economy, there is no other candidate who is better equipped to go toe-to-toe with President Obama, defeat him in November, and restore confidence that America will continue to be the world's most powerful nation." "President Obama's high-spending policies have put us on a path to Greece," said State Representative Heath Van Natter. "Mitt Romney is a conservative businessman – he knows that you can't spend more than you take in. He has proposed policies that will stop the growth of government and allow for the private sector to flourish." Announcing the additional endorsements, Congressman Todd Rokita said, "President Obama has failed Indiana and the rest of the country. Three years ago, he promised to bring change to Washington and to turn around the economy – he has not delivered on these promises. Mitt Romney has the private sector experience that our next president must have to fix the economic mess President Obama has created. Along with these leaders in Indiana, we will work to defeat President Obama in November and ensure that our future is as bright as our past." Indiana Elected Officials And Leaders Endorsing Mitt Romney:

Jim Merritt; State Senator
Ryan Mishler; State Senator
Heath Van Natter; State Representative
Mike Karickhoff; State Representative
Ed Soliday; State Representative
Tim Neese; State Representative
Tim Fesko; Former State Representative
Matt Bell; Executive Director Regional Chamber of Northeast Indiana and Former State Representative
Randy Borror; Former State Representative
Dan Dumezich; Former State Representative
Frankfort Mayor-elect Chris McBarnes
Deborah Adams; Rush County Auditor
Hal Slager; Schererville Town Councilman
Jim Kittle; Former Indiana Republican Party Chairman
John Hammond; Chairman of the 7th District
Craig Dunn; Kokomo County Republican Chairman
Bill Treadway; Vigo County Republican Chairman
Tom John; Former Marion County Republican Chairman
Mary Moses Cochran; Former Aide to Vice President Dan Quayle

  