
    Edwards now has the support from unions representing 28,000 members
Reno, Nevada – The Communications Workers of America in Nevada today announced its endorsement of Senator John Edwards for president. The Communications Workers of America represents both active and retired members throughout the state of Nevada.
CWA in Nevada becomes the first of CWA to endorse a presidential candidate in this election cycle. Their support of Senator Edwards is due to his long history fighting for organized labor and middle class families.
"I am honored to have the support of the Nevada CWA, whose members' hard work and expertise make up the backbone of our information age economy," Edwards said. "I share their commitment to bringing universal health care to every American and calling for smart trade policies that are fair for hardworking American men and women."
"John Edwards has spent his entire career fighting for working families and organized labor," said CWA local 9413 President Chuck Benway. "His rural background, his support for Second Amendment rights, his resolute nature, his willingness to act and fight for working families, and his leadership on issues like universal health care and trade were essential in securing the endorsement"
Nevada CWA members include workers at AT&T, Cingular, and the Job Corps Center, as well as some public sector operations. They have been strong advocates for improving the quality of life for workers by fighting for access to health care, secure retirement, and fair trade policies.
"John Edwards will bring down the wall around Washington that prevents us from being One America, where everyone has the same opportunities to work hard and get ahead," Liz Sorenson, CWA Local 9413 Executive Vice President added. "With less than fifty days until the Nevada Caucus, we look forward to working closely with our brothers and sisters in labor and the Edwards campaign to bring a victory on January 19."
"His ability to campaign throughout the entire country and win in the General Election in 2008 played a critical role in this endorsement," Tony Bixler, CWA District 9 Vice President said. "We are excited about his momentum in Iowa and look forward to capitalizing on that momentum in Nevada in January."
CWA International Representative John Doran said, "We support Senator Edwards' belief that if a worker can sign a card to join either the Republican or Democratic Party, he or she should be able to sign a card to join a union without going through an anti-union election or fear of reprisals from an employer."
This endorsement enhances the strength of the Edwards campaign, particularly in Reno and northern Nevada, where the union is headquartered. Edwards is gaining momentum in this region. The campaign has recently announced support from several northern Nevada elected officials, and has built a strong organization. CWA will significantly add to the campaign's ground capacity and proven grassroots leadership.
The Nevada CWA joins several other Nevada labor unions that have endorsed Senator Edwards, including the Steelworkers, Carpenters, and Transport Workers, giving the Edwards campaign the largest block of labor support in the state. Combined the unions represent 28,000 members.
Labor holds an unrivaled level of organization in Nevada. The Edwards campaign is building a sophisticated operation that integrates labor's organization into the campaign's Caucus Day strategy. Edwards' labor supporters have been working with the campaign to ensure that their organizational experience and manpower will help translate into a victory for John Edwards at the January 19 Caucuses.
  