
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
December 10
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Washington as a result of severe storms, mudslides, and flooding, beginning about December 1, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
December 11
The President returned to the White House after a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
December 12
The President met at the White House with:--Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;--senior White House staff members;--the Cabinet;--Vice President Walter F. Mondale;--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget;--Senator Kaneaster Hodges, Jr., who is filling the term of the late Senator John L. McClellan of Arkansas, members of the Hodges family, and Mrs. John L. McClellan.
December 13
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget;--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a Christmas reception at the White House for Members of Congress and their families.
December 14
The President met at the White House with:--Vice President Mondale, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of Defense Charles W. Duncan, Jr., and members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff;
--Dr. Brzezinski;--a group of black leaders;--Mrs. Carter, for lunch;--Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;--a group of women members of the administration who attended the International Women's Year Conference in Houston, Tex.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a Christmas reception for the children of members of the diplomatic corps.
December 15
The President met at the White House with:--Dr. Brzezinski;--Senators Henry M. Jackson of Washington and Sam Nunn of Georgia;--a group of leaders of the Arab American community;--Attorney General Griffin B. Bell;--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget;--Nobuhiko Ushiba, Minister for External Economic Affairs of Japan;--Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Gyms R. Vance, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Dr. Brzezinski, and David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
December 16
The President met at the White House with:--a group of leaders of church-related educational organizations;--a group of administration officials to discuss the budget.
The President left the White House for a trip to Fayetteville, N.C, to attend the wedding of his nephew, Sydney Scott Stapleton.
  