
    
  State's National Right to Life Affiliate Supporting Thompson

McLean, VA - Today, Fred Thompson received the endorsement of the Wisconsin Right to Life political action committee (PAC), Wisconsin's premier right-to-life PAC.
"The Wisconsin Right to Life PAC is proud to endorse Fred Thompson," said Susan Armacost, WRTL/PAC Director. "Fred Thompson's stellar 100% right to life voting record and his personal commitment to the protection of human life is deeply appreciated by our organization. We strongly believe in his ability to win the presidential election."
WTRL is a state affiliate of the National Right to Life Committee, the nation's largest single-issue right-to-life organization. The National Right to Life Committee has also endorsed Senator Thompson for President.
"I'm blessed and honored to have the endorsement of Wisconsin Right to Life PAC for President of the United States," said Senator Fred Thompson. "Wisconsin Right to Life PAC carries a tremendous amount of influence with the voters in Wisconsin. These folks in America's heartland know I have stood with them yesterday, I stand with them today, and will stand with them tomorrow and they know I have the ability to win this election. They know I believe in the sanctity of life and as President I will do all that I can to do to protect life."
Fred Thompson is a strong advocate for pro-life issues:

He believes in the sanctity of human life and that every life is worthy of respect.
He had a 100% pro-life voting record in the Senate and believes Roe v. Wade was a bad decision that ought to be overturned.
He consistently opposed federal funding to promote or pay for abortion and supported the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act, the Child Custody Protection Act, and President Reagan's Mexico City policy.
He opposes assisted suicide. With regard to end of life matters, he believes families should make those decisions. In cases of division over effective life sustaining treatment, he hopes the benefit of the doubt is given to life.
While Fred Thompson supports adult stem cell research, he opposes embryonic stem cell research.
He also opposes human cloning.

  