
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Roy A. Bernardi, of New York, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service.
Roy A. Bernardi is currently a managing partner of The Bernardi Group, LLC, where he offers expertise, counsel and advice to various companies and organizations. Mr. Bernardi was most recently a Senior Advisor for CohnReznick, LLP, from 2013 to 2016 and Vice President of Government Relations for CGI Technologies and Solutions Inc. from 2009 through 2011.
Earlier in his career, Mr. Bernardi served as Deputy Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in the administration of President George W. Bush. As Deputy Secretary, he managed HUD's day-to-day operations, and oversaw the agency's 8,500 employees and $38 billion annual budget. Prior to his service as Deputy Secretary, Mr. Bernardi was Assistant Secretary of Community Planning and Development at HUD. There, he helped develop viable communities by promoting integrated solutions to the challenges facing the Nation's cities, as well as urban and rural communities.
Before joining the Bush administration, Mr. Bernardi was the 51st Mayor of the City of Syracuse, New York. As Mayor, he overhauled municipal financial services, eliminated duplicative departmental functions, and streamlined governmental operations, resulting in significant annual budget savings. He also served as President of the New York State Conference of Mayors.
Mr. Bernardi earned his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of the Americas and his Master's degree from Syracuse University.

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Siri Terjesen, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences.
Max Miller, of Ohio, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
Michael S. Glassner, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
Adam Telle, of Alabama, to be a Member of the Public Interest Declassification Board.
Paul-Noel Chretien, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Public Interest Declassification Board. 
Paul E. Dans, of Maryland, to be a Member and Chairman of the National Capital Planning Commission.
Anthony J. Tata, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Bryan Lanza, of Virginia, to be a Member of the President's Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity.
Rev. Eve Nunez, of Arizona, to be a Member of the President's Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity. 
Antonio L. Medina Comas, of Puerto Rico, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico.
  