
    Working for Every Family
The "Every County Counts Tour" continues full steam ahead today, with some high-wattage support.
Hillary kicks off the day with President Clinton and special guest Magic Johnson at a local stop in Des Moines. From there, Hillary heads solo to Ottumwa and Donnellson for "Every County Counts" events.
She'll be introduced by Iowan Pam Janney, who depends on the Hawk-I program that provides health care for many children in Iowa, to provide affordable coverage for her daughter. Hillary worked hard to make sure that all kids have health insurance and even helped to create SCHIP, which provides funds for programs like Hawk-I. Hillary will also be introduced by Danny Birdsong, who works the graveyard shift at a factory in Fort Madison to provide for his wife and young son.
Throughout the day, Hillary will emphasize her agenda to stand up for working families like the Janneys and the Birdsongs. Specifically, she will outline her plans to protect the middle class -- by tackling the foreclosure crisis impacting thousands of Iowans, driving down the cost to heat Iowans' homes during the winter, giving them the opportunity to save for the future, making college more affordable, and covering their long-term care needs. She'll not only detail this agenda, but explain how it will impact real Iowans in a tangible way.
Playing on Iowa TV sets will be the campaign's new 30-second spot, entitled "Great Things," highlighting Hillary's pivotal endorsement by the Des Moines Register and emphasizing her experience and readiness to lead. Reciting from the endorsement, the ad reads in part: "We believe Hillary Rodham Clinton can do great things for our country." [Watch the ad] here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t7HnA7DjwGQ
Over the last two days, the campaign has covered nearly 60 counties in Iowa, talking about the change Hillary's made for 35 years, and the change she'll deliver as President.
Along the way, she's picked up endorsements from the Des Moines Register, Rep. Leonard Boswell, and Sen. Bob Kerrey, shared personal stories alongside childhood and close family friends, and shown Iowans why her lifetime of working for change gives her the strength and experience to do the same as President.
It's all part of the five-day "Every County Counts Tour" that will reach all 99 of Iowa's counties in an effort to energize her supporters, strengthen the campaign's organization, and make its case to people who have not yet made up their minds about who to support on January 3rd.
  