
    
  Respected Leaders Call Christie "The President We Need in These Challenging Times"

For Immediate Release:
Tuesday, December 8, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - c Their endorsements continue the wave of support Christie has received from respected New Hampshire leaders as the state's "First In The Nation" primary approaches.
"We need a strong, tested executive to protect the homeland and lead the American people through the unprecedented challenges we face," said Packard (R-Londonderry). "As a Republican governor working with a legislature of the opposing party, Governor Christie has the experience to accomplish great things, even with those who do not always agree with him. We desperately need that kind of strong leadership in Washington, D.C. in order to deliver results for the American people."
"We face growing threats to our national security, an almost $20 trillion national debt, and a crisis of confidence in American leadership," said Hinch (R-Merrimack), a U.S. Navy veteran who served from 1968 to 1972. "Governor Christie has the strength to confront our biggest challenges honestly and directly. He has unique experience as a former U.S. Attorney working with the FBI to prosecute terrorists and keep our country safe. He is the president we need in these challenging times."
Both leaders are currently serving on the recently established Joint Task Force on New Hampshire's Heroin and Opioid Crisis. "Governor Christie has brought the human side of the drug addiction and recovery struggle to the forefront of the presidential campaign," said Packard. "He put politics aside to say every candidate for office, regardless of party, needs to make a commitment to helping reclaim the lives of those who suffer from the plight of addiction."
Speaker Pro Tempore Sherm Packard is serving his 13th term representing Londonderry in the New Hampshire House of Representatives. He is the former House Republican Leader and former chairman of the House Transportation Committee. He currently serves on the Transportation and Rules committees and the Joint Task Force on the New Hampshire Heroin and Opioid Crisis. Packard is a former finance chairman of the Rockingham County Republican Committee.
Majority Leader Dick Hinch is serving his 4th term representing Merrimack in the House. He serves as chairman of the Legislative Administration Committee, Vice Chair of the Joint Task Force on the Heroin and Opioid Crisis, and is a member of the Rules Committee. He previously served as Chairman of the Merrimack Board of Selectmen, the Vice Chair of the Merrimack Budget Committee, and the Chairman of the Merrimack Public Library Development Committee. Hinch is a U.S. Navy veteran (1968 to 1972) and owns Hinch-Crowley Realty Associates.
View the full New Hampshire endorsement list here.
  