
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
November 26
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned to the White House from Camp David, MD.
November 27
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich on Bosnia. In the evening, he had telephone conversations with former President George Bush and former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Colin Powell on Bosnia.
The President announced his intention to nominate H. Martin Lancaster to be the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works.
The President announced his intention to nominate James E. Johnson to be the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement.
The President announced his intention to nominate LeVar Burton to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science.
November 28
In the afternoon, the President attended a luncheon on Capitol Hill with Senate Democratic leaders.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to London, England.
November 29
In the morning, the President planted a tree at the U.S. Ambassador's residence. Later, the President and Hillary Clinton toured Westminster Abbey, where the President laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Warrior.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton had tea with Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip at Buckingham Palace.
The President announced his intention to nominate Luis Rovira to serve as a member of the Board of Trustees to the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation.
November 30
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Belfast, Northern Ireland; in the afternoon, they traveled to Londonderry, Northern Ireland; and in the early evening, they returned to Belfast.
In the evening, the President had meetings with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams and Democratic Unionist Party leader Ian Paisley at Queens University, and Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble at the Europa Hotel.
The President announced his intention to appoint J. Robert Beyster to the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Susan R. Baron as a member of the Board of Directors for the National Corporation for Housing Partnerships.
December 1
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Dublin, Ireland, where they met with President Mary Robinson and Mr. Robinson at Aras an Uachtarain, the President's residence.
In the late afternoon, the President had meetings with Fiana Fail party leader Bertie Ahern, Nobel Prize winner Seamus Heaney, and Progressive Democrats Party leader Mary Harney.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner hosted by the Irish Government in the Ballroom of Dublin Castle.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas L. Baldini as the U.S. Commissioner of the U.S.-Canada International Boundary Commission.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Joseph John DiNunno as a member to the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
The President announced the appointment of Thomas P. Cross to the Presidential Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses.
The President announced seven individuals to the Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS: Stephen N. Abel, Tonio Burgos, Jerry Cade, B. Thomas Henderson, Helen M. Miramontes, Robert Michael Rankin, and Richard W. Stafford.
  