
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals, and his intention to appoint one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Kenneth Y. Tomlinson of Virginia, as a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 08/13/04. He is currently President and Director of the National Sporting Library in Middleburg, Virginia, and serves in the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. He was appointed to the U.S. Board for International Broadcasting from 1986 to 1994. Tomlinson was the Director of Voice of America from 1982 to 1984, and has been Managing Editor, Executive Editor, and Editor-in-Chief of Reader's Digest. He has a BA degree from Randolph-Macon College.
The President intends to nominate Steven J. Simmons of Connecticut, as a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 08/13/03. He is currently Chairman and CEO of Simmons Communications in Greenwich, CT. From 1977 to 1980, he worked as an Assistant and Associate Director in Domestic Policy in the White House. Simmons has an AB degree from Cornell University and a JD from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Howard Anthony Schmidt of Washington, to be Vice Chair of the President's Critical Infrastructure Protection Board. He is currently Chief Security Officer for the Microsoft Corporation. Schmidt was a Police Officer for the Chandler Police Department from 1982 to 1994. He has served in the military reserves since 1989, and is currently a Credentialed Special Agent in the US Army Reserves, Criminal Investigation Division. Schmidt has BS and MA degrees from the University of Phoenix.
The President intends to nominate Larry Wade Wagster of Mississippi, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Mississippi. Wagster is currently a Court Security Officer for AKAL Security, Inc., in Oxford, Mississippi. From 1995 to 1997, he was President and Treasurer of Magnolia Transit in Oxford. Wagster was a Special Agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1968 to 1989, in Texas and Mississippi. He has a BBA from the University of Mississippi.
The President intends to nominate Randy Merlin Johnson of Alaska, to be United States Marshal for the District of Alaska. Johnson is currently Supervisory Criminal Investigator for the United States Marshals Service in Anchorage, Alaska. From 1984 to 1986, he was a Criminal Investigator for the General Services Administration, and was a Patrol Officer for the Iowa City Police Department in Iowa City, Iowa from 1979 to 1982. Johnson has a Bachelor of General Studies degree from the University of Iowa.
The President intends to nominate Johnny Lewis Hughes of Maryland, to be United States Marshal for the District of Maryland. He has been a Research Assistant for High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas in Greenbelt, Maryland, since 1996, having previously worked with the Maryland State Police from 1967 to 1996. He has a BS from the University of Maryland University College.
The President intends to nominate Jane J. Boyle of Texas, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas. She has been a United States Magistrate Judge for the Northern District of Texas since 1990. Boyle served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Texas form 1987 to 1990, and was an Assistant District Attorney in the Dallas County District Attorney's Office from 1981 to 1987. She has a BS from the University of Texas at Austin, and a JD from Southern Methodist University.
The President intends to nominate James K. Vines of Tennessee, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. He is currently a partner with Baker, Donelson, Bearman & Caldwell of Nashville. From 1993 to 2000, he was Executive Director and General Counsel for Environmental Affairs for Bridgestone/Firestone of Nashville. Vines was an Associate at King & Spalding in Atlanta from 1990 to 1993, following two years as a Law Clerk for Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist from 1989 to 1990. He was also a Law Clerk for United States District Court Judge Robert R. Merhige from 1988 to 1989. Vines has BS and JD degrees from Washington & Lee University.
  