
    PORTSMOUTH, NH-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today signed Iowa Governor Chet Culver's pledge to support the wind production tax credit and released the following statement:
"Wind power must play a vital role in America's clean energy future. Governor Culver is a national leader on this issue, and he has proven that once again with his support for the wind production tax credit.
"I long have fought for the advancement of wind power through tax credits and infrastructure development. I also recently worked in conjunction with Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty to create a Governors Windpower Coalition. I call on other governors around the country to join us in our mission to transform America into the Clean Energy Nation.
"I am calling for a New American Revolution-- an energy and climate revolution. My new book, Leading by Example: How We Can Inspire an Energy and Security Revolution, details what the United States must do to make a major commitment to energy reform.
"A number of experts have praised my energy policy. Sierra Club President Carl Pope said that my energy plan has 'raised the bar' in the fight against global warming and is 'more aggressive than anything we've seen so far from the candidates. It is also significantly better elaborated.' The League of Conservation Voters followed suit, calling my energy plan the most aggressive proposed by any Presidential candidate. They said that I 'set the highest goals for reducing global warming pollution and increasing production from renewable energy sources.' In addition, independent climate observer Terry Tamminen has given my plan an "A", the highest grade offered to any candidate's program."
Please read Governor Culver's pledge below:
THE PLEDGE TO SUPPORT THE WIND PRODUCTION TAX CREDIT:
I understand that the wind production tax credit (PTC) is vital to reduce carbon emissions and achieve energy independence for our country. Therefore;

If elected President of the United States, I am committed to making the extension of the wind production tax credit a priority in my Administration's energy plan.
In my capacity as an elected official or civic leader, I am committed to a strong, viable wind production tax credit. Starting today, I will utilize my position to assure a strong wind PTC will be included in energy legislation considered and passed by the United States Congress.

  