
    18 endorsements include 10 California local leaders
SAN ANTONIO, TX (December 11, 2019) – Actress Diane Guerrero, state lawmakers from New Mexico and Utah and 10 local officials in California are among the 18 leaders who announced their endorsement of Julián Castro for president on Wednesday.
The California leaders endorsed Castro, the former U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary for President Obama and San Antonio Mayor, following his incredibly successful swing through the state a week ago with overflow crowds in San Francisco, Stanford and Los Angeles.
"I believe Secretary Julián Castro has been a courageous voice for all Americans in the 2020 presidential race," said Actress Diane Guerrero. "He was the first candidate to present plans on housing and education. And the first candidate on the debate stage to talk about decriminalizing border crossing. He's been a strong voice for immigrants, the disabled, and Indigenous communities. And he's presented comprehensive plans to fight climate change, end police violence, combat white supremacist terrorism, and create real criminal justice reform. Julián Castro is fighting for all Americans. And I am proud to say that I support Julián Castro for president."
Those endorsing Secretary Castro on Wednesday include:
Arizona
Brian Garcia, Vice President of the Tempe Union High School District Governing Board
California
Actress Diane Guerrero
Hip Hop Artist and Activist Maya Jupiter
Mayor Aide Castro, City of Lynwood
Alfonso Morales, Lynwood Unified School Board Member
Alma Renteria, Lynwood Unified School Board Member
Mayor Belen Bernal, South Gate
Dr. Sandra Salazar, Cerritos College Board Trustee
Gary Hardie, President of the Lynwood Unified School District Board of Education
Gerri Guzman, Former At-Large Member of the Montebello School Board
Layla Avila, Former South Whittier School Board Member and Professor Emeritus at East Los Angeles College
Maria Elena Yepes, Former Member of the Los Angeles County Board of Education
Paul Solano, Bassett Unified School Board Member
New Hampshire
Jordan Thompson, Racial and Social Justice Organizer
New Mexico
State Representative Moe Maestas, D-16
North Carolina 
Durham Councilmember Charlie Reece
Durham Councilmember Javiera Caballero
Utah
State Senator Luz Escamilla
Here's why these leaders said they are endorsing Secretary Castro:
Utah State Senator Luz Escamilla:
"I am honored to endorse and support Secretary Julián Castro for president. He is the most qualified candidate with people-focused solutions that will improve the lives of all Americans. He will elevate the voices of many that have been marginalized and will continue to be an inspiration. I stand with Julián Castro."
New Mexico State Representative Moe Maestas:
"Our beloved country needs a president like Secretary Castro now more than ever. As a former mayor of one of the nation's largest cities who also has federal executive experience, Secretary Julián Castro is the best candidate to lead our party into next year's general election. Whether it is rebuilding our nation's infrastructure for sustained economic growth, reinstituting sound foreign policy or healing our nation from inhumane immigration policies, Secretary Castro stands out from the rest of the Democratic field. I am proud to endorse his candidacy."
Lynwood Mayor Aide Castro:
"I endorsed Julián Castro because he gives me hope. He is not concerned with the dog and pony politics that have only continued to oppress lower socioeconomic communities. He is unapologetically ready to roll up his sleeves and do the real work that needs to be done."
Brian Garcia, Vice President of the Tempe Union High School District Governing Board:
"Secretary Castro embodies the American Dream and fights every day so all of us have a fighting chance to succeed. His vision for America is bold and necessary. We need to ensure our students and families have what they need to thrive, but we face rising challenges. Secretary Castro understands what it takes for working families to survive. No one should live in poverty or constant hunger. We need economic opportunities, health care, funded public education, LGBTQ rights, and protections for Native communities. We need Julián Castro."
Alfonso Morales, Lynwood Unified School Board Member:
"Julián Castro is the only candidate talking and presenting ideas on issues like homelessness, corporations not paying taxes, health care, racial inequalities, immigration and human rights, which deserve a platform and a plan from candidates. Julián Castro is not afraid to take a position and I'm not afraid to stand with him."
Layla Avila, Former South Whittier School Board Member and Professor Emeritus at East Los Angeles College:
"Secretary Castro consistently elevates the voices and issues of people of color as well as those living in poverty. He understands the connection between education and other social policies, like housing and immigration. I believe he will work to bring nuanced solutions that focus on helping everyday people."
Maria Elena Yepes, Former Member of the Los Angeles County Board of Education:
"Secretary Castro will be a president for all of us. He is speaking on the issues that other candidates have not addressed: poverty, homelessness, prison reform, the incarceration of immigrants, and the discrimination against LGBTQ and transgender Americans. He has specific policy solutions to address those issues, and I look forward to seeing him implement these policies as President of the United States."
Durham Councilmember Charlie Reece:
"From housing to policing to immigration to a host of other issues, I have been deeply impressed with Secretary Castro's truly progressive policy platform. And just as important has been the way in which Secretary Castro has consistently sought to center issues critical to our nation's most marginalized communities during the course of his campaign."
Hip Hop Artist and Activist Maya Jupiter:
"I believe in Secretary Julián Castro because he has a strong moral character, is a fearless leader and displays compassion. On the issue of immigration, he sees our shared humanity. He also addresses the root of the problem and understands that people deserve dignity. He has spoken out against police brutality and will fight for accountability and a more just criminal justice system. He will take action against climate change, will fight for women's reproductive rights and stronger gun laws. Secretary Julián Castro is the future. He is us. And I trust him to lead our country into the future making it a better, more just place for all."
Racial and Social Justice Organizer Jordan Thompson:
"As a racial justice organizer and queer person of color, I believe that Julián Castro is the only presidential candidate with an inclusive agenda that speaks directly to my communities."
  