
    Leading Advocate for Ending Child Marriage and NH State Rep. Cassie Levesque is 103rd New Hampshire Endorsement for Booker
Manchester, NH — New Hampshire State Representative Cassie Levesque (Barrington) -- the youngest woman serving in the New Hampshire legislature and a leading advocate for ending child marriage -- today announced she is endorsing Cory Booker for president. Earlier this week, Booker announced that he's earned 100 endorsements from Granite State leaders -- more than any other 2020 candidate. That total now climbs to 103 -- and includes 20 New Hampshire state representatives -- after Levesque and State Reps. Garrett Muscatel (Hanover) and Rosemarie Rung (Merrimack) announced their support in the last two days.
"I've seen almost every candidate in-person, but Cory Booker stands above them all. Cory is a leader who will listen to my generation and fight for justice for everyone," said State Rep. Cassie Levesque. "Cory will bring experience and a track record of results to the Oval Office, as well as unmatched empathy for others. I'm excited to endorse Cory for president because he will heal our country and bring a much-needed urgency to solving the big challenges we face."
Levesque, a Southern New Hampshire University student, was elected in 2018 at the age of 19 and represents Strafford County District 4. Her victory in 2018 was part of a wave of young Democrats winning legislative seats last year.
Levesque first learned about the workings of the legislature five years ago when she began advocating for lawmakers to raise the legal marriage age from 13 to 18. The issue resonated with Levesque, as her grandmother and great-grandmother left abusive households and entered into marriages as minors. After being dismissed in part because of her age, she decided to run for her local state representative seat on the Seacoast -- and she won. When the State did raise the legal age to 16 last year, Levesque was credited with being the driving force. And now she's working to raise the age to 18, this time as an elected official.
In addition to Levesque, Booker has earned the backing of three state senators, 19 additional state representatives, the state's longest-serving mayor, and dozens of key activists across New Hampshire.
  