
    Pool Reports by Steven Nelson, New York Post 



Sent:
Reports:




December 15, 202108:53

In-town Pool Report 1/Gathered for departure
The in-town pool is gathered on the South Lawn for President Biden's departure to tour tornado damage in Kentucky.



December 15, 202109:07

In-town Pool Report 2/Qs 
President Biden emerged from the White House residence at 9:01.
Biden took questions on whether he plans to meet with Vladimir Putin, the coronavirus, Mark Meadows text messages on Jan. 6 and the status of Build Back Better Act negotiations.
He cited "some" progress on the legislation, per other reporters. He walked the rope line so I recommend playing the video. I'll send along full quotes when they are clear.
Marine One was wheels up at 9:06.



December 15, 202109:33

In-town Pool Report 3/Q&A 
Here are some fuller quotes from the South Lawn just now:
Reporter: Do you plan to meet President Putin? ... Do we need another US-Russian summit?
Biden: "We will be talking at length."
Reporter: On 800,000 coronavirus deaths, do you have a statement on your responsibility, and why haven't you asked China to do more to be transparent on the origins?
Biden: [smiles, no verbal answer]
Reporter: Do you still believe you can get the Build Back Better Act done this year?
Biden: "I hope so. It's going to be close."
Reporter: [inaudible] Meadows...?
Biden: "I don't know enough with what — just what I've seen, I've not spoken to anyone, it seems to me he is worthy of being held in contempt."
Reporter: What do you think about the text messages that have been released?
Biden: "I haven't seen them all."
Report: [inaudible question on Build Back Better Act progress]
Biden: "Some." [thumbs up]



December 15, 202110:38

In-town Pool Report 4/Gaggle about to start 
We have a two-minute warning for Karine Jean-Pierre's gaggle aboard Air Force One. You can stream the audio here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
And here's information on the Marine One travel group earlier:
Traveling on Marine One with the President:Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



December 15, 202119:34

In-town Pool Report 5/Arrival 
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 7:27.
President Biden entered the White House residence at 7:30 without responding to shouted questions about Joe Manchin, his Christmas plans and the carbon footprint of his frequent Delaware trips.
If anyone needs it, here's clean audio of earlier Air Force One gaggle, courtesy of the White House: https://youtu.be/B4wfpcK7cZY



December 15, 202119:36

In-Town Pool Report 6/Lid 
At 7:32 we received a travel/photo lid.




 
Pool Reports below by S.V. Dáte, HuffPost 



Sent:
Reports:




December 15, 202108:53 EST

WH travel pool report 1 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews, from which President Biden is scheduled to leave this morning to tour the tornado damage.
We have been advised that cellular service may be limited or unavailable in areas we are going. Pool will attempt to get reports out as soon as possible, but be aware of those limitations.
Deputy Press Sec Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled to speak with the pool en route to Kentucky. The audio from this should be available at the White House web site as it happens.
We are traveling aboard one of the larger plane, the modified Boeing 747, tail number 28000, for the flight to Fort Campbell, and are scheduled to use Marine V-22s for the visits to affected areas.
Here is the schedule for the day as per the daily guidance:
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Joint Base Andrews
South LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Gather 8:45 AM – Palm Room Doors)
9:20 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Fort Campbell, Kentucky
Joint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
CST10:10 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Fort Campbell, Kentucky
Fort Campbell, Kentucky Open Press
10:35 AM THE PRESIDENT surveys storm damage from the devastating tornadoes and extreme weather by taking an aerial tour of the hard-hit community of Mayfield
Fort Campbell, KentuckyOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
11:05 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Mayfield, Kentucky
Mayfield Graves County AirportOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
11:25 AM THE PRESIDENT receives a briefing from local leaders on the impacts of the tornadoes and extreme weather 
WT Aviation Hangar, Mayfield Graves County AirportOut-of-Town Pool Spray at the Top
12:45 PM THE PRESIDENT tours a neighborhood in Mayfield, Kentucky
Mayfield, KentuckyOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
1:35 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Mayfield, Kentucky en route Princeton, Kentucky
Mayfield Graves County AirportOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
1:55 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Princeton, Kentucky
Princeton-Caldwell County AirportOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT tours a neighborhood in Dawson Springs, Kentucky and delivers remarks on his Administration's response to the tornadoes and extreme weather
Dawson Springs, KentuckyOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
3:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on his Administration's response to the tornadoes and extreme weather
Dawson Springs, KentuckyOpen to Pre-Credentialed Media and Pooled for TV [RSVP here by 6:00 AM]
4:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Princeton, Kentucky en route Fort Campbell, Kentucky 
Princeton-Caldwell County AirportOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
4:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Fort Campbell, Kentucky
Fort Campbell, Kentucky Open Press
4:40 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Fort Campbell, Kentucky en route Joint Base Andrews
Fort Campbell, Kentucky Open Press
EST
7:10 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base Andrews
Joint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool 
7:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House
South LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Gather 7:20 PM – Palm Room Doors)
Briefing Schedule
11:00 AM Press Briefing by White House COVID-19 Response Team and public health officials
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Fort Campbell, Kentuck



December 15, 202109:10 EST

WH travel pool report 2
Per the WH press office:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing.
Traveling on Air Force One with the President to Fort Campbell, Kentucky:Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro MayorkasFEMA Administrator Deanne CriswellCongressman James Comer (KY-01)Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor to the Press SecretaryJulie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental AffairsAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorConnolly Keigher, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Presidential AdvanceCaitlin Durkovich, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Resilience & Response, NSCJeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter



December 15, 202109:21 EST

WH travel pool report 3
Marine 1 set down on the concrete tarmac at Andrews at 0916 and came to a stop about 200 feet ahead of the plane.
The president stepped off in a blazer and Ray Bans and walked to the boarding staircase. He did not engage with the waiting pool.
He climbed the stairs, turned to wave, and entered the forward door at 0920.
We should be airborne shortly.



December 15, 202110:08 CST

WH travel pool report 4 — KY arrival
Air Force 1 touched down at Fort Campbell at 0949 CST following a 78-minute flight, in which we had no visitors from the forward part of the plane other than the gaggle.
The president came down the stairs at 1000 , where he was met by:
Governor Andy Beshear (KY)First Lady Britainy Beshear (KY)Former Governor Steve Beshear (KY)General Joseph P. (JP) McGee, Commanding General, 101st Airborne DivisionCommand Sergeant Major Veronica E. Knapp, Command Sergeant Major, 101st Airborne Division
He spoke with them for four minutes, then walked to the smaller version of Marine 1 for the flight to the first site.
During the flight, Deputy Press Sec Karrine Jean-Pierre took questions for just under 10 minutes as the plane was landing on a variety of topics, including climate change, Build Back Better, Mark Meadows, the omicron variant, among others.
The audio should be available on the WH web site.
Pool is hustling to board our Osprey for the flight to Mayfield.



December 15, 202110:55 CST

WH travel pool report 5 — Mayfield arrival
The president's traveling party aboard three Marine tilt-rotor V-22s arrived at Mayfield's airport at 1031, with Biden's Marine 1 touched down 14 minutes later, following an aerial tour of the area.
Snapped tree trunks and some wrecked homes were visible through the windows as the pool's Osprey neared the runway.
The president stepped out of the helicopter at 1049 and was met by:
Lieutenant Governor Jacqueline Coleman (KY)Mayor Kathy O'Nan (Mayfield)
They were still chatting beside his black SUV when the pool was led to the press van.
Motorcade was moving at 1053.



December 15, 202111:25 CST

WH travel pool report 6 — tornado briefing
The vehicles traveled just a few hundred yards to a corrugated steel hangar.
Pool was led inside, where 8 folding tables were arranged in a U on the gray painted concrete floor. Food, bottles of water, what appeared to donated clothes and toys were stacked on pallets.
The president was already seated, DHS Sec Mayorkas to his right, Gov Beshear and FEMA Administrator Criswell to his left.
Biden began speaking at 1059, told those assembled that their community reminded him of communities in Delaware.
He said he has been impressed by how everyone works together in the wake of tragedy.
"There's no red tornadoes, there's no blue tornadoes."
He said he told his team to make KY officials aware of all the help available from the federal government.
"I'm here to listen. I think the vast majority of Americans know what you've been through just watching on television."
He finished at 1104, and Gov. Beshear began explaining the situation.
Pool was led out at 1113, as the event continued.



December 15, 202111:28 CST

WH travel pool report 6a — briefing attendees
Per the WH press office:
In attendance for the President's briefing from local leaders on the impacts of the tornadoes and extreme weather:Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro MayorkasFEMA Administrator Deanne CriswellGovernor Andy Beshear (KY)Lieutenant Governor Jacqueline Coleman (KY)First Lady Britainy Beshear (KY)Former Governor Steve Beshear (KY)Representative James Comer (KY-01)Mayor Kathy O'Nan, MayfieldMichael Dossett, Kentucky Emergency Management DirectorGracia Szczech, Regional Administrator, FEMA Region 4Nathan Kent, Mayfield Chief of PoliceJeremy Creason, Mayfield Fire ChiefSamuel "Carr" McKay, Mayfield Mobile Disaster Resource CenterLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor to the Press SecretaryLa Tasha Buckner, Chief of Staff to Governor BeshearJonathan Smith, Deputy Chief of Staff to Governor BeshearCrystal Staley, Communications Director for Governor BeshearBarry McDonald, Mayfield City CouncilmemberJana Adams, Mayfield City CouncilmemberBrad Rodgers, Mayfield City CouncilmemberJohnny Jackson, Mayfield City CouncilmemberChuck Whitnell, Mayfield City CouncilmemberJohnny L. Jackson, Mayfield City CouncilmemberLauren Carr, Mayfield City CouncilmemberDerrick Parrott, Mayfield City CouncilmemberCarol Todd, Mayfield City Councilmember



December 15, 202112:06 CST

WH travel pool report 7 — en route to Mayfield tour
The presidential motorcade was underway at 1200, en route to Mayfield to tour storm damage.



December 15, 202112:11 CST

WH travel pool report 8
The president arrived in a tornado-ravaged section of Mayfield at 1209, following a drive along a road lined with destruction.
Crumbled buildings, an RV dealership with flipped over trucks, a torn-up gas station.
Residents took cell phone photos and video as we passed. Pool did not notice any political signage or banners, save for one Trump flag on a pickup truck at a corner.
The damage was extensive as we entered the town proper, with block after block of wrecked buildings.



December 15, 202112:18 CST

WH travel pool report 8a
Per the WH press office:
In attendance for the Mayfield, Kentucky neighborhood town:Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro MayorkasFEMA Administrator Deanne CriswellGovernor Andy Beshear (KY)Lieutenant Governor Jacqueline Coleman (KY)First Lady Britainy Beshear (KY)Former Governor Steve Beshear (KY)Representative James Comer (KY-01)Mayor Kathy O'Nan, MayfieldJesse Perry, Graves County Judge ExecutiveAnne Henning Byfield, Presiding Bishop of the AME Council of Bishops



December 15, 202112:35 CST

WH travel pool report 9 — walking tour
The president began the walk past wrecked buildings.
About 200 yards down, Biden stopped to talk with a woman sitting among a pile of rubble. Bricks lay on the ground. The roof gone.
Their conversation was out of earshot, as the wind gusted.
Turning a corner, a voice shouted out to ask him what he said to the faith-based groups that had come to help.
"I say thank you. You're doing God's work"
A few minutes later, he was on a cell phone, speaking to the child of one his walk companions. A few minutes later the group stopped in the middle of the street to pray.
Biden stopped to answer a question about what he had seen. He said the government would continue to help for weeks and months to come. "I'm impresssd how everyone's working together."
He noted that weather events had this year caused $99 billion of damage.
(Network cameras will have full audio. Watch for playback.)
At 1230 pool was hustled back onto the press bus for the drive back to the airport.



December 15, 202112:55 CST

WH travel pool report 10 — leaving for next stop
At 1250, pool was back aboard the Osprey for the flight to the next location. We should be aloft shortly en route Princeton, KY.



December 15, 202113:32 CST

WH travel pool report 11 — Princeton arrival
The support Ospreys landed at 1311 at Princeton-Caldwell County Airport. Marine 1 touched down at 1314.
He was greeted on the tarmac by Mayor Chris Smiley, Dawson Springs, with whom he chatted for several minutes beside the helicopter, which eventually turned off its engines.
The pool is holding in the press vans.



December 15, 202113:48 CST

WH travel pool report 12 — en route to Dawson Springs
At 1345 the president, who had been holding in a small building at the edge of the tarmac, got into his SUV. The pool had already loaded aboard press vans for the drive to Dawson Springs.
The motorcade was rolling at 1346.



December 15, 202113:52 CST

WH travel pool report 12a
Per the WH press office:
Upon arrival in Dawson Springs, the President will be greeted by Judge Executive Jack Whitfield, Jr., Hopkins County.
Joining the tour of Dawson Springs, Kentucky:Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro MayorkasFEMA Administrator Deanne CriswellGovernor Andy Beshear (KY)First Lady Britainy Beshear (KY)Former Governor Steve Beshear (KY)Representative James Comer (KY-01)Mayor Chris Smiley, Dawson SpringsJudge Executive Jack Whitfield, Jr., Hopkins County



December 15, 202114:14 CST

WH travel pool report 13 — Dawson Springs arrival
The motorcade pulled into the town at 1412, again passing occasional onlookers with cell phone cameras, except for the stretch on Interstate 69.
One family, including a baby and a toddler, watched from the stoop of a home, the only part of the structure still standing.
We passed work crews replacing utility poles and hauling off debris at the end, with destroyed structures on both sides of the street.
The president is to tour damage here and deliver brief remarks.



December 15, 202114:34 CST

WH travel pool report 14 — Dawson Springs destruction
On a small road with torn and broken homes either side, their contents strewn out in every direction, the president made his way on foot, accompanied by the Dawson Springs mayor and the governor.
In blue trousers, blazer, work boots, no tie and a Beau Biden Foundation ball cap, Biden chatted with families and police officers as generators generators and heavy machinery whirred and clanged.
Conversations were hard to make out.



December 15, 202115:07 CST

WH travel pool report 15 — walk finished, remarks upcoming
The president continued walking past the trees, branches filled with shreds of insulation rather than leaves, stopping to speak with and hug residents who had lost everything.
A lectern was set up at an intersection, where Gov Beshear and then President Biden are to speak.
The remarks will be carried on the White House web site and possible elsewhere (there do not seem to be speakers set up here, so the audio is almost certainly going to be better on the web cast).



December 15, 202115:07 CST

WH travel pool report 16 — remarks begin
The president, who listened to Gov Beshear's speech with his hands on the shoulders of a small boy in an underarmour hoodie standing ahead of him, came to the lectern at 1506.
The remarks are being streamed at the White House web site.



December 15, 202115:22 CST

WH travel pool report 17— remarks done
The president introduced the boy and his cousin he had met at the last house he visited, thanked the governor and the local congressman, a Republican, and promised that the federal response would continue.
"I intend to do whatever it takes as long as it takes."
"These tornadoes devoured everything in their path."
"It's incredible how you all stepped up."
Biden then said the federal government would cover 100 percent of the cost of the recovery from the tornadoes for the first 30 days.
"We're going to make sure you have all the help you need."
"To all the families: keep the faith."
Biden responded to a question about whether FEMA needs more money, saying not yet, but took the opportunity to again say that climate change-related weather events have already caused $99 billion of damage just this year.
He wrapped up at 1519.
Pool is being nudged back to the press vans.



December 15, 202115:37 CST

WH travel pool report 18 — motorcade back to helos
At 1530, the motorcade is rolling back toward the Princeton airport for the helicopter flight back to Fort Campbell.



December 15, 202116:05 CST

WH travel pool report 19 — flying to Fort Campbell
The motorcade got back to Princeton airport at 1554. The pool was led to our V-22 before the president boarded Marine 1.
We expect to lift momentarily for the flight back to the base.
Also, the WH press office passes along the names of the children he introduced at the top of his speech:
Dane Maddox (7 years old)Abby Parker (21 years old)



December 15, 202116:37 CST

WH travel pool report 20 — AF1 back to Andrews
The Ospreys and Marine 1 were all back on the ground at Fort Campbell by 1632.
At 1637, President Biden climbed the staircase and entered Air Force 1 through the forward door. He did not stop to take questions from the traveling pool.
We loaded onto the plane through the aft door and expect to be in the air soon for the flight home.



December 15, 202116:46 CST

WH travel pool report 20a — greeters at Fort Campbell departure
Per the WH press office:
Upon arrival at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, the President will be greeted planeside by:
General Joseph P. (JP) McGee, Commanding General, 101st Airborne Division
Command Sergeant Major Veronica E. Knapp, Command Sergeant Major, 101st Airborne Division



December 15, 202119:18 EST

WH travel pool report 21 — back at Andrews
Air Force 1 had wheels on the concrete at 1901 EST after an uneventful 73-minute flight. Deputy national security adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall came by briefly for an off-the-record chat during approach and landing. There were no other visitors from the quarterdeck.
The president emerged from the plane at 1911, came down the stairs, where he was met by Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, and then walked to the waiting helicopter. It was airborne at 1918, heading back to the White House.
Handing off now to the in-town pool for the remainder of the day.
Have a good evening.



December 15, 202119:32 EST

WH travel pool report 21a
For those curious about the girl holding the American flag at the second stop…
Per the WH press office:
Holding the U.S. flag at the beginning of the tour in Dawson Springs: Raylie Hall.




  