
    President George W. Bush today announced that he has named five individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President has named Charles P. Blahous, III, to be Deputy Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council. Dr. Blahous recently served as Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy. Earlier in his career, he served as Executive Director of the President's Commission to Strengthen Social Security, Policy Director for U.S. Senator Judd Gregg, and Legislative Director for U.S. Senator Alan Simpson. Dr. Blahous received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his PhD from the University of California at Berkeley.
The President has named Gordon Johndroe to be Deputy Assistant to the President, Deputy Press Secretary and National Security Council Spokesman. Mr. Johndroe recently served as Special Assistant to the President and National Security Council Spokesman. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Strategic Communications and Planning at the State Department and Press Secretary to the First Lady at the White House.
The President has named John M. Herrmann, II, to be Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for International Trade, Energy, and the Environment on the National Security Council. Mr. Herrmann recently served as Director for International Trade and Investment on the National Security Council. He received his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his JD from the University of Virginia School of Law.
The President has named Sally McDonough Niemiec to be Special Assistant to the President and Director of Communications and Press Secretary to the First Lady. Ms. McDonough recently served as Director of Communications and Press Secretary to the First Lady and previously served as Vice President at Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide. She received her bachelor's degree from the University of Pittsburgh.
The President has named David Sherzer to be Special Assistant to the President for Strategic Initiatives and External Affairs. Mr. Sherzer recently served as Special Projects Coordinator in the Office of President George W. Bush and previously served in the Staff Secretary's Office and Press Office at the White House. He received his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College.
  