
    For Immediate Release:
Friday, December 4, 2015
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Today, Congresswoman Susan Brooks from Indiana's 5th Congressional District endorsed Chris Christie for President.
"As the threat of ISIS continues to grow, America needs a strong, experienced leader who will put our country's safety and security first," said Congresswoman Brooks. "As a former US Attorney, I know Governor Christie has the background to stand behind our law enforcement and support the necessary programs to ensure the safety and security of the American people."
"Congresswoman Brooks is an influential voice in Congress and has a proven background supporting law enforcement, prosecuting tough cases in Indiana as US Attorney and advocating for strong national security," said Governor Christie. "She will be an integral part of our team as we continue to build support across the country."
Congresswoman Susan W. Brooks represents the 5th District of Indiana, which spans eight diverse counties throughout the central part of the Hoosier State. She currently serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, the House Ethics Committee and the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding the 2012 Terrorist Attack in Benghazi. She previously served on the House Homeland Security Committee and was Chairwoman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency, Preparedness and Response.
Her strong background in both the public and private sectors includes experience as a proven difference maker in areas such as public safety, homeland security, counter-terrorism and economic development.
Before joining the House of Representatives, Susan served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel for Ivy Tech Community College. Collaborating with a wide network of stakeholders, she implemented workforce development strategies aiming to enhance job training and placement for thousands of Hoosier residents.
In 2001, President George W. Bush appointed Susan as U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana. Serving as the chief federal law enforcement officer for a majority of the Hoosier state, she received bi-partisan acclaim for efforts to battle mortgage fraud, gun violence, drug trafficking, gangs, child exploitation and identity theft.
Susan also earned recognition as Deputy Mayor of Indianapolis during the Steve Goldsmith administration, where she provided oversight of public safety operations and drove community dialogue on vital civic issues. Over her tenure, she managed police, fire and emergency response efforts while serving on boards related to criminal justice, community corrections, violence reduction and race relations.
Susan practiced law at the Indianapolis firm of Ice Miller and also served as a criminal defense attorney for Indianapolis based McClure, McClure and Kammen.
Susan was recently named the Indiana Chamber of Commerce 2014 Government Leader of the Year. She is also a recipient of the Congressional Biosecurity Champion Award from the Alliance for Biosecurity and the Make the World a Better Place Award from the Girl Scouts of Central Indiana. In addition, she has received the "Spirit of Enterprise" Award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
After receiving her undergraduate degree from Miami University of Ohio, Susan pursued a Juris Doctor (J.D.) from the Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law. In May of 2013, Susan was awarded an honorary Doctor of Public Service degree from Marian University in Indianapolis. She resides in Carmel, Indiana with her husband David. They have two young adult children.
  