
    ON November 28, 1975, I signed into law S. 2195, 1 a bill creating the National Center for Productivity and Quality of Working Life. As I have stressed many times, continued productivity growth is vital to improving the standard of living of all Americans and to maintaining our competitive position in the international economy. By providing a unique forum for cooperative labor, management, and government efforts, the National Center for Productivity and Quality of Working Life holds great promise for stimulating America's productivity.
1 Public Law 94-136 (89 Stat. 733).
Today, I am happy to announce that Vice President Rockefeller has agreed to serve as Chairman of the Board of the new Center. The Vice President deserves much credit for the tremendous energy he has devoted in the past as Chairman of the former National Commission on Productivity and Work Quality. Because of the importance I personally attach to this Center, I am delighted that the Vice President will continue his leadership as Chairman of the Board. Under his direction, I expect major contributions from this new Center in the months ahead.
The National Center for Productivity and Quality of Working Life will assume a greatly enlarged role in stimulating productivity in both the private and public sectors of the economy. In addition to encouraging the joint efforts of labor, management, and government to improve productivity and quality of working life, it will have the responsibility for reviewing government regulations and policies on productivity.
The creation of this new Center is a fine example of bipartisan cooperation between the Congress and this Administration. I thank the many Members of Congress who worked on this legislation as well as the many others who have made major contributions to the creation of the Center.
A policy statement concerning productivity growth in this country prepared by the members of the National Commission on Productivity and Work Quality is being released today. This important statement provides suggestions on establishing priorities for our Nation in dealing with the problems and opportunities for improved productivity. I am grateful to those members of the Commission who labored so diligently to develop it. As we all know, this will not be a simple task, but our success can bolster the strength of our economy and improve the well-being of current and future generations.
  