
    Coalition will work to spotlight important issues and injustices, inspire grassroots support, and empower young community leaders and peers to take action
SAN ANTONIO, TX (December 23, 2019) – On Monday, December 23, the presidential campaign of former Obama Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Mayor of San Antonio, Texas, Julián Castro, announced the Julián Castro Youth Coalition, a group of young leaders from across the country who are committed to fighting for the most vulnerable communities, speaking out on social justice issues, and empowering their communities and peers to take action.
The coalition's founding members include young leaders advocating on issues such gun violence prevention, immigrant rights, environmental justice, and educational equity. The group will host frequent coalition calls, brainstorm campaign travel, highlight issues and injustices, hold grassroots meetings, and recruit other youth leaders across the country.
"I support Julián Castro because of his authentic leadership rooted in understanding the unique needs of communities across our country," said Coalition member Marco Dorado. "He is at the forefront of boldly addressing some of the most pressing issues facing our country in a time when we sorely need leaders to step up to the plate and offer solutions to challenges faced by people across America."
Thandiwe Abdullah, Coalition member and police brutality activist said, "I support Julian Castro because he has consistently shown up for black communities targeted by gun violence and has concrete plans to challenge the present and growing threat of police brutality."
"I have chosen to support Julían due to his genuine commitment to helping end the gun violence epidemic that we are having in this country," said Coalition member Ariel Hobbs. It is an issue that affects people all over the country on a daily basis, and for years it has been swept under the rug. For me, Julían is the candidate that I feel truly understands the causes of gun violence. His plan for ending gun violence combined with his other policy stances provide a comprehensive layout that will help end the epidemic."
"As a DACA recipient myself and someone who aspires to one day serve this country, his resiliency and willingness to continue the fight gives me hope for my future," said Coalition member Yazmin Aguilar. "To me, Julian is the definition of what the American dream."
Coalition member Aaliyah Joseph said, "Castro should be the next Presidential nominee because his agenda is an agenda that is empowering Americans that will make this country its most sustainable, equitable, and inclusive self."
The founding members of the Coalition include:
Marco Dorado ( Immigrant Rights, Economic Opportunity)Carolina Silva ( Education Equity, Immigrant Rights)Maria Yepez ( Immigrant Rights)Yazmin Aguilar ( Immigration and higher education, economic development and social justice)Tatiana Washington ( Gun Violence Prevention)Diego Garcia ( Gun Violence Prevention)Olivia Koulish ( Gun Violence Prevention)Aaliyah Joseph ( Environmental Justice, Racial Equity, Intersectionality)Ariel Hobbs ( Gun Violence Prevention )Thandiwe Abdullah (Police Brutality)Micaela Lattimer (Immigrant Rights)
  