
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key administration post:
•      Janice Lehrer-Stein, Member, National Council on Disability
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint Richard J. Danzig and Daniel Meltzer as Members of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board. Their biographies are below.
President Obama said, "I am confident that these accomplished individuals will serve the American people well in their new roles. I am proud to have them join this Administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key administration post:
Janice Lehrer-Stein, Nominee for Member, National Council on Disability
Janice Lehrer-Stein is a former labor and employment discrimination litigator in Washington, DC and San Francisco, California. Her practice included state and federal trial and appellate practice in labor, constitutional, and discrimination law. She is currently a member of the Board of Directors and Chair of the Audit Committee of Medical Research Charities, a national federation of research focused non-profits, soliciting and directing employee donations to the Combined Federal and State Campaigns. Ms. Lehrer-Stein is a National Trustee of the Foundation Fighting Blindness and Chair of the 2010 San Francisco Dining in the Dark dinner, an event that increases awareness of the challenges faced by Americans with vision disabilities. Ms. Lehrer-Stein is also a member of the Board of Directors of Disability Rights Advocates, a non-profit law firm that seeks to improve access and to secure the civil rights of individuals with disabilities. Ms. Lehrer-Stein was diagnosed with retinitis pigmentosa in 1982 and is legally blind. She holds a Juris Doctor degree from University of Toronto and earned her Bachelor of Arts degree from Yale University.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key administration posts:
Richard J. Danzig, Nominee for Member, President's Intelligence Advisory BoardRichard J. Danzig is a senior advisor at the Center for a New American Security, the Center for Naval Analyses and the Center for Strategic and International Studies, where he serves as a consultant to the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security on terrorism. Dr. Danzig also served as a Senior Advisor to then-Senator Barack Obama on national security issues throughout his Presidential campaign. During the Clinton Administration, Dr. Danzig served as the 71st Secretary of the Navy and Under Secretary of the Navy. During the Carter Administration, Dr. Danzig served in the Department of Defense as a Deputy Assistant Secretary then as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Manpower, Reserve Affairs and Logistics. Between his terms in public service, Dr. Danzig was a partner in the law firm Latham Watkins. He is the Chairman of the Center for a New American Security's Board of Directors, a member of the Defense Policy Board, a Director of the RAND Corporation and the Partnership for Public Service. Dr. Danzig was awarded the Defense Distinguished Public Service Award, the highest Department of Defense civilian award, in 2001, 1997 and 1981. He received a B.A. from Reed College, a J.D. from Yale Law School, and Bachelor of Philosophy and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar.
Daniel Meltzer, Nominee for Member, President's Intelligence Advisory BoardDaniel Meltzer is currently the Story Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. He joined the Harvard Law School faculty in 1982, and has served as an Associate Dean and Vice Dean of the Law School. From 2009-10, Mr. Meltzer was the Principal Deputy Counsel to President Barack Obama at the White House. Before he joined the Harvard Law School faculty, Mr. Meltzer practiced law at Williams and Connolly in Washington D.C. and served as Special Assistant to Secretary Joseph A. Califano, Jr. at the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Mr. Meltzer also served as a law clerk to Judge Carl McGowan of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and to Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart. Mr. Meltzer is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the Council of the American Law Institute. Mr. Meltzer holds an A.B. from Harvard College and a J.D. from Harvard Law School, where he served as President of the Harvard Law Review.
  