
    Franklin County Tea Party co-founder and county GOP vice chair calls Paul "honest and consistent"
ANKENY, Iowa — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today that Mayor-Elect Shawn Dietz of the City of Hampton, located in Franklin County, has endorsed Ron Paul for the presidency.
In making his endorsement, the mayor-elect cited Paul's 'Plan to Restore America,' as well as a full complement of issue stances that distinguish the 12-term Congressman from Texas from other Republican competitors.
"We're pleased that incoming Mayor Dietz has endorsed Ron Paul, and has done so with such conviction," said Ron Paul 2012 Iowa Chairman Drew Ivers, referring to the mayor-elect's attached letter. "Endorsements by Iowa's political, faith and civic leaders are what promise to propel us to a strong top-three showing in the caucus."
Mayor-Elect Dietz is co-founder of the Franklin County Tea Party, and Vice Chair of the Franklin County Republican Central Committee. A former factory worker who was laid off due to 2008 government-imposed economic collapse, he also is a husband and father of three children.
The full text of Mayor-Elect Dietz's letter to Iowans follows:
To my fellow Iowans:
With our nation's founding principles in jeopardy of extinction, elections at all levels of government are increasingly more imperative to the survival of our Republic; none more visible and important than that of the office of President of the United States.
Only one Republican Presidential candidate has provided a detailed plan of how he proposes to make major Federal Government spending cuts, $1 Trillion in his first year as President.
Only one Republican Presidential candidate has presented logical plans to address important issues to my family, my neighbors, and myself; such issues as national security, illegal immigration, life, monetary policy, foreign policy, debt, and ending overseas nation building.
Only one Republican Presidential candidate has been honest and consistent in his positions for 30+ years.
Only one Republican Presidential candidate continues to fight unapologetically for the restoration of American Government to the United States Constitution.
Only one Republican Presidential candidate unconditionally supports our troops by promising to immediately bring them home to their families where they belong.
Only one politician in my lifetime, and likely for many generations, has so accurately and passionately represented the self-evident Truths laid out in the Declaration of Independence; "...that all Men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness..."
I've asked myself this question, WHY do I love this country? The answer was simple. Liberty. The next question was who to support for President in 2012. Today it is with great pride as a co-founder of the Franklin County Tea Party, as the Vice Chair of the Franklin County Republican Central Committee, and as the Mayor-Elect of the City of Hampton, Iowa that I officially announce my endorsement of the Champion of the Constitution, Texas Congressman, Dr. Ron Paul for President in 2012. Please join me at the January 3rd Iowa Caucus and vote to Restore America Now with a vote for Ron Paul…
For Liberty!
Shawn Dietz
Mayor-Elect
Hampton, Iowa
  