
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Mark Anthony Calabria of Virginia, to be Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency for a term of five years.
Dr. Calabria currently serves as Chief Economist to Vice President Mike Pence. Previously, he served as a senior aide on the Senate Banking Committee where he was one of the lead drafters of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (HERA), which created the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Additionally, Dr. Calabria served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Regulatory Affairs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development during President George W. Bush's Administration and held positions with Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies, the National Association of Home Builders, and the National Association of Realtors.
Heath P. Tarbert of Maryland, to be Commissioner and Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a five-year term beginning April 14, 2019. 
Mr. Tarbert currently serves as Assistant Secretary for International Markets at the Treasury Department. Prior to entering government service, Mr. Tarbert was a partner at the international law firm of Allen & Overy LLP. Previously, he served as Senior Fellow at the Harvard Law School Program on International Financial Systems, Legal Advisor to the Systemic Risk Council, Vice President of the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation, and a member of the Board of Advisors for the Review of Securities and Commodities Regulation. Mr. Tarbert is a Certified Public Accountant and a Chartered Financial Analyst charterholder. He earned his B.S. from Mount St. Mary's University, J.D. and S.J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania, and his D. Phil from Oxford University, where he was a Thouron Scholar.
Eliot Pedrosa of Florida United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of three years. 
Mr. Pedrosa currently represents the United States as Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank. Previously, he was a Principal Shareholder of the international law firm Greenberg Traurig and chairman of the firm's Miami litigation department. He also served as Vice Chairman of the Florida Third District Court Judicial Nominating Commission and Chairman of the Dean's Advisory Council of the Green School of International and Public Affairs at Florida International University. Mr. Pedrosa is a graduate of Harvard Law School and Florida International University, graduating summa cum laude.

President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Peter Ricketts of Nebraska to be a Member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations for a term of four years. 
Nicholas T. Matich IV of Virginia, to be a Member (Government/OMB Rep.) of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States for a three-year term. 
Daniel R. Sitterly of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Human Resources and Administration.
Mr. Sitterly currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs where he is responsible for the supervision of manpower, military, and civilian personnel, Reserve component affairs, and readiness support for the Department of the Air Force. Previously, he served as Acting Assistant Secretary. Prior to his current assignment, Mr. Sitterly served in the Pentagon as Deputy Director, Air Force Staff, Director of Force Development, and as the Air Force's Director of Staff, Legislative Liaison. He began his career in the Air Force as an enlisted member and retired in 2009 at the rank of Colonel. Mr. Sitterly earned his B.S. in Business from the University of Maryland and M.S. in Education from the University of Southern California.
  