
    By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, and as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
1. I hereby designate John C. Young, formerly Chief Justice, Supreme Court of the State of Colorado, Leon W Powers, formerly Judge, Supreme Court of the State of Iowa, Lee. B. Wyatt, Associate Justice, Supreme Court of the State of Georgia, Hu C. Anderson, Presiding Judge, Court of Appeals of the State of Tennessee, Winfield B. Hale, Judge, Court of Appeals of the State of Tennessee, Daniel T. O'Connell, Associate Justice, Superior Court of the State of Massachusetts, William J. Wilkins, Judge, Superior Court of the State of Washington, Edward J. Daly, Judge, Superior Court of the State of Connecticut, and Robert F. Maguire, attorney of the State of Oregon, as the members, and Clarence F. Merrell, attorney of the State of Indiana, as an alternate member, of the military tribunals established by the Military Governor for the United States Zone of Occupation within Germany pursuant to the quadripartite agreement of the Control Council for Germany, enacted December 20, 1945, as Control Council Law NO. 10, and pursuant to Articles 10 and 11 of the Charter of the International Military Tribunal, which tribunal was established by the Government of the United States of America, the Provisional Government of the French Republic, the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, for the trial and punishment of major war criminals of the European Axis. Such members may, at the direction of the Military Governor of the United States Zone of Occupation, serve on any of the several military tribunals above mentioned, which tribunals are a component part of the military occupational forces of the United States, and upon which the members designated herein shall perform active service during the period of their designation.
2. The members herein designated shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses as may be determined by the Secretary of the Army and as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to the Department of the Army for such purposes.
3. The Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Army, and the Secretary of the Navy are authorized to provide appropriate assistance to the members herein designated in the performance of their duties and may assign or detail such personnel under their respective jurisdictions, including members of the armed forces, as may be requested for the purpose. Personnel so assigned or detailed shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses as may be determined by the Secretary of the Army and as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to the Department of the Army for such purposes, except that personnel assigned or detailed from the Department of the Navy shall receive such compensation and allowances for expenses to which they may be entitled by reason of their military grade and service and as may be payable from appropriations or funds available to the Department of the Navy for such purposes.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 31, 1947
  