
    
  Oskaloosa News (Iowa) Endorses Rick Santorum For President, Citing His Knowledge and Commitment

Urbandale, IA - Republican Presidential Candidate Rick Santorum has received the endorsement of theOskaloosa (Iowa) News. In the endorsement, the Oskaloosa News cites Rick Santorum's depth of knowledge, commitment to Iowa, and his tireless work ethic as reasons why he is the best Republican presidential hopeful.
Oskaloosa News Announces Our Endorsement For The Iowa Caucuses
To Read The Entire Endorsement: http://oskynews.org/?p=36754
Oskaloosa, Iowa - In uncharted territory for us, the two editors of Osky News sat down and discussed what candidate we, in general, most support to win the Iowa Caucuses. The discussion was lengthy, and our opinion was based upon multiple visits with most of the candidates over the past 6 months, with the exception of Mitt Romney, as he's appeared to be a ghost in Iowa.
... Our next opportunity to sit, speak, and learn about this candidate happened on July 31st at the unassuming Edmundson Kiwanis shelter house.
There we first got to meet Santorum's family, and see what bond there was among his family. His family served pie to those in attendance at that event.
The Santorum's had been adopted by Mahaska County residents Steve and Jan Boender that week where they were learning about life on a farm. Fishing, tractors and the simple life are the things they immersed themselves in...
... Our next opportunity to speak with the former Senator was at a Debate held in August just before the Iowa Straw Poll. One of the things that started to work into our thoughts about candidates was Santorum's availability after large events like this. When most candidates would make their way across the 'spin room' floor to the national tv stage, Santorum was one of the few that took the time to answer questions to the rest of the media, including the little guys like Osky News...
... The Reagan Dinner gave Santorum an opportunity to shine on his own without the strangle hold of perceived approval based upon polls that networks use to measure how much time a candidate gets in a debate.
With a set time limit for each of those who attended, Santorum continued with his consistent message that was also added to his current talking points. But beyond those, what struck us once again was his commitment to the people of Iowa. "It is great I would say to be back in Iowa, but I've been here a little while. This is my 8th straight day in the State of Iowa and I am proud to announce that I did a Grassley. I've been to all 99 counties in the State of Iowa and I tell you I had a wonderful time doing it," Santorum said to the group of GOP supporters who attended the dinner.
... We came to the conclusion of endorsing Rick Santorum nearly a week ago, but we held off until we got to see Santorum in action once again. Santorum didn't disappoint with his knowledge of Iowa and its residents when he made his recent stop in Pella on Tuesday...
... Hands down, this endorsement is for Rick Santorum."
  