
    Today President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate a ninth wave of judicial nominees and a tenth wave of United States Attorney nominees as follows:
If confirmed, Joel M. Carson III of New Mexico will serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Joel Carson currently serves as a part-time Magistrate Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico and as a partner in the Roswell-based firm Carson Ryan, LLC. Prior to being selected as a Magistrate Judge in 2015, and starting his own firm in 2014, Judge Carson served for five years as general counsel of Mack Energy Corporation. Before joining Mack Energy, Judge Carson was a partner at the Roswell-based firm Hinkle, Hensley, Shanor & Martin, LLP, where he practiced for nine years. Earlier in his career, Judge Carson served as a law clerk to Judge Bobby R. Baldock of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Judge Carson earned his B.B.A. from Texas Tech University and his J.D. from the University of New Mexico School of Law.
If confirmed, Susan Paradise Baxter of Pennsylvania will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. Judge Susan Paradise Baxter has served as a U.S. Magistrate Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania since 1995, and served as Chief Magistrate Judge for the district from 2005-2009. Before her appointment to the bench, she served as Solicitor for Erie County, Pennsylvania, and as a partner in the Washington, D.C. office of the law firm that has become Davis Wright Tremaine LLP. Judge Baxter earned her B.S., with high distinction, from Pennsylvania State University, her M.Ed. from Temple University, and her J.D. from the Temple University Beasley School of Law.
If confirmed, Colm F. Connolly of Delaware will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. Colm Connolly is a partner with the law firm of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, where he manages the Wilmington office as a member of the firm's litigation and intellectual property practice groups. He joined Morgan Lewis in 2009, after serving eight years as the United States Attorney for the District of Delaware. Before his confirmation as United States Attorney, Mr. Connolly spent more than two years as a partner in the Wilmington law firm Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP. Prior to joining Morris Nichols, Mr. Connolly served for seven years as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Delaware and as a law clerk to Judge Walter K. Stapleton of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Mr. Connolly earned his B.A., with honors, from the University of Notre Dame, his M.Sc. from the London School of Economics, and his J.D., with honors, from the Duke University School of Law.
If confirmed, Kari A. Dooley of Connecticut will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut.  Judge Kari Dooley has served as a judge of the Superior Court, State of Connecticut Judicial Branch, since 2004. Prior to her judicial service, Judge Dooley served for twelve years as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, rising to the rank of Supervisory Assistant United States Attorney and, ultimately, Counsel to the United States Attorney. Judge Dooley began her legal career as an associate in the Greenwich office of Whitman & Ransom. Judge Dooley earned her B.A. from Cornell University, and her J.D., cum laude, from the University of Connecticut School of Law.
If confirmed, Gordon P. Giampietro of Wisconsin will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Gordon Giampietro is an assistant general counsel of the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company. Prior to joining Northwestern Mutual, Mr. Giampietro spent thirteen years as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Before joining the United States Attorney's Office, Mr. Giampietro was a partner in the Milwaukee law firm of Michael Best & Friedrich LLP, where his practice focused on civil and commercial litigation. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Giampietro served for three years as a law clerk to Judge Rudolph T. Randa of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Mr. Giampietro earned his B.A., with high honors in philosophy, and his J.D. from the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C.
If confirmed, Marilyn Jean Horan of Pennsylvania will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. Judge Marilyn Jean Horan serves as a Judge on the Butler County Court of Common Pleas, where she has served since 1996. Prior to her election to the bench, Judge Horan spent seventeen years as an attorney with the Butler, Pennsylvania law firm of Murrin, Taylor, Flach & Horan where her practice included all areas of civil litigation, family and domestic relations, orphans court practice, business and estate planning, administrative law, and bankruptcy. Judge Horan earned her B.S., magna cum laude, from Pennsylvania State University, and her J.D. from the University of Pittsburgh School of Law.
If confirmed, William F. Jung of Florida will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. Bill Jung is a partner in the Tampa-based firm Jung & Sisco, P.A. where he handles civil, commercial, and white collar defense litigation. Prior to starting his own firm, he served for six years as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Middle and Southern Districts of Florida, and practiced civil litigation in the Tampa office of Carlton Fields, P.A. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Jung served as a law clerk to Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist of the Supreme Court of the United States and to Judge Gerard Bard Tjoflat of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Mr. Jung earned his B.A. from Vanderbilt University, where he was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa, and his J.D. from the University of Illinois College of Law, where he was class valedictorian, Order of the Coif, and served as Editor in Chief of the Illinois Law Review.
If confirmed, Chad F. Kenney of Pennsylvania will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Judge Chad Kenney has served as a Judge on the Delaware County Court of Common Pleas since 2003. During his time on the bench, Judge Kenney has presided over cases in the family, criminal, civil, and orphans' sections. In 2012, his judicial colleagues elected him to serve a five-year term as the President Judge. Prior to his election to the bench, Judge Kenney was twice-elected Sheriff of Delaware County. Judge Kenney began his legal career as a civil litigator and later entered the general practice of law. He has practiced in Delaware County and Philadelphia as an associate, partner, and a solo practitioner, in large and small firms. Judge Kenney earned his B.A., cum laude, from Villanova University and his J.D. from the Temple University Beasley School of Law where he was a member of the Temple Law Review.
If confirmed, Maryellen Noreika of Delaware will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. Maryellen Noreika is a partner in the Wilmington law firm of Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP where she began her career as an associate upon graduation from law school in 1993. During her 24 years at Morris Nichols, Ms. Noreika has served as counsel in more than 500 cases, while specializing in patent law, and representing parties in cases involving biotechnology, chemistry, consumer products, computer science, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals. Ms. Noreika earned her B.S. from Lehigh University, her M.A. in biology from Columbia University, and her J.D., magna cum laude, from the University of Pittsburgh, where she was inducted into the Order of the Coif, and served as a member of the University of Pittsburgh Law Review.
If confirmed, Jill A. Otake of Hawaii will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Hawaii. Jill Otake currently serves as an Assistant United States Attorney and as the Acting Chief of the Special Crime Section in the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Hawaii. Prior to joining the office three years ago, she spent nine years as an Assistant United States Attorney and Supervisor in the United States Attorney's Office for the Western District of Washington. While living in Washington, she was Co-President of the Asian Bar Association of Washington. Before becoming an Assistant United States Attorney, she spent five years as a Deputy Prosecuting Attorney for the King County Prosecuting Attorney's Office in King County, Washington. A native of Hawaii, Ms. Otake served as a law clerk to Associate Justice Simeon R. Acoba, Jr., of the Supreme Court of Hawaii. Ms. Otake earned her B.S., cum laude, from Georgetown University and her J.D. from the University of Washington School of Law, where she was inducted into the Order of the Barristers.
If confirmed, William M. McSwain of Pennsylvania will serve as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Mr. McSwain is currently a partner at Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, where his practice focuses on white collar criminal matters, corporate internal investigations, and complex business litigation. He is also the current president of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania Chapter of the Federal Bar Association. From 2003 to 2006, he served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, prosecuting various federal crimes. He clerked for Judge Marjorie O. Rendell of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Prior to law school, Mr. McSwain served as an infantry officer and scout/sniper platoon commander in the United States Marine Corps. He received his B.A., with honors, from Yale University and his J.D. from Harvard Law School, where he served as an editor of the Harvard Law Review.
If confirmed, Billy J. Williams will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Oregon. Since February 2016, Mr. Williams has served as the court-appointed United States Attorney for the District of Oregon. He has worked at the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Oregon since 2000, where he has served as the First Assistant, Chief of the Criminal Division, Chief of the Violent Crimes Unit, and as the Tribal Liaison. Prior to joining the United States Attorney's Office, Mr. Williams served as a Senior Deputy District Attorney in the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office. He received his B.A. from Washington State University and his J.D. from Willamette University College of Law.
  