
    McAuliffe, Lewis, and Lichtman To Lead Teams Building Excitement For Upcoming Visits
The Clinton campaign announced today a program called "Hill's Angels," an effort to tap into the growing momentum among Iowans during the last week before the caucuses. As Hillary Clinton campaigns throughout the state this week, teams of Hill's Angels will travel to communities the day before her arrival to meet with supporters and volunteers, talk with Iowans about Hillary's plan to address the nation's big challenges with real solutions, and thank Iowans for the kindness and generosity they have demonstrated throughout the campaign. The initiative will be led by Terry McAuliffe, national campaign chairman, and Ann Lewis and Judy Lichtman, who both serve as senior advisors to the campaign.
"On January 3rd, Iowans get to pick a President, and they should ask themselves as they caucus, 'Who would be the best president?'" said McAuliffe. "We're going to bring that question to Iowans as we travel the state in these final days. America faces a war abroad and a troubled economy at home -- and at this critical moment we need Hillary Clinton because she is tested, ready to lead on day one, and offers real solutions to the big challenges we face."
Others participating in the program as Hill's Angels include former Iowa Attorney General Bonnie Campbell, Iowans for Hillary Campaign Co-Chair, Dr. Andy McGuire, Hillary's friends and former colleagues, including Melanne Verveer and Kelly Craighead, as well as a group of Chelsea Clinton's friends, who she has met throughout her life. At stops, Hill's Angels will distribute event flyers, give out bumper stickers, pins and t-shirts, and recuit additional supporters.
Ann Lewis and Judy Lichtman are doing the first Hill's Angels trip on Wednesday with stops in Denison, Carroll and Guthrie Center. Hillary Clinton has events scheduled in those cities on Thursday.
"Hillary Clinton has 35 years making change happen and we're excited to share her message of rebuilding the middle class, curbing the influence of the special interests, and restoring this country to greatness on the eve of her visit to these communities," said Lewis. "A growing number of Iowans support her because she will make the best President and because they believe she will win. She has stood up to the Republicans and will inspire millions to come out and participate in the process to make history November 2008."
  