
    The President today announced the appointment of 11 persons as members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board. They are:
PATRICK C. CASEY, of Taylor, Mich., a selfemployed attorney;
DAVID F. CRUZ VELEZ, of Santurce, P.R., director of the Office of the Advisor of the Governor on the Comprehensive Development of the Handicapped;
CAROL A. GRANT, a rehabilitation counselor with the North Carolina Division of Vocational Rehabilitation and a former member of the North Carolina Governor's Study Committee on Architectural Barriers;
PAUL MULDAWER, of Atlanta, Ga., an award winning architect and urban designer and member of HEW's National Advisory Committee on an Accessible Environment of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board;
KAY E. NEIL, of Omaha, Nebr., a retired businesswoman, former chairman of the Omaha Mayor's Advisory Committee on the Handicapped and the Nebraska Governor's Committee on the Employment of the Handicapped, now a member of the statewide Health Coordinating Council and honorary chairman of the Employment Advisory Council for the Handicapped;
WILLIAM A. PASSMORE, of Chicago, III., a job developer with the East Chicago Federal Programs Office, who was named Handicapped American of the Year in 1968 and is active in community affairs;
WILLIAM R. RALLS, of Okemos, Mich., an attorney and former chairman of the Michigan Rail Action Association;
WALTER H. RICHTER, director of government relations for Texas Electric Cooperatives, a former Texas State senator, and active in civic affairs;
MASON H. ROSE V, a city councilman and attorney in Rolling Hills, Calif., Chairman of the National Advisory Committee of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board;
ROBERT G. SAMPSON, Of Arlington Heights, Ill., vice president and special assistant to the president of United Airlines, Inc., a member of People to People International Committee for the Handicapped and its affiliate, Disabled Professionals;
HALE J. ZUKAS, coordinator for community affairs and cofounder of the Center for Independent Living in Berkeley, Calif., an organization working with the disabled community there.
The President also announced the designation of Veterans Affairs Administrator Max Cleland as Chairman of this Board.
  