
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Preeta D. Bansal – Member, Advisory Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States
•      Boris Bershteyn – Member, Advisory Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States
President Obama said, "I am proud to appoint such impressive individuals to these important roles, and I am grateful they have agreed to lend their considerable talents to this Administration. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Preeta D. Bansal, Appointee for Member, Advisory Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States
Preeta D. Bansal served as the General Counsel and Senior Policy Advisor for the Office of Management and Budget from 2009 to 2011. In that capacity, she was also a government member of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States, serving as Vice Chair from 2010 until 2011. She is a Henry Crown Fellow at the Aspen Institute and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Prior to joining the Obama Administration, Ms. Bansal was a Partner and Head of the Appellate Litigation Practice at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom, LLP, in New York City. She is the former Solicitor General of the State of New York and a former law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens. From 2003 to 2009, while in private law practice, Ms. Bansal also was a Commissioner of the bipartisan United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, serving as its Chair from 2004 to 2005. Ms. Bansal received a J.D., magna cum laude, from Harvard Law School and an A.B., magna cum laude, from Harvard-Radcliffe College.
Boris Bershteyn, Appointee for Member, Advisory Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States
Boris Bershteyn currently serves as the General Counsel of the Office of Management and Budget. He served as Special Assistant to the President and Associate White House Counsel at the Office of White House Counsel from 2010 until the summer of 2011 and as the Deputy General Counsel of the Office of Management of Budget from 2009 to 2010. Prior to joining the Administration, Mr. Bershteyn practiced law at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom, LLP, and at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen and Katz in New York. He served as a Law Clerk for Justice David H. Souter of the U.S. Supreme Court and Judge Jose A. Cabranes of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. He holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from Stanford University and a J.D. from Yale Law School.
  