
    AUSTIN — The Perry campaign today released a 60-second television advertisement entitled "President of Honor," which will air on Iowa broadcast and cable.

"As president, Rick Perry will be committed to restoring America to its rightful place as the greatest nation on earth," said Perry campaign spokesman Ray Sullivan. "The decorated veterans featured in this new TV ad know Rick Perry's pro-American, pro-defense and pro-veteran record. Additionally, Gov. Perry is the one true Washington outsider left in this race and has an unparalleled record of job creation, having created more than one million net new jobs while in office."
"President of Honor" Script
Jim Livingston: "My name is Jim Livingston. I am a retired major general."
Text: Marine Maj. Gen. Jim Livingston Awarded Medal of Honor, Rick Perry Supporter
Daniel P. Moran: "Governor Perry — he is the best person to serve as commander in chief."
Text: First Lieutenant Daniel P. Moran Awarded Purple Heart, Rick Perry Supporter
Dakota Meyer: "Any veteran that I knew needed help, Governor Perry always told me whatever he could do to care of them he would do it."
Text: Cpl. Dakota Meyer Awarded Medal of Honor, Rick Perry Supporter
Marcus Luttrell: "Governor Rick Perry — he is one of the most honorable men I've ever met."
Text: Navy Seal Marcus Luttrell Awarded Navy Cross, Rick Perry Supporter
Michael E. Thornton: "This is about how we can lead this nation. Rick Perry is that leader."
Text: Navy Seal Michael E. Thornton Awarded Medal of Honor, Rick Perry Supporter
Announcer: "Ladies and gentlemen, the next President of the United States."
Gov. Perry: "Washington's broken. Replacing one Washington insider with another won't change a thing."
Text: The Only Candidate That Created Over 1 Million Jobs Bureau Of Labor Statistics
Gov. Perry: "I'm the outsider who's willing to step on some toes. We can surely recapture what is great about America. And we can restore this nation to its preeminence in the world as a beacon of individual liberty and economic prosperity. And there is no greater cause in our time."
Daniel P. Moran: "You can't tell me America is not exceptional. You can't tell me that because I've seen it."
Text: Proven Leadership
Text: Integrity
Text: Trust
Gov. Perry: "I'm Rick Perry and I approve of this message."
Text: Approved By Rick Perry And Paid For By RickPerry.org, Inc.
  