
    Alexandria, Va. - December 2, 2015 - Today, Dr. Ben Carson, retired neurosurgeon and 2016 presidential candidate, announced endorsements from prominent pastors and religious leaders from South Carolina and across the country. This group of approximately 20 individuals will meet with Dr. Carson in Spartanburg, South Carolina, for prayers and to discuss the important issues facing America. The devotional will be an opportunity for Dr. Carson to commune with these leaders and share his personal walk of faith.
"I'm humbled and honored to receive the support of so many men and women of faith," said Dr. Carson. "I am grateful for their support of my candidacy and vision for the country, and even more grateful for what they do to shape our values and elevate our character. I look forward to working with them to offer both political and moral leadership for America."
The following individuals will offer their endorsement of Dr. Carson today. The Ben Carson for President 2016 Campaign continues to build support with faith leaders across the country, and additional endorsements will be announced in the coming days.
Faith Leaders from South Carolina
Dameron Batson, Evangelist/Christian Rapper, Spartanburg
Mark Anthony Busbee, Evangelist, Gaston
Robert Mark Clary, Care Team at New Spring Community Church, Anderson
Joshua Clowney, Christian Rapper, Wellford
David Fields, Evangelist/Christian Rapper, Greenville
Rev. Jimmy Gallant, Charleston
Larry Theodore Hipp, Jr, Evangelist, Anderson
Austin Luke Holadia, Evangelist, Anderson
Rev. Altheresa Howard, Lancaster
Rev. Dennis Peake, Greenville
Evangelist Chancey-Lindsey Peake, Greenville
Earl Christopher Troup, MD, Greenville
Pastor Scott Williams, Lyman
Pastor Mark Wall, Anderson
Pastor Mark Wills, Greenville
Faith Leaders From Around the Country
Jim Arnold, NFL All Pro Kicker, Detroit Lions 1986-1993
Dr. David Berman, Swanzey, NH
Pastor Maury Davis, Nashville, TN
Pastor Bobby Schuller, Anaheim, CA
Pastor Michael Small, Litchfield, NH
Pastor Ron Thomas, Las Vegas, NV
  