
    Pool Reports by David Boyer, The Washington Times



Sent:
Reports:




 December 5, 2020 14:22

 In-town pool 1 -- covid tests 
Good afternoon from the White House, where we're anticipating a MarineOne departure around 4:30 p.m. for the president's rally for GOPsenators in Valdosta, Georgia.
Travel pool and local pool have been covid tested. 


 December 5, 2020 16:41

 In town pool 2 — departure — no questions 
?The president emerged from the residence with the First Lady and did not take questions. She's wearing a full length burgundy leather coat.Other aides including Dan Scavino boarded Marine One, which lifted off at 4:40 pm.? 


 December 5, 2020 23:11

 In-town pool 3 — return to WH and lid 
?Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 11:05pm (x-apple-data-detectors://8) . The president and First Lady emerged and walked in to the residence holding hands. The president waved to the pool but didn't stop.
We have a lid. 




Pool Reports by Rebecca Ballhaus, The Wall Street Journal



Sent:
Reports:




 December 5, 2020 16:54

Out-of-town pool report #1 - JBA arrival 
?Good afternoon from a very windy JBA. Potus is traveling to Valdosta,Ga., today for his first postelection rally.
Marine One touched down at JBA at 4:50 p.m. Potus, wearing a long darkcoat and red tie, and FLOTUS, wearing a long red coat and heels,walked toward AF1 hand in hand and boarded without talking toreporters. Potus waved briefly.
Dan Scavino, Tony Ornato and Nick Luna were also spotted boarding.
We'll be wheels up shortly for the approximately two-hour flight toGeorgia. The rally is at 7 p.m. eastern.
Ronna McDaniel, Jason Miller, Kayleigh McEnany, Derek Lyons and Rep.Louie Gohmert were spotted aboard AF1 before Potus arrived (thanks toco-pooler Meredith McGraw). 


 December 5, 2020 19:13

Out of town pool report #2 - Valdosta arrival 
?AF1 touched down at Valdosta Regional Airport at 7:01 p.m. Thetwo-hour flight was uneventful, with no visitors to the press cabin.
Pool is now heading into the rally and did not see Potus get off theplane. Few masks spotted in the audience.
Potus expected to speak shortly. 


 December 5, 2020 19:21

 [WH Pool] Out of town pool report #3 - Potus takes stage 
?Potus and Flotus took the stage at 7:19 p.m. to loud cheers and, of course, Lee Greenwood.
The rally will be live-streamed but pool will send some highlights.
Attendees are all outside but are packed closely together and few of those pool has seen are wearing masks.
Flotus is now introducing Potus. "Do not let your voices be silenced. We must keep our seats in the Senate. It is more important than ever that you exercise your right as an American citizen and vote," she says. 


 December 5, 2020 21:10

Out of town pool report #4 -- rally over 
?Potus wrapped up at 9:01 p.m. after 1 hour and 40 minutes on stage.
A few highlights:- He spent much of the rally talking about his own election, declaring himself the winner in Georgia (despite two recounts that have confirmed Biden's win) and complaining that the election was rigged.- He criticized GA Gov. Brian Kemp as not tough enough and also took swipes at Brad Raffensperger, the GA secretary of state. He accused both of them of being afraid of Stacey Abrams.- He complained about the media coverage of Hunter Biden- He praised Perdue and Loeffler and called the January election "the most important congressional runoff probably in America"- He played a video attacking Ossoff and Warnock and another video repeating claims of election fraud
The supporters standing near the pool were particularly vocal tonight. "He doesn't know what day of the week it is!" one supporter shouted of Biden. "Video doesn't lie!" another supporter yelled as Potus repeated his claims of election fraud. The crowd chanted "Stop the steal", "Four more years" and "Where's Bill Barr" at various points. When Potus brought Ronna McDaniel on stage, some in the audience shouted "RINO!"
Some supporters also shouted various things at the pool, including "Report fact!", "Write the truth" and "How do you look yourself in the mirror." When the video on election fraud played, one person shouted: "You guys should have found this stuff a long time ago." Security removed one attendee who repeatedly shouted at the pool while Potus was still speaking.
Pool is now heading back to AF1 and we will be wheels up shortly for the two-hour flight back to JBA. 


 December 5, 2020 22:54

Out of town pool report #5 - JBA arrival 
?AF1 landed at JBA at 10:39 p.m. after an uneventful flight that againfeatured no visitors to the press cabin.
Potus and FLOTUS stepped off the plane at 10:49 p.m. Potus waved andgave a thumbs up to the pool before they boarded Marine One, which waswheels up at 10:53 p.m.
One update to my earlier note: The man who was removed by securityduring the rally after heckling reporters identified himself to EvanVucci as a youth minister whose church slogan is "Make ChristianityBrave Again."
Handing off to in-town pool. Good night! 



  