
    Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich says he's the most consistent conservative in the race, but consider his record.
Gingrich says he would repeal Obamacare, but he's on the record as a long-time proponent of making it mandatory for people making over $50,000 to purchase health insurance. Gingrich concedes he was the "grandfather" of the concept of an individual health insurance mandate. Follow this link to read more.
Gingrich has built a multi-million-dollar business from his perch on K Street, the Rodeo Drive of influence peddling in Washington, D.C. Gingrich has profited directly from the healthcare interests that in turn benefited when his big government healthcare proposals become law. Follow this link to read more
Gingrich is the consummate Washington insider, a crony capitalist who took millions of dollars from the implicitly taxpayer-backed Freddie Mac – a quasi-public/quasi-private federally chartered corporation – which constituted the epicenter of the financial crisis along with Fannie Mae. Follow this link to read more
Gingrich associates himself with the Tea Party's goal of restoring trust in government. However, he himself was pushed out as House Speaker by his own party after a tenure marred by ethics sanctions. Follow this link to read more
Gingrich has used the proceeds of his "Newt, Inc." influence peddling to bankroll a lavish lifestyle. Follow this link to read more
Gingrich supported the 2008 TARP bailout for the big Wall Street banks, which handed over taxpayer dollars to the very financial institutions that had lined the pockets of Washington insiders like Gingrich during the housing bubble. Follow this link to read more
Gingrich called Paul Ryan's courageous budget plan "right wing social engineering" and compared it to Obamacare. Follow this link to read more
Gingrich says he would defund Planned Parenthood, but failed to accomplish this when he had the power to do so. Follow this link to read more
Gingrich sat on a couch with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in support of Cap-and-Trade while conservative leaders like Michele Bachmann fought her. Now, Gingrich says he doesn't even know if the Earth is warming.Follow this link to read more.
Gingrich supported Obama's intervention in Libya, and then two weeks later, declared he was against it. Follow this link to read more
Michele Bachmann is the consistent conservative in this presidential race with a true core of conviction that can unite social conservatives, national security conservatives, fiscal conservatives and beat Barack Obama in 2012. She is not compromised in making the complete conservative case against Obama as a GOP standard bearer. Michele Bachmann has united conservatives and the Tea Party movement to oppose President Obama and the Democrats before and she will do so again as a bold-colors, principled Republican nominee.
  