
    Springfield, IL -- The African American members of the Illinois General Assembly today unanimously endorsed Barack Obama for President. The African American members of the Chicago City Council unanimously endorsed Obama this fall.
"Barack Obama has spent 20 years delivering change we can believe in to communities across Illinois," said Senate President Emil Jones.
"Barack Obama started his career in public service on the South Side of Chicago, organizing folks who had little hope to strengthen their families and their communities. In Springfield, he fought to outlaw racial profiling, to prevent innocent people from being sent to Death Row, and to provide health care coverage to an additional 150,000 Illinois residents. In Washington, he secured increased investments for predominately black institutions to make higher learning more affordable for our children and to protect homeowners from risky loans and foreclosures. Every time we needed his help, Barack Obama stood up for us, and we need to stand up for him by voting on February 5th to elect Barack our next President."
"Our next President shouldn't be judged by the number of years they have spent in Washington, they should be judged by whether or not they have delivered change for our communities," added Representative David Miller. "We need to elect Barack Obama to take on the great challenges facing our communities - we know from his time in Chicago, Springfield, and Washington that he's able to unite folks from all walks of life to get things done. He stands up to special interests and defends our families no matter what the pundits say. Starting today, we've got to educate our friends and neighbors about Barack Obama, and then on February 5th we will turn out the vote for Barack in force."
Endorsing Barack Obama today are:
Illinois State Senate:
State Senate President Emil Jones
Senator Jackie Collins
Senator James F. Clayborne Jr
Senator Ricky Hendon
Senator Mattie Hunter
Senator Kimberly Lightford
Senator James Meeks
Senator Kwame Raoul
Senator Donne Trotter
Illinois State Representatives:
Rep. Annazette Collins
Rep. Marlow Colvin
Rep. Monique Davis
Rep. William Davis
Rep. Kenneth Duncan
Rep. Mary Flowers
Rep. LaShawn Ford
Rep. Esther Golar
Rep. Deborah Graham
Rep. Constance Howard
Rep. Elga Jefferies
Rep. Charles Jefferson
Rep. David Miller
Rep. Milton Patterson
Rep. Al Riley
Rep. Arthur Turner
Rep. Eddie Washington
Rep. Karen Yarbrough
Rep. Wyvetter Younge
  