
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, U.S. Congressman Wally Herger (R-CA) announced that he is endorsing Governor Mitt Romney for President of the United States. He joins Congressmen Howard "Buck" McKeon and John Campbell in supporting Governor Romney.
Announcing his support for Governor Romney, Congressman Herger said, "Governor Romney has the experience, vision and values to lead our country and meet a new generation of challenges. Throughout this campaign, he has distinguished himself as the only candidate who has outlined the vision and the policies that will keep us safe and build a stronger America. I am proud to make today's announcement and look forward to campaigning for him throughout the coming months."
Welcoming Congressman Herger to Romney for President, Governor Romney said, "Today's announcement is another indication of our growing support in California. Congressman Herger has been a strong leader for our conservative values in Washington. He has never forgotten that an elected official's most solemn obligation is to fight for the people they represent. Throughout his time in the Congress, he has advocated for a stronger economy, smaller government and a lower tax burden. I look forward to working with Congressman Herger and visiting California often."
Background On Congressman Wally Herger:
Congressman Wally Herger Is Serving His 11th Term In Congress Representing California's Second Congressional District. Congressman Herger currently serves on the House Committee on Ways and Means. In the 110th Congress, he was appointed the Ranking Member of the Trade Subcommittee and also serves on the Subcommittee on Income Security and Family Support (formerly known as Human Resources), which he chaired for six years. He has been a strong advocate for securing economic growth, encouraging innovation, reducing taxes, making government efficient and reforming entitlement programs. During his tenure as chairman of Subcommittee on Human Resources, Congressman Herger played a leading role in the reauthorization and expansion of the landmark 1996 welfare reform law. He got his start in elected office as a member of the East Nicolaus School Board, serving there from 1976 to 1980. He was elected to the California State Assembly in 1980, serving there until his election to the United States House of Representatives by the people of California's Second Congressional District.
  