
    The First Family is celebrating their third Christmas in the White House. This year's theme, "The Spirit of America," is a tribute to the traditions, customs, and history that make our Nation great. Designed by First Lady Melania Trump, the White House decorations celebrate the courageous individuals who have shaped our country and kept the American spirit alive.

Play 00:56
2019 Christmas Decorations at the White House
2019 Christmas Decorations at the White House
Upon entering the East Wing, visitors are welcomed by the cherished Gold Star Family Tree. Proudly decorated by Gold Star families, it is adorned with golden stars and patriotic ribbons. This tree reminds us of the service and selflessness of the American heroes who defend this great land.
Around the corner, the East Colonnade is a timeline of American design, innovation, and architecture. Through the archways, the East Garden Room displays the First Family's annual ornament and Christmas card. This year, both showcase the American flag – a symbol of our Nation's pride.
Entering the Ground Floor Corridor, the Vermeil Room highlights the spirit of generosity of previous First Ladies. Two trees are illuminated with tones of blush and gold and pieces of historic vermeil are on display for guests to view. In the Library, the legacies of Presidents are celebrated with past and present White House Historical Association annual ornaments. The 2019 ornament is featured on the center tree and honors President Dwight D. Eisenhower. The China Room is set with a holiday feast, illustrating the joys of family coming together at the holidays and sharing in the spirit of the season.
Upstairs in the East Room, four star-spangled trees stand tall, glimmering with stars and cascading ribbons. Perched at the top of each are gilded eagles, a reminder of our Nation's freedom and strength. Features of the American flag are proudly incorporated in the décor, with red symbolizing bravery and valor, and blue symbolizing perseverance and justice. For the 52nd year the White House Crèche is on display.
Moving into the Parlors, the Green Room features beloved and classic Christmas tales. Visitors can count down the days of the holiday season with the White House Advent calendar hanging in the windows. A time-honored tradition, the official White House Christmas tree takes its place in the Blue Room measuring over 18 feet tall. Blossoming with handmade paper flowers, the décor on the Blue Room tree pays homage to the distinctive floral emblem of every state and territory. The Red Room, decorated with games galore, ignites the childlike spirit we all have at this time of year.
The State Dining room celebrates America, the beautiful. Displayed on the iconic eagle pier table, the Gingerbread House features the South Portico of the White House and landmarks from across the country, including the Golden Gate Bridge, Space Needle, Mount Rushmore, the Alamo, Gateway Arch, Liberty Bell, and Statue of Liberty. The White House pastry team carefully constructed this masterpiece out of 200 lbs. of gingerbread dough, 125 lbs. of pastillage dough, 35 lbs. of chocolate, and 25 lbs. of royal icing.
Ending in the Grand Foyer and Cross Hall, guests find themselves in a glistening winter garden, filled with 22 evergreens, 14 golden magnolia topiaries, 10 floral urns, and dusted with fresh-fallen snow.
"This Christmas season I want to honor those who have shaped our country and made it the place we are proud to call home, and I am excited to announce our White House holiday theme, ‘The Spirit of America' " said First Lady Melania Trump. "When I travel the country, I am inspired by the hard working people and families that I meet. No matter which state they call home, many Americans share a strong set of values and deep appreciation for the traditions and history of our great nation. Thank you to all of the staff and volunteers who worked to make sure the People's House was ready for Christmas. Wishing everyone a very Merry Christmas and Happy New Year".
Throughout the month of December, the White House will be welcoming guests to enjoy this year's decorations by hosting open houses, receptions, and tours.
  