
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Thomas T. Cullen of Virginia, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia.
Thomas Cullen is the United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, where he serves as the chief Federal law enforcement officer for the District. Before becoming United States Attorney in 2018, Mr. Cullen was a partner at Woods Rogers PLC, where he headed the firm's white-collar and government investigations practice. Prior to entering private practice, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in both Virginia and North Carolina. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Cullen clerked for Judge Robert E. Payne of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia and Judge Roger L. Gregory of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Mr. Cullen earned his B.A., cum laude, from Furman University, and his J.D. from William and Mary Law School.
Anna M. Manasco of Alabama, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama.
Anna Manasco is a partner at Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP in Birmingham, Alabama, where her practice focuses on trial strategy and appeals in complex commercial litigation. Ms. Manasco has represented clients before the United States Supreme Court, numerous Federal courts of appeals, and the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama. Before joining Bradley, Ms. Manasco served as a law clerk to Judge William H. Pryor, Jr. of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Ms. Manasco earned her B.A., summa cum laude, from Emory University, her M.Sc. and D.Ph. from the University of Oxford, and her J.D. from Yale Law School, where she served as an Executive Editor of the Yale Law & Policy Review.
Thomas L. Foster of Virginia, to serve as the United States Marshal for the Western District of Virginia.
Thomas Foster has worked in law enforcement for more than 33 years and currently serves as the Chief of Police for the Vinton Police Department. Previously, Mr. Foster served as the Deputy Chief of Police at the Virginia Polytechnic and State University Police Department and as an Area Commander and Assistant Special Agent in Charge with the Virginia Department of State Police. He earned his B.A. from Mary Baldwin University and his M.P.A. from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.
Michael Allen Hagar of Arkansas, to serve as the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Arkansas. 
Michael Hagar is a captain with the Arkansas State Police, where he has served since 1996. Mr. Hagar serves on the Executive Board of the Arkansas State Police Association and previously served on the Executive Board of the National Governor's Security Association. Mr. Hagar earned his B.A. from the University of Arkansas, Little Rock. He is also a graduate of the Northwestern University School of Police Staff and Command.
  