
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint four individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Michell C. Clark, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Management at the Department of Education. Mr. Clark currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Management at the Department of Education. He previously served as Senior Management Consultant for IBM Business Consulting Services. Prior to that, Mr. Clark served in the United States Army for twenty years, retiring as a Lieutenant Colonel in 1998. He received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy at West Point and his master's degree from Purdue University.
The President intends to nominate Gary A. Grappo, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Sultanate of Oman. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Grappo most recently served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. He previously served as Director of the Office of Regional Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to that, Mr. Grappo was Deputy Chief of Mission in Muscat, Oman. He received his bachelor's degree from the United States Air Force Academy. In addition, Mr. Grappo received master's degrees from Purdue University and Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Raymond L. Orbach, of California, to be Under Secretary for Science at the Department of Energy. Dr. Orbach currently serves as Director of the Office of Science at the Department of Energy. He previously served as Chancellor of the University of California, Riverside for ten years. Prior to that, Dr. Orbach was Provost of the College of Letters and Science at the University of California, Los Angeles. He received his bachelor's degree from the California Institute of Technology and his PhD from the University of California, Berkeley.
The President intends to nominate Anne-Imelda Radice, of Vermont, to be Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services, for a term of four years. Ms. Radice currently serves as Acting Assistant Chairman for Programs at the National Endowment for the Humanities. She previously served as Chief of Staff at the Department of Education. Earlier in her career, Ms. Radice served as Acting Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts and Curator in the Office of the Architect of the United States Capitol. She received her bachelor's degree from Wheaton College and her first master's degree from Villa Schifanoia School of Fine Arts. In addition, Ms. Radice received her PhD from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and her second master's degree from American University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Federal Salary Council:
Jim Davis of Virginia
Frank D. Ferris of Virginia
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
Joan Stevens Eller, of Arizona, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2008
John Leachman Oliver, III, of Missouri, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2006 and an additional six-year term expiring September 1, 2012.
  