
    President Biden's Build Back Better Act has garnered praise from a number of agricultural organizations. The groups are calling on the Senate to pass the historic legislation, which includes provisions to invest in climate smart agriculture, extreme weather resilience, biofuels infrastructure, and market expansion and economic growth without increasing taxes.
See below for excerpts from the article:
National Journal Daily: Outside Influences: Key ag groups give BBB an A+[Jerry Hagstrom, 12/2/21]
"[T]he Build Back Better Act, which stands to be [President Biden's] signature legislative accomplishment, has gotten enthusiastic, if late, endorsements from key farm, biofuels, and nutrition groups."
"On Nov. 22, key biofuels groups and the National Farmers Union signaled their support for the BBB. In a letter to Senate Agriculture Committee Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow of Michigan and House Agriculture Committee Chairman David Scott of Georgia, Growth Energy, the National Biodiesel Board, the National Corn Growers Association, the Renewable Fuels Association, and NFU wrote 'to express our appreciation and support for provisions included in the agriculture portion of the Build Back Better (BBB) Act that will build new markets for farmers and biofuel producers and help lower the carbon intensity of agriculture.'"
"NFU President Rob Larew made a broader endorsement of the bill, calling it 'a big win for family farmers and ranchers and rural America. The bill includes important and necessary investments in climate smart agriculture and bio-fuel infrastructure. It also will spur economic activity in our communities and avoids enacting tax policies that have hurt family farmers and ranchers. We urge the Senate to act swiftly to pass this bill.'"
"The National Sustainable Agriculture Coalition cited the package's $90 billion-plus investments in agriculture, forestry, rural development, and nutrition. 'In the face of a changing climate, extreme weather events impacting farmers and ranchers, and significant supply chain disruptions impacting the food system nationwide, these investments are long overdue,' the group wrote. 'We urge swift action by the Senate to get this crucial legislation passed with agricultural spending intact, to help build back a resilient food and farming system and confront the climate crisis.'"
"The American Farmland Trust said, 'This once-in-a-generation funding opportunity would provide producers with the tools they need to protect their land, increase resilience to extreme weather, sequester carbon, and reduce emissions—all while improving their soils and profitability.'"
  