
    THE PRESIDENT of the United States and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, meeting in Key Biscayne, Florida, on December 28 and 29, reviewed the international developments that have occurred since their last meeting. They agreed that the close partnership between America and Europe has successfully withstood difficult tests and has demonstrated its importance for their common future.
Cooperation on monetary and trade policy, one of the most important conditions and guarantees for close American-European relations, has been successfully adapted to new conditions and now holds out favorable prospects for further development.
The future shape of economic relations between America and Western Europe will be based on close cooperation to be arranged between the United States and the enlarged European community.
Common defense through NATO is an essential component of both U.S. and German policy. In this spirit the progress of joint efforts on the part of the European allies plays a major role.
The President and the Chancellor were in agreement that all members of the alliance must adequately share the defense burden in order to ensure their common security.
The President reaffirmed that no decisions affecting the Alliance will be taken without full consultation with its allies.
The President reiterated that the American commitments in Europe will remain unchanged and that, in particular, no reductions in the American troops stationed in Europe will be made.
Preparations for early East-West talks on Mutual and Balanced Force Reductions should be fully coordinated within the Alliance. Agreed criteria for such reductions must insure that the Alliance's defense capability remains unimpaired. The U.S. will not negotiate its troop levels in Europe on a bilateral basis.
The President and the Chancellor agreed that a conference on European security and cooperation needs to be carefully prepared. In preparing common positions for CSCE and MBFR the United States and Western Europe will harmonize their views in the interest of improving East-West relations.
The President and the Chancellor welcomed the solidarity and close coordination between the three Western Powers, the Federal Republic of Germany and the other NATO allies throughout the negotiation of the Quadripartite Agreement on Berlin as well as the implementing agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany and the GDR [German Democratic Republic], which are important elements of the common Western policy.
  