
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 21
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Aviano, Italy, arriving the following morning.
December 22
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Shortly after his arrival, the President met with the representatives of the National Government Tripartite Presidency of Bosnia-Herzegovina in Room A of the National Museum of Sarajevo. The Presidency consists of Alija Izetbegovic, Presidency Chairman (Muslim); Momcilo Krajisnik, Presidency Member (Serb); and Kresimir Zubak, Presidency Member (Croat).
In the afternoon, the President met with President Biljana Plavsic of the Serb Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina at the National Theater.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Tuzla Airfield and had dinner with American troops in the dining hall at "Tent City." Later, they traveled to Aviano, Italy, and then returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning.
The President announced his intention to appoint Lorenzo H. Aguilar-Melancon, Robert D. Dinerstein, Ann Forts, Ruth Luckasson, Tom E.C. Smith, Deborah Spitalnik, and Cathy Ficker Terrill as members of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation.
The President announced the appointment of Steven S. Honigman as Special Adviser to the President.
December 23
The President announced his intention to appoint Janice R. Lachance to serve as Chair and member of the National Partnership Council.
The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City and McAllen, Brownsville, and Houston, TX, on January 8 and 9 to highlight the importance of equal access to education for all Americans.
December 24
The White House announced that the President declared a major disaster in the Northern Mariana Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Typhoon Paka and associated torrential rains, high winds, high surf, and tidal surges on December 16 and continuing.
  