
    MINNEAPOLIS, MN — The Amy For America campaign has recognized the unionization of field organizers under Teamsters Local 238. In response, campaign manager Justin Buoen released the following statement:
"Amy and our campaign are pro-union and we support organized labor. We are proud of our field team's decision to unionize with the Teamsters and we look forward to moving this process forward. As the daughter and granddaughter of union members, Amy knows that organized labor gives Americans and their families the opportunities they need to succeed and believes that workers should have the right to join a union and bargain collectively. "
The Amy for America campaign has recognized the Teamsters Local 238 as the bargaining representative for organizers on the campaign and formed a partnership in order to negotiate a collective bargaining agreement.
Earlier this year, Senator Klobuchar released a plan for how her administration will champion the rights of workers and unions, including protecting the right to organize and collectively bargain, standing up for public sector unions, and delivering real results for workers. In addition, Senator Klobuchar has laid out a plan for her first 100 days that includes executive action she can take immediately to support our workers and our unions.
In the Senate, Amy Klobuchar has strongly supported legislation to protect the right to organize and make it easier for workers to join a union, including Senator Murray's Protecting the Right to Organize Act. She has stood with workers time and time again in the airline, health care, hotel and building trades industries as well as our public sector workers, and she has been a leader in the fight to stop foreign steel dumping and support America's steelworkers. She's also been a champion for protecting multi-employer pensions. In 2015, she worked with retired Teamsters to protect the Central States Pension Plan against proposed reductions in pension benefits. She also joined Senator Sherrod Brown to introduce the Butch Lewis Act to ensure retirees can keep the pensions they have earned.
  