
    WASHINGTON—Vice President-elect Joe Biden today announced the following staff for the Office of the Vice President: Alan Hoffman, as Deputy Chief of Staff; and Sudafi Henry, as Director of Legislative Affairs.
"These individuals will bring a depth of experience and deep commitment to public service to the Obama-Biden Administration," said Vice President-elect Biden. "Alan Hoffman has been an invaluable advisor to me for over a decade. He will bring sound judgment and key management experience to the office. Sudafi Henry is a rising star on Capitol Hill, who has earned the trust of many members of Congress. I am pleased he will lead our efforts to build strong working relationships with members of both parties, and in both the House and the Senate."
Alan Hoffman, Deputy Chief of Staff
Alan Hoffman is currently the Chief Operating Officer for the Vice President-elect on the Obama-Biden Transition Team. Prior to this, Hoffman was the senior vice president for external relations for the University of California system. Hoffman served twice, from 1998 to 2003 and again from 2006 to 2008, as chief of staff to Senator Biden. In this role, he directed the legislative agenda, communications strategy, political operations and office management. From 2004 to 2006, Hoffman was vice president for external affairs for the RAND Corporation.  Before joining Sen. Biden's staff, Hoffman held a number of key positions at the federal level including assistant United States attorney in Philadelphia prosecuting federal crimes, special counsel to the assistant attorney general for legislative affairs at the Department of Justice, and special assistant to the assistant secretary for legislative affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services.  A Philadelphia native, Hoffman holds a J.D. and a Masters of Public Administration from the University of Southern California and a B.A. from Lafayette College in Easton, PA.
Sudafi Henry, Director of Legislative Affairs
Sudafi Henry is currently Counsel and Senior Policy Advisor for House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD).  In this capacity, Henry has worked closely with Members of Congress, leadership staff and committee staff on crafting and winning passage of critical legislation, with a particular focus on trade, telecommunications, economic matters and responses to the current financial crisis.  Henry has also served as a liaison for Rep. Hoyer to policy experts, business leaders, and constituency group leaders on pending legislation.  Henry has more than 10 years of experience on Capitol Hill, including his work for Reps. Major Owens (D-NY) and Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) as the Legislative Director for both Members.  A native of Los Angeles, California, Henry received a B.A. from the University of Maryland at College Park and a J.D. from George Washington University Law School, and is a member of the Maryland bar.
  