
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

National Skiing Day gives all Americans the opportunity to celebrate the continuing role of skiing in recreation, sports, and our economy, as well as its place in American life and lore.
Many Americans first discovered both the potential uses and the attractions of skiing from reports of the achievements of an early skier, pioneer mail carrier John A. "Snowshoe" Thompson, who transported letters and parcels in a backpack as he covered his 90-mile territory through the Sierra Nevada. During his two decades of devoted service, 1856-1876, he won a well-earned reputation for heroism and faithfulness as he traversed the mountains, first on his large, handmade skis and later by sleigh, to keep frontier communication open between Nevada and California.
Since then, other dedicated Americans have employed skiing in the defense of our country, in rescue operations, and in similar activities.
Through the years, skiing has experienced revolutions in equipment, technique, and participation. Wood skis were replaced by metal ones, which then gave way to fiberglass, and bindings have improved greatly. Today some 15 million Americans engage in Alpine or Nordic skiing, and highly skilled and dedicated skiers and biathletes vie for coveted positions on America's Winter Olympics squads.
Skiing, of course, offers many benefits. In the areas of health and fitness, Alpine skiing's courses improve strength and flexibility, and Nordic skiing's cross-country trails build endurance. Skiing helps people improve coordination as they attain or maintain good physical condition. Skiing provides enjoyment for spectators as well as participants, fosters appreciation for the outdoors, and affords the opportunity to enjoy winter and its splendors. Skiing also increases the recreational uses of national forests and provides winter employment and income for residents of rural communities.
In recognition of skiing and its benefits, the Congress, by Public Law 100-189, has designated January 8, 1988, as "National Skiing Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that day.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim January 8, 1988, as National Skiing Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  