
    DES MOINES, IA – Iowans for Hillary today unveiled the Iowa Asian American Pacific Islander Leadership Council for Hillary, a group of 24 Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) leaders from every corner of the state who support Hillary Clinton. The announcement was made at Ban Thai Restaurant in Des Moines at an event hosted by former Governor Gary Locke of Washington, the first Chinese-American elected to governor in the United States.
"Hillary Clinton has been a champion of public education and is fighting to create a better life for the people of America," said UNI Professor Dhirendra Vajpeyi. "As President, she will ensure that people of all backgrounds, including those in the AAPI community, have the opportunity to receive a quality education and achieve the American dream."
According to the State Data Center of Iowa, in 2005, there were over 49,000 AAPIs living in Iowa, representing 1.7% of the population. While AAPIs do have a higher median income compared to all other Iowans, they also have a higher rate of poverty, 13.9%, and also experience a higher high school drop-out rate.
"The AAPI community will be of critical importance in this election," said Cyndi Chen, a community activist from Des Moines. "Now more than ever, Asian Americans want a President who will deliver on the promise of lowering school drop-out rates, providing affordable health care to every American, and working to eradicate poverty. I know Hillary will deliver."
These leaders in the AAPI community have united behind Hillary because she is the most qualified and experienced candidate to end the war in Iraq, give every American health insurance, and make college more affordable. Across the Hawkeye State, the Asian American Pacific Islander Leadership Council will work to increase AAPI participation in the caucuses for Hillary. Iowans for Hillary is the first presidential campaign to release a list of AAPI supporters.
"The AAPI community can play an important role during the Iowa Caucuses," said Iowa State Representative Swati Dandekar. "We know that these caucuses will be very competitive and the participation of the AAPI community could prove to be the difference. Hillary has always stood with us, and I look forward to standing for her on January 3rd."
In the Senate, Hillary has championed numerous initiatives to improve the lives of AAPIs, their families and communities. Last year, Hillary introduced the Access to Employment and English Language Acquisition Act to provide more job training funds for individuals with limited English language skills. As president, Hillary Clinton will promote an agenda that provides the opportunity, support and tools that AAPIs need to realize the American dream and address the challenges facing the community, including discrimination, language barriers, and access to affordable health care.
Iowa Asian American Pacific Islander Leadership Council for Hillary:


Tom Baccam of Des Moines, Polk County, Activist
Calvin Baccam of Des Moines, Polk County, Mediator
Nina Baccam of Des Moines, Polk County, Activist
Ihn (Joe) Baccam of Mt. Pleasant, Henry County, Activist
Theresa Backham of Des Moines, Polk County, Activist
Cyndi Chen of Des Moines, Polk County, Community Activist
Arvind Dandekar of Marion, Linn County, President and CEO, Fastek International
Swati Dandekar of Marion, Linn County, Representative
Khuong Kham Baccam of Mt. Pleasant, Henry County, Engineer
Khamlo Khounlo of Storm Lake, Buena Vista County, Community Leader
Bounkham Khounlo of Davenport, Scott County, Engineer
Amanda Luong of Des Moines, Polk County, Activist
May-may Ng of Waukee, Dallas County, Activist
Sai Oumlokham of Urbandale, Polk County, Activist
Vannavong Phhabmixay of Des Moines, Polk County, Activist
Don Phommachackr of Des Moines, Polk County, Activist
Navindra Sikka of Cedar Rapids, Linn County, Community Activist
Sudesh Sikka of Cedar Rapids, Linn County, Community Activist
Amar Sinha of West Des Moines, Polk County, Community Activist
Barry Thongvanh of Storm Lake, Buena Vista County, Pastor
Dhirendra Vajpeyi of Cedar Falls, Blackhawk County, Professor of International Politics at UNI
Dinh Vanlo of Des Moines, Polk County, Executive Director of Tai Village
William Wang of Iowa City, Johnson County, Chairman of Pharmacom Corp.
Cheng Xiong of Des Moines, Polk County, Activist

  