
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Frank T. Brogan of Pennsylvania to be the Assistant Secretary of Education for Elementary and Secondary Education. Mr. Brogan most recently served as chancellor of Pennsylvania's public universities. He began his career as a fifth grade teacher in Martin County, Florida and later served as a dean of students, assistant principal, principal, and superintendent before being elected Florida's Commissioner of Education in 1994. Mr. Brogan continued his advocacy for public education when elected Lieutenant Governor of Florida in 1998 and 2002. After five years in that role, he was named president of Florida Atlantic University—a position he held until 2009, when he was selected to serve as chancellor of Florida's public universities. A native of Ohio, Mr. Brogan was the first member of his family to attend college—earning a bachelor's degree in education magna cum laude from the University of Cincinnati and a master's degree in education from Florida Atlantic University. He and his wife, Courtney, have a 12-year-old son, Colby John.
Lisa Gordon-Hagerty of Virginia to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security, Department of Energy. Ms. Gordon-Hagerty is president of Tier Tech International, Inc., a national security consulting company. She also serves as president of LEG Inc., providing strategic advice and counsel in domestic and national security issues. Ms. Gordon-Hagerty was previously executive vice president and chief operating officer of USEC, Inc. She was a member of the White House National Security Council staff for more than five years, serving as the Director for Combating Terrorism. Ms. Gordon-Hagerty previously served as the U.S. Department of Energy's Director of the Office of Emergency Response, and as Acting Director of the Office of Nuclear Weapons Surety. Before that, she was a professional staff member for the U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Energy and Commerce. She began her professional career as a health physicist at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Ms. Gordon-Hagerty earned a Master of Public Health degree in health physics and a Bachelor of Science degree, both from the University of Michigan.
  