
    McLean, VA - Today, at a press conference in Columbia, South Carolina, Fred Thompson received the endorsement of South Carolina Citizens for Life.
"South Carolina Citizens for Life is pleased to join in National Right to Life's endorsement of Fred Thompson for President of the United States," said Holly Gatling, executive director. "We believe Fred Thompson is the pro-life candidate in the strongest position to defeat pro-abortion Rudy Giuliani and then to defeat the pro-abortion Democrat nominee."
South Carolina Citizens for Life, Inc. is a non-profit, single issue, right-to-life organization devoted to restoring legal personhood to the unborn and to protecting innocent human life by eliminating abortion, infanticide, and euthanasia from our society. SCCL is a state affiliate of the National Right to Life Committee, the nation's largest single-issue right-to-life organization. The National Right to Life Committee has also endorsed Senator Thompson for President.
"I'm blessed and deeply grateful to have the endorsement of the South Carolina Citizens for Life for President of the United States," said Senator Thompson. "They carry a significant amount of influence with voters in South Carolina. These folks know my record, and they appreciate the fact that I have stood with them yesterday, I stand with them today, and will stand with them tomorrow. They know I believe in the sanctity of life and as President I will do all that I can to protect life."
Fred Thompson is pro-life. He believes in the sanctity of human life and that every life is worthy of respect. He had a 100% pro-life voting record in the Senate and believes Roe v. Wade was a bad decision that ought to be overturned. He consistently opposed federal funding to promote or pay for abortion and supported the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act, the Child Custody Protection Act, and President Reagan's Mexico City policy. While Fred Thompson supports adult stem cell research, he opposes embryonic stem cell research. He also opposes human cloning.
  