
    (COLUMBIA, SC) -- As the South Carolina campaign for Hillary Clinton prepares for the final five weeks of the Palmetto State's Primary, the team has beefed up, adding senior strategist Steve Bouchard and Get-Out-The-Vote Director Heyward Bannister, both bringing extensive experience and campaign acumen to the team.
"This is about the future of our country and I'm ready to get to work electing the candidate with the experience to make positive change real, Hillary Clinton," Bouchard said. "We're going to be hitting the ground and ratcheting things up in the coming weeks."
The campaign's state director, Kelly Adams, welcomed Bouchard and Bannister.
"With the addition of more expert minds and strong shoulders to our team, we're gearing up for the final push to victory in South Carolina," Adams said. "Steve and Heyward help round-out our team as we continue to grow going into the final stretch of the Primary."
Bouchard is a veteran organizer and strategist with experience working at the local, state and national level. He ran Indiana Senator Evan Bayh's political action committee in 2005. Prior to that, he oversaw America Coming Together's (ACT) voter mobilization effort for the 2004 general election in the critical swing state of Ohio. Bouchard also worked for Retired General Wesley Clark, former Senators Bob Graham and Bob Kerrey, on Mark Warner's 2001 gubernatorial election and on numerous other campaigns in Virginia, Texas, New Hampshire and Ohio. He has taken a leave of absence from his job as Vice President for State Affairs at the American Association for Justice to work on the Clinton campaign.
Bannister, raised in Gadsden South Carolina, was the Clinton/Gore South Carolina State Director in 1992 and later served as White House Liaison for the United States Department of Veterans Affairs in the Clinton administration. He is a co-founder of Sunrise Enterprise, the first African American owned statewide public relations firm in South Carolina. Bannister previously served as senior advisor to the South Carolina Association of Community Development Corporations and as political director for the Chris Dodd campaign in South Carolina.
  