
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
I am providing you my fourth report on the continuing deployment of a U.S. Army peacekeeping contingent as part of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), consistent with the War Powers Resolution.
As you know, U.N. Security Council Resolution 795 established the UNPROFOR Macedonia mission as part of an effort to prevent the Balkan conflict from spreading and to contribute stability in the region. This mission was initially composed of a Nordic battalion, which deployed in early 1993. In July 1993, I directed that a U.S. Army contingent be deployed to FYROM in order to augment the UNPROFOR Macedonia mission, a deployment welcomed by the U.N. Security Council in its Resolution 842. In April of this year, the United Nations requested that we increase the U.S. contingent in order to replace elements of the Nordic battalion, which was being redeployed to Bosnia-Herzegovina. In response to this request, we augmented the U.S. contingent with the deployment of an additional U.S. Army reinforced company.
Through observation and monitoring operations along the FYROM border with Serbia, UNPROFOR Macedonia continues to be effective in preventing a spillover of the conflict. This mission has been carried out safely with no hostilities encountered and no U.S. casualties since the operation began. The mission has the support of both the FYROM Government and its people. Our forces will remain fully prepared not only to fulfill their peacekeeping mission, but to defend themselves if necessary. The units currently comprising the U.S. contingent will soon be replaced by approximately 500 soldiers from 3rd Battalion, 5th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Armored Division, Kirchgons, Germany.
The U.S. contribution to the UNPROFOR Macedonia peacekeeping effort is part of our larger continuing commitment toward resolving the extremely difficult situation in the former Yugoslavia. I have continued the deployment of U.S. Armed Forces for these purposes pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct foreign relations and as Commander in Chief.
I remain grateful for the continuing support the Congress has provided, and I look forward to continued cooperation with you in this endeavor.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  