
    The California Hillary Clinton for President Campaign today announced over 20 statewide educational leaders who are supporting Hillary Clinton for President. They cite her commitment to quality education from universal pre-kindergarten to making college more accessible and affordable as reasons for their backing.
"Hillary is the most qualified candidate to improve our education system, and as President she will use that experience to create a better future for our children," said State Superintendent of Public Instruction Jack O'Connell. "She has strong and sensible plans and I believe she is the candidate who can deliver the real change our education system needs."
"I am honored to have the support of these community leaders who have devoted their lives to enriching our children," said Senator Clinton. "Every child deserves the opportunity to live up to their potential and a high quality education system is essential to achieving that goal."
As an advocate, First Lady, and United States Senator, Hillary has fought to raise the education standards in our nation's schools. Hillary is committed to reforming No Child Left Behind (NCLB). In addition to fighting for full funding for NCLB, she is working to ensure the legislation supports early childhood education, improves teacher training, lowers class size, enhances parental involvement, eliminates environmental hazards in schools, and protects the programs that work for America's children.
List of supporters (in alphabetical order):

Miguel Arias, Boardmember, Mendota Unified School District
John Avila, President, Pomona Unified School District
Marlin Brown, President, San Bernardino Unified School District
Arnold Butler, President, Inglewood Unified School District
Marlene Canter, Boardmember, Los Angeles Unified School District
Mona Field, Trustee, Los Angeles City College
Terilyn Finders, Board President, Las Virgenes Unified School District
Monica Garcia, President, Los Angeles Unified School District
Deborah Golden, Boardmember, Ventura Unified School District
Michael Hersek, President, Bellflower Unified School District
Sheila Jackson, Vice President, San Diego Unified School District
Georgia Mercer, Trustee, Los Angeles City College
Tracy Lynn Jensen, Trustee, Alameda Unified School District
Jack O'Connell, State Superintendent of Public Instruction
Nancy Pearlman, Trustee, Los Angeles City College
Lori Phillipi, Boardmember, Arcadia Unified School District
Joseph Probst, Vice President, Charter Oak Unified School District
Johnny Smith, Boardmember, Selma Unified School District
Mary Stanton, Boardmember, Long Beach Unified School District
Ida Vander Poorte, Boardmember, Manhattan Beach Unified School District
Tony Vang, Boardmember, Fresno Unified School District
Richard Vladovic, Boardmember, Los Angeles Unified School District

** These California educational leaders have endorsed Hillary Clinton for President in their individual capacity. The names of past or present affiliations are included to assist in identifying the individuals listed and do not indicate any endorsement by that group or organization.
  