
    Mitt Romney today announced the endorsement of New Hampshire State Senator Sharon Carson (R-Londonderry). Carson, who serves as Senate Majority Whip, joins Senate President Peter Bragdon (R-Milford), Senate Majority Leader Jeb Bradley (R-Wolfeboro) and Senators Chuck Morse (R-Salem), David Boutin (R-Hooksett), Gary Lambert (R-Nashua), Tom DeBlois (R-Manchester), Jim Rausch (R-Derry), Jack Barnes (R-Raymond), John Gallus (R-Berlin) and Russell Prescott (R-Exeter) in endorsing Mitt Romney. She will introduce Governor Romney today at his event in Londonderry.
"Senator Carson has stood up for New Hampshire's fiscally responsible traditions by working to balance the state budget during difficult economic times without raising taxes. She has also demonstrated a deep commitment to public service by a serving her state as an elected official and serving her country in the United States Army Reserve," said Mitt Romney. "I am honored to have earned Sharon's support. Her endorsement is another indication of the building momentum and enthusiasm for my campaign in the final days before the primary."
 "I have taken my time to evaluate the backgrounds and qualifications of each of the candidates seeking the Republican nomination. After careful consideration, I have come to the conclusion that Mitt Romney is the best person to lead our party and defeat President Obama in 2012," said Senator Carson. "Governor Romney has the background as a conservative businessman and a fiscally responsible chief executive that our next president will need to turn around our country. Mitt has laid out bold initiatives for our country and he has been steady, composed and thoughtful in every one of the presidential debates. He is running the type of traditional grassroots campaign that my constituents expect from presidential candidates. Mitt Romney has earned my trust and support, and I look forward to working to make sure that he is elected the next President of the United States."
Background on State Senator Sharon Carson: 
Sharon Carson was elected to the New Hampshire State Senate in 2008. She previously served four terms in the New Hampshire House of Representatives. Senator Carson is an adjunct faculty member at Nashua Community College where she has taught a variety of classes in history. She also has taught at the University of New Hampshire. Senator Carson is a veteran. She is a retired Sergeant First Class from the United States Army Reserve.
  