
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Robert D. Lenhard, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring April 30, 2011. Mr. Lenhard currently serves as Associate General Counsel for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO. He previously served as an Associate with Kirschner, Weinberg & Dempsey. Earlier in his career, Mr. Lenhard worked for the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, AFL-CIO. He received his bachelor's degree from Johns Hopkins University and his JD from the University of California, Los Angeles.
The President intends to nominate David M. Mason, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring April 30, 2009. Mr. Mason currently serves as Commissioner of the Federal Election Commission. He previously served as a Senior Fellow in Congressional Studies at the Heritage Foundation. Prior to that, Mr. Mason was Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense. Earlier in his career, he served as a Legislative Assistant to Senator John Warner and Legislative Director to Representative Tom Bliley. Mr. Mason received his bachelor's degree from Claremont McKenna College.
The President intends to nominate Hans von Spakovsky, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring April 30, 2011. Mr. von Spakovsky currently serves as Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice. He previously served the Justice Department as a trial attorney for the Voting Reform Initiative. Prior to that, Mr. von Spakovsky served as a government affairs consultant. Earlier in his career, he was Assistant Vice President, Counsel and Secretary for Confederation Life Insurance Company in Rehabilitation. Mr. von Spakovsky received his bachelor's degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his JD from Vanderbilt University.
The President intends to nominate Steven T. Walther, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring April 30, 2009. Mr. Walther is currently a Partner at Walther, Key, Maupin, Oats, Cox & LeGoy, a law firm he co-founded in 1972. Earlier in his career, he was an attorney at Jones Vargas. Mr. Walther received his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and his JD from the University of California, Berkley.
  