
    Ending the War in Iraq, Restoring America's Leadership
On the final day of the "Every County Counts Tour," Hillary travels around Iowa to discuss her top priority: Ending the war in Iraq.
Joined by military personnel, veterans leaders, and foreign policy experts, Hillary will lay out her plan for quickly and responsibly bringing home the troops, and ending the Bush Administration's policy of cowboy diplomacy.
She begins the day in Grundy Center with General Wes Clark, former US Ambassador to the UN Richard Holbrooke, and former Army and VA Secretary Togo Dennis West, Jr., where they'll explain that ending the war is the first step toward restoring the United States' global leadership. The war is sapping our military strength, diverting attention and resources from Afghanistan, alienating our allies, and dividing our people. Hillary will argue that the best way to honor the service of the brave men and women in uniform is to bring them home.
She then travels to events in Tipton, Centerville, and Burlington, where she'll be joined at different times by a roster of experienced military and foreign policy experts like: Admiral David Stone; former Deputy National Security Advisor Mara Rudman; Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund President Bill White; former Acting VA Secretary Hershel Gober; and former Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Mary Lou Keener.
Joined by these supporters, Hillary will make clear to Iowans that as soon as she takes office, she will direct the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary of Defense, and the National Security Council to draw up a clear, viable plan to bring our troops home, with the first soldiers returning within the first 60 days of her Administration.
She'll also explain that as we draw down our military forces, she will convene a regional stabilization group composed of key allies, other global powers, and all of the states bordering Iraq. The mission of this group will be to develop and implement a strategy to create a stable Iraq and to keep the neighbors from being drawn into the civil war.
Hillary's record on this is clear: Last month she voted for legislation that would begin the withdrawal of combat troops within 30 days, and complete the redeployment of forces by December 2008. Hillary has voted for legislation prohibiting the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq.
On Iran, Hillary will renew her call to end the era of George Bush's cowboy diplomacy. She'll begin by ending the failed Bush policy of refusing to talk to our adversaries -- she is a strong and consistent supporter of direct talks with Iran, and the sooner the better. Hillary opposes military action against Iran, and stood up on the Senate floor last February in opposition to the Bush administration's saber rattling. She was the first candidate to join Jim Webb on legislation to deny the President any funds to fight a war against Iran.
Drawing on that experience, Hillary will argue that America needs a president who can conduct the kind of vigorous diplomacy needed to change Iran's course.
Throughout the day, Hillary and her supporters will show Iowans that she has the strength and experience necessary to do just that, responsibly and swiftly end the war in Iraq, and restore American leadership.
Today's swing wraps up the five-day "Every County Counts Tour" that reached all 99 of Iowa's counties in an effort to energize Hillary's supporters, strengthen the campaign's organization, and make its case to people who have not yet made up their minds about who to support on January 3rd.
  