
    Latest families valuing education choice hail from Polk, Warren and Hancock counties
ANKENY, Iowa — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today additions to its active "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition. The new members hail from Polk, Warren, and Hancock counties, all Iowa.
As voters further appreciate Dr. Paul's principled stance on education choice, momentum for the Iowa campaign organization continues. Below find statements of support from the following new members and member families.
Genny Loraditch of Ankeny has been instructing her four children for about three years, and explained, "Dr. Ron Paul is a father of five and grandparent to many, and therefore relates to me and my struggle to raise a strong family. If he were to become president, I would look forward to the freedom he will bring to homeschooling parents. I am supporting Ron Paul for many reasons aside from the benefits I get from the freedom to homeschool. His stance on life is strong and unquestionable, and he is a leader about whom I would be proud to teach my children."
New Virginia residents and home educators Bryan and Joan Samuell also are publicly sharing their sentiments about Dr. Paul.
"Ron Paul is one of the few that have an understanding of the limits placed upon the federal government by the founding fathers. He is a strong supporter of life, not just in rhetoric but in practice. Dr. Paul is mindful of the taxpayer's dollar and opposes wasteful spending. Lastly, he has an understanding of the jurisdictions of authority and the right of families to decide how to best educate their children," wrote the couple.
For more than 15 years, Jennifer Loveless has chosen home education for her four children in Corwith. After hearing about "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul," she was pleased to offer an expression of support.
"Homeschooling without government intervention is the pinnacle of parental self-responsibility. The right to educate your own children is liberty at its core. I want to protect this and many other freedoms, not to mention returning some that have been lost. Therefore, I see only one candidate who will defend our liberties, and he is Dr. Ron Paul," said Ms. Loveless.
Those interested in joining the "Homeschoolers for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition may visit the official page by clicking here. Those residing in the Hawkeye State should email Iowa Voter Outreach Director Meghann Walker atmeghannw@ronpaul2012.com for more information about how to join.
  