
    Gregory J. Slavonic of Oklahoma to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Manpower and Reserve Affairs. Mr. Slavonic most recently served as Chief of Staff for U.S. Senator James Lankford (R-OK). Prior to this role, he was a senior leader at the Computer Sciences Corporation, where he planned and executed several nationwide U.S. Navy community outreach engagements. He also served as Executive Director of the Jim Thorpe Association; and as President of Flagbridge Strategic Communications, a consulting company focused on strategic communications and leadership. He has written two books on leadership development and co-authored a book on American Olympian Jim Thorpe. Mr. Slavonic retired from the U.S. Navy after a 34-year career, where he originally enlisted as a Seaman Recruit and, after repeatedly distinguishing himself, was promoted to the rank of Rear Admiral. During his Navy career, he held four command assignments, served in combat deployments to Vietnam, Operation Desert Shield/Storm, and Operation Iraqi Freedom, and was awarded numerous decorations including the Legion of Merit, Bronze Star, Presidential Unit Citation, and Combat Action Ribbon. Mr. Slavonic earned a B.S. from Oklahoma State University and M.Ed. from the University of Central Oklahoma, where he was recognized with a Distinguished Alumni Award.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Personnel to Key Administration Posts
The following individuals to be Members of the American Battle Monuments Commission:

William M. Matz Jr. of Virginia to be the Secretary
Thomas O. Hicks of Texas
John P. McGoff of Indiana
Col. Evans C. Spiceland of Louisiana
Robert O. Wefald of North Dakota
Jennifer Sandra Carroll of Florida
Dorothy Gray of Virginia
Luis Rodolfo Quinonez of Florida

The following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation:

Terrence G. Berg of Michigan for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 3, 2018 and an additional six-year term expiring October 3, 2024
Diane S. Sykes of Wisconsin for the remainder of a six-year term expiring November 14, 2021

The following individuals to be Members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships:

Paris P. Dennard of Arizona
Linda M. Springer of Pennsylvania
Robert J. Smullen of New York
Daniel Caine of New York

  