
    Darrell Kearney, founder of the Conservative Club of Des Moines, endorsed Newt for president yesterday by saying he's "the most prepared conservative leader to be president since Ronald Reagan." Kearney endorsed Mitt Romney four years ago. Here is Kearney's full statement encouraging Iowans to caucus for Newt.
As the founder of the Des Moines Conservative Club and Breakfast club, It is with  great enthusiasm that I announce my support for Newt Gingrich for the Republican Nomination for President and encourage all of my conservative friends to vote for Newt at the upcoming Iowa Caucuses.  All of our Republican Candidates are good people and they all have strengths, expertise and ideas that are commendable.  Any of them would make a far better President than the one who occupies 1600 Pennsylvania Ave today.  I supported Governor Romney in the 2008 caucuses and he would be my second choice today.  But my first Choice for the 2012 Caucus is Newt.
Having met almost every Republican Candidate for President since 1980 and having worked either as a volunteer or staff person for many of them, it is my opinion that Newt Gringrich is the most prepared conservative leader to be President since Ronald Reagan.
George Santayana once said, "if you do not learn from history, you are doomed to repeat it".  Newt's deep understanding of American History and it's foundation of liberty provides him with a philosophical compass that will help him steer a strong course for renewed freedoms and prosperity.  He understands that America's greatness comes from God and freedom and free enterprise not big government.  He understands that a government that can give you everything you want is also a government that can take everything you've got.
Newt Gingrich's visionary Contract with American for the 21st Century spells out in detail the solutions for the problems we face.  Just as he was successful in the first Contract for America in 1994 leading to the Republican Takeover of the US House of Representatives for the first time in 40 years.  I am convinced with our help, Newt can win in 2012 and help us restore America to that "Shining City on a hill"  President Ronald Reagan so elegantly dreamed of.
Darrell Kearney, Founder
  Conservative Club of Des Moines
  Conservative Breakfast Club

  