
    
If your paycheck doesn't stretch as far as it used to, you're not alone.
For the first time in more than four decades, the majority of Americans are no longer considered middle class. 
Thanks to President Obama's leadership, we've come back from the Great Recession, but middle- and lower-income Americans still aren't seeing their paychecks grow—and they're falling further and further behind the wealthy. ?
Hillary believes our economy depends on a strong middle class—and that means we have to raise incomes for hardworking Americans.


Here are 7 ways we can give Americans a raise.
1. Raise the minimum wage. Too many hardworking Americans are raising families in poverty or living under the stress of mounting bills. Hillary wants to change that. That's why she'll fight to raise the federal minimum wage and create more good-paying jobs.
2. Cut middle-class taxes. Hillary is proposing middle-class tax breaks to help families cope with the rising cost of everyday expenses like groceries and child care. She also announced new tax credits to help families caring for an ill or aging family member. She'll pay for them by raising taxes on the wealthiest Americans and closing loopholes in our tax code. ?
3. Make college affordable. We can lift American incomes by making quality education attainable for everyone. Under Hillary's "New College Compact,"?students won't have to take out loans for tuition or books at in-state public colleges and universities, and Americans with student loan debt will be able to refinance at a lower rate.
4. Support unions. Hillary believes that unions are the backbone of our economy—and key to a strong middle class. That's why she is fighting to protect collective bargaining rights and strengthen America's labor movement.
5. Rebuild our infrastructure. Hillary's $275 billion plan?will not only repair America's roads and bridges, build world-class airports, and expand internet access—it will also create good-paying, middle-class jobs in the construction, building, and transportation industries.
6. Boost manufacturing jobs. Manufacturing is a vital source of good-paying jobs in our economy. Hillary's plan will spur reinvestment in communities that have lost manufacturing jobs and give more support to small manufacturers and startups.
7.?Invest in clean energy. Renewable energy one of America's fastest growing industries. Hillary launched two bold national goals to make the United States the world's clean energy superpower and create new jobs sectors like wind and solar.
  