
    President Carter met today with Roy Jenkins, President of the Commission of the European Communities, at 11 a.m. for about an hour. The talks, which both President Carter and President Jenkins view as an integral part of the close and ongoing consultative process between the United States and the European Communities, were cordial and productive.
Acting Secretary of State Warren Christopher; Zbigniew Brezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs; Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs Richard Cooper, and Deane Hinton, United States Ambassador to the European Communities, and others participated in the discussion for the United States. On the Communities side, they were joined by Messrs. Fernand Spaak, Head of the Delegation of the European Communities Commission in the United States; Emile Noel, Secretary General of the European Communities Commission; Crispin Tickell, Head of Cabinet to the President of the European Communities Commission, and others. Among major topics which Presidents Carter and Jenkins discussed were the following:
1. International Trade. They welcomed the progress being achieved in Geneva on negotiation of a multilateral trade agreement. They expressed the hope that substantial and balanced agreement would be reached before the end of the year. President Carter expressed his determination to seek congressional action to assure continued application of the waiver on countervailing duties. Both President Carter and President Jenkins agreed that the success of the negotiations would promote economic recovery and the extension of international trade between both industrial and developing countries, thus raising living standards and increasing jobs.
2. European Monetary System. President Carter indicated that he viewed the European Monetary System (EMS) as an important step toward the European integration that the United States has long supported. The President of the European Commission emphasized that the creation of such a system was designed not only to establish a zone of monetary stability in Europe but also to contribute to greater stability in the world monetary system as a whole, of which a strong dollar is an essential part. He underlined that the European Monetary System was entirely compatible with the relevant articles of the International Monetary Fund, which enjoyed full European confidence and support.
3. Science and Technology. President Carter and the President of the European Commission agreed to explore the possibilities for cooperation between the United States and the European Communities in research in certain areas of science and technology. They both strongly felt the need for the United States and the Community to strengthen their powers of innovation in this field, while cooperating with each other and others to share knowledge and cost to their mutual advantage. The particular areas they had in mind are nuclear fusion, management of radioactive waste, handling and control of fissile materials, and biological and medical research, including definition of standards for use of toxic substances and definition of carcinogens. President Carter indicated that the United States intended to increase its role in strengthening the scientific and technological capacities of developing countries through the intended Foundation for International Technological Cooperation.
  