
    20 Democratic County Chairs Now Backing Barack Obama
Des Moines, IA -- The Obama Campaign today announced the endorsements from six more Democratic County
Chairs, bringing the total to 20 Democratic county chairs who have backed Senator Obama for
president. These local Democratic leaders from Audubon, Greene, Guthrie, Iowa, Sioux and Van Buren
counties will help build the grassroots movement in support of Obama's unique ability to unite our
country and bring about change we can believe in.
"Our country needs a President who will build consensus and bring people together," said Bob Nelson,
Audubon County Democratic Chair. "And that starts with a campaign that's open, honest, and
positive. From the way Barack Obama runs his campaign in Iowa, it's clear to me that he is the best
candidate to bring America the much needed change we need."
"While others may provoke negativity, the Obama campaign remains focused on its commitment to the
grassroots movement that builds upon our strengths, unites us, and inspires hope," said Greene
County Democratic Chair Nicole Friess-Schilling said. "Great leaders inspire us to be greater
people, and that is why I am supporting Barack Obama for president."
"When Barack Obama came to Guthrie County, Democrats, Republicans and Independents alike came out to
hear his message of hope," said John Cramer, Guthrie County Democratic Chair. "Americans need a
candidate that will unite people if we want to get anything accomplished in Washington, D.C.
Americans need Barack Obama."
"Democrats need a candidate who is ready to fight the special interests and work for everyday
Americans," Iowa County Democratic Chair Steve Hanson said. "Barack Obama's refusal to accept PAC
and federal lobbyist money show he's running a different kind of campaign, and will run a different
kind of White House. His commitment to reclaiming the American Dream can become a reality with his
unique ability to work across the aisle and accomplish true change. Barack Obama gives me and my
community hope, and he is the best candidate to bring our country together and bring the change
America so desperately needs."
"It is time for a president who has shown political courage in opposing the Iraq War, and who has
worked across party lines to achieve ethics reform," said Carl Vandermeulen, Sioux County Democratic
Chair. "Senator Obama is a man of integrity who will clean up Washington, D.C. and restore our trust
in the presidency again."
"Senator Obama is the one Democratic candidate who can bring our country together with his message
of hope and unity," said Steve Prickett, Van Buren County Democratic Chair. "A strong leader with
the vision to move us past the failed partisan politics of Washington, D.C., Barack Obama will
restore America's standing in the world and bring about change we can believe in."
Democratic County Chairs from across the state will play a vital role in Barack Obama's Iowa
campaign. Active in their local communities, these county chairs will provide advice and support to
the Obama campaign as they continue to build Obama's grassroots movement for change.
"To have the support of these community leaders is invaluable to our grassroots organization," said
Senator Obama. "This grassroots movement that will not only help us succeed on caucus night, but
also it will propel us forward to bring about change we can believe in."
The 20 Democratic County Chairs who back Barack Obama include:
Jim Jameson-Appanoose County Democratic Chair
Bob Nelson-Audubon County Democratic Chair
Ron Donald-Benton County Democratic Chair
Becky Lyon-Boone County Democratic Chair
Howard "Butch" Heisterkamp—Carroll County Democratic Chair
Vern Harper-Franklin County Democratic Chair
Brian Kingsolver-Fremont County Democratic Chair
Nicole Friess-Schilling-Greene County Democratic Chair
John Cramer-Guthrie County Democratic Chair
Gloria Goll-Hancock County Democratic Chair
Terry Kocker-Humboldt County Democratic Chair
Steve Hanson-Iowa County Democratic Chair
Buzz Malone-Lucas County Democratic Chair
Joe Judge-Monroe County Democratic Chair
Dennis Cole-Page County Democratic Chair
Chuck Wredt-Pott County Democratic Chair
Carl Vandermeulen-Sioux County Democratic Chair
Jan Bauer - Story County Democratic Chair
Steve Prickett-Van Buren County Democratic Chair
John Ralls-Winnebago County Democratic Chair
  