
    WASHINGTON - Today, President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris announced additional members of the Office of the White House Counsel. These qualified and talented individuals bring a wide range of legal experience and will be ready to deliver results on day one.
These individuals announced today will, under the direction of White House Counsel Dana Remus, help restore faith in the rule of law and the accountability of government institutions.
"The charge facing our administration is as big as it is essential: restoring faith in American government. We are assembling an accomplished and experienced legal team to ensure this administration operates ethically, transparently and always in service of the American people," said President-elect Joe Biden.
"The American people deserve a government that is open, honest, and transparent. This team reflects the very best of our nation. They are dedicated public servants and legal experts who will adhere to the highest standards of integrity as we work to rebuild our country in a way that lifts up all Americans," said Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.
"To build back better, we need our nation's brightest minds. This qualified, crisis-tested legal team will lead our efforts in restoring good governance across the federal government," said incoming White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain. 
Biographies of the appointees are listed below in alphabetical order:
Jonathan Cedarbaum, Deputy Counsel to the President and National Security Council Legal AdvisorJonathan Cedarbaum is a partner at WilmerHale, from which he has been on leave since April serving as Senior Counsel for Litigation for the Biden-Harris Campaign. During the Obama-Biden Administration, he served as Deputy Assistant, Principal Deputy Assistant, and Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC). He has also served as a Bristow Fellow in the Office of the Solicitor General, an Attorney-Adviser in OLC, a Legal Advisor to the President of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, and a member of amicus panel for the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Originally from New York, Cedarbaum is a graduate of Harvard University and Yale Law School. He lives in Maryland with his wife and two children.
Danielle Conley, Deputy Counsel to the PresidentDanielle Conley serves as Deputy on the Department of Justice Agency Review Team for the Biden-Harris Transition. She is a partner at WilmerHale, where she co-chairs the firm's Anti-Discrimination practice. During the Obama-Biden administration, Conley served as Associate Deputy Attorney General at the U.S. Department of Justice. In that role, she provided strategic counsel to the Deputy Attorney General and other senior government officials on a wide range of regulatory, litigation and policy issues and managed some of the Department's most significant civil rights enforcement actions. Previously, Conley was a WilmerHale fellow at the NAACP Legal Defense Fund and clerked for Rosemary M. Collyer on the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Originally from Texas, Conley is a graduate of Tulane University and Howard University School of Law. She lives in Washington, DC with her husband and two daughters.
Stuart Delery, Deputy Counsel to the PresidentStuart Delery is a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, LLP. During the Obama-Biden Administration, Delery served as Acting Associate Attorney General of the United States, the third-ranking position at the Department of Justice, and was the most senior openly-LGBTQ official in DOJ history. Previously, Delery was the Senate-confirmed Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division and supervised the legal defense of Congressional statutes, including the Affordable Care Act, and agency actions. He also served as Senior Counselor to Attorney General Eric Holder, among other positions. Prior to the Obama-Biden Administration, Delery was a partner at WilmerHale and a clerk to Supreme Court Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Byron White (Ret.) and Judge Gerald Bard Tjoflat of the Eleventh Circuit. Originally from Louisiana, Delery is a graduate of the University of Virginia and Yale Law School, where he is a Visiting Lecturer. Delery and his husband live in Washington, D.C., and have two children.
Jonathan Su, Deputy Counsel to the PresidentJonathan Su is the Deputy Office Managing Partner of the Washington, D.C. office of Latham & Watkins LLP, where he is also a partner in the White Collar Defense & Investigations practice. During the Obama-Biden Administration, Su served as Special Counsel to the President. Prior to his time at the White House, Su was a federal prosecutor at the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Maryland. He served as a law clerk for U.S. Circuit Judge Ronald M. Gould and U.S. District Judge Julian Abele Cook, Jr. Originally from Southern California, Su is a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and Georgetown University Law Center. He lives in Virginia with his wife, son and daughter.
  