
    HOUSTON, Texas – Congressman Mo Brooks (R-AL) penned an op-ed in AL.com in support of Ted Cruz for President because he is the candidate who will unleash the most economic growth. See excerpts below and read the full op-ed here.
AL.comTed Cruz Has the Best Plan for Economic GrowthRep. Mo Brooks
Many candidates have made their mark focusing on the Obama administration's past mistakes, and there are a lot of them. But now it's time to look to the future. As this campaign goes on, voters will begin to focus on who has the best plan for dramatic economic growth. It's clear that Ted Cruz's pro-growth policies are the best to increase employment and wages for Americans.
....
And the economy grows when the government stops overtaxing individuals and businesses, overregulating industry, and stops enabling foreign labor to take American jobs.
Out of all the candidates, Ted Cruz solves every side of this problem.
First of all, his tax plan would get rid of the IRS as we know it, eliminating carve-outs for politically favored corporations, and have regular Americans pay a flat 10 percent income tax you can work out on a single piece of paper. Corporations would pay 16 percent – a good deal better rate than now – and free them up to hire more workers.
....
The Cruz plan would grow the economy by almost 14 percent, create 4.9 million new jobs, and increase after-tax income by double digits for every income level, according to the non-partisan Tax Foundation. When you look at the dynamic benefits to the economy over the next ten years, it also has the best "bang for the buck:" for every dollar in reduced government revenue, there will be a $23 increase in GDP. This will be great for individuals and families in every economic bracket.
In addition, an overhaul of executive branch agencies will have massive impact in eliminating expensive regulations, which were estimated by the Competitive Enterprise Institute to be $1.88 trillion in 2014 alone, while clearing out an "alphabet soup" of at least 25 wasteful programs.
Getting rid of these programs will be a growth double-whammy: both saving tax dollars and preventing meddling bureaucrats from hampering economic activity, enabling job creators to do what they do best. The dollars and decisions at the eliminated agencies would go back to the states and the people, where they belong.
Another key piece of the growth puzzle is immigration enforcement and reform. No initiative to help the middle class or create jobs is credible if it allows foreign workers to displace Americans from those same jobs. As it is, too many companies are sponsoring cheap labor to come from overseas, and forcing Americans to train their replacements on the way out the door.
Securing the border and enforcing the laws already on the books will be first priority of the Cruz immigration plan. But in addition to strengthening and simplifying E-Verify, Cruz is ahead of the curve in demanding that the H1B visa program be suspended and audited, and that our entire legal immigration system be redesigned to first benefit America and her workers.
Other candidates may have elements of Cruz's plan, but none of them have all of it. The fact is, you can't just talk big about walls and immigration while supporting big-government crony policies. And you can't pretend your tax plan helps the middle class if you're not serious about preserving their jobs from artificially low-priced foreign competition.
Ted Cruz's proposals tackle every side of the growth problem: dramatically decreasing the tax rates, shrinking government, letting businesses thrive, and protecting American workers.
When we repeal Obamacare, abolish the IRS, and implement a 10 percent flat tax—while also freeing up American industries, giving education policy back to the states, and eliminating unfair competition, we'll enjoy a landscape where Americans can find and keep good jobs and prosper. That's the opportunity a Cruz administration offers.
  