
    Thank you, everybody. Fortunately for me, I couldn't hear the introduction. [Laughter]
When I was invited to come tonight to be with the Democratic Study Group, I was told it was a roast for Tip O'Neill. I never knew what a roast was until I came to Washington— [laughter] —and began to read about myself every day in the newspapers. [Laughter] I had something of a preview from Mo Udall in the Michigan primary— [laughter] —and I should have known what to expect.
I really tried to think of some criticism or some funny things to say about Tip O'Neill. But his being the Speaker and such a close friend of mine, and our having such an intimate political relationship and my revering him so much, it was impossible for me to think about anything except [laughter] —serious matters.
When I first was elected and was preparing for the transition phase between November and January, I set up what we called the Talent Inventory Program, the TIP program. And in January, when I was packing to come to Washington, I discovered that the Speaker's name was Tip O'Neill. [Laughter]
I found also that we had a lot in common. We both have an Irish background. His family was in the potato business in Ireland, and my folks came about 50 ),ears before him as a result of the great peanut famine. [Laughter]
But in honor of Tip, we decided to let our Talent Inventory Program pick out the first two people from Massachusetts. One was Evan Dobelle, who became the protocol officer; the other one was Elliot Richardson. [Laughter[ Tip called up to discuss this matter with me and— [laughter] —he really gave me the highest compliment I've ever had. He said I bad done more for the Republicans in Massachusetts than anybody since Richard Nixon. [Laughter] And be said that because I was new in Washington, that he wanted to reward me for honoring his State as I had already done— [laughter] by making my first two appointments Republicans from Massachusetts.
You probably wouldn't know it by the way we've performed, but there were some of us that didn't know much about Washington when we got here. [Laughter] A few of us didn't even know where Pennsylvania Street was. [Laughter]
So, Tip got a Harvard professor to help some of our staff. He gave Hamilton Jordan some advice on diplomatic manners and how to dress. [Laughter] And Tip wanted to give me some personal advice, because I bad had trouble, as you know, in some of the Stages during the general election. He wanted to teach me how to win political favor in the West. And we decided between us that the water projects was the best thing to undertake. [Laughter] We really have worked on this all year. And we've benefited greatly from Tip's friendship and help. [Laughter[
When I was at my lowest point this past summer during the Bert Lance hearings, Tip revived all our spirits by giving us some good information on air travel by Senator Charles Percy. [Laughter] And it really put us back on top of the thing there for a few days. Bert Lance was off the front page for a while; Jody Powell got on the front page. [Laughter] Tip, I want to thank you for that help.
We also have been very eager to have a good legislative achievement last year. And when the adjournment time came the first week in October, Tip wanted to make sure that I understood how to deal with the Congress effectively as we approached the conferences on energy. He said one of the main things I ought to do is to return Congressmen's telephone calls in a hurry. And the first one I got was from Philadelphia. [Laughter]
I hate to be overly modest, but most of my successes this past year, as you can see, I can attribute to my friendship with- [laughter] —the Speaker.
It hasn't been just political help. It hasn't been just advice and counsel on personal habits for my staff or inside information on the ways of Washington. Tip and I and our families have also formed a very close personal relation.
Tip and Millie came to the White House to eat supper with us on a couple of occasions, and we have some very cherished pictures of Tip holding my grandson in his lap. Later I was introduced to Millie's brother-in-law, who happened to be an unemployed Polish interpreter. [Laughter]
I've become deeply indebted to Tip O'Neill. [Laughter] My hope is that in the months ahead, Tip, I can repay you for all the kindnesses that you have shown us. [Laughter]
I would like to say in closing that in one's lifetime it's a very rare occasion when you have a chance to meet someone who is a delightful companion; someone who knows the political history of our Nation and who has the deepest and most sincere reverence for our Constitution and for the Capitol and for the White House and those who have served in it; someone who exemplifies in an enjoyable and effective way the finest elements of democratic politics; someone about whom in a period of years even in the quietness of private conversations you would never hear a word of criticism; someone who has a sense of humor and an appreciation for human beings; someone who is sensitive about others; someone who epitomizes the essence of what we all believe the Democratic Party is; and someone who can make the masculine reference to love be sincerely meaningful; and someone who in such a short time can become one's closest friend—and that's the way I feel about Tip O'Neill. Thank you very much.
  