
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress this first Report of the National Science Board, "Toward a Public Policy for Graduate Education in the Sciences," together with a companion volume, "Graduate Education: Parameters for Public Policy," which contains information and discussion supporting the basic Report. These documents have been prepared in accordance with Section 4(g) of the National Science Foundation Act, as amended by Public Law 90-407.
Graduate education is a critically important element in the educational process and one which is entering a particularly difficult period. As the Board points out, graduate enrollments are expected to double and the costs of graduate programs are expected to quadruple during the next decade. Thus it is most important that colleges and universities, state and local authorities, and the interested branches of the Federal Government all re-examine their role with respect to graduate education.
On several occasions, most recently when I increased the expenditure ceiling of the National Science Foundation for the fiscal year 1969, I have emphasized our nation's special debt to its scientists and its special responsibility to maintain an outstanding record in both basic research and technological advance. I emphasize here again that education in general and scientific development in particular will be among the highest priorities in this Administration. One measure of the greatness and vitality of a nation is manifested, I believe, in its readiness to explore the unknown.
The National Science Board has rightly concluded that adequate funding for graduate education and for academic science is only one of the problems we face. Of comparable importance is the need to develop a new strategy for that Federal aid which may be required. I have recently instructed the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare to establish an interdepartmental study group to make an overall review of the Federal role in education, including higher education. The Report of the National Science Board will provide a useful resource for that review.
I know that the Congress, like the Executive Branch, will give the Report its careful consideration. I solicit your assistance in developing solutions to the problems which have been identified by this distinguished group of citizens.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
February 18, 1969
  