
    
  Presents comprehensive plan to initiate Reagan-style military buildup

CHARLESTON, South Carolina – Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today unveiled his plan to rebuild our military in order to ensure that it has the resources it needs to protect our homeland and maintain its status as a beacon of freedom and opportunity across the world.
"America needs a strong military to protect our great nation and the freedoms we hold dear," Cruz said. "Rebuilding the American military will be one of the most serious tasks facing the next Commander in Chief. Our goal should not be to simply pour back into the Department of Defense the trillion of dollars President Obama so irresponsibly drained out, but rather to seize this opportunity to make a generational investment in our defenses that will keep not only us but also our children and grandchildren safe—and that we do so in a way that also maintains a commitment to fiscal responsibility."
He added, "We will invest in our military with a simple goal: more tooth, less tail."
In his remarks, Cruz first established a clear contrast to how a Cruz Administration would operate differently from the last seven years of the Obama Administration's failed leadership on the international stage. He identified policies that will never be implemented under his watch:

We will not admit refugees into the United States who may have been infiltrated by terrorists;
We will not grant American citizenship to individuals who are here illegally;
We will not draft American women into military combat;
We will not tolerate incompetence in the VA, we will fix it.

He then outlined specific proposals to rebuild what has deteriorated under President Obama's watch. Cruz outlined what needs to be done to bring our conventional and strategic forces to a position where America is equipped defend our interests, project strength on the international stage, and be ready for any threat that may come her way.
To rebuild our conventional forces, we will:

Build up our Army to consist of at least 525,000 trained and fully equipped soldiers
Establish a total active-duty force of at least 1.4 million Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines
Rebuild our Air Force to at least 6,000 airplanes, with a minimum of 1,500 tactical fighter aircraft
Increase our number of ships to at least 350, with an appropriate mix of large and small, surface and subsurface combatants

To rebuild our strategic forces, we will:

Prioritize the construction of 12 new ballistic missile submarines in the defense budget
Upgrade the Minuteman missiles that have been deployed since the late 1960s
Reinvest in the ground-based Midcourse Defense program after seven years of neglect under Obama – the program counters the threat of intercontinental ballistic missiles and is vital to our future survival
Review and promulgate a new cyberspace strategy – instead of remaining on the defensive against aggressive state and non-state cyber adversaries, we must anticipate and thwart cyber attacks on American private and public institutions

Cruz's full proposal may be viewed here.
In his remarks, Cruz emphasized, "The purpose of this rebuilt military is not to intervene in every conflict and engage in expensive and protracted exercises in nation building in countries who have scant interests in the institutions we want to impose on them. The purpose of this military will be to defend and advance the interests of the United States of America."
  