
    By the President of the United States of AmericaA Proclamation
Whereas the United States is now at war, and the establishment of the maritime control area hereinafter described is necessary in the interests of national defense:
Now, Therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and in accordance with the principle of self-defense of the Law of Nations, do hereby establish and proclaim the following-described area as the Boston Maritime Control Area, and prescribe the following regulations for the control thereof:
BOSTON MARITIME CONTROL AREA
All waters within the area enclosed by lines running as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the western shore of Sandy Bay, Cape Ann, Massachusetts, and the parallel of latitude 42°40' North, in approximate Longitude 70°37'23" West;
thence along that parallel to Longitude 70°12'30" West;
thence along approximate true bearing 152° to position Latitude 42°00' North, Longitude 69°44' West; and
thence west true to the eastern shore of Cape Cod, Massachusetts, in approximate Longitude 72°01'10" West.
REGULATIONS FOR THE CONTROL OF BOSTON MARITIME CONTROL AREA
1.A vessel not proceeding under United States naval or other United States authorized supervision shall not enter or navigate the waters of the abovedescribed Maritime Control Area except during daylight, when good visibility conditions prevail, and then only after specific permission has been obtained. Advance arrangements for entry into or navigation through or within the said Area must be made, preferably by application at a United States Naval District Headquarters in advance of sailing, or by radio or visual communication on approaching the seaward limits of the Area. If radio telegraphy is used, the call "NQO" shall be made on a frequency of 500 kcs, and permission to enter the port requested. The name of the vessel, purpose of entry, and name of master must be given In the request. If visual communications are used, the procedure shall be essentially the same.
2.Even though permission has been obtained, it is incumbent upon a vessel entering the said Area to obey any further instructions received from the United States Navy, or other United States authority.
3.A vessel may expect supervision of its movements within the said Area, either through surface craft or aircraft. Such controlling surface craft and aircraft shall be identified by a prominent display of the Union Jack.
4.These regulations may be supplemented by regulations of the local United States naval authority as necessary to meet local circumstances and conditions.
5.Should any vessel or person within the said Area disregard these regulations, or regulations issued pursuant hereto, or fall to obey an order of the United States naval authority, or perform any act threatening the efficiency of mine or other defenses, or take any action therein inimical to the defense of the United States, such vessel or person may be subjected to the force necessary to require compliance, and may be liable to detention or arrest, or penalties or forfeiture. in accordance with law.
The Secretary of the Navy is charged with the enforcement of these regulations.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 10th day of February in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-sixth.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:CORDELL HULLSecretary of State.
  