
    45,000+ Donors: Over 45,000 of Hillary's supporters contributed more than $6.4 million online in the 48 hours following Super Tuesday and more than $7.5 million online in the past week.
New Ads: The campaign began airing new ads, "Happen," "Falling Through" and "Kerrey" in Washington, Maine and Nebraska, respectively. Watch.
In Case You Missed It: Sen. Obama turned down Hillary's invitation to debate in Maine. Though both candidates will be in the state tomorrow, Sen. Obama isn't ready to hold a joint town hall. Watch.
More Endorsements: In advance of Hillary's visit to the Washington congressional district he represents, Rep. Norm Dicks endorsed Hillary... In Maryland, Prince George's County Executive Jack Johnson, former Prince George's County Executive Wayne Curry and Delegates Ana Sol Gutierrez and Susan Lee endorsed Hillary... Arkansas Sen. Blanche Lincoln endorsed Hillary.
Previewing Today: In Washington, Hillary will hold "Solutions for America" town halls in Tacoma and Spokane... In Louisiana, President Bill Clinton will hold "Solutions for America" rallies in New Orleans, Baton Rouge, Lafayette, Lake Charles and Monroe... In Nebraska, Chelsea will continue the "Our Voice, Our Future" tour and meet with students at Creighton University.
I've Switched to Hillary: On Wednesday on "The View," former Sen. Obama supporter Whoopi Goldberg announced that she voted for Hillary. On Thursday, the video of Whoopi's announcement was YouTube's single most watched news and politics clip. More than 200,000 people watched Whoopi explain that Hillary was the first candidate to propose taxing tax breaks away from companies that ship jobs overseas. Watch.
Recapping Yesterday: In Arlington, Virginia, Hillary "won thunderous applause."... In Seattle, Washington, Hillary spoke to an "enthusiastic crowd of thousands." Hillary's rally "drew fans of a wide range of ages" Parking was so scarce that some had to walk a mile or more" to the event... At a rally in Portland, Maine, "the audience reacted with energy" to President Bill Clinton's address, which was "heavy on policy and light on politics."... "Short on slogans and long on specifics, [Chelsea] outlined her mother's positions on a variety of issues" to hundreds of people in Grand Island after speaking to "as many as 1,000" in Lincoln, at the University of Nebraska.
Follow the Leader: In May, Hillary introduced a comprehensive Gulf Coast Recovery Agenda. Three months later, in August, Sen. Obama released a very similar proposal. Yesterday, Sen. Obama "introduced" the same plan he released in August. Read more.
  