
    NEW ADS: The campaign began airing three new ads: "Freefall" and "Can Do" affirm Hillary's ability to tackle the economic challenges facing America. "Times" cites the New York Times' endorsement of Hillary as "more qualified to be President." Watch.
VOICES ACROSS AMERICA: The campaign continued to encourage voters to make their voices heard in a groundbreaking national town hall. On Monday, February 4, 2008, for the first time in presidential campaign history, voters in Super Tuesday states will participate via satellite in a single national town hall. Hillary Clinton will anchor the town hall at an event in New York. President Bill Clinton, Chelsea Clinton and prominent Hillary supporters will host events in the states.
YESTERDAY IN THE STATES
ALABAMA: Jefferson County Commissioner Sheila Smoot held a conference call to invite the people of Alabama to attend an event in Birmingham and participate in the national town hall ... The campaign announced that President Bill Clinton will hold a "Solutions for America" rally in Huntsville on Saturday.
ARIZONA: President Bill Clinton held a "Solutions for America" event at Arizona State University in Tempe. Read more... Navajo Nation President Joe Shirley Jr. endorsed Hillary. Read more ... Hattie Babbitt, wife of former Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt, held a conference call to invite the people of Arizona to attend an event in Phoenix and participate in the national town hall... The campaign announced that Hillary will visit Tucson on Saturday.
ARKANSAS: The campaign announced that President Bill Clinton will today host "Solutions for America" events in Pine Bluff and Texarkana. U.S. Rep. Mike Ross will join President Clinton at both events. Read more.
CALIFORNIA: In Los Angeles, Hillary gave serious and substantive answers at the debate, demonstrating her ability to deliver real solutions to our toughest problems. As a result, Hillary won CNN's dial-group of undecided voters. "Going in, our group was equally split between the two candidates. Coming out... 60% of our undecided voters say they feel that [Hillary] performed the best and they would vote for her." ... Before the debate, thousands of supporters attended a rally... The Post News Group and El Mundo endorsed Hillary. The Post News Group publishes the Oakland Post, El Mundo, Berkeley Tri City Post, Richmond Post, San Francisco Post, and South County Post. "Hillary['s] experience, knowledge and commitment will serve us well. Her success as New York's senator where she demonstrated an ability to work both sides of the aisle bodes well as to how she could bring us together as a nation."... In Los Angeles, U.S. Reps. Maxine Waters, Hilda Solis, Grace Napolitano, Sheila Jackson Lee, City Councilmember Wendy Greuel and actress Erika Alexander held a "Women for Hillary" rally... State Sen. Ron Calderon endorsed Hillary... In Sacramento, the campaign hosted a Latino phone bank and debate watch party with supporters and volunteers.
COLORADO: Chelsea spoke to students at the University of Colorado. Read more ... Speaker of the House Andrew Romanoff held a conference call to invite the people of Colorado to attend an event in Denver and participate in the national town hall ... In Denver, the campaign's Hispanic Leadership Council held a volunteer organizing and debate watch party.
CONNECTICUT: Attorney General Richard Blumenthal and State Comptroller Nancy Wyman held a conference call to invite the people of Connecticut to attend an event in Hartford and participate in the national town hall... In Newton and Danbury, Democratic leaders endorsed Hillary. Read more... In New Haven, NOW President Kim Gandy spoke to Hillary supporters and undecided students at Yale University... In West Harford and New Haven, the campaign hosted debate watch parties... The campaign announced Hillary will visit the state on Monday.
DELAWARE: State Rep. Diana McWilliams held a conference call to invite the people of Delaware to attend an event in Wilmington and participate in the national town hall... The campaign held debate watch parties in Newark, Wilmington, and Smyrna.
GEORGIA: U.S. Rep. David Scott held a conference call to invite the people of Georgia to attend an event in Athens and participate in the national town hall... The campaign announced that President Bill Clinton will today host a "Solutions for America" event outside of Atlanta, in Kennesaw.
IDAHO: Bethine Church, wife of four-term U.S. Sen. Frank Church and daughter of former Gov. Chase Clark, endorsed Hillary.
ILLINOIS: National Campaign Co-Chair J.B. Pritzker and State Representative Jack Franks held a conference call to invite the people of Illinois to attend an event in Chicago and participate in the national town hall.
KANSAS: Kansas Superdelegate and Democratic State Party Vice-Chair Teresa Krusor and Party Treasurer Dan Lykins held a conference call to invite the people of Kansas to attend an event in Wichita and participate in the national town hall.
MASSACHUSETTS: Hillary leads Sen. Obama by 24 and 28 points in new SurveyUSA (57-33) and Western New England College (43-15) polls, respectively. Read more here and here... Speaker of the House Sal DiMasi and State Rep. Patricia Walrath, Chair of the Health Care Finance Committee, held a conference call and discussed a letter sent by 50 members of the State Legislature about Sen. Obama's criticism of their Massachusetts health care reform plan.
MINNESOTA: A new Minnesota Public Radio poll has Hillary up by 7 points over Sen. Obama (40-33). Read more... Former Vice President Walter Mondale discussed Hillary's plan to revive our economy and rebuild the middle class with voters in Duluth... Former Iowa Governor Tom Vilsack met with voters across southwest Minnesota and discussed Hillary's plan to boost research and development of clean and alternative energy. Read more
MISSOURI: Former Gov. Bob Holden and Jackson County Executive Mike Sanders held a conference call to invite the people of Missouri to attend an event in Kansas City and participate in the national town hall. Read more... ... Hillary supporters held debate watch parties in Columbia, Kansas City, St. Louis, Chesterfield, Jefferson City, Warrensburg, Marshall, Harrisonville, Independence, Springfield, and Cape Girardeau. Former Gov. Bob Holden attended the watch party in Columbia. State Senator Jolie Justus attended the watch party in Kansas City... The campaign announced that Hillary will visit St. Louis on Sunday and that President Bill Clinton will visit Columbia and Springfield on Saturday. Read more.
NEW JERSEY: Hillary leads by 12 points over Sen Obama in new Rasmussen (49-37) and SurveyUSA (51-39) polls. Read more here and here... Democratic State Party Chair Joe Cryan and Assembly Majority Leader Bonnie Watson Coleman held a conference call to invite the people of New Jersey to attend an event in Cherry Hill and participate in the national town hall... The campaign released the names of 14 New Jersey State Senators who have endorsed Hillary... Hillary supporters held debate watch parties in Edison and Cherry Hill.
NEW MEXICO: Navajo Nation President Joe Shirley Jr. endorsed Hillary. Read more... President Bill Clinton held a "Solutions for America" event in Albuquerque. Read more... Former Ambassador Joe Wilson attended a debate watch party in Santa Fe... United Farm Workers co-founder Dolores Huerta stumped for Hillary in Albuquerque.
NEW YORK: A new Hispanic Federation poll has Hillary up by 50 points over Sen. Obama among Latinos (66-16). Read more... Der Blatt, a weekly Yiddish newspaper, endorsed Hillary... U.S. Rep. Anthony Weiner held a conference call to invite the people of New York to participate in the national town hall. Read more... Hillary supporters held 63 debate watch parties in homes, bars, restaurants and on college campuses throughout the state...The New York State Professional Fire Fighters Association endorsed Hillary. Read more... In Rockland County, local elected officials and community members gathered in a show of support for Hillary.
OKLAHOMA: Secretary of State Susan Savage, former State House Speaker Steve Lewis and Oklahoma State Regent Stuart Price held a conference call to invite the people of Oklahoma to attend an event in Tulsa and participate in the national town hall.
TENNESSEE: A new InsiderAdvantage poll has Hillary up by 33 points over Sen. Obama (59-26) Read more... Former Tennessee Democratic Party Chairman Randy Button held a conference call to invite the people of Tennessee to attend an event in Knoxville and participate in the national town hall.
UTAH: Hillary supporters held a conference call to invite the people of Utah to attend an event in Salt Lake City and participate in the national town hall.
  