
    Pool Reports by Sophia Cai, Axios 



Sent:
Reports:




February 2, 202307:39

In-town pool report #1 - wheels rolling to prayer breakfast
Good morning. We are wheels rolling to the Capitol Visitor Center for the National Prayer Breakfast. 7:37AM



February 2, 202308:03

In-town pool report #2 - program begins
Choir on stage singing "Hallelujah, You're Worthy"
Lawmakers and other guests are being corralled to their seats in the CVC auditorium.
Room's almost filled. Bipartisan members of both chambers. Leader McCarthy is here.
—
Participating in a greet with the President and the Vice President at the National Prayer Breakfast:
Rep. Lucy McBath (GA-07)Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-05)Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)Senator Mike Rounds (SD)Former Senator Mark Pryor (AR), Organizer and Host of the National Prayer Breakfast FoundationBishop Vashti Murphy McKenzie, Interim President and General Secretary, National Council of Churches; African Methodist Episcopal (AME) ChurchPastor Jim Cymbala, Brooklyn Tabernacle
—
Traveling with the President in the motorcade this morning:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomAndrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Communications Advisor for Strategic ResponseMelissa Rogers, Special Assistant to the President & Director of White House Office of Faith-Based & Neighborhood PartnershipsJustin Oswald, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs LiaisonTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



February 2, 202308:41

In-town pool report #3: Biden remarks
President Biden sitting next to Leader McCarthy in the front row.
Biden: "singing is praying twice," faith is "universal"
"Pandemic has taken so much from so many people…" Mass shootings during Lunar New Year, he fumbled over Tyre Nichols' first name but corrected himself.
"We're all imperfect beings. We're fallible. We're frail. We fail. We don't know what fate will deliver."
"..weeping my endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning" (Psalm 30:5) (audible agreement in room)
Says it's hardest to "Love thy neighbor."
"Let's start treating each other with respect. That's what Kevin [McCarthy] and I are going to do."
—-ends
Run of Show
Rep. Lucy McBath (GA-07) & Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-05)Brooklyn Tabernacle Singers perform "I Will Not Fear"Rep. Lucy McBath (GA-07) & Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-05) deliver opening prayerRep. Tracey Mann (KS-01)Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-05)Rep. Lucy McBath (GA-07)The PresidentRep. Teresa Leger Fernández (NM-03)Bishop Vashti Murphy McKenzieThe Brooklyn Tabernacle Singers perform "Pray"Pastor Jim CymbalaChaplain Margaret Kibben delivers the closing prayer
Attendees:
The Vice President
Speaker of the House of Representatives Kevin McCarthy
Rep. Lucy McBath (GA-07)Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-05)Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)Senator Mike Rounds (SD)Rep. Teresa Leger Fernandez (NM-03)Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Ambassador to the United NationsBill Nelson, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Administrator & Former Senator (FL)
Former Senator Mark Pryor (AR), Organizer and Host of the National Prayer Breakfast FoundationChaplain Margaret Kibben, Chaplain of the House of RepresentativesMembers of Congress and their guests



February 2, 202310:33

In-town pool report #4 - briefing now 12:30
The Press Briefing will now begin at 12:30pm. Director of the White House Gender Policy Council Jennifer Klein will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing.



February 2, 202312:44

WH In-town pool report #5: Two minute warning for briefing
If you're refreshing this page:https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



February 2, 202314:03

In-town Pool Report #6 - Jordan meeting readout
President Joe Biden hosted His Majesty King Abdullah II of Jordan and His Royal Highness Crown Prince Hussein for lunch today at the White House.They reaffirmed the close, enduring nature of the friendship between the United States and Jordan, and the President thanked His Majesty for his close partnership and the role he and Jordan play as a force for stability in the Middle East. The President confirmed the unwavering U.S. commitment to Jordan's security and economic prosperity during this time of regional and global challenges, and the leaders discussed opportunities and mechanisms to reduce tensions, particularly in the West Bank. The President affirmed his strong support for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and recognized the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan's crucial role as the custodian of Muslim holy places in Jerusalem, citing the critical need to preserve the historic status quo at the Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount. They agreed to remain in regular touch and further enhance the historic ties between our countries.



February 2, 202314:14

In-town pool report #7 - FMLA Act event to start
Pool's in the room.
THE PRESIDENT and THE VICE PRESIDENT deliver remarks to mark the 30th Anniversary of the Family and Medical Leave Act



February 2, 202314:24

In-town pool report #8 - program and attendees
Speaking Program for the 30th Anniversary of the Family and Medical Leave Act event:
The Vice PresidentFormer President Bill ClintonNatasha Jackson, Founder and Owner of The Real Klean and an A Better Balance Community AdvocateThe President
—
In attendance:
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human ServicesDirector Shalanda Young, Office of Management and BudgetChair Cecilia Rouse, Council of Economic AdvisersSpeaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (CA-11)Rep. James Clyburn (SC-06)Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03)Rep. Debbie Wasserman Shultz (FL-23)Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04)Rep. Lauren Underwood (IL-14)Rep. Chrissy Houlahan (PA-06)Rep. Colin Allred (TX-32)Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-16)Former Rep. Carolyn Maloney (NY-12)Former Rep. Jane Harman (CA-36)Commissioner Charlotte Burrows, Equal Employment Opportunity CommissionCommissioner Jocelyn Samuels, Equal Employment Opportunity CommissionMembers of the Biden-Harris Administration, Members of Congress, and leaders in advancing women's economic security



February 2, 202314:55

In-town pool report #9 - VP & Clinton remarks
Vice President Harris:
"30 years ago today…our nation took a long overdue step to give working people and particularly working mothers the dignity, respect and support they deserve."
Discusses her mother's cancer diagnosis
"Let us be clear: in America, in the 21st century, every worker should be able to take time off to care for themselves or for the people they love."
Acknowledges Clinton administration's work on Child Tax Credit, Head Start program, Violence Against Women Act
—
Former President Clinton:
Says bill was a result of "years of passionate advocacy and empathy" of former Sen. Chris Dodd who introduced the bill again and again.
"We grew up in a different time. My mother always worked. And my grandmother, but they were atypical."
He acknowledges the "200 women's, children's, labor and faith organizations. And businesses who implemented their own programs.
"It took 8 yrs, 2 vetoes and another election before it became law."
"After all these years, I still have more people mention the FMLA than any other specific thing [I did]"
—
Biden remarks to come



February 2, 202315:21

In-town pool report #10 - Biden & Natasha Jackson
Natasha Jackson -
Shares her personal story re Pregnant Workers Fairness Act:
She was the only woman working at a local rental furniture company. She was fired after asking to not lift heavy things while three months pregnant.
——
President Biden:
Describes being elected to the Senate and learning of the car crash that killed his wife and daughter. "I was able to continue to work — and be paid"
Says he once told a former aide to stopping coming to work while he was dealing with personal issues. "I told him that if he came in, he was fired."
Describes a policy in his office, "If you ever need time, you never have to explain why."
"Welcome home," he says to Clinton.
"…family medical leave isn't only for workers and families…it's good for business."
Outlines expansions of the Family & Medical Leave Act:
- 12 weeks paid leave for federal employees
- expanded Medicaid postpartum coverage
- passed Pregnancy Workers Fairness Act
"I remain committed to…passing a national program of paid leave."



February 2, 202316:31

In-town pool report #11 - gathered for congressional black caucus
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



February 2, 202316:35

In-town pool report #12 - attendees
Meeting with the President and VP:
Participants
Rep. Steven Horsford (NV-04), Congressional Black Caucus ChairSenator Cory Booker (NJ)Senator Raphael Warnock (GA)Rep. James Clyburn (SC-06)Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18)Rep. Joe Neguse (CO-02)



February 2, 202317:14

In-town pool report #13: Biden/CBC meeting
President Biden:
Congratulates the new CBC Chair, Rep. Steven Horsford
"We're going to talk about the progress made together and the investment see made in the African American community."
"To state the obvious, everybody knows Tyre was laid to rest."
"VP went to funeral. I spent time on the phone with his mom and stepfather. My hope is his memory(?) for some action…"
"We got to stay at it, as long as it takes"
Says Al Sharpton's eulogy is "first rate"
"I want to share with you and go through the implementation of each of the [executive orders] we put forward and deadlines for each of the agencies to meet the requirements."
"Want to talk about whatever you want to talk about…how to make progress on police reform of consequent and violence in our community."
—-
Rep. Horsford:
"The death of Tyre Nichols is yet another example of why we need action. You've already led on the action we've been able to take on executive order. We need your help on legislative action to…make public safety the priority…"



February 2, 202318:58

In-town pool report #14: CBC gaggle & lid 6:49pm
The CBC members came out of the Oval Office at 6:37pm. (after meeting of 1 hr 50 min with Biden)
(TLDR: they made no news at stakeout but see below for sound bites)
CBC Chair Horsford:
"We have an agreement on how we will continue to work forward both from a legislative standpoint as well as executive and community based solutions. But the focus will always be on public safety, public safety for all communities"
—
Sen. Warnock:
"I think I speak for a whole lot of Americans say that we're sick and tired of human beings becoming hashtags. This has got to stop."
—
Horsford in response to Q about what legislative solution looks like:
"We are working with the President, his team, the Senate, and the house. This is going to require all of us including Republicans, to get across the finish line. We recognize that but we are committed to meaningful, substantive reform."
-
Lid called 6:49pm




  