
    Voters in Nevada should have all the facts before early voting starts and the caucuses begin next week
(SAN FRANCISCO, February 14, 2020) –– One day after calling on Senator Sanders to finally come clean about the cost and funding for his Medicare for All plan, Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer launched a new digital ad to highlight Sanders' refusal to come clean to Nevada voters. Steyer believes voters across the country, and especially in Nevada where union-negotiated health plans are threatened by Sanders plan, deserve to know how much Medicare for All will cost and how it will be paid for.
The ad acknowledges the basic truth that Americans all want the same thing: reduce costs, expand coverage, and improve quality. And that's exactly what Tom Steyer's public option plan does. Steyer's plan doesn't tear down on Obamacare, it builds it up: driving down costs, while also protecting union negotiated plans.
Steyer knows that providing an actionable plan towards high quality, affordable health care is a critical part of this election and a critical part of beating Trump in November. The new ad comes at a time when Steyer's message is resonating in Nevada and South Carolina. He is doing especially well in NV (tied for 3rd place with 12% according to Jan 9 Fox News Poll), and in SC (polling in second place at 19% and third place at 15% according to two Feb 7 polls). Steyer continues to build momentum with Nevadans on his "It's the Economy #Battletested" bus tour through the state.
See below for the full script:
There is a reason people are nervous about Bernie Sanders scrapping Obamacare.
Reporter: You don't know how much this costs?
BS: You don't know, nobody knows
Unions don't like it.
They wanna tell their members "look, this guy wants to take away your healthcare." 
Reporter: Most Americans know it won't pass. They do not like medicare for all.
And Bernie can't.
Reporter: You're just gonna propose a plan to the American people and not tell them how much it costs?
Or won't, give us a price tag.
But thankfully, there is a better way.
Americans all want the same thing: Reduce costs, expand coverage, and improve quality
And that's exactly what Tom Steyer's public option plan does.
Tom Steyer's plan doesn't tear down on Obamacare, it builds it up: driving down costs, while also protecting union negotiated plans.
  