
    Dear Mr. President:
On behalf of the United States of America, it gives me great pleasure to accept membership in the African Development Bank in accordance with Board of Governors resolutions 05-79, 06-79, and 07-79.
In accepting membership, I also wish to inform you of the following:
1. The United States of America has completed all steps necessary in accordance with its laws and is prepared to fulfill all the obligations of membership under the Agreement Establishing the Bank.
2. On January 31, 1983, a duly authorized representative of the United States of America signed the Agreement Establishing the Bank and deposited our instrument of acceptance with the United Nations.
3. The United States of America hereby subscribes to 1,491 shares of the paid-up capital stock of the African Development Bank ("Bank"), and 4,473 shares of the callable capital stock of the Bank (inasmuch as pertinent budgetary appropriations have already been obtained); and subscribes, subject to obtaining budgetary appropriations, to an additional 5,964 shares of the paid-up capital stock of the Bank and an additional 17,892 shares of the callable capital stock of the Bank in accordance with the provisions of the General Rules Governing Admission of Nonregional Countries to Membership in the Bank.
4. I have nominated Donald T. Regan, Secretary of the Treasury, to be Governor of the Bank and W. Allen Wallis, Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, to be Alternate Governor of the Bank. The Senate is now in the process of confirming those nominations. We will notify you when they have been confirmed.
5. Pursuant to Article 40 of the Agreement Establishing the African Development Bank, the United States of America designates the Department of the Treasury for purposes of communication with the Bank on matters connected with the Agreement, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as the depository in which the Bank may keep its holdings of the currency of the United States of America or other assets.
6. The United States of America has fulfilled all the legal requirements necessary to make the subscription to the capital stock and to assure that the currency received by the Bank thereunder shall be freely convertible into the currencies of other countries for the purposes of the Bank's operations.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
[Mr. Wila Mung'Omba, President, African Development Bank, Abidjan, Ivory Coast]
  