
    Forty Four Members of General Assembly Support Campaign
The Dole for President campaign today announced the 44 members of the South Carolina General Assembly who are supporting Senator Bob Dole's Presidential campaign. The announcement was made by Speaker David Wilkins, Dole Campaign Steering Committee Chairman.
Speaker Wilkins said, "my colleagues standing with me today share our belief that Senator Dole has the unique qualities of character, experience and leadership that will lead America into the next century. We need someone like Bob Dole who believes in the conservative values that made this state and country great: faith in God, belief in community, personal responsibility and love of family."
"We're delighted to have the support of this distinguished group of legislators," said Dole campaign manager Scott Reed. "They share Bob Dole's vision of reining in the runaway power of the federal government and reconnecting Washington with the common-sense values of the people of South Carolina."
South Carolina holds its presidential primary on March 2 and will send 37 delegates to the Republican convention in San Diego in August. Dole remains the overwhelming favorite to win the GOP Presidential nomination. A recent Time/CNN poll shows Dole leading the Republican field with 47% of the vote -- 30 percentage points ahead of his nearest rival.
Senator Ty Courtney
Senator John Drummond
Senator Warren Giese
Senator Robert Waldrep
Senator Greg Ryberg
Senator Hugh Leatherman
Senator Larry Martin
Senator Larry Richter
Senator Mike Rose
Representative Rita Allison
Representative Henry Brown
Representative Brad Cain
Representative C.D. Chamblee
Representative Harry Cato
Representative Bill Cotty
Representative Tom Dantzler
Representative John Felder
Representative Ron Fulmer
Representative Bobby Harrell
Representative Jim Harrison
Representative Heyward Hutson
Representative Mike Jaskwhich
Representative Tom Keegan
Representative Jim Klauber
Representative Larry Koon
Representative Steve Lanford
Representative James Law
Representative Chip Limehouse
Representative Claude Marchbanks
Representative Becky Meacham
Representative Bill Sandifer
Representative Charles Sharpe
Representative June Shissias
Representative Gary Simrill
Representative Roland Smith
Representative Ronnie Townsend
Representative Dave Waldrop
Representative Mickey Whatley
Representative David Wilkins
Representative Billy Witherspoon
Representative Sandy Wofford
Representative Harold Worley
Representative Annette Young-Brickell
Representative Jeff Young
  