
    BECAUSE of my deep belief in the importance of the special relationship that exists between the United States and the other American Republics, I am happy to announce today that Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller will undertake a Presidential mission to ascertain the views of the leaders in the Latin American nations.
The purpose of this Presidential mission is to listen to the leaders and to consult with them concerning the development of common goals and joint programs of action, which will strengthen Western Hemisphere unity and accelerate the pace of economic and social development.
Geography, history, and common aspirations have contributed to a very special friendship between the peoples and countries of the Americas. It is because of the importance of this relationship that I have chosen Governor Rockefeller, a distinguished North American who is knowledgeable in government as well as economic and social problems and who has a longtime friendship and association with the peoples of the Latin American Republics.
Governor Rockefeller will visit the individual Latin American countries in a series of trips beginning in April. In the interim the Governor will bring together a staff for intensive preparation relating to the special potentialities and problems of each country in the economic, social, and other fields.
Upon completing his visits, the Governor will report to me personally on his consultations and make recommendations as to how the United States can improve its policies and increase the effectiveness of its cooperation and support of common objectives.
I want to emphasize that the Governor's trips will be working trips and not ceremonial visits. Governor Rockefeller is going to the individual countries to listen to the Latin American leaders and get their views and ideas.
The Presidential mission will include top advisers in various fields. The schedules for the visits will be worked out through diplomatic consultation with the Latin American countries to be visited. On each week-long journey the mission will hold discussions in four to six countries.
  