
    Members of Congress
Sen. Richard Shelby (R-AL): "The President's remarks this evening were inspiring, and I look forward to implementing policies that ensure the success and prosperity of the American people. As he said tonight, victory is not winning for our party, victory is winning for our country."
Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA): "Tonight, we heard a message of unity, prosperity and cooperation from @POTUS. He called on us to come together for the greater good to find solutions and continue to grow our economy. I'm hopeful we can build on the bipartisan successes of last Congress."
Sen. Mike Crapo (R-ID): "In his second State of the Union address, President Trump outlined a powerful and comprehensive agenda to keep the nation on an upward trajectory and build on previous bipartisan accomplishments by advancing further bipartisan solutions in the 116th Congress."
Sen. Josh Hawley (R-MO): "Strong words tonight from @realDonaldTrump. Time now for Democrats to come to the table to secure the border, bring down prescription drug costs, and keep wages rising. Let's get to work."
Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS): "President Trump set out an optimistic message that challenges us to embrace unity and work together to keep our economy strong and solve the problems facing our country. I like this message, which will help our country be great. The Congress can do more working together than it can by focusing on differences."
Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT): "Under @realDonaldTrump and Republican leadership, our economy is booming. More money is staying in the pockets of hardworking Montanans, middle class income is at an all-time high, and thousands of jobs are being created in Montana and all over the country."
Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC): "I hope my colleagues across the aisle listen to the President's call for unity, and join us in focusing on the issues that matter the most to the American people."
Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC): "We have an opportunity to produce major bipartisan results like modernizing America's infrastructure, securing our borders and fixing our broken immigration system, and ensuring our veterans, service members and military families receive the support they need and deserve."
Sen. John Hoeven (R-ND): "[T]he president outlined the importance of working together to build a strong future for our country and improve the quality of life for all Americans, including lowering health care costs and ensuring Americans have choice and competition in the health care system."
Sen. Deb Fischer (R-NE): "Tonight, President Trump laid out a hopeful vision for the future. I agree with a central focus of the president's speech: we need to see more cooperation and consensus in Washington."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "Agree with @POTUS' call for unity tonight, especially his message that we should ‘govern not as two parties but as one nation.' I'm committed to working with all my colleagues to continue delivering results for #Ohio & our country."
Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK): "@realDonaldTrump's #SOTU was a positive, unifying message where he reminded us all why our nation—and our American values of freedom & democracy are the envy of the rest of the world. Bottom line—our future is bright."
Sen. James Lankford (R-OK): "The President's speech was unifying and forward-looking. He stated that we can do things together, if we focus on legislation instead of investigation. He rightfully focused on our economic expansion and the ways we can keep growing our economy including addressing the costs of health care and prescription drugs."
Sen. Pat Toomey (R-PA): "The president was right to underscore the significance of our progress. President Trump also made a reasonable case for enhancing security at our southern border."
Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC): "I stand ready to work with the president and my colleagues in Congress to continue the momentum we've created these past two years and continue delivering solutions that will lead to an even more prosperous nation."
Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD): "Tonight, @realDonaldTrump @POTUS laid out a vision for our country that builds upon the successes of the past two years to further strengthen our economy and keep us safe. Reminding us that much more unites us than divides us as Americans, he called on us to set aside our differences and tackle the tough issues before us. I couldn't agree more."
Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN): "President Trump's speech was optimistic, and I especially liked his focus on reducing health care costs. As much as half of everything we spend on health care in the United States is unnecessary."
Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT): "It was great seeing Matthew Charles, the first person to benefit from #TheFirstStepAct, as a guest of President Trump tonight. Criminal justice reform is just the beginning of what we can accomplish together on a bipartisan basis."
Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI): "Tonight, @realDonaldTrump outlined a vision for Republicans and Democrats to work together to build a safer, more prosperous and secure country for every American. In many respects, the speech was a celebration of America — its heroes and accomplishments. I hope we can all be inspired by it and respond to the president's call to choose greatness."
Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV): "@POTUS once again laid out a clear vision for our nation's future while reflecting on all we accomplished in the past year. Thanks to tax reform & pro-growth policies, our economy is booming, wages are on the rise, & Americans across the country are finding jobs again."
Rep. Don Young (R-AK): "Tonight, President Trump laid out a unifying vision for a stronger America. The President has been a powerful partner for Alaskans, and I am proud that he highlighted many of our important victories in his speech tonight."
Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-AL): "This pretty much speaks for itself. The @realDonaldTrump speech was not just well received by most in the chamber but across the country. The same poll showed 72% agree with his immigration plan, so I say to my colleagues, let's get to it!"
Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL): "Whether the focus was on economic prosperity, free enterprise versus socialism, international relations, healthcare, national security, or the promise of America, President Trump hit the game-winning grand slam, shot the game-winning three point shot, and scored the game-winning touchdown. In sum, President Trump reminded us of how great America is and how proud we should be to be Americans."
Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA): "The President's message tonight was clear – America has unlimited potential, we just have to unlock it."
Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY): "Tonight, in a time of undeniable political division, President Trump continued to focus on solving big problems and unlocking the extraordinary potential of America's future. I applaud him for that, and I remain committed to working with his Administration and my colleagues in Congress to build upon successful policies like tax cuts and deregulation, which have produced robust economic growth."
Rep. Pete Stauber (R-MN): "Tonight, we heard an energetic and positive speech from President Trump. I am grateful for his calls for unity and bipartisanship as Americans are tired of divisive politics; they want us to work together, solve problems, and protect the future of this great nation."
Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO): "Tonight, the President laid out an optimistic agenda to unify our country and move America forward."
Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO): "Tonight, we were reminded of why we should all be proud to be American. President Trump is choosing greatness for America, reaffirming his commitments to keep our communities safe, rebuild aging infrastructure, fight the opioid crisis, and secure our border."
Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC): "What a powerful SOTU address from @POTUS, from honoring the greatest generation to reminding us as Americans to embrace the opportunities ahead. Democrats now have a choice: are they more interested in attacking this President, or working together for America's people?"
Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY): "Tonight, President Trump communicated the strong state of our economy and military in his inspirational State of the Union address. Protecting our national security, strengthening our infrastructure, lowering the cost of healthcare, fighting against pediatric cancer, eliminating HIV/AIDS, securing our border, and fighting for the interests of hardworking American families are priorities that both sides of the aisle can and should come together to achieve."
Rep. Troy Balderson (R-OH): "Tonight's State of the Union address offered a unifying vision of a prosperous America."
Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK): "In stark contrast to the highly polarized and partisan political environment, President Trump delivered an inspiring speech that sought to unify rather than divide."
Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA): "Among the many great things in @POTUS' speech last night was his call for research funding to fight childhood cancer. Let's work together and get it done!"
Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA): "The President outlined his vision for bipartisan leadership on a variety of issues including border security and legal immigration, protecting the American worker, bolstering infrastructure, curbing the cost of healthcare and enhancing our National security."
Rep. Guy Reschenthaler (R-PA): "Tonight, President Trump laid out an inspiring vision of American exceptionalism. I support President Trump's challenge to Congress to cast aside partisan, political pandering and get to work for the American people."
Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN): "In his #SOTU @POTUS outlined the path forward as we to continue to rebuild America. While we complete the President's bold agenda, let us remember that more can be accomplished when we choose freedom over obstruction & unite in our vision for a greater & more prosperous nation."
Rep. Chris Stewart (R-UT): "Indeed, the state of our union is strong. Historic tax cuts, low unemployment, and rising wages. America is strong."
Rep. David McKinley (R-WV): "Tonight, President Trump encouraged Members of Congress to put our nation first and reminded us that the only victory that matters is one that helps the American people."
State and Local Officials
Governor Mike Dunleavy (R-AK): "I applaud President @realdonaldtrump's call to improve the economy and expand prosperity for all Americans. In Alaska, where we face a very serious economic crisis, we value a federal government that will be our partners in success rather than our obstacles in opportunity."
Governor Doug Ducey (R-AZ): "Last night's #SOTU shined a light on some of America's greatest triumphs–defeating communism and fascism, traveling to the moon and back–while focusing on many of the #ThingsThatMatterAZ, like investing in infrastructure"
Governor Kim Reynolds (R-IA): "I appreciate President Trump using his State of the Union Address to discuss the importance of free and fair trade. In his remarks, the President rightfully called for the quick approval of the USMCA trade deal, and I urge Congress to ratify the agreement."
Governor Eric Holcomb (R-IN): "Having our president focus on our country's infrastructure is key to America's success. In Indiana, we have a long-term road funding plan and a rural broadband initiative that will keep infrastructure a top priority."
Governor Matt Bevin (R-KY): "Great #SOTU2019 by @POTUS in which he encourages America ‘choose greatness'...Indeed, we will! Appreciate the shout out to the green farmlands (and great people) of Kentucky."
Governor John Bel Edwards (D-LA): "Happy to hear President Trump's commitment to criminal justice reform in the #SOTU. I was honored to join the President last year to discuss Louisiana's historic reforms, which enjoyed bipartisan support."
Governor Kristi Noem (R-SD): "Tonight, President Trump outlined a vision of bipartisanship, optimism, and hope for our United States. As he said, ‘the state of our union is great.' I agree. In the last two years, the American economy has grown, families have become stronger, and businesses have invested more dollars into their communities."
Governor Bill Lee (R-TN): "It was an honor to be in the House Chamber this evening in person to hear from President Trump directly about his vision for our nation. His comments on criminal justice reform were particularly spot on and I look forward to working with him and his administration in the months and years ahead to ensure our country continues to be great, and becomes even greater."
Lieutenant Governor Will Ainsworth (R-AL): "Under @realDonaldTrump, Alabama has experienced record low unemployment, and 45,000 new jobs were added to the state's economy in the past year."
Lieutenant Governor Randy McNally (R-TN): "Our President delivered an uplifting & unifying #SOTU address tonight. His message recognized success achieved while laying out a vision for greatness to come. I join @realdonaldtrump in choosing greatness for our nation. I am hopeful all Americans will make the same choice."
Attorney General Leslie Rutledge (R-AR): "President @realdonaldtrump's #SOTU address was inspiring & set the course for a productive, prosperous year in the United States. The President demonstrated determination to enhance the quality of life for all Americans & recognized the level of bipartisanship that is necessary."
Attorney General Curtis Hill (R-IN): "To keep our country safe, Republicans and Democrats alike need to embrace border security as an absolute priority. Tonight all Americans should heed the President's words on this important issue."
Attorney General Jeff Landry (R-LA): "I applaud President Trump for his steadfast support in securing our Southern border. Louisiana has had her share of citizens victimized by illegal immigration. I call on Congress to put aside partisanship and support common-sense solutions."
Mississippi State Auditor Shad White (R): "It's great to have a President who speaks straight and plain directly to the concerns of working people—the need to secure our country and border, the importance of getting people back to work, and the FACT that America is the greatest country the world has known."
Alabama State Senate President Pro Tempore Del Marsh (R): "Tonight President Trump will give his State of the Union speech! We want him to know Alabama stands with him."
Ohio State Senate President Larry Obhof (R): "The President is providing real leadership on a number of key issues important to Ohioans, including strengthening the economy, enacting groundbreaking criminal justice reforms, and getting better trade deals for Ohio's working men and women."
Wisconsin State Assembly Speaker Robin Vos (R): "I'm excited to see more of the President's agenda put into action, including the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. The President has proven he'll work hard to protect American and Wisconsin workers."
Georgia State Representative Trey Kelley (R): "Tonight President Trump projected an inspirational vision for America, an America that is great and works for all Americans. President Trump again showed his desire to work across party lines to deliver the results Americans expect from our government: safe communities, a strong economy, and secure borders."
Ohio State Representative Niraj Antani (R): "As the son of legal immigrants who became citizens, illegal immigration is an insult to their sacrifice, and every other legal immigrant that makes our nation great. We must support President Trump's call in his State of the Union address to secure our southern border."
Branson, Missouri Mayor Karen Best: "I am grateful President Trump has chosen to focus on issues that relate to citizens and visitors of Branson in his State of the Union message."
Columbia, South Carolina Mayor and President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors Steve Benjamin: "The nation's mayors agree with President Trump that passing an infrastructure bill is not an option, it is a necessity. Given that cities are where 85 percent of Americans live, mayors see firsthand every day the impact that our crumbling infrastructure has on our nation and the quality of life for our residents."
Gary, Indiana Mayor and National League of Cities President Karen Freeman-Wilson: "Local leaders agree with the president on an important point: Passing a comprehensive infrastructure bill is not an option, it is a necessity."
Mobile, Alabama Mayor Sandy Stimpson: "As Mayor, I commend the Administration for successfully negotiating a fair trade deal in the USMCA and the President for expressing his strong support for the agreement in tonight's State of the Union speech."
Villa Park, California Councilwoman Crystal Miles: "All I can say is Great speech! The special guests were phenomenal!"
Bucks County, Pennsylvania Commissioner Robert Loughery: "The President's address tonight illustrates his steadfast commitment to working directly with state and local elected officials around shared federal-state-local priorities, including investing in our nation's infrastructure, improving and negotiating fair and balanced trade deals, and protecting American industries and workers."
Hendry County, Florida Commissioner and Florida Association of Counties President Karson Turner: "Local economies are the foundation on which the prosperity of our nation is built. Since taking office, President Trump has been proactive in working with local governments to ensure that even the smallest of counties and hometowns have a voice in building their economic future."
Mineral County, Colorado Commissioner Ramona Weber: "I would like to offer my humble congratulations on a speech well done. No matter our level of service, President Trump reminded us all tonight that we serve one people....The American people. And that our most important job is to make America Great Always. Thank you for your continued hard work."
Surry County, North Carolina Commissioner Van Tucker: "The SOTU speech was great! The material covered was on point and hit the targets. The delivery was solid and I believe was well received by the average American. Good job by POTUS and team!"
Advocacy & Policy Organizations
American Council of Engineering Companies President and CEO Linda Bauer Darr: "America's engineering industry strongly supports the President's continued focus on infrastructure investment as a pillar of his economic program."
Airports Council International – North America President and CEO Kevin M. Burke: "We applaud President Trump for making America's aging infrastructure a top national priority and support his call for bipartisan legislation to invest in vital national infrastructure projects."
American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy Duvall: "President Trump has outlined bold priorities in his State of the Union address, and we hope the administration and Congress can move forward in a bipartisan manner to make progress toward the goals that we all share."
American Petroleum Institute President and CEO Mike Sommers: "I applaud the President's commitment to America's energy leadership, which has the power to unify Democrats and Republicans in a divided Congress to put up some major wins for the American people."
American Road and Transportation Builders Association President and CEO Dave Bauer: "We commend President Trump for pressing bipartisan solutions. The last two federal surface transportation investment laws were achieved during eras of divided government. This time should be no different."
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) President Robin Kemper: "We appreciate that the President identified infrastructure as one of his top priorities for legislative action this year, and indicated that it is not an option, but a necessity."
Associated Builders and Contractors President and CEO Michael Bellaman: "President Trump and his administration continue to prioritize policies that allow the construction industry and U.S. business community to grow our economy. From strengthening workforce development initiatives to the rollback of overly burdensome regulations, the positive economic effects of tax reform and a renewed focus on rebuilding our country's crumbling infrastructure, the U.S. construction industry has been given the freedom and flexibility needed to thrive."
Associated General Contractors of America CEO Stephen Sandherr: "President Trump understands that one of the most effective ways to ensure continued economic growth is through making needed investments in our roads, bridges, water systems and other public infrastructure."
Association of American Railroads President and CEO Ian Jefferies: "The private freight rail industry commends the Trump administration for its call to invest in U.S. infrastructure – a stated, bipartisan priority of the legislative branch as well."
Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO) President and CEO Jim Greenwood: "I applaud President Trump's initiatives to cure childhood cancers and HIV. Biotech companies are hard at work on both. They will continue to attract investors, unless short-sighted price control policies drive them away."
Coalition for a Prosperous America Chairman Daniel DiMicco: "Many of our members have been directly impacted by China's ongoing economic aggression. In tonight's State of the Union, we were gratified to hear President Trump reaffirm his commitment to confronting predatory trade."
Corn Refiners Association President and CEO John Bode: "We commend President Trump's State of the Union message, particularly its call for bipartisan action, infrastructure development and ratification of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), which promises to put our North American trade relations on a stronger footing."
Council for Affordable Health Coverage President Joel White: "CAHC supports President Trump's call for bipartisan action to make health care more affordable. Over the past 20 years, earnings have declined as health costs have eaten into take-home pay, according to our research."
Edison Electric Institute: "We fully support streamlining & expediting the process for permitting & siting energy #infrastructure to ensure energy can get where it is needed, when it is needed."
Enough Is Enough President and CEO Donna Rice Hughes: "We stand by President Trump's call for an immediate solution for comprehensive border security and appreciate his highlighting the very real horrors of human trafficking. Protecting the vulnerable from human trafficking should be a nonpartisan issue and one that deserves active bipartisan outrage and aggressive bipartisan action by our Congress."
FreedomWorks President Adam Brandon: "President Trump was absolutely correct tonight to highlight the free market policies he advanced during his first two years. The U.S. economy is booming thanks to his pro-growth agenda replete with tax cuts and deregulation."
International Franchise Association President and CEO Robert Cresanti: "I am encouraged by many of the policies that President Trump and Congress have already enacted, and I hope the federal government can work cooperatively and collaboratively to increase prosperity for all Americans."
National Association of Counties Executive Director Matthew Chase: "Counties support and echo President Trump's call for bipartisanship and unity. The need to focus on governing over politics is clear. Counties prioritize results over partisanship every day, and we urge our federal counterparts to put an end to governing by crises."
National Association of Home Builders First Vice Chairman Greg Ugalde: "NAHB commends President Trump for highlighting the need for large-scale nationwide investment in infrastructure that is vital to build strong communities and a thriving housing market. Homeownership and housing are essential to a strong and prosperous nation."
National Association of Manufacturers President and CEO Jay Timmons: "The strength of our union is found in modern manufacturing, so President Trump was right to keep his focus on the men and women who make things in America."
National Association of Realtors President John Smaby: "NAR commends the President for highlighting his commitment to investing in vital national transportation projects. We look forward to working with Congress and the administration to secure overdue reforms to our nation's infrastructure system in the coming months."
National Association of Wheat Growers CEO Chandler Goule: "Wheat farmers are pleased to hear President Trump discuss the need to invest in America's infrastructure. With any infrastructure legislation, we hope the President and Congress prioritize the critical needs of rural infrastructure."
National Asphalt Pavement Association President & CEO Dr. Audrey Copeland: "On behalf of the asphalt pavement industry, we strongly agree with the President that Congress must produce and consider an infrastructure package that provides substantial investment for rebuilding America's highways and roads."
National Cattlemen's Beef Association President Jennifer Houston: "We welcome President Trump's call for quick passage of the USMCA, and we hope that members of both parties in both chambers heed that call."
National Electrical Contractors Association CEO John M. Grau: "On behalf of the National Electrical Contractors Association, I want to congratulate President Trump on his call during the State of the Union to choose greatness over division and to seek common ground over partisanship."
National Right to Life President Carol Tobias: "We greatly appreciate the leadership President Trump has shown in advancing the cause for life during his time in office. Tonight, he used his State of the Union address to highlight the extremism of the pro-abortion agenda most recently and fully on display in New York and Virginia, and stressed the need for legislation like the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. President Trump has once again demonstrated the paramount importance of protecting mothers and their unborn children."
Portland Cement Association President and CEO Michael Ireland: "The Portland Cement Association applauds President Trump for emphasizing the political imperative of addressing America's long-neglected infrastructure needs in his State of the Union address."
Students for Life of America President Kristan Hawkins: "President Trump's comments in support of life and for programs like paid family leave are an important call to action for all of us."
Susan B. Anthony List President Marjorie Dannenfelser: "We ask Congress to heed President Trump's request, and to send the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act to his desk without delay. This popular, compassionate legislation would protect unborn babies after five months – more than halfway through pregnancy, and a point at least by which these children can feel the pain of abortion."
The Vinyl Institute Chairman Dick Heinle: "The President's request for bipartisan cooperation in rebuilding our nation's failing infrastructure was welcome news to the Vinyl Institute."
  