
    New TV ad released today features John Mellencamp's "Small Town" and highlights the contributions of small towns and rural communities to America
NEW YORK — Today, Grammy-award winning singer-songwriter and co-founder of Farm Aid, John Mellencamp is announcing his support for Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg in a new TV ad, praising his pragmatic approach to rebuilding America by revitalizing small towns and rural communities.
"The stakes are too high to not nominate the candidate who will take the fight directly to Trump," said John Mellencamp. "From small towns to big cities, Mike Bloomberg has the experience to represent all Americans. He's a job creator, philanthropist, and true public servant, and I am confident that as president, he will restore America to a place we can be proud of once again."
"John Mellencamp is one of the great voices of the American heartland — and the American experience that binds us together," said Mike Bloomberg. "His words — from co-founding Farm Aid to fighting hunger and homelessness among veterans — represents America at its best. We had the opportunity to get to know one another through the film, 'From the Ashes.' He contributed a powerful song to the soundtrack, and the film raised awareness about the tragic toll that coal mining takes on local communities. He's an American treasure, and I couldn't be more honored to accept his support."
The ad featuring Mellencamp is entitled "Small Town" will run across digital channels and in broadcast programming across 23 states beginning Wednesday, February 5th.
Born in Seymour, Mellencamp has lived in Indiana his entire life and been a champion for small-town values. He is an American singer-songwriter known for "Our Country," "Pink Houses," and the chart-topping "Small Town," which was released in 1985 and became #6 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, and launched a movement of heartland rock that celebrated family farms and blue-collar workers. He is also a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and a recipient of the prestigious John Steinbeck Award.
Mellencamp is also one of the co-founding members of Farm Aid, an organization that began in 1985 and for 35 years has held an annual concert to raise awareness about the loss of family farms and raise funds to keep farm families on their land.
  