
    State Representative Trey Martinez Fischer Endorses Obama
Austin, TX - The Obama Campaign today announced the airing of a new Spanish language radio advertisement which will run in San Antonio, Harlingen, Corpus Christi, Laredo, Dallas, Houston, Austin, and El Paso. The ad highlights Barack Obama's decision to pass up a high-paying job after graduating from college and work in the community to help families hurt by plant closings. It highlights his ability to bring the country together, stand up to the special interests in Washington, DC and build a better future for families across the country.
The Obama Campaign also announced the endorsement of Texas State Representative Trey Martinez Fischer of San Antonio.
"Senator Obama is demonstrating his commitment to reaching out to the Hispanic community in Texas and earning their support in the March 4th primary," State Representative Trey Martinez Fischer said. "Barack Obama shares our story and shares our passion for a new America. Obama is committed to bringing real change to a struggling economy, a runaway health care system and reforming education. These are the real kitchen table issues Hispanic families across America care deeply about. Obama is the only candidate who can unite our country and renew America's promise. It's the kind of leadership that Hispanic families are looking for in our next president."
See below for the script of the Spanish-language. Click HERE to listen.



Spanish
Clip from Barack Obama: "There is not a liberal American and a conservative America; there is the United States of America."
Barack Obama me está hablando a mí.
El ha enfrentado muchos de los mismos desafíos que ha enfrentado mi familia.
Sus padres no eran ricos, pero trabajando duro Obama ganó una beca, y encontró su camino - graduándose de la escuela de leyes de Harvard.
Pero en lugar de aceptar las ofertas que le ofrecían más dinero, Obama decidió trabajar con las iglesias, ayudando a los más desprotejidos de su comunidad.
Clip from Barack Obama: In this election, in this moment, let us reach for what we know is possible.
Obama me está hablando a mí.
para darnos la oportunidad de una educación universitaria…y para asegurar que mis padres y mis abuelitos tengan cuidado de salud…
Por eso estoy hablando a otros - a mis padres, a mis tíos, y a mis amigos - porque la política no es sólo para los que le gustan pelear, es para los que quieren construir un futuro mejor.
Obama me está hablando a mí.Y te habla a ti también. BO: Yo soy Barack Obama y apruebo esta mensaje.


English
Clip from Barack Obama: "There is not a liberal American and a conservative America; there is the United States of America."
Barack Obama is talking to me.
He's faced many of the same challenges that we've faced in my family.
His parents weren't rich, but through hard work, he earned a scholarship and found his way - graduating from Harvard Law School.
And instead of accepting job offers that paid a lot of money, Obama decided to work with churches, giving a helping hand to those less fortunate in his community.
Clip from Barack Obama: In this election, in this moment, let us reach for what we know is possible.
Obama is talking to me.
About the opportunity to go to college … and about ensuring my parents and grandparents have the health care they need.
That's why I'm talking to others - my parents, my uncles, and my friends - because politics isn't just for those who like to fight, it's for those who want to build a better future.
Obama is talking to me, and he's talking to you too.
BO: I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message.



  