
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 13 [viii]*
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Soeharto of Indonesia concerning implementation of economic reforms in Indonesia.
Later in the evening, the President had telephone conversations with the following foreign leaders concerning the situation in Iraq: Prime Minister Poul Rasmussen of Denmark, Amir Jabir al-Ahmad al-Jabir Al Sabah of Kuwait, Amir Isa bin Salman Al Khalifa of Behrain, Prime Minister of Jean-Luc Dahaene of Belgium, Chancellor Victor Klima of Austria, Prime Minister Jenny Shipley of New Zealand, King Hassan II of Morocco, and Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom.
February 16
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to the White House from Camp David, MD.
February 17
In the morning, the President went to the Pentagon in Arlington, VA, where he met with Secretary of Defense William Cohen in the Secretary's office.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, he had separate telephone conversations from the Oval Office with United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan and King Hussein I of Jordan concerning the situation in Iraq.
In the evening, the President attended a college basketball game at the MCI Center.
February 18
The President announced his intention to appoint Gen. Larry Welch as Chair and Gen. Robert C. Rutherford and Frederick L. Frostic as members to the Panel To Review Long-Range Air Power.
February 19
In the morning, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD, and in the evening, he traveled to Newark, NJ. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate George McGovern to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to appoint Dr. J. Michael Bishop as Chair of the National Cancer Advisory Board.
February 20
In the morning, the President traveled to Wheaton, MD. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Terrance L. Craney as a member of the National Skills Standards Board.
  