
    
Click the image above to watch the ad
(SAN FRANCISCO, February 6, 2020) — Today, Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer launched a new ad showcasing why Democrats must nominate an unconventional outsider who can beat Trump on the economy. Steyer believes it is important for Democrats to make a strong economic case to the voters, and choosing an establishment Democrat again won't cut it. The ad asserts that Democrats cannot afford another establishment candidate or inexperienced newcomer when the stakes are so high for our country.
Steyer is uniquely suited to expose Trump as a fraud on the economy because of his successful business career and his progressive advocacy work, and believes that as the Democratic nominee he can expose Trump's fraudulent business practices — which have benefited big corporations at the expense of working families — as the same tactics he is using for the country's economy. The ad will run in local markets in New Hampshire and Boston.
"He's running on the economy. He's running on the idea that Democrats can't grow an economy, are a bunch of socialists, can't afford to vote for," Steyer said in the ad. "My job is to take on Mr. Trump and kick his ass on the economy."
The new ad comes at a time when Steyer's message is visibly resonating in the early states. The most recent Morning Consult "early states tracker" puts Tom at 19% support (3rd place) when averaging who voters support in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina. He is doing especially well in NV (tied for 3rd place with 12% according to Jan 9 Fox News Poll) and in SC (18% and 7 points behind first-place Biden in the most recent Post and Courier poll).
See below for the full script:
Four years ago, Donald Trump beat the Democratic establishment.
And then he outlasted Democratic insiders in Washington on impeachment, despite his obvious crimes and corruption.
"The President is guilty." (Mitt Romney)
Now, if we don't do something different this time around, he'll win again.
That's the hard truth.
We simply can't afford to nominate another insider or an untested newcomer who doesn't have the experience to beat Trump on the economy.
We need to think different.
Tom Steyer is a progressive businessman who left his company and is using his time and money to beat big corporations and address climate change.
He can expose Donald Trump as a fraud and failure on the economy.
"He's running on the economy." (Steyer)
"He's running on the idea that Democrats can't grow an economy. Are a bunch of socialists. Can't afford to vote for." (Steyer)
"My job is to take on Mr. Trump and kick his ass on the economy." (Steyer)
I'm Tom Steyer and I approve this message.
  