
    Rawlings-Blake named National Political Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg 2020
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND — Former Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake today endorsed Democratic candidate Mike Bloomberg for president, praising Mike's track record as mayor of New York City, his broad appeal and ability to unify the country, and his role as the only viable option to defeat President Donald Trump in November.
"I am proud to endorse Mike Bloomberg for President of the United States. Mike has been a good friend and mentor to me for many years. He is a no-nonsense leader who has taken on the country's toughest fights," said Former Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. "When we were both in office, we worked together to get illegal guns off the streets of Baltimore, New York, and cities across America. He continues to lead the national movement for gun safety, building grassroots support and working to elect candidates fighting for common-sense gun safety laws. I'm excited to join Mike's campaign and do everything I can to help elect the best candidate to defeat Donald Trump and unite our country."
Rawlings-Blake was also named National Political Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg 2020, joining former Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter, former Miami Mayor Manny Diaz, and former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa. In this role, Rawlings-Blake will advise the campaign on policy development and strategy. Rawlings-Blake will also serve as a national surrogate on behalf of the campaign, encouraging others to support Mike and traveling to field offices and events to share with voters why she believes Mike Bloomberg's track record and experience make him the best candidate to beat Trump.
"Stephanie Rawlings-Blake was an innovative leader for Baltimore and a strong advocate for Americans in cities across the country as president of the US Conference of Mayors – and we've worked together to address important issues in this election, like protecting communities from gun violence," said Mike Bloomberg. "I'm honored to have her support and excited to welcome her as National Political Co-Chair for our campaign to defeat Donald Trump and rebuild America."
Rawlings-Blake served as the mayor of Baltimore City from 2010 to 2016, as secretary of the Democratic National Committee during President Barack Obama's second term, and as president of the United States Conference of Mayors.
Maryland is a top priority for Mike Bloomberg 2020. The campaign opened its Baltimore headquarters earlier this month to a crowd of over 200, and is planning a series of events this weekend to bring Mike's message to Maryland voters. The campaign will open offices in Montgomery and Prince George's counties soon, with plans to open more offices across the state in the coming weeks. The campaign has nearly a dozen staffers on the ground ahead of the April 28 primary, far ahead of the other Democratic campaigns.
Rawlings-Blake was elected Mayor of Baltimore City in 2011, after serving as Baltimore City Council President. Rawlings-Blake joins a host of regionally diverse mayors from cities across the country who have endorsed Bloomberg, including Washington, DC Mayor Muriel Bowser who serves as the campaign's National Campaign Co-Chair, Mayor Malinda Miles of Mount Rainier, Maryland, and former Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter who serves as the National Political Co-Chair.
  