
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 28
In the morning, the President attended a meeting at Blair House with Cabinet members, Members of Congress, Governors, and State and local officials to discuss welfare reform.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the Alfalfa Club dinner at the Capital Hilton.
January 30
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Eunice M. Bulane from Lesotho, Tedo Japaridze of The Republic of Georgia, and Amdemicael Kahsai of Eritrea.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bill Burton as a member of the Board of the United States Enrichment Corporation.
The President announced the appointment of Guillermo Linares to the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans.
January 31
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boston, MA. He returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
The White House announced the President has invited Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus of the Czech Republic to make a working visit to Washington, DC, on May 4.
The White House announced the President will meet with Prime Minister James Bolger of New Zealand on March 27 at the White House.
The President announced the appointment of the following individuals to the Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy:
—Janne Nolan, Chair;
—Paul C. Warnke;
—Edward Randolph Jayne II;
—Ronald F. Lehman II;
—David E. McGiffert.
February 2
The President announced his intention to nominate Mary S. Furlong as a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph A. Cari, Jr., as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
The President announced his intention to appoint John T. Smith and Hugh B. Price to the National Skill Standards Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Karl Stauber as the U.S. Department of Agriculture Federal Representative to the Rural Telephone Bank Board.
February 3
In the afternoon, the President hosted a working lunch for Prime Minister Lamberto Dini of Italy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey M. Lang to be Deputy United States Trade Representative.
The President announced the appointment of James K. Huhta as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
  