
    The President today declared a major disaster exists in the State of California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, debris flows, and mudslides on December 27, 2004, through January 11, 2005.
The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in Los Angeles and Ventura Counties.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding also is available to State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe storms, flooding, debris flows, and mudslides in Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego, Santa Barbara, and Ventura Counties.
Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures for Kern, Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego, Santa Barbara, and Ventura Counties .
Representing the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Michael D. Brown, Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, Department of Homeland Security, named David Fukutomi as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected area.
The Agency said additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the State and warranted by the results of further damage assessments.
The Agency said that residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by registering online at http://www.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. seven days a week until further notice.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: FEMA (202) 646-4600.
  