
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today presidential candidate Ted Cruz released the endorsement of 19 conservative leaders from across the state of Arkansas. Representative Bob Ballinger will chair the leadership team.
"I am beyond grateful to have the support of these strong conservatives in Arkansas," said Cruz. "These men and women have worked tirelessly to turn Arkansas into a strong red state. With their conservative leadership, I am confident that our campaign will continue to coalesce conservatives across the state."
"We are at a time in our history when we must choose, do we continue down the path of a 'fundamentally transformed' America our parents would not recognize or do we return to a Constitutional Republic envisioned by our founders," said Representative Bob Ballinger. "Only one candidate has proven he has the fight it will take to get us back on track, and that man is Ted Cruz. Ted has taken punches, but continued to fight to preserve what makes America great. Ted Cruz is the only person prepared for this time in history and I urge my fellow Arkansans to unite behind him and his campaign March 1st."
Republican National Committeewoman 
Jonelle Fulmer, RNC National Committeewoman
State Legislators 
Linda Collins-Smith, State Senator District 19
Terry Rice, State Senator District 9
Scott Flippo, State Senator District 17
Gary Stubblefield, State Senator District 6
Bob Ballinger, State Representative District 97
Kim Hammer, State Representative District 28
Donnie Copeland, State Representative District 38
Bruce Cozart, State Representative District 24
John Payton, State Representative District 64
C. Brandt Smith, Jr., State Representative District 58
Rick Beck, State Representative District 65
Mary Bentley, State Representative District 73
Justin Gonzales, State Representative District 19
Stephen Meeks, State Representative District 67
Michelle Gray, State Representative District 62
Dan Sullivan, State Representative District 53
Robin Lundstrom, State Representative District 87
Jack Ladyman, State Representative District 59
  