
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 26 [iii] 1
W. Craig Broadwater, of West Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of West Virginia, vice Robert E. Maxwell, resigned.
Thomas A. Fink, of Alaska, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 1999, vice James H. Atkins, term expired.
Dean D. Pregerson, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice A. Wallace Tashima, elevated.
Anabelle Rodriguez-Rodriguez, of Puerto Rico, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, vice Raymond L. Acosta, resigned.
William C. Brooks, of Michigan, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term of 2 years expiring September 30, 1996 (new position).
Eileen B. Claussen, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice Elinor G. Constable.
Robert F. Drinan, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Peter Benjamin Edelman, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice David T. Ellwood, resigned.
Sarah McCracken Fox, of New York, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2000, vice James M. Stephens, term expired.
Leo K. Goto, of Colorado, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position).
Susan Hayase, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Charles A. Hunnicutt, of Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Jeffrey Neil Shane, resigned.
Elsa H. Kudo, of Hawaii, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position).
Yeiichi Kuwayama, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Harlan Mathews, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term of 6 years expiring September 30, 2000 (new position).
Dale Minami, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Peggy A. Nagae, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Don T. Nakanishi, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position).
Gerald M. Shea, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term of 4 years expiring September 30, 1998 (new position).
Gerald N. Tirozzi, of Connecticut, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, vice Thomas W. Payzant, resigned.
Submitted February 1
Toni G. Fay, of New Jersey, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring October 12, 1998, vice Ronald M. Gillum, term expired.
Audrey Tayse Haynes, of Kentucky, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring October 13, 1998, vice Badi G. Foster, term expired.
Marciene S. Mattleman, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring October 12, 1998 (reappointment).
  