
    Today, two local Republican officials– Kim Bradley, President of the Hattiesburg City Council, and Chris Bowen, a member of the Forrest County Board of Supervisors– announced they have joined Governor John Kasich's presidential campaign as members of the Kasich for America Leadership Team.
Said Bradley, "I am proud to stand with so many conservative leaders in Mississippi and endorse Gov. John Kasich for president. We need strong leadership in the White House from someone who understands the urgency felt by families and individuals to get our economy moving again with job-friendly and pro-growth solutions."

City Council President Kim Bradley is serving his third term as the representative for Ward One in Hattiesburg, Mississippi.
Said Bowen, "We need John Kasich in the White House. I support his efforts to reduce Washington regulations and restore power and influence to state and local government. I look forward to sharing his message in our county and across the state."

Chris Bowen was elected to the Forrest County Board of Supervisors in 2007. He represents District 5.
Said Kasich, "Our team in Mississippi is growing rapidly. Kim Bradley and Chris Bowen are remarkable leaders in Hattiesburg and Forrest County, and we are fortunate to have them on the team as we work to empower local officials to make decisions that impact their communities the most."

Mississippi Public Officials Who Endorse John Kasich
Former US Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott
Former Congressman Webb Franklin
Former Congressman Mike Parker
Congressman Gregg Harper
Former State Senate President Pro Tem Giles Ward
State Senator Josh Harkins
State Senator Billy Hudson
State Senator Brice Wiggins
State Rep. Toby Barker
Transportation Commissioner Mike Tagert
Gulfport Mayor Billy Hewes
Ridgeland Mayor Pro Tempore Chuck Gautier
Workers Comp Commission Chairman Liles Williams
Tishomingo County Prosecuting Attorney Lee Thorne
Lincoln County Chancery Clerk Tillmon Bishop
Former Fordice Chief of Staff Mark Garriga
Former Fordice Chief of Staff Andy Taggart
President of Hattiesburg City Council Kim Bradley
Member of Forrest County Board of Supervisors Chris Bowen
  