
    COLUMBUS, OH- Ohio Governor Ted Strickland touts Hillary's economic agenda and ability to stand up for all Ohioans in new TV and radio spots airing across the state this week. A second radio spot highlights Hillary's plan to fix NAFTA and create jobs across Ohio.
In the new 30- second television spot titled "Fighter," Governor Strickland calls Hillary Clinton a fighter who knows how to deliver. Governor Strickland highlights Hillary's agenda to create new jobs in all parts of Ohio making sure America works for everyone.
In a new 30-second radio spot titled "Faith," Governor Strickland praises Hillary's deeply held values and her commitment to working every day to better the lives of Ohioans and all Americans.
The other 30-second radio spot titled "Jobs," outlines Hillary's plan to invest in the middle class and to strengthen the economy. Hillary will create new jobs in Ohio and fix NAFTA, ensuring that free trade is fair trade.
To view the TV spot "Fighter", [Click here]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0_ciAfsPqn8
Following is a script for "Fighter"
Ted Strickland:
We need a president who first of all is going to be a fighter.
That's the way I see Hillary Clinton.
Hillary's always been an advocate for the middle class.
She's got great plans to create new jobs in every part of Ohio.
I think she's a person of deep faith.
I think she's a person who has devoted her life to caring about other people — making sure that America works for everyone, not just the privileged few.
She's fighting for us.
And that's the kind of President we need.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message
To listen to the radio spot "Faith", [Click here]: http://www.hillaryclinton.com/files/audio/press/200802280250.mp3
Following is a script for "Faith"
Ted Strickland:
"We need a president who's tough, who's determined, but we also need a president who really deeply cares about the American people."
ANNC:
Governor Ted Strickland on Hillary Clinton...
Ted Strickland:
"I've known Hillary for fifteen years, admired her since the day I met her. "She's a person of deep faith, who is driven by deeply felt-values, everything she does is an effort to make life better for other people. She's also a person who I believe understands Ohio very deeply. Hillary Clinton is the candidate who can best provide the leadership that America and Ohio needs to revitalize our economy, to bring healthcare to our people, to make education high quality and affordable for all of our children and she is most capable of bringing this war to an honorable end...What Ohioans I think need more than anything else is to have confidence that their presidents going to be working for them and Hillary Clinton is a person who will be that kind of president. She's fighting for us."
ANNC: Paid for by Hillary Clinton for President
HRC: "I'm Hillary Clinton, candidate for president, and I approved this message."
To listen to the radio spot "Jobs", [Click here]: http://www.hillaryclinton.com/files/audio/press/200802281124.mp3
Following is a script for "Jobs"
Man #1: "The economy in this state is terrible."
Woman #1: "We need jobs very badly in Ohio."
Man #2: "We need a leader who cares about the people."
Announcer: She's fighting for America's middle class.
Man #1: "Hillary Clinton can and will turn this country and economy around."
Man #2: "We've had steel mills here that have left. Casting plants that have left."
Man #3: "These corporations are taking these jobs overseas."
Woman #1: "Hillary has gone on record saying that NAFTA was a mistake."
Man #1: "Hillary does have a plan to fix NAFTA. She wants to change it from free trade to fair trade."
Man #3: "She wants to fix the problems."
Announcer: She'll end 55 billion dollars in giveaways to corporate special interests and invest it to rebuild the middle class, create jobs, expand student loans and cut taxes for working families.
Man #2: "She has the knowledge. She has the ability."
Man #3: "Hillary Clinton has the will it takes to get up every morning and fight for working families here in the United States of America."
Woman #1: "She's going to bring job back here to Ohio."
Announcer: Paid for by Hillary Clinton for President.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton, candidate for President, and I approved this message.
  