
    
  Describes Dr. Paul's principles and ideals as "biblically based" and joins the campaign's active 'Evangelicals for Ron Paul' nationwide coalition

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by nationally-known Christian broadcast professional and senior producer Justin Machacek.
Justin Machacek is an Emmy award winning television producer, independent faith-based filmmaker, and promotional creative. He serves as the president of Reel Deal Productions, Inc. in Fort Worth, Texas and as the Senior On Air Producer for one of the largest Christian media networks in the world. Justin has worked closely with many of the most prominent Christian ministries and faith-based media organizations in America, is a devout Christian, and church attendee.
In making his endorsement, Mr. Machacek issued the following statement:
"With looming economic uncertainty, fear of security threats from around the world, and massive government expansion, there is no better time than now for Ron Paul's leadership. His moral character and consistent record prove that Ron Paul embodies the ideal candidate for Christian conservative voters.
"As the founders intended, many of Dr. Paul's principles and ideals are biblically based. They include integrity regarding the oath of office (Eccl. 5:5), sound money based on what the Bible calls 'just scales,' support of Israel and her sovereignty (Gen. 12:3), eliminating debt (Rom. 13:8), noninterventionist foreign policy based on the Golden Rule (Luke 6:31), and a firm commitment to promoting religious freedom.
"I especially appreciate Ron Paul's unwillingness to exploit his devout Christian faith for political gain. Although he is a devout Protestant and leaves the campaign trail most Sundays for church and family, he doesn't flaunt or pander his religion.
"I believe Ron Paul is a true leader: honest, sincere, and inspirational. I am proud to endorse Ron Paul for President in 2012 and to help bring his constitutional approach and leadership to the GOP and America."
As a function of this announcement, Mr. Machacek is a member of the "Evangelicals for Ron Paul" national advisory board.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the "Evangelicals for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official web page by clicking here. Prospective members should also send an email to hq.coalitions@ronpaul2012.com, writing the coalition name in the subject line.
  