
    Presidential Action

Today, President Bush transmitted to Congress a request for $82 billion in additional funds to pay for military and intelligence operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere in the War on Terror; support war-related equipment and restructuring of forces as well as enhanced survivor benefits; train and equip Afghan and Iraqi forces; support continued reconstruction in Afghanistan; support our key partners in freedom; and address unanticipated opportunities and emergencies. The President urges continued bipartisan support for our troops.
When President Bush made the decision to respond to the attacks of 9/11 by dealing with al-Qaida and its Taliban sponsors, and protect America from a gathering threat by removing Saddam Hussein from power, he committed: to provide our troops with whatever they need to protect themselves and successfully complete their mission; and to stand with the Afghan and Iraqi people against the terrorists trying desperately to derail democracy and the advance of freedom.
The President's supplemental budget request supports these important commitments. These funds will:


Support American troops on the ground by continuing to provide them with the resources they need;
Begin restructuring to help our forces continue to effectively fight and win the War on Terror;
Enhance survivor benefits, continue to fund high-quality health care for our troops in the field, and support other War on Terror requirements;
Accelerate training and equipping of Iraqi and Afghan forces;
Continue reconstruction in Afghanistan and fund construction and operations of a secure U.S. embassy in Iraq;
Provide assistance to key global partners in the War on Terror; and
Help us respond to unanticipated international emergencies and opportunities.



AFGHANISTAN and IRAQ
Ongoing Military Operations: The President is committed to providing our troops with the resources and equipment they need to complete their mission. His request supports this commitment by including $42.5 billion to support ongoing military and intelligence operations in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom in Iraq.
Force Readiness: The request includes $17.3 billion to ensure that our Armed Forces remain well-equipped and well-structured to fight the War on Terror.

New Equipment. This request includes $12 billion to repair, refurbish, or procure equipment to replace that which is worn out through use in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, including $3.3 billion to improve the protection of our forces by adding armor to all convoy trucks and buying Armored Security Vehicles, night vision equipment, and helicopter survivability systems.
Structure Changes. The supplemental request includes $5.3 billion to begin implementing plans to restructure the Army and Marine Corps into more flexible, self-sufficient modular units better able to deploy and fight the War on Terror.

Enhanced Survivor Benefits: The President's request includes nearly $400 million to fund enhanced benefits for the survivors of service members killed while serving our country in the War on Terror since operations in Afghanistan began in October 2001.
Iraqi and Afghan Security Forces: To accelerate the training of Iraqi and Afghan security forces, including State Department-led training for Afghan law enforcement agencies, allowing both new governments to begin to assume more responsibility for their security and sovereignty, this request will include $7.4 billion.
Afghanistan Reconstruction: The request includes nearly $2 billion to support the U.S. mission in Afghanistan, addressing some of the most critical remaining security and reconstruction needs and complementing base funding of the longer-term reconstruction program, such as:

Supporting Democracy and the Rule of Law. Following the historic presidential elections in Afghanistan, this request includes $282 million to support preparation for upcoming parliamentary elections and to extend the stabilizing influence of the new democratic government.
Building Critical Infrastructure. The request includes $795 million for reconstruction efforts, completing our commitment for roads, schools, and health clinics to improve the lives of Afghan citizens.
Combating Drug Trafficking. The request includes $773 million for a comprehensive counter-narcotics effort, with initiatives in five areas: public information, law enforcement, alternative livelihoods, interdiction, and eradication.

Securing a Permanent U.S. Diplomatic Presence in Iraq: The President's request includes $717 million for U.S. Embassy operations and security expenses, and $658 million in one-time, total costs for a new secure facility.
Commanders Emergency Response Program: The request includes $354 million in additional funds to continue a very successful program that permits U.S. military commanders to assist in small-scale local reconstruction, rehabilitation, and recovery initiatives in Iraq and Afghanistan.
SOLIDARITY WITH OUR PARTNERS IN FREEDOM
Economic and Security Assistance Funds: The President's request includes almost $2 billion to support our key partners in freedom in their military efforts alongside U.S. forces. It also includes $400 million in two new funds to provide economic assistance to our partners in the War on Terror and security assistance to those nations with troops fighting alongside our own in Iraq and Afghanistan:

$200 million for the Global War on Terror Partners Fund to provide economic assistance for America's partners in the War on Terror.
$200 million for the Solidarity Fund to provide security assistance to support nations with troops deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Direct Assistance for Key Partners: This request includes $150 million for Pakistan as a part of the President's multiyear security assistance commitment to this key ally. The request also includes $300 million in economic and security assistance for Jordan.
UNANTICIPATED EMERGENCIES AND OPPORTUNITIES
Tsunami Recovery and Rebuilding: In the immediate aftermath of one of the most devastating natural disasters of the last century, President Bush initially committed $350 million in assistance. Following assessments of the needs in the region, the President has decided to request a total of $950 million, which will reimburse agencies for their relief efforts to date and contribute to regional recovery and rebuilding efforts.
Sudan/Darfur: To address needs for the humanitarian crisis in this part of Africa, this request includes $242.4 million for food aid, refugee assistance, and support for the needs of displaced persons. The request also includes $100 million to support the people of Sudan and to help implement the north-south elements of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that was signed on January 9, 2005.
Palestinians: Following the recent historic election held by the Palestinians, this request includes $200 million to reinforce these positive political developments by supporting the development of economic opportunity and democratic institutions. This money will be used to develop infrastructure and support critical sectors like education, home construction, and basic services. These funds are key to the vision of two states, with a Palestinian state that is a partner for peace with Israel, and they will support work between the Palestinians and Israelis on economic and social matters.
Ukraine: The recent historic elections provide an unparalleled opportunity to help secure and advance the victory for democracy in Ukraine, making Ukraine a more capable, reliable partner. The President's request includes $60 million to support the new government's ability to consolidate gains Ukraine has made, establish the rule of law, combat corruption, and accelerate economic reforms.
International Peacekeeping: This supplemental request includes $780 million for Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities to support the United States' share of new peacekeeping missions, including those in Haiti, Cote D'Ivoire, Burundi and an anticipated mission in Sudan. These missions help ensure humanitarian assistance can move freely and work towards elections can proceed, as well as relieve the requirements for additional deployments of U.S. forces.
  