
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




February 4, 202313:05 PST

FLOTUS press pool #1 - FLOTUS comments on Chinese balloon
Jill Biden arrived at Steven A. Cohen Military Family Clinic at the Veteran's Village of San Diego) at 12:52 pm PT.
She is participating in a round table discussion on the health and well-being of veterans and military families.
In her opening remarks she talked about the Chinese balloon that was shot down.
FLOTUS: "We're more aware of the military when we're in times of war, but now we're in times of peace. And, just like this morning, if any of you were watching the TV, where they were following the, you know, the balloon from China, and we saw the effort that our military did. I mean, I felt such a sense of pride about the effort and that our military, you know, shot down the balloon, how coordinated it was, how thoughtful it was, that it was decided to wait until it was over water so that civilians weren't affected. So you know, it brings to mind and I hope that most Americans - I hope when they watch that they really think just, you know, about our military. I mean, Joe and I think about them every day, we pray for them in our prayers at dinner."
Background from the East Wing:
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY:Visit to The Steven A. Cohen Military Family ClinicOn Saturday, February 4, at 1:00 PM, as part of the First Lady's Joining Forces initiative, Dr. Biden will visit The Steven A. Cohen Military Family Clinic at VVSD (Veteran's Village of San Diego) in Oceanside, CA near Camp Pendleton. Dr. Biden will participate in a roundtable discussion with military family members, service providers, and local military leadership at the clinic to highlight her work with Joining Forces to support the health and well-being of military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors.The mission of Joining Forces is to support those who also serve: military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors. The First Lady's work and priorities of Joining Forces are informed by the life experiences and the perspectives shared during listening sessions with military families. A recap of the initiative's efforts in 2022 is available on the White House's Joining Forces blog.During the visit, Dr. Biden will be joined by:

Dr. Anthony Hassan, President and CEO of Cohen Veterans Network
Shari Finney, Regional Clinic Director, Cohen Clinics at Veterans Village of San Diego
Akina Goodson, Case Manager / Outreach Coordinator
Shivonne, Former Client of Cohen Veterans Network
Brittany, Former Client of Cohen Veterans Network
Colonel Daniel Whitley, United States Marine Corps, Assistant Chief of Staff G?7,
Government & External Affairs MCI?West? MCB Camp Pendleton
Dr. Mary Rotert, Licensed Psychologist, Program Manager of the Camp Pendleton Community Counseling Center (CCC)
Akilah Thompson, CEO, Veterans Village of San Diego
Representative Sara Jacobs (D, CA-51)
Mayor Esther Sanchez, City of Oceanside, CA

Cohen Veterans NetworkCohen Veterans Network (CVN) seeks to improve the quality of life for veterans, including those from the National Guard and Reserves, active duty, and their families. CVN works to strengthen mental health outcomes and complement existing support. CVN's vision is to ensure that every veteran, active duty service member, and family member is able to obtain access to high-quality care that enables them to lead fulfilling and productive lives.
The First Lady has prioritized military families through the Joining Forces initiative since day one of the Biden-Harris Administration. The First Ladyhas visited over 24 military installations; worked with Joining Forces partners to support over 30 events with the military-connected community; and helped coordinate the Administration's efforts to increase and raise awareness of resources and support for military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors.Recent events include:

January 30, 2023: Dr. Biden and Deputy Secretary of Defense Dr. Kathleen Hicks visited Fort Drum, New York, the home of the storied 10th Mountain Division, to meet with military families. During the visit, Dr. Biden met with military spouses and leaders in the military-connected community to discuss improving employment opportunities for military spouses, one of Joining Forces' focus areas to increase economic security for military families.
December 12, 2022: The First Lady participated in a Toys for Tots Drive delivery and event at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall in Arlington, VA.

· November 21, 2022: The President and First Lady visited Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point for Friendsgiving with service members and their families.· October 13-14, 2022: The First Lady spent two-days with service members and military families at U.S. Army Fort Benning.· July 14, 2022: The First Lady visited Home Base National Center of Excellence in Boston, MA to highlight the impact they've made on healing the invisible wounds of war.· May 6, 2022: The First Lady visited Mihail Kog?lniceanu (MK) Air Base, met with U.S. and NATO military leadership, served meals to and visited with some of the U.S. troops assigned to the base in Romania. She also engaged in a virtual story-time reading for military-connected kids with United Through Reading, an organization that connects military families with deployed service members through video recordings and virtual book readings.


February 4, 202314:13 PST

FLOTUS pool report #2 - FLOTUS talked to POTUS earlier
Jill Biden talked to POTUS shortly before the event.
FLOTUS revealed this when talking to Dylan, the son of Colonel Daniel Whitley, United States Marine Corps, Assistant Chief of Staff G?7, who participated in the roundtable.
"I'm going to the Grammys," she told him. "Do you watch them on TV?"
More: "I hope you enjoy the rest of your Saturday. You have beautiful weather. I just talked to my husband and he said it's about 17 degrees back there."
During the roundtable, Jill Biden talked about how mental health needs became part of Joining Forces thanks to a conversation she had with her son Beau Biden:
"We have to support our military in peacetime as well. And when my son Beau was in Iraq, he saw soldiers who were there several times, several deployments, and he saw the effect that war had on the soldiers and when he came home, I can remember we were in the kitchen and I said, Beau, I was telling you about the Joining Forces initiative that Michelle Obama and I started and I said, What do you think we should work on? And he said, Mom, you know, I've seen so many soldiers through so many deployments that he said, I really think you need to work on mental health. And I was struck by that, you know, I just I didn't expect him to say that."
She also heard about the services the clinic provides including free mental health services and child care.
"Good," she said when told clinic also serves military spouses who make up about 20% of the patients.
And 11% of patients are on active duty. 30% of the veterans seen are women veterans.
Roundtable wrapped at 1:39 pm. FLOTUS took a photo with the group.
At 1:46 pm we are rolling to the airport.



February 4, 202314:28 PST

FLOTUS pool report #3 - San Diego departure
Motorcade arrived at Camp Pendleton at 2:10 pm. She is departing from here.
FLOTUS walked over to thank her police escort. She took photos with them. They were on their motorcycles and she stood in front of them. She also walked down the line shaking hands.
She also took photos with members of the military there to greet her.
Greeters per East Wing:
Brigadier General Jason Woodworth,Commanding General, Marine Corps Installations West-Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton (and his spouse)Colonel David B. Moore,Marine Corps Air Station Camp Pendleton Commanding OfficerMrs. Samantha Moore,Spouse of Colonel David MooreSergeant Major Curtis Rice,Sergeant Major, Marine Corps Air Station Camp PendletonMrs. Elizabeth Rice,Spouse of Sergeant Major Curtis Rice
She boarded Executive One Foxtrot at 2:17 pm.
We are wheels up to Los Angeles shortly.



February 4, 202315:26 PST

FLOTUS pool report #4 - Los Angeles arrival
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels down Los Angeles' Burbank airport at 3:06 pm.
FLOTUS deplaned at 3:13 pm and got into her car.
Motorcade rolled to hotel at 3:15 pm.
This is it for today. Back tomorrow with more …




  