
    Austin, TX - Today the Clinton campaign announced that former U.S. Congressman and Texas Supreme Court Justice Bob Gammage is endorsing Hillary Clinton for President, demonstrating its continued momentum across the Lone Star State.
"Texas knows Hillary and Hillary knows Texas," said Gammage. "Hillary has a proven track record fighting for Texans that dates back more than three decades. Her leadership and experience are unparalleled and I am confident that she is the best candidate to lead this nation. On March 4, Texans will play a critical role in determining not only the Democratic nominee, but also the next President of the United States and I encourage all Texans to get to the polls for this important election."
Bob Gammage is a native of Houston, Texas. He served 25 years in public office in the Lone Star State. Gammage won his first race for office, for the Texas House of Representatives, in 1970. He went on to serve in the Texas State Senate, the United States House of Representatives, and as a Justice on the Texas Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court of Texas. He also served as an Assistant Attorney General of Texas and as a Special Consultant to the U.S. Department of Energy.
Gammage has been setting the campaign trail ablaze for Hillary. As a Veteran for Hillary, he made two trips to Iowa to stump for her in the snow. Here in Texas, he worked with other supporters to secure her Texas state headquarters in Austin and spoke at its opening rally. He is also assisting the campaign in arranging Chelsea's visits to some Texas university campuses.
Supporting Hillary is a family affair for the Gammage family. Gammage's wife, Lynda, is helping to coordinate housing for many of the out-of-state staffers and volunteers, and their son Sam, a Texas State University student, is volunteering at the Austin headquarters.
The Clinton campaign continues to gain support throughout Texas as Hillary's message of change and experience resonates with people across the state. More than 100,000 Texans have signed up to volunteer for Hillary and 4,700 people attended a campaign rally with former President Bill Clinton at the Clinton campaign's Austin Headquarters last weekend.
  