
    Pool Reports by Suzanne Lynch, The Irish Times 



Sent:
Reports:




February 18, 202109:53

VP pool report #1
Good morning from a snowy White House.
Vice-president Kamala Harris is due to host a group of women leaders for a virtual roundtable discussion on the American Rescue Plan at 11.15 am.
Among the participants are four members of Congress and eleven leaders of women's advocacy groups.
The four members are:
Sen. Patty Murray (Washington) Chair of the Senate Health, Education Labor and Pensions Committee,Rep. Rosa DeLauro (Connecticut) Chair of the House Appropriations CommitteeSen. Catherine Cortez Masto (Nevada)Rep. Barbara Lee (California)
The 11 leaders of women's advocacy groups are:
Melanie Campbell, Black Women's RoundtableAlejandra Castillo, YWCAFatima Goss Graves, National Women's Law CenterJen Earle, National Association of Women Business OwnersKristin Rowe-Finkbeiner, Moms RisingTina Tchen, Time's UPDebra Ness, National Partnerships for Women and FamiliesPresident Fawn Sharp, National Congress of American IndiansMary Kay Henry, SEIUJohnnetta B. Cole, National Council of Negro WomenAi-jen Poo, National Domestic Workers/Caring Across GenerationsMelanie Campbell, Black Women's RoundtableAlejandra Castillo, YWCAFatima Goss Graves, National Women's Law Center
Background from VP Office: The group will discuss how women face a triple threat: 1) job loss, 2) small businesses closing, and 3) lack of childcare – and how the pandemic has magnified the barriers that disproportionately impact women.



February 18, 202111:35

VP pool report #2
Vice-president Kamala Harris was seated at a table on the stage in the South Court Auditorium at 11.18 am when the pool entered.The four members of Congress and eleven women leaders are participating virtually and are appearing on screens at the event.In opening remarks, VP Harris welcomed the "incredible and phenomenal group of women leaders."She said that "women and families across the nation have benefited from your leadership, and without you...we will not be able to get the American Rescue Plan" passed.VP Harris warned that "decades of the progress we've made for women workers" is at risk.She highlighted three main issues:1) Jobs. "2.5 million women have dropped out of the work force," she said.2) Small businesses are closing.3) Childcare crisis - "homes have become makeshift classrooms" the VP said. Also, noted that 400,000 child care jobs have been lost once the outset of the pandemic.
Other quotes:" Many of you are working mothers, many of you are caring for your own parents."She described "a perfect storm for women- the longer we wait to act, the harder it will be to bring these millions of women back into the workforce.""This is a national emergency - women leaving the work force in these numbers is a national emergency which needs a national solution.""The American Rescue Plan will help get women back to work."
The four members of Congress are now speaking...more to come...



February 18, 202112:13

VP pool report #3 (final report)
Pool was ushered out of the South Court Auditorium after the fourth congresswoman – Barbara Lee – finished her remarks.Some color: VP Harris gave a warm introduction to Senator Patty Murray – the first member of congress to speak. Introducing her as "my friend and former colleague…as she is well known – a mom in tennis shoes who runs hard in the Senate."
Key quotes from members:
Sen Patty Murray - "The American Rescue Plan really shows a commitment to women as equal partners in our economy and our country's future." "We've long had a childcare crisis in this country," but notes that childcare providers are struggling to keep their businesses afloat during the covid pandemic. She said that women are "disproportionately tackling the challenges of remote learning which is one of the many reasons why it's absolutely critical we get our children back to the classroom for in-person instruction safely."
Rep. Rosa DeLauro: "To you Vice president, let me just say that you represent everything that millions of American women aspire to and you are not going to leave them behind.""Women are not opting out of the work force; they are being pushed by inadequate policies."
Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto: Says Nevada's tourism and travel industry has been devastated by the pandemic. "The pandemic has hit disproportionately here in Nevada women from our black communities, Latino, API, native American communities."
Senator Barbara Lee said that Kamala Harris' hometown of Oakland and Berkeley California are "so proud of you- so proud." "We all know that this pandemic has disproportionately impacted communities of color, indigenous communities and women – especially women of color." About 1 in 7 households nationwide are struggling just to secure the food that they need, she said. "As a single mother, I raised two young phenomenal boys, and I had difficult times, and I raised them on food-stamps. I can assure you that there is nothing worse than seeing your children go hungry."
More complete quotes from Vice-president Harris.
"Time and again, women and families across the nation have benefited from your leadership. Without you, each and everyone of you, we will not be able to get the American Rescue Plan over the finish line."
"In one year the pandemic has put decades of the progress we have collectively made for women workers at risk."
Discussing small businesses closing: "Last February, around 5 million women were business owners. Two months later, by April, one in four had closed their doors."
The pandemic has created "a perfect storm for women- the longer we wait to act, the harder it will be to bring these millions of women back into the workforce."
"Our economy cannot fully recover unless women can participate fully. I believe, I think we all believe, this is a national emergency - women leaving the work force in these numbers is a national emergency which demands a national solution." (note: demands not needs)Please reach out with any questions,Suzanne




  