
    
  Active-military men and women support Dr. Paul about three times more than Obama, and six times more than combined Republican opponents

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign raised more campaign donations from active-duty members of the military than all other presidential candidates combined—Republican or Democrat—according to a Paul campaign internal analysis.
A veteran of the Cold War-era, Paul raised more than $150,000 from active military in the fourth quarter. This comes after the Congressman out-raised all GOP candidates — including all GOPers combined, and President Obama singularly — in the second and third quarters of last year. Dr. Paul also outraised his GOP competitors in a head-to-head comparison during his 2008 run for the presidency.
Especially notable is that Paul raised about triple the amount Obama received and about six times that of all currently-competing Republicans—Mitt Romney, Newt Gingrich, Buddy Roemer, and Rick Santorum—combined.
Taken together, this means Dr. Paul raised approximately double the money from active military than all the candidates from both parties combined.
Romney and Gingrich each received around $10,000, meaning Paul trumps them by about 15 times in a head-to-head matchup.
"Whether it's his loyalty to the Constitution, the fact that Ron Paul is the only veteran running, his foreign policy to end nation building, or his Plan to Restore America, veterans are responding to Ron Paul's candidacy loud and clear," said Ron Paul 2012 Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"The question ultimately comes down to, 'What do the troops know that the other candidates don't know?' Plain as day the answer is that the men and women in uniform heroically serving our nation seek a shift away from deficit-financed overseas wars, and from the painful reality of returning home to lingering health issues and unemployment among peers. Dr. Paul is the only candidate to have made clear where he stands, and he stands with the veterans and active-duty soldiers," concluded Mr. Benton.
The data are derived from a Paul campaign independent analysis of FEC reports on contributors who listed their occupation and employer when contributing. A graphic illustration of the results can be viewed here.
To view the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign's veterans-themed ad, click here. To view its subsequent foreign policy-themed ad, click here.
To read Dr. Paul's open letter to President Obama defending veterans' benefits click here. To read National Campaign Manager John Tate's statement elaborating on Dr. Paul's support of legislation to honor and care for World War II-era Filipino veterans, please click here.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the active "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official web page by clicking here. Prospective members should also send an email to hq.coalitions@ronpaul2012.com, writing the coalition name in the subject line.
  