
    Mitt Romney today announced that Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam will serve as State Chairman of Romney's presidential campaign in Tennessee.
Romney also announced that his is the only presidential campaign to have assembled a full slate of delegate candidates to join him on the Tennessee ballot. Romney's delegate team is led by former Tennessee Governor Winfield Dunn, a number of state legislators, and other top GOP leaders, state executive committee members and leading business, civic and political leaders from across the Volunteer State.
"I'm pleased to have so much support in Tennessee," said Mitt Romney. "Voters in the Volunteer State have been hit hard by the Obama economy. I look forward to spreading my message of a 'Simpler, Smaller, and Smarter' federal government across the state in the months to come and the support of these leaders will be crucial."
"This slate of delegates represents the strong support Mitt has from Memphis to Mountain City," Haslam said. "He is committed to job growth across our state and nation, and his common-sense approach is resonating with Tennessee voters. He has the experience to lead, and this country needs a true leader."
Romney's Slate of At-Large Delegate Candidates Includes:
Rob Ailey, Seymour
Steve Allbrooks, Franklin
Randal Boyd, Knoxville
Josh Brown, Franklin
Steve Buttry, Knoxville
Beth Campbell, Nashville
John Crisp, Brentwood
John Wayne Cropp, Hixson
Winfield Dunn, Nashville
Ruth B. Hagerty, Gallatin
Julia Hurley, Lenoir City
Jim Looney, Lawrenceburg
Wendell Moore, Brentwood
Justin Pitt, Franklin
Susan Richardson Williams, Knoxville
Mark White, Memphis

Romney's Slate of Congressional District Delegate Candidates Includes:
First District:
David Golden, Kingsport
Warren Jones, Johnson City
Alicia Mumpower, Bristol
Second District:
Russell Barber, Knoxville
Richard Barnes, Knoxville
Ryan Haynes, Knoxville
Third District:
Emily Beaty, Cleveland
Oscar Brock, Lookout Mountain
Jennifer Inman Little, Bean Station
Hobart L. Rice, Dandridge
Fourth District:
David French, Columbia
Nancy French, Columbia
Jason Whatley, Columbia
Fifth District:
Shiri Anderson, Antioch
Chrissy Hagerty, Nashville
John Patrick Shorter, Nashville
George B. Stadler, Nashville
Sixth District:
Debra K. Copass, Mount Juliet
Beth Cox, Hendersonville
Randy Stamps, Hendersonville
Chad White, Murfreesboro
Seventh District:
Mary Kate Brown, Franklin
Barrett Rich, Eads
Ammon Smartt, Brentwood
Eighth District:
Bob D. Anderson, Paris
Betty Anderson, Paris
Steve Maroney, Jackson
Oneida Wagoner, Mansfield
Ninth District:
Paul Boyd, Memphis
Frank Colvett, Jr., Memphis
Kelly Hankins, Memphis
Dennis Patrick Hawkins, Memphis

  