
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, Presidential candidate Ted Cruz announced the endorsement of NH State Senator Kevin Avard. Avard, who was formerly Rand Paul's NH Chairman, is serving his first term as the State Senator from District 12. Before being elected to the New Hampshire Senate, Avard served in the House from 2010-12 and on the Franklin City Council from 2000-2002. He is a self-employed contract cleaning manager. Avard has fought to tighten government spending, lower taxes, promote local control of education, protect property rights, and ensure that all government agencies are held accountable to the people.
"I am proud to endorse Ted Cruz for President," said Avard. "This election is so critical for our nation and it is time we send a principled, conservative leader to the White House. Ted has fought tirelessly to protect our Constitutional rights, especially our Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. I have watched him stand up to the Washington establishment in the fight against Medicaid expansion and his unyielding leadership to repeal Obamacare and give states and the American people greater control over their healthcare instead of Obamacare bureaucrats and profiteers in Washington, D.C. He has been a strong defender of property rights and has fought to protect our liberties from government overreach. Because of his proven record in fighting for our men and women in the military, I have the confidence Ted is ready to be the Commander-in-Chief we need to restore America's leadership in the world."
"Kevin has spent his time serving in the New Hampshire House and Senate fighting hard for the liberties of his constituents," said Cruz. "He has fought to curb out of control spending, help promote growth and job opportunities in the Granite State and free the private sector from the harmful government regulations that are stifling businesses. I am thrilled to have Kevin's support and look forward to working together to unite conservatives behind our campaign."
  