
    Presidential Determination No. 94-15
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 503(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2311(a)), and section 3(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act as amended (22 U.S.C. 2753(a)(1)), I hereby find that the furnishing of defense articles and services to the Government of Eritrea will strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.
You are authorized and directed to report this finding to the Congress and to publish it in the Federal Register.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, February 18, 1994.

Justification for Presidential Determination of Eligibility of Eritrea To Be Furnished Military Assistance Under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and the Arms Export Control Act
Section 503 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and Section 3(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act require, as a condition of eligibility to acquire defense articles and services from the United States, that the President find that the furnishing of such articles and services to the country concerned will "strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace."
The United States has a significant security interest in the stability of newly founded Eritrea, which borders Sudan and occupies a strategic position on the Red Sea. Eritrea's security directly affects the stability of its neighbor and former ruler, Ethiopia. Moreover, Israel, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia all benefit from Eritrean stability in a region threatened by Islamic fundamentalism.
Eritrea gained its independence after a thirty year war against Ethiopian central authority and a United Nations-monitored referendum in April, 1993. Among the devastating consequences of this war is the remainder of over 500,000 anti-personnel land mines throughout the country. These land mines seriously hinder the government's efforts to reconstruct Eritrean society and the economy.
One of the Department's newly developed demining programs centers on the dispatch of U.S. military Special Operations Forces personnel to teach local instructors demining techniques. We have selected Eritrea to be the pilot country for this program because of the urgent need and a combination of favorable factors.
Eritrea currently is politically stable. We believe that Eritrea will continue to enjoy political stability for the foreseeable future.
The conditions are more favorable for detecting mines in the open terrain of this semi-arid country than in more forested countries.
Eritrea has an educated work force. In addition, many Eritreans speak either Italian or English, which will facilitate the work of our Special Forces trainers.
All sectors of Eritrean society, especially the Eritrean Government, recognize the gravity of the land mine situation. They are anxious to give us their complete cooperation for the demining program.
Currently, no other organization or country is contributing to Eritrean demining. This program will garner the United States considerable good will, and will help establish a productive and cooperative security assistance relationship with Eritrea.
Providing defense articles and services to Eritrea pursuant to Foreign Assistance Act and Arms Export Control Act authorities will further our long-term goals of promoting stability both in Eritrea and in the strategic Horn of Africa, thereby strengthening the security of the United States and promoting world peace.
  