
    "I want to bring these things together and have a plan that says we're going to lower our tax rates, we're going to lower our spending, we're going to preserve our long-term viability by fixing our entitlements, and that way we will restore the American Dream. And that's exactly what I'll get done. You are going to hear me say it time and time again: more jobs, less debt, smaller government. More jobs, less debt, smaller government. We've got to get that job done guys if we want to get Americans back to work and fulfill the American promise." — Mitt Romney
Mitt Romney
Remarks
Chandler, AZ
February 22, 2012
Click Here To Watch Mitt Romney Discuss His Plan To Create Jobs and Shrink Government
MITT ROMNEY: "There are three things to come together. We've got to have more jobs, less debt, and smaller government. They go together. You can't just do one of those things by itself; you've got to do the others as well to restore the American promise. And for that to happen, it means this: this idea of lowering our marginal tax rates across the board -- why do that by the way? You might say 'what are you doing that for? Just to give people more money to spend?' Well that's a good enough reason by itself, but there is another reason. By lowering those marginal rates, we help businesses that pay at the individual tax rate to have more money so they can hire more people and pay higher wages. Do you know how many people in America work in companies that are taxed at the individual rate, not at the corporate rate? About 55 percent of American workers work in those kind of businesses. So we want those businesses to grow and thrive and be successful. President Obama's plan is to raise taxes on those enterprises. My plan is to lower it by 20 percent and put more people back to work.
"So our tax plan is part of getting the economy going and putting more people back to work, more jobs. But I don't want to add to the deficit. And that's why I cut a number of federal programs to make sure that we get America on track to have a balanced budget. And then long-term, we have to make sure that Medicare and Social Security are preserved. Those things come together, it is one whole package. In Washington, they don't think like that. It's funny, if you are in the business world or in your home, you don't have one person think about how much money is going to come in the door and someone else think about how much you are going to spend, because you might end up having two very different numbers. If you can't balance budgets in business, you're out of business. If you can't balance your budget at home, you'll be out of your home at some point. And so in government, that's not how it works. In government, they have committees that sit there and spend the money and some other committee that thinks about taxing. I want to bring these things together and have a plan that says we're going to lower our tax rates, we're going to lower our spending, we're going to preserve our long-term viability by fixing our entitlements, and that way we will restore the American Dream. And that's exactly what I'll get done. You are going to hear me say it time and time again: more jobs, less debt, smaller government. More jobs, less debt, smaller government. We've got to get that job done guys if we want to get Americans back to work and fulfill the American promise."
  