
    The President today announced the appointment of 10 persons as members of the Advisory Committee on Small and Minority Business Ownership. This committee was created by Executive order on February 1, 1980, to "assist in monitoring and encouraging the placement of subcontracts by the private sector with eligible small businesses, particularly with small minority businesses."
The 10 members appointed today are:
Manuel R. Caldera, of Los Angeles, owner of Amex Systems, Inc., a company specializing in high technology electronics design, fabrication, and engineering support services. He is chairman of the Latin American Manufacturers' Association.
Cassandra M. Flipper, of Mill Valley, Calif., assistant general counsel of Levi Strauss & Co. She served previously as equal employment opportunity manager for Levi Strauss.
Earl G. Graves, publisher of Black Enterprise magazine. He is also president of EGG Dallas Broadcasting, which operates an AM and an FM radio station, and of Earl G. Graves Marketing and Research.
William J. Kennedy III, of Durham, N.C., president and chief executive officer of North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company.
Louise Quarles Lawson, president of Illinois/Service Federal Savings and Loan Association and chairman of the Loan Committee. She is past president of the American Savings & Loan League.
Franklin Delano Lopez, of San Juan, P.R., president of International Investment & Financing Corp., a company established to finance low-income housing and to assist and finance rural businesses and industries and small businesses.
Gertrude G. Michelson, senior vice president of Macy's department store for personnel and labor relations.
Paul G. Miller, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Commercial Credit Company.
Bahk Sang, of Woodside, N.Y., president of Young Video, Inc., a company which distributes giant screen television, video equipment, and electronic games.
Frank A. Saunders, staff vice president for corporate relations and communications of Philip Morris, Inc.
  