
    
Scenes from the homestretch.
Hillary Clinton isn't taking a single vote for granted in New Hampshire. She and supporters across the Granite State are talking to as many voters as possible—even when it means knocking on doors in a snowstorm.
Granite Staters came out in droves to show their support.


  LET'S GO NEW HAMPSHIRE! IT'S GAME TIME ??'? #603forHRC pic.twitter.com/7UZIn0G4ts— Hillary for NH (@HillaryforNH) February 2, 2016


Hillary and President Clinton addressed a packed house in Manchester the day before the New Hampshire primary.

In between events, Hillary chatted with voters in diners and at coffee shops.

A quick bite and a chat in Manchester.

Going table-to-table to talk to voters.

Meanwhile, volunteers have been hard at work.

(Photo via thisismichaelnyc on Instagram)

Volunteers prepare campaign literature to take door-to-door.

A few familiar faces joined Hillary on the trail.

Some of the nation's toughest, hardest-working leaders came out to support Hillary: EMILY's List President Stephanie Schriock, equal pay activist Lilly Ledbetter, Senator Amy Klobuchar, Senator Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan. Also present but not pictured: Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and New Hampshire Governor Maggie Hassan.

Senator Cory Booker came from New Jersey to rally the troops at a campaign field office.

And when a snow storm rolled in, the campaign kept going.


A little winter weather couldn't dampen the enthusiasm ?

Supporters in Manchester cheered as Hillary took the stage.

Supporters of all ages came out in the snow to see Hillary.

Hillary stopped to talk to students at New England College.

Volunteers were determined to get to every door—snow or no snow.

A little snow doesn't stop #603forHRC (Photo via Hillary for New Hampshire on Facebook)

Chris has canvassed for Hillary almost every day since September. (Photo via @ErolYaboke on Twitter)

Yet another reason to answer your door during primary week in New Hampshire: Hillary might be the one knocking.


Hillary and the New Hampshire team will keep working until every last vote is cast. One way you can help: Text, email, or call your friends in New Hampshire and make sure they know their polling place!
  