
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 8
In the evening, the President attended a farewell reception for Clinton/Gore '96 finance chairman Terence McAuliffe at the Hay-Adams Hotel.
February 9
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a performance of "Twilight: Los Angeles, 1992. On the Road: A Search for American Character" at Ford's Theatre.
February 10
In the morning, the President traveled to Annapolis, MD. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
February 11
In an evening ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Baktybek Abdrisaev of the Kyrgyz Republic; K.M. Shehabuddin of Bangladesh; Andrew Nicolaides of Cyprus; Bernardo Vega of the Dominican Republic; Juan Carlos Esguerra of Colombia; Andrew Sharp Peacock of Australia; Napolioni Masirewa of Fiji; Rex Stephen Horoi of the Solomon Islands; and Madame Akosita Fineanganofo of Tonga.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard R. Parizek to the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board.
The White House announced that the President, while on a working visit to Capitol Hill, had a telephone conversation with Senator Richard C. Shelby concerning the nomination of Anthony Lake to be Director of Central Intelligence.
February 12
The President announced that he appointed Harold Ickes to serve as director of the 1997 summit of the world's major industrialized nations, which will take place in Denver, CO, June 20-22.
The President announced his intention to designate Ken Kennedy as Co-Chairman of the Advisory Committee on High-Performance Computing and Communications, Information Technology, and the Next Generation Internet. He also announced his intention to appoint persons as members: Eric A. Benhamou, Vinton Cerf, Ching-Chih Chen, David Cooper, Steven D. Dorfman, Robert Ewald, David J. Farber, Sherrilynne S. Fuller, Hector Garcia-Molina, Susan Graham, James N. Gray, W. Daniel Hillis, David C. Nagel, Raj Reddy, Edward H. Shortliffe, Larry Smarr, Leslie Vadasz, Andrew J. Viterbi, and Steven J. Wallach.
The President announced that he has given White House Director for Legislative Affairs John Hilley an expanded role as both Senior Advisor to the President and Director for Legislative Affairs.
February 14
In the afternoon, the President participated in a swearing-in ceremony in the Oval Office for Secretary of Transportation Rodney E. Slater.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stuart E. Eizenstat to become Under Secretary of State for Economics, Business, and Agriculture.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas Pickering to become Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs.
The President named Eric P. Goosby as Acting Director of the Office of National AIDS Policy.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gus Weill as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
  