
    Two years ago I directed that the United States withdraw from membership in the International Labor Organization, a specialized agency of the United Nations, because it had strayed too far from its fundamental principles and purposes. In particular, our withdrawal was an expression of our growing concern over a number of trends that weakened the ability of the ILO to carry out its basic mission. Those trends included the erosion of the independence of employer and worker delegates attending ILO conferences, the relative immunity of certain countries from criticism for violating workers' human rights, the growing disregard within the ILO of the principles of due process, and the introduction of extraneous political issues into ILO debates.
At the time of our withdrawal, I stated that we remained ready to return to the ILO whenever that organization demonstrated respect for its proper principles and procedures. It was my hope that other countries would come to realize that the ILO and other U.N. agencies can only be effective if they are not used for political propaganda purposes.
Since then, a majority of ILO members-governments, workers, and employers-have successfully joined together to return the ILO to its original purposes. Through their efforts, steps have been taken to strengthen the independence of employer and worker delegates, undertake investigations of human rights violations in a number of countries, including the Soviet Union, reinforce the principle of due process, and generally reduce the level of politicization in the ILO.
I have decided, therefore, that the United States should now rejoin the ILO and work with other members to ensure that the true potential of this organization is realized. This decision has the support of American trade union and employer organizations—the AFL-CIO and the U.S. Council of the International Chamber of Commerce.
As a member of the ILO, and with the support of other countries, the United States will seek to ensure that the ILO continues to serve the interests of the world's working men and women by promoting more and better jobs while protecting their human rights and dignity.
  