
    Senator Dan Blue and Representative Darren Jackson join other North Carolina leaders throwing their support behind Mike, citing his ability to secure Democratic victories down the ballot and across North Carolina
RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA — Mike Bloomberg 2020 today announced that North Carolina Senate Democratic Leader Senator Dan Blue and North Carolina House Democratic Leader Rep. Darren Jackson are endorsing Democratic candidate Mike Bloomberg for president. Blue and Jackson join a growing number of current and former North Carolina elected officials supporting Mike.
"Both chambers have proposed legislation to address the critical issues facing the people of North Carolina — healthcare, public education, and transportation. Mike Bloomberg has the leadership and experience to tackle these issues, because he understands these are the same issues facing every state in the country," said Blue and Jackson in a joint statement. "Having dealt with these issues as mayor of the largest city in the U.S., we know that Mike Bloomberg is the best candidate to unite us and get it done. We encourage North Carolina Democrats to support Mike by voting early or on March 3."
Joining Sen. Blue and Rep. Jackson in endorsing Mike today are:

Representative Kelly Alexander
Mayor Don Hardy, Kinston
Mayor Walker Reid, Gastonia
Commissioner James West, Wake County
Councilman Jeff MacIntosh, Winston-Salem

"I'm excited to have this support from our state's top Democratic legislators and the additional elected officials," said James Mitchell, North Carolina State Director for Mike Bloomberg 2020. "The growing number of North Carolina's elected officials endorsing Mike Bloomberg proves the momentum for Mike's candidacy that is building in the Tar Heel state."
With more than 120 staff and field offices in Raleigh, Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Asheville, Durham, Chapel Hill, and Rocky Mount, Mike Bloomberg 2020 has the largest organizing presence in North Carolina of all the presidential candidates. This infrastructure will help support Democratic victories up and down the ballot.
  