
    "Our U.S. Global Development Policy – the first of its kind by an American administration – is rooted in America's enduring commitment to the dignity and potential of every human being. It outlines our new approach and the new thinking that will guide our overall development efforts. Put simply, the United States is changing the way we do business."
– President Obama, September 2010
On September 15, 2010, the President signed the Presidential Policy Directive (PPD) on Global Development, which underscores that development is vital to national security and is a strategic, economic, and moral imperative for the United States. The PPD on Global Development provides clear guidance to all Federal agencies and sets forth a new development policy, enhanced operational model, and modern architecture for U.S. development efforts.
Consistent with that new policy, the President signed today an Executive Order establishing the President's Global Development Council. The Council, which will be administered by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), will be comprised of no more than 12 individuals from a variety of sectors outside the Federal Government, including, among others, institutions of higher education, non-profit and philanthropic organizations, civil society, and private industry. In addition to these 12 individuals, the Secretaries of State, Treasury, and Defense, the USAID Administrator, and the Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation will serve on the Council as non-voting members. The Council will inform and provide advice to the President and other senior U.S. officials on U.S. global development policies and practices, support new and existing public-private partnerships, and increase awareness and action in support of development by soliciting public input on current and emerging issues in the field of global development.
To express interest in being a member of the President's Global Development Council, please send your full name, contact information and resume or biography to Interest_GDC@who.eop.gov by 5:00pm (EST) on Friday, February 24, 2012.
  