
    The Clinton campaign announced today the endorsement of Maryland State Delegate Ana Sol Gutierrez.
Born in Santa Ana, El Salvador, Gutierrez is a longtime political activist, who was elected to the Maryland House of Delegates in 2002. Representing Montgomery County's District 18, Gutierrez is the first Latina ever elected to serve in the Maryland General Assembly. From 1990 to 1998, she was elected to the Montgomery County Board of Education in Maryland, and served both as President and Vice-President of the Board. She was, at that time, the only Hispanic high-level elected official in the Washington area. She holds the distinction of being the first Latina elected to this position in Maryland, and the first Salvadorian-American elected to public office in the history of the country.
Gutierrez has been member of the Appropriations Committee, the Health & Human Resources Subcommittee, the Oversight Committee on Pensions, the Joint Committee on Children, Youth, and Families, and the Joint Committee on Welfare Reform, among others.
"I believe every single family in America should have access to quality affordable health care," said Gutierrez. "Senator Clinton sees an America where we shouldn't just provide health care for some people, or most people. She sees an America where we should provide every single man, woman and child with quality, affordable health care - leaving no one out," she added. "I know that ensuring the 47 million invisible Americans without health care will be one of her top priorities."
Gutierrez served as Deputy Administrator of the Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA) in the U.S. Department of Transportation during the Clinton Administration. She directed the agency's safety, regulatory, and research and development programs, with oversight of major national transportation safety programs including Hazardous Materials Transportation Safety, Pipeline Safety, and Emergency Response.
With over thirty years in the public and private corporate sector, Gutierrez has experience working as a systems engineer, and experience with strategic planning, program management and computer engineering. As President and CEO of Sol Quality Systems, Inc., she started a small business providing management and engineering services. Recently, she retired as a senior executive with Computer Sciences Corporation, as Director of Strategic IT Consulting and Quality Management.
"I am very grateful for the support that Ana Sol Gutierrez is giving me," said Hillary Clinton. "I look forward to working together to bring the solutions that our country needs."
  