
    Thank you Mr. Fogarty and Mr. Welstad and all of you for coming here on this occasion. Betty--she's almost a Floridian. [Laughter]
We can't express adequately our appreciation for all that has been done, all that you will do between now and March 9. I think we have the momentum going and for the right reasons, the right reasons being the programs that we have put into effect over the last 19 months, both domestically and internationally, are paying off.
I couldn't help but notice in one of the Miami papers this morning, a big headline to the effect, the economic picture brightens considerably--or just what it said. But it was all plus, and it should be because we are on the track of a real burgeoning, healthy, strong, sound economy, and it's because of our party.
As some of my good friends from the traveling press know, we didn't plan it this way. Every Friday we seem to have good news. It gets better and better in the economic picture, and I think you will find that to be the case as we move forward because the policies are right. We are not going to try and spend our way out of the recession. We are going to make sure what we do has lasting impact.
In the international field, let me make one very firm comment. The United States is never going to be second to anyone, period. We have an outstanding Department of Defense. They are alert, they are well trained, they are well equipped, they are well led, and I can assure you that we are going to give them maximum support so that our friends around the world are reassured and will stay with us, so that any potential adversaries will listen. And I can assure you in that way of peace through strength, we can enjoy all the great blessings, all the wonderful things that should and will come to us in America.
It's the way our forefathers did it, and it's the way we are going to do it. I appreciate your help. Get as many votes as you can, and if you do, we will be on our way to a victory on November 2.
I guess Betty has been speaking all week. Do you want to say something?
MRS. FORD. No, I don't have to say anything else.
THE PRESIDENT. I do want to just add one thing. Through the good auspices of the Federal courts here and, particularly, Judge Fay,1 we had just a superb meeting this morning. There were 1,121 new American citizens. They are enthusiastic. They look just forward to the opportunity to be a participant in this great experience that we have had for 200 years. How fortunate we are to have them and how much they are going to contribute to a better America.
Thank you.
  