
    Endorsement Watch: The New York Daily News endorsed Hillary. "Clinton is at heart a worker in the trenches. She has an encyclopedic knowledge of the issues, and her success in the Senate on behalf of New Yorkers attests to both relentless attention to detail and skill at working the levers of power. Simply put, Clinton delivered, in no small measure by forming alliances with Republicans."... Newsday endorsed Hillary. "Clinton['s] intelligent, hard-working, tough, passionate and has an enthusiasm for the important nuances of complex policy."... U.S. Rep. Paul E. Kanjorski endorsed Hillary... Read the Daily News endorsement here.
Previewing Today: This morning, Hillary appears on ABC's "This Week" and "Fox News Sunday."... During the day, Hillary holds "Solutions for the American Economy" town halls in St. Louis and Bridgeton, Missouri and Minneapolis, Minnesota... President Bill Clinton visits churches in Gardena, Norwalk, Los Angeles, and Inglewood, California.
Voices Across America: On Monday, veteran journalist Carole Simpson will serve as moderator for Hillary's national town hall. The three-time Emmy award winner will join Hillary at the anchor event in New York. Voters at events in Super Tuesday states will join the conversation via satellite. Hallmark Channel will broadcast the town hall live.
Recapping Yesterday: In California, Arizona, and New Mexico, Hillary detailed real solutions to end our health care and housing crises, fix our economy, and end the war in Iraq... In Alabama and Missouri, President Bill Clinton said Hillary would rebuild the middle class and restore America's standing in the world.
Polling Prowess: New polls show Hillary ahead of Sen. Obama. Nationally, Gallup has Hillary up by 7 points... In Oklahoma, the Tulsa World/Sooner Poll has Hillary up by 24 points... In New York, Rasmussen has Hillary up by 18 points and WNBC/Marist has Hillary up by 16 points... In New Jersey, Monmouth/Newsday has Hillary up by 14 points... In California, McClatchy/MSNBC/Mason-Dixon has Hillary up by 9 points... In Missouri, McClatchy/MSNBC/Mason-Dixon has Hillary up by 6 points... In Alabama and Arizona, Rasmussen has Hillary up by 5 points... In Ohio, the Columbus Dispatch has Hillary up by 23 points.
GOP Fodder: Yesterday in Idaho, Sen. Obama said he has "no intention of taking away folks' guns." But the Associated Press recently reported that in a 1996 questionnaire, Sen. Obama said he "supported banning the manufacture, sale and possession of handguns." Read more.
If You Read One Thing Today: "Nuclear Leaks and Response Tested Obama in Senate" in the New York Times. Read more.
  