
    California Senate President Pro Tempore Toni G. Atkins and 20 members of the California Senate Democratic Caucus are endorsing Senator Kamala Harris in her campaign for president. These endorsements represent 75 percent of the California Senate Democratic Caucus, underscoring Harris's growing strength in her home state.
Harris formally announced her run for President at an Oakland rally with more than 20,000 people in attendance, demonstrating the deep enthusiasm in California for her candidacy. In advance of the 2020 presidential election, California moved its Democratic primary day to March 3, affording it a greater voice in determining the Democratic nominee than in past years.
"Each of my colleagues and I are proud to announce our support for Senator Kamala Harris who has been a dogged fighter for working families her entire career," said State Senator Atkins. "While serving California, she has defended civil rights and stood up to the forces that would divide us or take us backwards. As San Francisco District Attorney, Attorney General of California, and United States Senator, she has been a strong proponent of criminal justice reforms, protecting homeowners and immigrant communities, and strengthening the middle class. As President, I know she will continue to prioritize the needs of all the people."
"My campaign is about returning power to the people in this country, and these leaders represent California's diversity and reflect the broad commitment we share to move our state and our nation forward," said Senator Harris. "This level of support from my home state of California makes me so proud, and I am honored to have them fighting beside me."
In addition to Senator Atkins, Harris has earned the endorsements of:
Sen. Bob Archuleta
Sen. Jim Beall
Sen. Steven Bradford
Sen. Anna M. Caballero
Sen. Bill Dodd
Sen. Cathleen Galgiani
Sen. Robert M. Hertzberg
Sen. Jerry Hill
Sen. Ben Hueso
Sen. Hannah-Beth Jackson
Sen. Connie M. Leyva
Sen. Mike McGuire
Sen. Holly J. Mitchell
Sen. Bill Monning
Sen. Richard Pan
Sen. Anthony J. Portantino
Sen. Richard D. Roth
Sen. Susan Rubio
Sen. Nancy Skinner
Sen. Scott Wiener
  