
    
  Leading North Carolina Pastor Stands With Ted Cruz

HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Dr. Mark Harris, a leading North Carolina pastor and former U.S. Senate candidate.
From 1999-2009, Dr. Harris served as a trustee of the Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary, in 2008 as president of the North Carolina Pastor's Conference, and from 2011-2013 as the president of the North Carolina Baptist Convention. In 2014, he was a candidate for United States Senate. Dr. Harris was a leader in the passage of the North Carolina Marriage Amendment in 2012, helping to form the Vote for Marriage NC campaign.
"I am honored to receive Dr. Harris' endorsement, and I am grateful for his prayers," said Cruz. "Mark's commitment to be a guiding light in the cultural and political arenas has impacted Christians in North Carolina and across the nation. As leaders of faith continue to coalesce around this campaign, we will work together to reignite the promise of America."
Dr. Mark Harris has served as the Senior Pastor of First Baptist Church in Charlotte since 2005. With the support of the Family Research Council, Dr. Harris organizes cultural impact teams in the state, training more than 500 North Carolina pastors to impact their communities for Christ. He earned a Masters of Divinity degree and a Doctor of Ministry degree in Christian Leadership from Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary in Wake Forest, North Carolina.
"I am committed to working toward a victory for Ted Cruz," said Pastor Harris. "Our nation suffers economically and spiritually, and we hunger for a wise Commander-in-Chief, a leader who respects our Constitution and fears the Lord. Ted Cruz will stand up to the Washington cartel, stand in defense of the American dream, and stand in defense of the innocent. I and many other North Carolina pastors are standing with him, and we look forward to turning out the vote among people of faith."
Dr. Harris is married to Elizabeth, and they have three married children and three grandchildren. He was previously active on the Huckabee campaign and continues to encourage pastors across North Carolina to be proactive in impacting the culture and nation for Jesus Christ. Dr. Harris will serve as Co-Chair on the North Carolina Cruz for President campaign.
*Titles and affiliations of Dr. Mark Harris are provided for identification purposes only.
  