
    "84 percent of likely voters believe that investing in U.S. factories to produce supply chain components will help reduce inflation"
Today, The Hill covered a recent Data for Progress poll that showed broad support among likely voters for the U.S. Innovation and Competition Act (USICA). President Biden has urged Congress to pass legislation that will invest in strengthening supply chains and lowering prices, bring more manufacturing back to the U.S., and help us out-innovate and out-compete China and the rest of the world for the 21st century.
Under President Biden's economic plan and historic relief efforts, the U.S. achieved its highest economic growth rate since 1984 and saw the biggest single year of job growth on record. By reshoring semiconductor production, and investing in making more in America, we can strengthen a critical component of our supply chain, lower prices, and continue this historic progress.
See below for the article:
The Hill: Progressive poll finds broad support for China competitiveness bill[Morgan Chalfant, 2/1/22]
A bill moving through Congress seeking to boost the domestic semiconductor industry and make the U.S. more competitive against China has broad support among likely voters, according to a new survey from a liberal polling firm.
The Data for Progress poll, which was first obtained by The Hill, found that 73 percent of likely voters "somewhat" or "strongly" support the U.S. Innovation and Competition Act, or USICA, a Senate-passed measure that would invest $52 billion in domestic semiconductor manufacturing.
Support for the bill is highest among Democrats, the survey found, with 84 percent saying they support the bill, compared to 71 percent of Independents and 63 percent of Republicans.
Overall, 16 percent oppose the legislation and 10 percent said they weren't sure about it.
The new data comes as the White House is urging Congress to pass the China competitiveness legislation "as soon as possible."
The Biden administration views the bill, which passed the Senate with bipartisan support in June, as important to ameliorating the supply chain issues that have plagued the domestic economy and contributed to inflation during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Inflation has become a political problem for President Biden as voters express frustration over rising prices. The White House has sought to highlight the progress in the economic recovery amid the pandemic.
The House unveiled its version of the legislation, the America Competes Act, last week. The lower chamber is expected to vote on the measure sometime later this week and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said it would eventually be merged with the Senate version so that it can get to Biden's desk.
However, Republicans criticized the House version of the legislation last week, characterizing it as partisan and objecting to some provisions not included in the Senate version.
Among the findings, the Data for Progress poll also found that 84 percent of likely voters believe that investing in U.S. factories to produce supply chain components will help reduce inflation, which increased at its fastest pace since 1982 last year amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
Seventy-eight percent of respondents to the survey said they believe that labor shortages are contributing to inflation and 86 percent believe that supply chain disruptions are at least a fair amount to blame for the high cost of goods.
The poll found that 72 percent of likely voters support actions the Biden administration has taken to address inflation, like calling for the passage of USICA; working to ramp up operations of major U.S. ports to 24 hours, seven days a week; and investing $1 billion to boost competition in the meat industry.
The poll surveyed 1,292 likely voters and has a margin of error of 3 percentage points.
  