
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 29
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the Alfalfa Club dinner at the Capital Hilton. Following the dinner, they went to the Second Annual Blue Jean Bash at the National Building Museum.
January 30
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a dinner for the National Governors' Association on the State Floor at the White House. Later in the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with the Super Bowl Champion Dallas Cowboys and then returned to the dinner. Following the dinner, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan.
January 31
In the afternoon, the President and Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany had a working lunch at Filomena Ristorante of Georgetown.
In the evening, the President attended the Democratic Governors Association dinner at the Omni Shoreham Hotel.
The President announced that he intends to nominate Maria Elena Torano to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy; Willie Grace Campbell and Marion M. Dawson to be members of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation and that he intends to designate Ms. Campbell as the Foundation's Vice Chair; and Alice Chamberlin to be a member of the International Joint Commission, U.S. and Canada.
February 1
The White House announced the President appointed the following persons as members of the U.S. delegation to the 1994 winter Olympic games in Lillehammer, Norway:
—First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, delegation Chair;
—Ambassador Thomas Loftus, U.S. Ambassador to Norway;
—Florence Griffith Joyner, Cochair, President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports;
—Tom McMillen, Cochair, President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports;
—Kathy Karpan, secretary of state of Wyoming;
—David Matthews, partner in the Arkansas law firm of Matthews, Campbell and Rhoads;
—Irby Clifford Simpkins, Jr., publisher of the Nashville Banner; and
—Dawn Steel, head of Steel Pictures, Inc.
The White House announced the President sent a letter to the Congress increasing the amount of loans and grants proposed in emergency supplemental legislation to aid families, businesses, and communities that have suffered earthquake damage in southern California.
February 2
The President announced that he intends to nominate Robert S. Willard to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science.
February 3
The President appointed Christopher A. Hart as the Deputy Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
February 4
The President announced that he intends to nominate Robert C. Larson to be a member of the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board.
The President announced that he intends to appoint Carol Jones Carmody to be the Representative of the United States on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization and to nominate her for the rank of Minister during her tenure.
The White House announced the President designated Secretary of Energy Hazel O'Leary to represent the United States at the funeral of President Felix Houphouet-Boigny of the Cote d'Ivoire on February 7.
The White House announced the President will meet at the White House with Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou of Greece on April 22.
  