
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that longtime Minnesota conservative activist Mike Wigley will join the Romney for President Minnesota Statewide Steering Committee.
"Mike has long been a voice for fiscal conservatism in Minnesota," said Governor Romney. "I am very happy to have him on my team. As a founder of the Taxpayers League of Minnesota, Mike has fought for years to keep taxes low for Minnesotans, and that is exactly the right prescription for these times of economic uncertainty."
Announcing his support, Mike Wigley said, "With news about an economic slowdown on the front pages everyday, the state of the economy is at the forefront of voters' minds in this election. As a businessman, I know that we need a leader with real world experience, not a Washington insider, to get the economy moving in the right direction again. There is only candidate with the experience to steer the American economy back on course. Mitt Romney will keep our taxes low and restrain spending in order to promote job growth and keep the economy on the right track, just as he did as Governor."
Background On Mike Wigley:
Formerly A Member Of Senator Fred Thompson's Minnesota Team, Mike Wigley Is A Leader In Both Minnesota's Business Community As Well As The Conservative Movement. In 1997, he helped found the Taxpayers League of Minnesota, a grassroots organization that advocates for low taxes in Minnesota.
Wigley serves as chairman and board member to numerous nonprofit and business organizations. He is active in World Presidents Organization as well as the Republican Party of Minnesota, for which he served as its statewide Candidate Search Committee chairman from 1997-1999.
Currently, Mike serves as Chairman, President, and CEO of Great Plains Companies, Inc., a nationwide firm with extensive operations in the building and construction industry. He holds undergraduate and advanced degrees from the University of Minnesota, Stanford University, and Harvard University. He and his wife Barbara live in Long Lake, Minnesota with their three daughters.
  