
    President Trump has debilitated our country's ability to respond to public health crises like coronavirus with deep cuts to the number of scientists in government
More than two dozen esteemed scientists endorse Mike in an open letter to America, officially launching "Scientists for Mike"
NEW YORK — Today, Democratic presidential candidate Bloomberg announced his commitment as president to invite back scientists who were pressured to resign or let go from the federal government under President Trump. 1,600 scientists are reported to have left in the first two years of his administration. Also today, 29 scientists and prominent science advocates endorsed Mike for president, in an open letter to America about the urgent need to restore leadership that values science and science-based decision-making to the White House. The Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign officially launched "Scientists for Mike," a program to rally both scientists and anyone who respects facts over fiction.
As Americans race to prepare for the threat of coronavirus (COVID-19), the country needs scientists and medical professionals who value the truth, know the difference between fact and opinion, and consider data essential to making informed policy choices.
Now more than ever, the country needs calm, proven leadership from the White House — someone who has led during a crisis, believes in science, invests in prevention and preparation, and listens to their advisors, scientists, and public health officials. Unlike President Trump, Mike is an experienced crisis manager who has consistently prioritized public health throughout his tenure as mayor of New York City and in his global philanthropic efforts. As an electrical engineer who founded an information technology company in the early days of the computer age, Mike has deep respect for research, science, and the truth.
"Donald Trump's disregard for science and facts is putting lives in danger and harming America's ability to confront critical challenges, including climate change and the opioid crisis," said Mike Bloomberg. "The Coronavirus outbreak is the latest example of the damage he is doing. He has downplayed the dangers, made claims about the virus that have no basis in science, and failed to prepare for a deadly pandemic — leaving Americans deeply unsettled. As president, I'll restore respect for science and facts to the White House. I'll prioritize protecting public health. And I'll trust and value the scientists who dedicate their lives to making our country and world a healthier place."
As mayor, Mike implemented ambitious public health programs increasing New Yorkers' life expectancy by three years, decreasing the number of New Yorkers without health insurance, helping cut teen smoking in half, and decreasing deaths from heart disease by 31% in New York City. In 2006, he unveiled a Pandemic Influenza Plan, which included disease monitoring, building laboratory capacity, delivering vaccines and medicines, and preparing hospitals, mental health providers and city communications for a disease outbreak. Additionally, while Mike was mayor, the city's syndromic surveillance system monitored 60,000 health events every day, from ER visits to foodborne illnesses to potential terrorist attacks.
As a philanthropist, Mike's investments in public health total $2.5 billion, and include life-saving initiatives to eradicate polio, reduce obesity, tobacco use, and drowning, and improve road safety and maternal health. In 2016, Mike launched the American Health Initiative at Johns Hopkins University to tackle declining life expectancy in the U.S., and in 2017, started the Partnership for Healthy Cities, a global network of cities committed to confronting noncommunicable diseases and injuries. In recognition of his efforts, the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health was renamed in his honor.
Mike has long been a global leader in the fight against climate change, giving more than $1 billion to initiatives to combat the climate crisis in the U.S. and around the world. After Trump announced he would withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Agreement, Mike immediately stepped in to fill this leadership gap through America's Pledge and ensure that U.S. climate progress continued. Mike also helped launch Beyond Coal, which has worked to replace more than half of all U.S. coal plants with cleaner energy sources, and recently launched Beyond Carbon, the largest-ever coordinated campaign to fight the climate crisis in the U.S.
In contrast, President Trump has repeatedly made clear in speeches and his actions as president that he doesn't believe in science, from denying climate change to weakening our country's ability to respond to pandemics such as coronavirus. From the moment he took the oath of office, President Trump has been waging a war on science and the people who keep us safe and informed. He has suppressed independent, science-based decision-making.
President Trump and his administration have crippled our ability to respond to the climate crisis — and now, the coronavirus. Under his administration:

The White House has proposed cutting funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other essential health agencies and eliminated the entire White House chain of command tasked with coordinating the government's response to pandemics.
The White House has slashed the number of federal advisory boards that provide scientific and technical advice across the federal agencies.
The Department of Commerce disbanded a 15-person scientific committee that helped apply the findings from the National Climate Assessments across the government.
The Environmental Protection Agency is preparing to hinder environmental and public health policymaking by limiting the studies used in determining public health regulations.
The CDC was given a list of forbidden words not to be used in official documents, including "evidence-based" and "science-based."
The Department of Agriculture is abruptly relocating its offices focused on agricultural research, resulting in double the rate of non-retirement departure compared to the previous administration.
More than two-thirds of respondents to a survey of federal scientists across 16 federal agencies said that recent hiring freezes and departures made it harder to conduct scientific work.

Mike is deeply committed to restoring and defending the role of science and research in America. Mike's career in the private and public sector has been driven by data and science – his underlying philosophy is that research can and must guide policy and business decisions. As he's often said, "in God we trust. Everyone else, bring data."
Mike, as president, will immediately reverse the suppression, censorship and attacks on science and:

Invite back former scientists who were pressured to resign or let go from the federal government during Trump's administration.
Remove groundless restrictions on the scientific studies that government agencies can use to set policy and draft regulation, while ensuring that the EPA is effective and nonpartisan.
Reverse Trump rollbacks of environmental regulations.
Prioritize scientific research, including quadrupling spending on clean energy R&D.
Restore respect and dignity for the federal workforce, starting with scientists and science-focused staff.
Appoint administration leaders committed to scientific integrity and science-based decisions.
Make combating climate change a top priority in the next administration. The Trump administration's unparalleled hostility towards climate change has been especially harmful. Read more about Mike's agenda to fight the climate crisis here.

Preparedness begins before a new pathogen or virus emerges. Because the current White House has repeatedly cut funding and operations for preparedness efforts, it is now scrambling to prepare for COVID-19, requesting emergency funds from Congress. President Trump has also repeatedly turned his back on the world, shutting down information sharing on how to stop the spread of viruses, and gotten rid of anyone at the White House who understood public health. President Trump and his administration have:

Eliminated the Office of Global Health Security at the National Security Council, which was meant to combat emerging threats.
Has recommended cuts to the CDC's funding, leaving the country and its citizens in a vulnerable position.
Put Vice President Mike Pence, who has a horrendous record on public health, in charge of the government's response. Meanwhile, Pence spent Friday fundraising in Florida for his reelection campaign, not focused on this critical issue.
Just last night, President Trump called the virus the Democrats' "new hoax," and continued to downplay its seriousness in the U.S.

On Wednesday, even before President Trump had his press conference to address the nation about COVID-19, Mike put forward a plan to prepare the country for public health crises. This plan will prepare hospitals for pandemics, fully fund federal government preparedness efforts, and invest in scientific research that enables resilience to emerging public health threats. It includes:

Requiring that all hospitals comply with national emergency preparedness requirements and have continuous staff training.
Fully funding the Hospital Preparedness Program which has had its budget halved from FY 2003 to FY 2017 (from approximately $515 million to $255 million).
Strengthening training guidelines to make sure that hospitals plan for disasters by coordinating with federal, state, tribal, regional and local public health officials.
Funding emergency response equipment stockpiles for rural hospitals that need the assistance.
Fully funding the CDC Center for Preparedness and Response including the Public Health Emergency Preparedness program, which helps U.S. state and local health departments get ready for health disasters.
Creating an emerging infectious disease fund for the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) to rapidly support development of countermeasures – diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines – without waiting for Congress to act. Under Mike's leadership, the CDC will:

Study medical supply chains and develop contingency plans for supply disruptions. If necessary, establish a manufacturing base in the U.S. for essential drugs and vaccines.
Provide clear, factual communication about efforts to contain new viruses or other pathogens when they first emerge. These steps might include isolating people who are sick or have been exposed to the pathogen, announcing travel advisories or even temporarily closing schools as needed.
Base all public health interventions on evidence.

Reestablishing the NSC's Office of Global Health Security to prepare for and respond to disease and bioterrorism threats, including pandemics. This office will coordinate actions across all federal agencies and state and local governments.
Investing in efforts that help countries around the world strengthen their public health responses including:

Funding the CDC to research and respond to global health threats through Global Health Security Agenda, which helps other countries build up their public health systems.
Restore funding for USAID programs such as the Preparedness and Response project, which builds public health systems abroad.
Rebuild international relationships and work with the World Health Organization to address global health challenges.

Contributing funding to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), which works with international partners to fund and coordinate the development of vaccines. Mike will double funding for the National Institutes of Health and dedicate a share of this investment to research on vaccines (including a universal flu vaccine), antiviral drugs and antibiotics.

And most importantly, Mike will be open and honest with the American people.
You can read Mike's plan to address the coronavirus and other public health emergencies here.
You can view the letter from Scientists for Mike here and below.
Dear America,
As members of the scientific community, we are concerned that science is under attack.
The Trump administration is deeply damaging the pursuit of knowledge in America.
It gave the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention a list of words that cannot be used in official documents, including "evidence-based" and "science-based."
How can we assure the public of the integrity of our scientific research, when we can't even say that our methods are "evidence-based" or "science-based?"
Trump's Environmental Protection Agency is attempting to limit the scientific and medical research required to set public health regulations.
This intentional interference into informed discovery threatens the quality of our air and water, the safety of our food, the health of our families, and the viability of our planet.
We can't afford four more years of science denial.
Presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg believes in science. He will restore science to its rightful place because he, unlike the current president, understands that if we abandon facts, we wander in darkness.
President Bloomberg will prioritize science, and we will once again walk together in pursuit of truth.
Sincerely,Scientists for Mike*

Andreas Acrivos, 2001 National Medal of Science Laureate, Albert Einstein Professor Emeritus of Science and Engineering, City College of New York, and Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering, Stanford University
Bruce Alberts, 2012 National Medal of Science Laureate, former President, National Academy of Sciences and Chancellor's Leadership Chair in Biochemistry and Biophysics for Science and Education, University of California, San Francisco
Bernard Amadei, Distinguished Professor and Professor of Civil Engineering, University of Colorado Boulder and Member of the National Academy of Engineering
Eugenie Birch, Nussdorf Professor of Urban Research, University of Pennsylvania
Mary Boyce, Dean of Engineering, Columbia UniversityIndy Burke, Dean of School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, Yale University
Dan Costa, former National Program Director for Air, Climate and Energy, Office of Research and Development, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Anthony W. Crowell, Professor of Law, New York Law School
Serge Dedina, Ph.D., Mayor of Imperial Beach, California
Reginald DesRoches, Dean of Engineering, Rice University
Timothy Evans, Professor of Biology, Grand Valley State University
Harvey Fineberg, former President of the National Academy of Medicine
Ester Fuchs, Professor of International and Public Affairs and Political Science, Columbia University and special advisor to Mike Bloomberg
Sheldon Glashow, 1979 Nobel Laureate in Physics
Susan Hockfield, President Emerita, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Amee Kapadia, Biomedical Engineering Student and Climate Activist, Johns Hopkins University
Patrick L. Kinney, Professor of Environmental Health, Boston University School of Public Health
Michael Lubell, Zemansky Professor of Physics, City College of the City University of New York
Stan Meiburg, former Acting Deputy Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Sonny Ramaswamy, former Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture, U.S. Department of Agriculture
Christine Rosen, Professor, Business and Public Policy, University of California Berkeley
Jon Samet, Dean, Colorado School of Public Health
Barbara Schaal, Dean of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences, Washington University in St. Louis
Randy Schekman, 2013 Nobel Laureate in Physiology or Medicine
Jim Simons, Founder of Renaissance Technologies, Chair of the Simons Foundation, and former Chair and Professor of Mathematics at Stony Brook University
Alfred Sommer, Dean Emeritus, Gilman Scholar, and University Distinguished Service Professor of Epidemiology, International Health and Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins University
Kirk Smith, Professor of Global Environmental Health, University of California Berkeley
Keren Yarhi-Milo, Professor of Political Science and International Affairs, Columbia University
Gary Yohe, 2007 Nobel Laureate in Peace (as senior member of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), and Professor Emeritus of Economics & Environmental Studies, Wesleyan University

*Signatories of this letter have signed in their individual capacities. Affiliation is for identification purposes only and not the views expressed of the listed institution.
  