
    "GOP Nominee: Romney Would Be A Better Executive"
The Denver Post
February 1, 2008
"Republicans have weeded a diverse and talented field of presidential candidates down to two finalists and a beguiling but quirky pair of also-rans, Mike Huckabee and Ron Paul.
"Arizona Sen. John McCain, now the frontrunner, is an American hero, a foreign-policy expert and a veteran of the Washington trenches. But with a volatile economy overtaking Iraq as a chief concern among voters, we believe that Mitt Romney is the best choice for Colorado Republicans.
"As a governor of Massachusetts, a skilled businessman and the savior of the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Romney possesses the executive acumen necessary to implement policies that produce results. Wouldn't that be a strange change in Washington?
"In a recent phone interview with The Post's editorial board, Romney impressed us with his broad range of knowledge, his grasp of economic policy and his understanding of issues important to Western voters.
"Washington Republicans have strayed far from the fiscal conservatism their party has traditionally championed. So while we applaud McCain's stand against wasteful spending, we're even more impressed with Romney's real-world experience in running lean budgets and bringing financial competency to companies.
"We believe his economic growth plan - eliminating taxes on capital gains and interest and dividends for middle-class households - will help spur capital investment and the economy."
...
"On foreign policy issues, both Romney and McCain have promised to continue fighting terrorism worldwide and both have backed the surge in Iraq. While McCain has combat experience that can't be discounted, Romney has surrounded himself with competent leadership and his lack of military experience shouldn't keep him from leading America firmly and wisely on the world stage."
...
"Romney has the resume and executive experience to be not only an effective president, but a problem-solver in a world full of problems."
To read the full endorsement, please see: http://www.denverpost.com/opinion/ci_8133751
The following endorsement will be published in Sunday's Denver Post in the Perspective section.
  