
    
"Yes, we have income inequality—and other forms of inequality that we need to stand up against."

Hillary Clinton used her closing statement at the Democratic debate to bring up a few important issues they didn't get to talk about—but she was determined to mention.


  " We didn't get to talk about the continuing struggles that Americans face with racism, with sexism, with discrimination against the LGBT community, with New Americans, with people with disabilities."

Hillary has been fighting to address these issues throughout her career—and this campaign. Here's where she stands:
Taking on systemic racism:
"The opportunity gap that America is facing is not just about economic inequality. It is about racial inequality."
National Urban League Conference, July 31, 2015
Ending discrimination against the LGBT community:
"Congress must pass the federal Equality Act. That law would finally outlaw discrimination against LGBT people basically everywhere?—?in employment, housing, public education, public accommodations, access to federal funding and credit, and in the jury system."
Human Rights Campaign Breakfast, October 3, 2015
Fixing our broken immigration system:
"If we really want to strengthen families, then we have to finally, once and for all, fix our broken immigration system."
National Association of Latino Elected Officials 32nd Annual Conference, June 18, 2015
Fighting for the rights of Americans with disabilities:
"We should acknowledge how the disabilities community has played such an important role in changing things for the better in our country."
On the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act, June 26, 2015
And she has a long history of fighting to make a difference.


  " I have been moved by my heart ever since I was a young woman—about the age of a lot of Senator Sanders' supporters—worrying about what I could do to make a difference for my country, and I will bring that heart with me. But I will also tell you: We have got to get our heads together to come up with the best answers to solve these problems so that people can have real differences in their lives that will make them better for now and into the future."


  