
    With less than a week remaining before the Virginia primary, El Comercio Newspaper in Manassas, Virginia, endorsed Hillary Clinton for the democratic nomination today.
[Click here] to read the editorial of El Comercio Newspaper
A translation follows:
Why is El Comercio Newspaper endorsing Hillary Clinton?
El Comercio Newspaper has, since its creation four years ago, been in sync with the interests of the Latino community, first in Virginia, where it was born; and later in the whole Washington Metropolitan area.
Throughout the years this newspaper has been coherent with its editorial principle which is based on the right of everyone to improve their quality of life which includes, exercising our right to vote, our right to have access to health care, education, culture and entertainment.
To summarize it, we have been coherent with our commitment to promote and defend Human Rights, especially for the immigrant community - which this publication is part of.
That is why this editorial board has not hesitated in supporting a comprehensive immigration reform that favors millions of undocumented immigrants, and in facing some of these unjust, belligerent and racist measures and anti-immigrant laws.
Those principals are compatible with the platform of democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. We have no doubt that, once she becomes president, she will work tirelessly in favor of the economic, social and cultural rights of our community, as she has been doing for quite some time.
We are convinced that during her presidency she will work hard in favor of Latino immigrants, an issue that we know is not foreign to her, because since her childhood she demonstrated solidarity with the poor people who came from the south.
It is because of that reason that this outlet is publicly declaring its support to the candidacy of the former First Lady and Senator Hillary Clinton, a woman who is respectful of Human Rights, particularly of children, seniors and the underprivileged, who could be the first female President of the United States.
Thus, El Comercio Newspaper joins the long list of media and Hispanic personalities that are supporting the nomination of this great woman. Among those who have joined her we can find Ana Sol Gutierrez, Patti (sic) Solís Doyle, who is her Campaign Manager, Dolores Huerta and Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa.
This Tuesday, our community will have a very valuable opportunity to make this dream come true. Get out and vote for Hillary, the only person who not only has the intentions and the desire to support the community, but the one who also has a clear project to make it happen.
  