
    New Ad: The campaign launched a new ad in Wisconsin. "Debate" asks Sen. Obama why he has not agreed to debate Hillary in Wisconsin. Watch.
Economic Focus: Today in Ohio, Hillary tours a GM Assembly Plant and holds a "Solutions for America" economic town hall in Warren, attends a roundtable discussion on the foreclosure crisis in Dayton and holds a "Solutions for America" rally with Gov. Ted Strickland and former Sen. John Glenn in Columbus.
If You Read One Thing Today: "Listen to the Crowd Noise" by CBS' Dean Reynolds. "The crowd loves [Hillary]. There is real affection in the air. It may be sisterhood, but it feels like more. In her way, Clinton's rallies are as distinctive as Obama's." Read more.
The Way to Win: This close election will come down to delegates. Hillary has the support and resources to win the three largest, delegate rich states remaining. Polls have Hillary ahead in Texas, Ohio and Pennsylvania. All things considered, for example, "Ohio tilts toward Hillary" according to Sen. Sherrod Brown. Read more.
Follow the Leader: Sen. Obama yesterday delivered what was billed as a "major economic address." But the only "new" ideas Sen. Obama discussed were ones that Hillary proposed months ago. Read more.
Yesterday on the Trail: "They started arriving just after 6 a.m... [and] endured the morning cold" in Robstown, Texas, where Hillary "received an enthusiastic reception... with a crowd that exceeded the 6,000 seating and standing capacity." ... "After wrapping up a speech to several thousand cheering supporters" in San Antonio, Hillary "was greeted outside by another few thousand students, many of them taking the ubiquitous cell-phone camera pictures, after they had been denied access to the rally due to lack of room."
Yesterday in the States: In Wisconsin, the campaign opened new offices in Green Bay, La Crosse, Madison and Milwaukee ... In Ohio, the campaign announced its Leadership Council, made up of more than 100 elected officials and community leaders from across the state... In Texas, the campaign unveiled a new web page.
In Case You Missed It: "Obama's (economic) plan... is the most shameless piece of potential plagiarism that I have ever seen. He basically took Clinton's words and Clinton's policies and called them his own. If I were a professor I'd give him an F and try to get him kicked out of school," said Kevin Hassett, Sen. John McCain's economic advisor and the Director of Economic Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute.
FactCheck: Sen. Obama continues to misrepresent Hillary's record on trade, using a claim that the Politico's Ben Smith has determined to be "fairly bogus." Read more.
  