
    Following New Hampshire Primary, South Carolina Ramps Up Staff And Announces Endorsement of State Representative JA Moore
CHARLESTON, SC — Today, South Carolina State Representative JA Moore announced his endorsement of Pete Buttigieg for President. The endorsement comes on the heels of Pete's historic victory in the Iowa caucuses and strong performance in the New Hampshire primary, and as Pete for America in South Carolina ramps up its staff on the ground in the Palmetto State.
Moore represents House District 15, a rapidly growing portion of Berkeley and Charleston counties. He recently introduced Pete at an event in Moncks Corner with Charlamagne tha God, host of the influential Breakfast Club radio program.
"Electability is top of mind for every South Carolina voter. If anyone had doubts, Pete Buttigieg has proven he's the only viable candidate to build a cross racial, rural, urban and suburban coalition to win in November." says Representative Moore. "As a 34-year-old elected official in South Carolina, I know the value of next generation leadership. I am proud to endorse Pete for President and show everyone we're ready to win the era together."
The endorsement comes as Pete for America in South Carolina is expanding to 55 staff members in the state across its six field offices. Pete's campaign has also been investing in paid media across the state, running digital, television and radio ads, including one featuring Walter Clyburn Reed and Abe Jenkins reflecting on the legacies of their respective grandfathers and why it ultimately led them to support Pete to be the Democratic nominee. Clyburn Reed is the grandson of Rep. James E. Clyburn, and Jenkins is the grandson of civil rights leader Esau Jenkins. Pete for America also recently announced that following Pete's historic win in the Iowa Caucuses that it would be increasing its digital paid media investment in the state.
South Carolina District 15 State Representative JA Moore, represents voters in Berkeley and Charleston counties, including parts of North Charleston, Hanahan, Goose Creek, and Moncks Corner. An alumni of Johnson & Wales University, Moore is a chef and small business owner. In the legislature he serves as First Vice Chair, on the Interstate Cooperation Committee is a member of the Medical, Military, Public and Municipal Affairs Committee, and a member on the Subcommittee on Military, Local Government and Public Affairs. JA's father, the late James A. Moore, was one of the first African-Americans to serve in the Marine Corps.
  