
    "First of all, let me say that everyone who's on the call, if you have a copy of this in front of you, this is exactly why I'm supporting Mitt Romney for President. What you have in front of you is a plan that encourages the private sector to create jobs." — U.S. Sen. Jim Risch
Gov. Butch Otter and U.S. Senator Jim Risch
"Restoring America's Promise — Idaho" Press Conference Call
February 24, 2012

Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights From The "Restoring America's Promise — Idaho" Press Conference Call
GOV. BUTCH OTTER: "Yes, thank you. This is Butch Otter and I've had the opportunity to review the Romney plan. I think it's one that's bold and very conservative that will provide for an economy that can add jobs. His effort to reduce the debt and obviously will create smaller government and will enhance our ability, at the state level, I believe, to govern our states and do the things that we think are necessary to do for the people of our state. So I'm pretty excited about the plan and feel that it's one that's winnable and one that will actually get the economy back on track because those tracks been rusted pretty bad now for about the last few years. So I'm looking forward to it."
SEN. JIM RISCH: "This is Jim Risch. First of all, let me say that everyone who's on the call, if you have a copy of this in front of you, this is exactly why I'm supporting Mitt Romney for president. What you have in front of you is a plan that encourages the private sector to create jobs. If you're a person who believes that the government can create jobs by spending through the Keynesian theory of economics, you might as well hang up right now because we just don't have anything in common. I believe it's only the private sector that can do this. The federal government can do a handful of things and act as a catalyst, more importantly, it can act as a big, wet blanket, which it has been doing for the last three years. This is a bold plan. As Butch said, it's a plan that really encourages the private sector to get out and hire people. And the thing that I think that the private sector needs in order to actually start doing this is not only the kind of things that are specifically provided in this plan, but it's also a mental attitude. A belief that the government isn't its enemy. That the government wants to see the private sector create jobs. I really believe this puts us down the road to that. I think if we can elect Mitt Romney as president, and we can adopt this sort of thing, I think you will see a rebirth of the American economy like we haven't seen in a long, long time. And heaven knows we needed this with as bad of troubles we're in financially. I'm excited about this. I think this is really doable and it's, like I said, the reason I support Mitt Romney."
  