
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

When Florence Nightingale and William Rathbone's concept of the visting nurse was brought to the United States in 1885, that event marked the beginning of a long and distinguished tradition of service to homebound Americans. Today the Department of Health and Human Services reports that more than 1,500,000 men, women, and children receive home health care and support services through visiting nurse associations. Such assistance is invaluable to persons who are terminally ill, to persons who are recovering from a temporary illness or injury, and to persons who are incapacitated by a chronic disease or disability -- individuals who might otherwise be forced to seek care in an institutional setting. Visiting nurse associations enable these Americans to obtain needed services in the comfort and security of their own homes.
While it is inspired by the same spirit of compassion and volunteerism, the role of the visiting nurse has changed dramatically over the past 100 years. In addition to providing medical care, visiting nurse associations also offer social services, nutritional counseling and Meals-on-Wheels programs, as well as physical, speech, and occupational therapy. Today's visiting nurse associations also operate wellness clinics, hospices, and adult day care centers. Their efforts are a reminder that health care is made more accessible and more affordable by the hundreds of thousands of Americans who volunteer their time and service to others.
The Visiting Nurse Associations of America are independently operated community organizations that serve more than 500 urban and rural communities in 45 States. These organizations are committed to providing quality health care to all people, regardless of one's ability to pay, and this week, we gratefully salute the many hardworking professionals and volunteers who help to uphold their wonderful tradition of service.
The Congress, by Public Law 102-207, has designated the week beginning February 16, 1992, as "National Visiting Nurse Associations Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of February 16 through February 22, 1992, as National Visiting Nurse Associations Week. I invite all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  