
    Today Kasich for America announced that Former Louisiana Congressman Jim McCrery, State Senator Norby Chabert and St. Tammany District Attorney Warren Montgomery will lead Gov. John Kasich's presidential campaign organization in Louisiana.
McCrery, an attorney who served Louisiana in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1988-2009, said, "Gov. Kasich is both electable and well-suited to lead our country. He's the kind of pragmatic visionary America must elect if we hope to grow our economy and strengthen our national security. I'm honored to join the effort to spread his message of accomplishment to Louisiana voters."
Said Chabert, "There's simply no candidate with a more impressive record of success than John Kasich. He's the only leader who has balanced a federal budget and the only one with a plan to do it again. He has an energetic, optimistic message that is connecting with voters, and it's exciting to be a part of the team."

Born and raised in Bayou Petite Caillou, Senator Chabert is a small businessman who worked as an advisor to federal, state and local officials across the state before being elected to represent Louisiana's 20th state senate district.
Said Montgomery, "I'm honored to join the number of talented individuals who are working to spread Gov. Kasich's message to Louisiana voters. We need someone who can step into the role of Commander-in-Chief and manage economic growth on Day One, and John Kasich is that leader. When we communicate this message, voters respond."

Montgomery serves as District Attorney for Louisiana's 22nd Judicial District, which includes Washington and St. Tammany Parishes.
Gov. Kasich has also won the support of a number of other notable public officials, including Ouachita Parish Police Juror President Scotty Robinson and Lafayette Parish Clerk of Court Louis Perret as well as prominent members of the business community, including Robert and Mary Lupo (New Orleans), Pat LeBlanc (Jefferson Parish), Lee Smith (Shreveport), John Dane (New Orleans), Ed Baker (Baton Rouge) and Danny Conwill (New Orleans).
Said Kasich, "I'm grateful to each and every one of these individuals for offering their support, talent and resources. We have an incredible team on the ground and we're feeling good about our ability to get through to Louisiana voters in these final weeks before the primary election."

Kasich for America Louisiana Leadership Team
Former Congressman Jim McCrery, Co-Chair
State Senator Norby Chabert, Co-Chair
St. Tammany District Attorney Warren Montgomery, Co-Chair
J.T. Hannan
Stewart F. Peck
Stephen M. Gele
Scott Sternberg
Cassie Alsfeld
Lawrence 'Larry' DeMarcay III
Ouachita Parish Police Juror President Scotty Robinson
Lafayette Parish Clerk of Court Louis Perret
Robert and Mary Lupo
Pat LeBlanc
Lee Smith
John Dane
Ed Baker
Danny Conwill
  