
    Economists and political and business leaders today made the following statements on Mitt Romney's bold pro-growth economic plan:
Glenn Hubbard, Dean of the Columbia University School of Business: "Once again, Mitt Romney has demonstrated he understands the need to promote economic growth, jobs, and wages. Cutting business taxes and marginal tax rates across the board is a key step. Coupled with his spending plan to rein in both the federal government's claim on GDP and debt, this tax plan is bold and pro-growth. These plans stand in stark contrast to President Obama's increase in the size of government and his plans to raise taxes on business owners."
Rep. Dave Camp (R-MI), Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means: "In the race for president, conservatives have a credible and comprehensive set of policies to back.  Gov. Romney's plan will accomplish the key conservative objectives of cutting tax rates to promote economic growth and job creation, while keeping us on a path to a balanced budget.  Other candidates talk about the problems, but their numbers just don't add up.  The simple fact is Governor Romney is the only candidate who has put forward the bold plans necessary to both get Americans back to work through comprehensive tax reform while cutting spending in Washington to reduce our debt and deficits."
Andy Puzder, CEO of CKE Restaurants, Inc.: "Having spent my life in business, I know that America needs a president who understands the relationship between taxes and job creation.  Mitt Romney's economic reform proposals show that he has thought deeply about the problems we're facing and is willing to make tough decisions to fix them. His plan is a conservative dream come true. Actually, it's an American dream come true.  It will put the country on a path to lower tax rates and job creation without ballooning the deficit. Indeed, it will move us toward a balanced budget."
Thomas Stemberg, Managing General Partner at Highland Consumer Fund and Founder of Staples, Inc.: "I worked closely with Mitt in founding Staples and I saw the kind of cloth he's cut from. The excellence of his economic and tax reform plan does not surprise me in the least.  Mitt understands better than almost anyone the harmful impact of our convoluted tax system on job creation. And he's found a way to lower marginal rates without adding to the extraordinary deficits Barack Obama has saddled the country with. Indeed, Mitt is putting us on the path to a balanced budget even as he overhauls the tax code."
Gary Wolfram, William E. Simon Professor in Economics and Public Policy at Hillsdale College: "Economics may be the dismal science, but Mitt Romney's economic reform plan gives even economists reason to be cheerful. At last, we have a presidential candidate who is serious about cutting marginal rates while also facing up to the need to balance the budget. If this plan is put into action, the effects on economic growth and job creation are likely to be substantial."
Al Hubbard, Former Director of the National Economic Council: "Mitt Romney's bold plan will immediately restart America's economic engine, grow our economy, and put people back to work. It is a comprehensive, pro-growth, fiscally responsible plan that will make the United States economically competitive by lowering tax rates and reforming the tax code. More so than any other candidate, Mitt Romney offers a plan that is realistic, responsible, and America's best opportunity to get our economy back on track."
  