
    "First of all, I think it is an extraordinary dereliction of duty to continue to forecast and plan for trillion dollar deficits. It is inexcusable. It imperils the country's future and of course it imperils our children's future. I think the President has made a major error in that regard. Secondly, the President was not willing to talk about how we can secure Medicare and Social Security going forward." — Mitt Romney
KXLY Spokane
February 14, 2012
Click Here To Listen To Mitt Romney Describe How He Will Cut Government And Balance The Budget
MITT ROMNEY: "First of all, I think it is an extraordinary dereliction of duty to continue to forecast and plan for trillion dollar deficits. It is inexcusable. It imperils the country's future and of course it imperils our children's future. I think the President has made a major error in that regard. Secondly, the President was not willing to talk about how we can secure Medicare and Social Security going forward. They represent a real danger, not only to people who are on these programs, but to coming generations. And I think that was a big mistake. And then of course he cuts the military dramatically. And this is at a time when the world is a far less safe place. The idea of cutting back on our Air Force, cutting back on our Navy, and cutting back on our active duty personnel, that's simply the wrong way to go. My own reaction is this: we have to eliminate a lot of programs and I would eliminate a whole series of programs starting with Obamacare. Number two, we take a lot of programs that exist at the federal level and send them back to the states where they grow at inflation, not faster than inflation, and where they're managed to be far less filled with abuses and fraud. And finally, we have to shrink the size of the federal workforce through attrition and link the pay of the federal workforce with the pay in the private sector. People who work for government shouldn't be getting a lot more money and benefits than people who work in the private sector."
  