
    Montgomery, AL – Former Arkansas Governor and Presidential Candidate Mike Huckabee today signed a campaign pledge, authored by U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL), demonstrating "his strong commitment to securing America's borders as president." (Click here to download the pledge - PDF)
"I appreciate Senator Sessions' strong leadership on the critical issue of immigration reform and I share his resolve to make it a national priority when I am elected president," said Huckabee, who has authored his own nine-point plan to secure America's borders. Huckabee's "Secure America Plan" is the most comprehensive of any put forth by a presidential candidate.
Campaigning in Alabama today, Huckabee said he joins with the two-term Alabama Senator in calling on the federal government, as well as other presidential candidates, to push for passage of important immigration measures such as border security, workplace verification and "no amnesty."
The questionnaire, called "A Roadmap for Demonstrating Presidential Credibility on One of America's Most Important Issues," deals with five key areas, including securing the borders, ending the magnet at the workplace, enhancing state and local law enforcement, discouraging sanctuaries, and improving the legal immigration process.
Answering a host of questions dealing with the illegal immigration problem, Huckabee said, if elected president, he would secure the border including construction of the 700 mile southern border fence required by the Secure Fence Act, constructing more miles if needed, and keeping the National Guard on the border until it is secured.
Sessions, a member of the Senate Armed Services, Energy and Judiciary Committees, is a strong proponent of enhanced federal enforcement of the immigration laws of the United States. Huckabee says he also shared Sessions' commitment to "confirming federal judges who follow the law and who do not legislate from the bench and his focus on reducing America's dependence on foreign oil."
Huckabee is scheduled to campaign in Georgia on Sunday, February 3, 2008 and in Tennessee and Arkansas on Monday, February 4.
  