
    "Romney knows a few things that we believe will help the economy get back on track, something that will help millions of Americans who are now out of work. 'Government doesn't create jobs, the private sector does,' he says repeatedly on the campaign trail. He has put forth a tax plan that lowers the top corporate tax rate and cuts 20 percent off marginal rates for individuals, ideas he hopes will create jobs."
"Our View: Romney Endorsed"
Midland Daily News (MI)
Editorial
February 26, 2012
http://www.ourmidland.com/
...
So, as we sat down to write this endorsement, we asked ourselves: Which Republican presidential contender is best placed to run a competitive race in November against Democratic President Barack Obama?
We believe that candidate is Mitt Romney.
While each of the Republican candidates in this race has strengths and weaknesses — glaringly outlined before millions of Americans in 20 debates over the past year — we believe that Romney, with his private and public success, is the best candidate for a job that requires business acumen as well as the ability to digest disparate ideas quickly, work with people with radically different ideas and bring clarity to complicated events.
By now, after about one year of campaigning and those 20 debates, most should know the Romney story.
...
Romney knows a few things that we believe will help the economy get back on track, something that will help millions of Americans who are now out of work. "Government doesn't create jobs, the private sector does," he says repeatedly on the campaign trail. He has put forth a tax plan that lowers the top corporate tax rate and cuts 20 percent off marginal rates for individuals, ideas he hopes will create jobs.
"We've got to have more jobs, less debt and smaller government, they go together," Romney said in an appearance in Chandler, Ariz., earlier this week. "By lowering those marginal rates, we help businesses that pay at the individual tax rate to have more money so they can hire more people."
He has also said that he will work to ease the debt burden on the U.S., which under the Obama administration has been increasing at more than $1.3 trillion a year.
  