
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad for terms of 3 years. They are all new positions.
Dalia Debenis Bobelis is active on the board of various civic and cultural groups, including serving as a director of the Lithuanian/American Relief Fund and as a trustee of the Lithuanian Evangelical Reform Church. She is married, has five children, and resides in St. Petersburg, FL. She was born August 4, 1932, in Lithuania.
Kenneth M. Duberstein is vice president of Timmons & Co. in Washington, DC. Previously he served at the White House as Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs. He is married, has two children, and resides in Alexandria, VA. He was born April 21, 1944, in Brooklyn, NY.
Alma Lee Gildenhorn is active in civic and cultural affairs, including serving as cochairman of the Washington Committee, Kennedy Center's Capital Fund/Endowment Campaign, and as a member of the Planning Committee for the Endowment of the National Cultural Center. She is married, has two children, and resides in Bethesda, MD. She was born January 14, 1932, in Baltimore, MD.
Zvi Kestenbaum is executive director of the Opportunity Development Association in Brooklyn, NY. Previously he was a partner in the firm of Kestenbaum and Hoffman. He is married, has seven children, and resides in Brooklyn, NY. He was born November 4, 1922, in Ujsherto, Hungary.
A. Morgan Mason is president of the Mason Organization in Los Angeles, CA. Previously he served as president of the public affairs division of Rogers & Cowan, Inc., in Los Angeles, CA. Mr. Mason served at the White House as Special Assistant to the President for Political Affairs in 1981-1982. Previously he was Deputy Chief of Protocol at the State Department. He was born June 26, 1955, in Los Angeles, CA, where he now resides.
Judy Baar Topinka is a member of the Illinois State Senate. Previously she served two terms in the Illinois House of Representatives for the 43d and 7th Districts. She was formerly in the public relations business. She has one child and resides in Riverside, IL. She was born January 16, 1944, in Chicago, IL.
  