
    
  Coveted endorsement adds to momentum of grassroots Granite State campaign

For Immediate Release:
Tuesday, February 2, 2016
MORRISTOWN, NJ - After kicking off his final campaign swing in the Granite State on Monday, Governor Chris Christie received the endorsement of respected State Senator Nancy Stiles (R- Hampton). The endorsement of Stiles continues the momentum for Christie's campaign in New Hampshire. She will join Governor Christie at his town hall meeting Tuesday evening in Londonderry.
"After personally meeting and assessing many Republican candidates for President, I have chosen to enthusiastically endorse Chris Christie for President," said Stiles. "Governor Christie has upended the status quo in New Jersey. Even though he faces a legislature controlled by the opposing party, he has accomplished transformative reforms that have reduced spending, cut taxes and created over 233,500 new private sector jobs. As a United States Attorney who prosecuted terrorists and corrupt politicians, I know Governor Christie is not afraid of a tough challenge. He will tackle our nation's most pressing problems by speaking to the American people directly and with candor. Governor Christie is also a proven winner, who was re-elected in a blue state with 61% of the vote, including a majority of the female and hispanic vote. Governor Christie must be our next President because he has the strength and experience to lead our nation back to prosperity at home and restore our respect abroad"
Governor Christie commented, "Nancy Stiles is a passionate advocate for the people of New Hampshire and I am honored to receive her endorsement ahead of the New Hampshire primary. In the next week, I will continue to work hard, meet voters and share our message on the serious choice voters are making in this election and why I am the most tested, experienced leader for the job."
Senator Nancy Stiles is serving her third term in the Senate having first been elected in 2010, defeating long time Democrat State Senator Martha Fuller Clark, and again in 2012 and 2014. She previously served three terms in New Hampshire's House of Representatives.
Currently, the Senator chairs the Transportation Committee and is vice-chair to the Education committee. She also serves on the Public & Municipal Affairs Committee.
In 2014 Senator Stiles received the Legislator of the Year Award from New Futures for her work in support of access to mental health services.
View the full New Hampshire endorsement list here.
  