
    Pool Reports by Eli Stokols, Los Angeles Times



Sent:
Reports:




February 25, 202009:07 IST

Out of town pool report #1 — awaiting welcome ceremony
Namaste from New Delhi's Rashtrapati Bhavan, Presidential Palace, where the pool is assembled and waiting for POTUS's arrival in about 45 minutes.
We have a full day of events in Delhi, starting with an outdoor welcome ceremony here in front of the grand terra-cotta-colored and tan brick palace, where a red carpet has been rolled out in a triangle and up the steps inside, which are also covered on both sides with a whole bunch of flower pots. There are lots of people sweeping with whisk brooms on the clay infield, keeping the red carpets clean. About 50 chairs are set up under a red and gold canopy for dignitaries to observe the ceremony.
Flagging the two scheduled opportunities for POTUS remarks today: a joint statement with Prime Minister Modi at 1:10 p.m. local (2:40 a.m. in DC) and a press conference with POTUS at 5 p.m. local (6:30 a.m. in DC).
A supplemental pooler will be with POTUS in the motorcade this morning and notifying when they are rolling from the hotel.
Here are a couple pics of the set-up, more soon.



February 25, 202010:16 IST

Out of town pool report #2 — welcome ceremony
PM Modi's motorcade pulled in at 9:54 a.m. local. He stepped out of a black BMW, walked over and stood on the red carpet beneath the canopy facing the palace. The president of India, Ram Nath Kovind, arrived moments later and he took a seat beside Modi.
Cannons sounded at 10:02 heralding POTUS's arrival, as the motorcade pulled in the main gates to the palace, led by an Indian mounted guard, bayonet carrying soldiers on brown horses wearing long red coats and blue and gold turbans.
Modi appeared to go greet POTUS as he stepped out of the car (slightly out of view of the pool) and led FLOTUS, in a white dress and red belt, to a seat beneath the canopy. POTUS, in a dark suit and red tie, walked to the center of the infield and stood alone on a reviewing platform under a square canopy, hand on his heart, while the band played the Star Spangled Banner, followed by the Indian national anthem.
After twice saluting a lead general who'd been yelling marching orders, Trump walked alone down the red carpet to the far side of the palace facade and then turned back, passing by the line of soldiers as the military band played another song. Then he turned back toward the official delegation, shaking hands first with the president and then PM Modi. Then he made his way down the line, shaking hands with the Indian officials seated up the row from the U.S. delegation.
He continued through, with the Indian president ahead of him, shaking hands with his own staff, daughter and son in law. Then they turned back towards their vehicles.
We are hustling back to vans to head to the next event at 10:14. Rolling now.
Pregame notes:The official WH party arrived around 9:35 — Wilbur Ross, Stephanie Grisham, Robert O'Brien, Emma Doyle, Ambassador Kenneth Juster, Dan Scavino and Stephen Miller. Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner walked in a moment later. There appeared to be some gramming happening on the red carpet before things got started.
Then a long procession of military marchers, grouped by uniform color — first baby blue, then white, then olive green — entered with a band playing behind them and then stood at attention in front of the presidential palace.



February 25, 202010:57 IST

Out of town pool report #3 — Raj Ghat
Motorcade was rolling from the presidential palace at 10:17 a.m. and, after a short ride down completely empty streets, arrived at 10:31 at Raj Ghat, the open-air memorial where Gandhi was cremated after being assassinated in 1948.
Pool, after ditching our shoes, scurried into place to watch POTUS and FLOTUS who appeared at 10:40 and walked toward the center of a grassy, stone wall-enclosed garden, where a glass enclosed flame is lit at the memorial, which is draped with orange and yellow marigolds. Indian music played on a loudspeaker as crows cawed loudly overhead.
POTUS and FLOTUS, who also shed their shoes and walked in socks — black and white, respectively — followed behind a man and woman carrying a large white wreath, which was placed in front of the memorial. They then stood over it, touching the wreath and standing quietly for 20 seconds or so. Then they moved around, and scattered five handfuls of pink rose petals (pic below courtesy of AP's Jonathan Lemire) on the black marble memorial.
Pool was directed back to the front gates around 10:42, past a guest book — we were a good distance away when he came back to it a moment later, sat down and signed it.
At 10:50, POTUS and FLOTUS walked over to a plot behind the front wall and took part in a tree planting ceremony that was very brief (did not see any trees being planted).
Pool now loaded back into vans, rolling shortly to Hyderabad House.



February 25, 202011:16 IST

Out of town pool report #4 — Hyderabad House arrival
Motorcade rolling at 10:57 a.m. local, arrived at Hyderabad House at 11:06.
Pool was not in place to see POTUS arrive, as we came through the front gates when staff was going inside.
But POTUS, FLOTUS and PM Modi came back out at 11:12, emerging from the main arched entryway and facing the press riser before a row of alternating U.S. and Indian flags. They stood for a few seconds and then shook hands. No comments other than both leaders saying "thank you very much."
They are proceeding to a bilat that is closed to pool, but there is a spray scheduled for the expanded bilat to follow.
Holding for now.



February 25, 202012:21 IST

Out of town pool report #5 — expanded bilat spray
Pool ushered into expanded bilat on the second floor of Hyderabad House at 12:09 p.m.
POTUS and PM Modi were standing at the far end of the narrow room in front of a fireplace with aides seated on opposite sides (planned seating chart pictured below). They shook hands and sat down in chairs.
Modi spoke first, but pool did not have headsets for the translation.
Trump thanked Modi: "The last two days have been amazing in every sense of the word."
He said he looked forward to Modi speaking more "about the progress we've made on trade, on fighter jets...and energy."
He described Monday's rally in Ahmedabad and again praised Modi and spoke of the size of the crowd, claiming there were "thousands of people outside trying to get in."
"I would even imagine they were there more for you than for me, I would hope so," he told Modi.
"The people love you...every time I mentioned your name, they would cheer."
No questions. Pool ushered out at 12:14.We are heading outside now for the joint statement, which will be followed by the lunch. As of now, that's closed to pool.
Seating chart for expanded bilat:



February 25, 202012:32 IST

Out of town pool report #5a — press statements to come
Apologies if you received pool report #5 more than once — it appeared to get stuck in my outbox, but apparently not!
Pool is seated under a large tent for the forthcoming statements by POTUS and PM Modi. They will speak at lecterns in front of a row of flags with Hyderabad House and the garden and arching fountains behind them. There are roughly 200 members of the press assembled, a majority of them on the Indian side — six rows of chairs and a crowded photo riser in the back.
The remarks will be open press but pool will send along additional color. Hopefully just once.



February 25, 202013:45 IST

Out of town pool report #6 — press statements
Official delegations walked out at 1:10 p.m. and took their seats. POTUS and PM Modi emerged from Hyderabad House at 1:23 and walked a red carpet to the twin lecterns. Separate teleprompters were set up for both leaders.
The remarks were open press.
Modi spoke in Hindu with a little bit of English mixed in, calling their visit "unprecedented." Trump listened with a small earpiece. Pool was not provided headsets.
Before Modi began, another official announced that three documents were finalized during the bilateral meetings:
• MOU on mental health• MOU on drug products• Letter of cooperation between India and Exxon Mobil
Trump began speaking at 1:34, recapping his visit so far. "Melania and i have been awed by the majesty of India," he said.
He called it a "very productive visit" and touted a $3 billion deal for India's military to purchase helicopters.
Trump also mentioned the "Importance of a secure 5G wireless network" that is utilized for positive purposes.
He said the Exxon deal will allow India to import more LNG from the US and thanked the company's CEO.
Trump also said he and Modi agreed to form a counter-narcotics working group to stop the spread of opioids.
On the US-India relationship: "It has never been as good as it is right now," Trump said.
He wrapped at 1:42 noting they would not take questions now but that he would take lots of them at his own press conference a few hours from now.
Pool holding now while the leaders have lunch.



February 25, 202015:17 IST

Out of town pool report #7 — rolling to embassy
Motorcade rolling from Hyderabad House at 3:16 p.m. after a longer-than-scheduled Trump-Modi lunch, which remained closed to the pool.
Headed to the U.S. Embassy now for a business roundtable and a meet and greet.



February 25, 202015:28 IST

Out of town pool report #8 — arrival at embassy
Motorcade arrived at the U.S. Embassy at 3:26 p.m. after a short drive down clear streets populated only by soldiers standing guard in every driveway and, according to keen-eyed co-pooler Seung Min Kim, at least three monkeys along the roadside.
Running inside now for the business roundtable spray.



February 25, 202015:40 IST

Out of town pool report #9 — embassy roundtable (coronavirus comments)
Pool brought into a small room inside the embassy's Roosevelt House with four round tables and a presidential lectern. At 3:31, Ambassador Kenneth Juster asked the roughly 30 attendees to be seated and introduced POTUS, who then entered from a side door at 3:34 and received a polite ovation.
Trump said he's had "a tremendous time in India" and said PM Modi is "a friend" who's doing a "remarkable job."
Trump joked to the business leaders that their investments in the US have made them a lot of money "except for yesterday," noting the market drop.
He alluded to the Coronavirus as "something pretty bad with respect to the virus" but he said "we think were in very good shape in the United States."
"I think it's going to be under control," he said, lamenting the market drop again as being out of his or anyone else's control.
Opening it up to Q&A at 3:38, said press can stay for a few questions so we are staying out for now...



February 25, 202016:19 IST

Out of town pool report #10 — round table ends / comments on election and economy
POTUS asked to hear from others in the room. When the first person began to speak, the first chords of the Rolling Stones' "Play With Fire" started to play from a speaker — "sounds like a Trump rally," the president joked before the music was cut off.
A few Indian businessmen, at Ambassador Juster's urging, stood to tell POTUS why they have invested in the US. Some others thanked him for removing regulations, others for his leadership, "saving the steel industry", etc. Lots of compliments in roughly 30 minutes of back and forth.
Interestingly, Indian steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal, who the president recognized, encouraged Trump to pursue a big infrastructure package. POTUS also made it clear he is aware of Mittal's plans to open a big plant in Alabama, causing the businessman to joke that the president "knows more about my business than I do."
There were lots of comments about the looming election.
"When we win," Trump said referring to the November election, "I think the market's going to go up like a rocket ship."
He also predicted that if Bernie Sanders continues to do well and becomes the Democratic nominee, it will "keep the markets down" for a while. He said the markets may jump around a lot until the election.
"If I don't win, you're going to see a crash like you've never seen before," he said.
He also went on a brief tangent about Democratic primary and vote counting problems; and he commented briefly on the field of potential challengers.
"I don't think there's going to be anyone on the other side who's very inspirational," he said.
In the room: Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, Wilbur Ross and Dan Scavino seated at tables; and Robert O'Brien leaning against the wall.
POTUS wrapped around 4:08, after O'Brien tood him it was time to go. He's supposed to be doing a meet and greet shortly; unclear if pool will have access.



February 25, 202016:44 IST

Out of town pool report #11 — leaving embassy
Motorcade rolling from embassy at 4:43 p.m. and headed back to the ITC Maruya Hotel, where POTUS is scheduled to hold a press conference at 5.
No pool access to the meet and greet with embassy staff, which took place outside on a lawn adjacent to Roosevelt House. A large American flag hung from the side of the building and "Hey Jude" blasted from the speakers as we moved to a hold. A few minutes later, it was Lee Greenwood, giving the garden party something of a rally feel.



February 25, 202017:28 IST

Out of town pool report #12a -- presser starting now
POTUS took the stage in a ballroom at the ITC at 5:25 p.m. as Hail to the Chief played from a loudspeaker.
The remarks are open press: whitehouse.gov/live



February 25, 202018:13 IST

Out of town pool report #13 -- presser concludes / highlights
POTUS spoke for 45 minutes, leaving the room at 6:10 p.m. We are now holding until the state dinner at 7.
The remarks were open press. A few highlights (please check all quotes against transcript):
He said at the outset he didn't want to say anything controversial to overshadow his trip to India, which he called "fantastic."
Asked about India's controversial citizenship law that sparked violent clashes in Delhi during his visit, Trump skirted the subject, saying only that he and Modi spoke about "religious freedom."
Modi, he said, "was incredible on what he told me...he wants people to have religious freedom...They have really worked hard on religious freedom."
Later, he was asked a second time about the law itself. "I don't want to discuss that and hopefully they're going to make the right decision for the people," he said.
On the Harvey Weinstein guilty verdict, he said only that "I was never a fan of Harvey Weinstein...the people that liked him were the Democrats."
Asked specifically about the message the verdict sends to women, Trump claimed not to be all that familiar with the particulars of the case. "I don't know the actual results," he said. "From the standpoint of women, I think it was a great thing and it sends a very strong message."
He downplayed the Coronavirus, saying that "the people are getting better, they're all getting better." And he praised China's president as "so committed" to solving the crisis. "It snuck up on him, but now he's going to do well," Trump said.
He dismissed news that Russia was attempting to influence the 2016 election to help Bernie Sanders, claiming that no intelligence officials informed him. "I think probably Schiff leaked it...Schiff leaked it."
Asked later about whether he would tell Russia that he doesn't want its help in the election, he said:"I want no help from any country and I haven't been given help from any country."
He also confirmed reports that the White House is in the process of firing people deemed to be disloyal. He said "not many" people are on the target list.



February 25, 202019:29 IST

Out of town pool report #14 — rolling to palace
Motorcade rolling from ITC Maruya at 7:28 p.m. and headed back to the presidential palace. Running about 20 minutes behind schedule.
POTUS has a "courtesy call" with the president ahead of the state banquet with PM Modi. Both events are open to a restricted pool only.



February 25, 202019:45 IST

Out of town pool report #15 — palace arrival
Motorcade arrived at the palace at 7:39 p.m. The stone domes of parliament are bathed in orange and green light and the mounted guards lined the main drive up to the place itself, the top of which is splashed with lights of red, white and blue.
Restricted pool hustling in now for the courtesy call with India's president, Ram Nath Kovind in a second floor wood-paneled room. Couches and chairs arranged around several small coffee tables.
Saw the US delegation entering the palace through a side entrance, but did not see POTUS. Delegation now entering the room for the courtesy call.
More TK



February 25, 202020:00 IST

Out of town pool report #16 — courtesy call
POTUS entered the large, wood-paneled room on the second floor of the palace at 7:50 with the president and their wives, as the group posed for photos by the door. They then sat in armchairs at the end of the room, as President Kovind praised Trump.
"You are a valued friend of India," he said.
Trump spoke briefly. "It's an honor to be with you both," he said.
He said he and Modi have done "very productive work" over the last two days. "This was a tremendous learning experience," he said. "India to me is a very special nation."
Official delegations were seated on couches across from one another.
Pool ushered out at 7:54. Holding now in Ashoka Hall, a large, rather spectacular ballroom where guests are milling about before the banquet begins.



February 25, 202020:27 IST

Out of town pool report #17 — banquet festivities underway
PM Modi, now in a yellow and blue tunic, entered Ashoka Hall, with a remarkable red carpet covering the entire floor and traditional Mughal paintings covering the walls high above and the entire ceiling, at 8 p.m.
On the other side of the room, the U.S. delegation entered a minute later.
Uniformed sentries stood at attention around the room.
Interestingly, Modi and Robert O'Brien were huddled together in the corner of the room on the India side, chatting for a few moments before things got going.
At 8:06, three trumpets sounded from the balcony as POTUS and FLOTUS entered from the front of the room along with the Indian president and his wife. As they stopped, the US national anthem played from the balcony. POTUS put his right hand over his heart. Then the band played the Indian national anthem.
Trump then walked over to greet Modi, who stood with the Indian delegation along a long side wall and then he and the First Lady, accompanied by President and Mrs. Kovind, slowly proceeded down the line, shaking hands and bowing slightly in the Indian custom to all the individuals.
He continued as the line turned the corner along the back of the room. One guy succeeded in getting POTUS to pose for a selfie.
Slow procession ongoing as POTUS works his way towards the US side of the room...



February 25, 202020:34 IST

Out of town pool report #17a — banquet greetings complete
After greeting all of the Indian guests, Trump and Kovind walked to the front of the room and proceeded down the line of the US delegation with Kovind shaking hands ahead of POTUS and FLOTUS, who wore a long fuchsia dress and matching pink flats (yes, flats).
Modi followed close behind, greeting the delegation.
Then Trump and Kovind moved and sat together on sofas in the back of the room, as Indian officials tried to clear the room. Modi sat in a chair to the side. Refreshments were being brought over on trays as we were finally forced out at 8:28.
Here is a photo of the Trump selfie referenced I the last pool report:



February 25, 202022:02 IST

Out of town pool report #18 — rolling to airport
Pool loaded into vans at 9:30 p.m. The banquet was closed to press. We are rolling from the palace to the airport at 10.
We have asked several times and several people for information about the menu and other details and will pass anything we get along.



February 25, 202022:25 IST

Out of town pool report #19 — departing Delhi
Motorcade arrived at Palam Airport at 10:18 p.m. and rolled onto an empty tarmac. Pool watched from a distance as POTUS and FLOTUS stopped at the bottom of the stairs to greet another line of Indian officials.
They then walked up the main steps and waved at the top, before stepping onto Air Force One at 10:20.
Other members of the delegation, including Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump, boarded using the back stairs.
We will be wheels up for Ramstein AFB in Germany shortly.



February 26, 202001:41 CET

Out of town pool report #20 — Ramstein / Coronavirus meetings readout
AF1 was wheels up from New Delhi at 10:36 p.m. local time and wheels down at Ramstein AFB (4.5 hours behind) at 2:09 a.m. local time. Total flight time: 8 hours, 3 minutes.Uneventful flight. No visits to the press cabin.
We will be here to refuel for roughly an hour.
Also, this is from the WH on Coronavirus:
Today, the White House met with over 40 State, county, and city health officials from over 30 States and territories to thank them for their leadership and to continue discussions on the Federal-State-Local partnership to prepare and respond to COVID-19. The discussion focused on the importance of the public health partnership at various levels of government and underscored the importance community preparedness. The Trump Adminstration thanks State and local public health officials for their hard work and service, and looks forward to the continued partnership.
Federal agencies with individuals in attendance at the meeting included: the White House, Domestic Policy Council, Office of Management & Budget, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC), U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), and the U.S. Department of State.
States and territories that were expected to be in attendance included: Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New York, New Jersey, Nevada, North Carolina, Northern Mariana Islands, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Puerto Rico, Tennessee, Texas, U.S. Virgin Islands, Vermont, Washington, and West Virginia.



February 26, 202002:49 CET

Out of town pool report #21 — departing Ramstein
AF1 is rolling at Germany's Ramstein AFB at 3:15 a.m. local after an uneventful, 66 minute refueling stop. The Democratic debate is on the TVs.
Wheels up momentarily for Andrews.



February 26, 202006:12 EST

Out of town pool report #22 — JBA
AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 6:11 a.m., completing a roughly 18-hour journey home from India.
The second leg of the trip was also uneventful, with no visits to the press cabin.
Because of weather, POTUS will be motorcading back to the White House.



February 26, 202006:26 EST

Out of town pool report #23 — motorcade rolling from JBA / Dem debate comment
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off AF1 at 6:23 a.m. using the main stairs. POTUS — overcoat, no tie— waved to the pool on the tarmac and stopped briefly after a shouted question about whether he watched the Democratic debate before getting n into the black SUV.
Hard to hear over the jet engines, but the consensus is that, after nodding, he said "I did. Not too good, not too good."
Motorcade rolling at 6:25.
Thanks to Lea and Gaby and all the staff for getting us through the last 36 or so hours.
Signing off — over to in-town pool.




 
Pool Reports below by Peter Baker, NY Times



Sent:
Reports:




February 25, 202009:47 IST

Supplemental Pool Report #1
New Delhi
Motorcade departed from RON at 9:46 am local time en route to the welcome ceremony. POTUS and FLOTUS were visible in the back of their car as we left.



February 25, 202010:00 IST

Supplemental Pool Report #2
New Delhi
The motorcade arrived at Rashtrapati Bhavan at 9:59 am local time for the welcome ceremony after an uneventful drive through the eerily empty streets and rotaries of New Delhi with no one lining the route other than the usual troops facing away from the road. Scores of "Welcome" posters featuring images of POTUS and FLOTUS were mounted on light poles. At the palace, his vehicle was greeted by red-uniformed guards on horseback. We now hand back to your regular pool for the day.




  