
    "Like many Americans, I'm concerned about the future of our nation. I feel like we're heading in the wrong direction and we need a strong turnaround specialist and that is exactly what Governor Romney has been his entire life. I think we need a fiscally conservative leader who understands the free market and the industrial spirit that it fosters. I think that Governor Romney is the only candidate with the combination of relevant real world experience, conservative principles, and proven leadership and vision. Basically, what I want to see is I want us to have a chief executive as chief executive." — Oklahoma Treasurer Ken Miller
Oklahoma State Treasurer Ken Miller and State Auditor Gary Jones
Romney Campaign Oklahoma Press Conference Call
February 9, 2012
Click Here to Listen to The Entire Call
Highlights of the Romney Campaign Oklahoma Press Conference Call:
TREASURER KEN MILLER: "Ok, good morning. As we welcome Senator Santorum, who we feel is a fine man and friend to Oklahoma, we also wanted to remember Governor Romney, who has already campaigned here. When I was running for State Treasurer a year ago, one of the local papers here called me the apparent love child of Mitt Romney and Ann Coulter. And while they may not have meant it as a compliment—I certainly took it as one—so I may be genetically predisposed to support Mitt Romney for President but there's a lot of other serious reasons why I'm supporting him as well. Like many Americans, I'm concerned about the future of our nation. I feel like we're heading in the wrong direction and we need a strong turnaround specialist and that is exactly what Governor Romney has been his entire life. I think we need a fiscally conservative leader who understands the free market and the industrial spirit that it fosters. I think that Governor Romney is the only candidate with the combination of relevant real world experience, conservative principles, and proven leadership and vision. Basically, what I want to see is I want us to have a chief executive as chief executive. And now I'll turn it over to Auditor Jones."
AUDITOR GARY JONES: "Thank you and I appreciate the opportunity to visit with you folks today. I'll tell you that four years ago I didn't support Governor Romney, I was actually a Huckabee supporter and let me echo the sentiments of Treasurer Miller in that I've met Senator Santorum on many occasions. I think he's a fine man and I think he would be a tremendous improvement over Barack Obama as president. But I'm supporting Governor Romney because I believe like Treasurer Miller that we need an executive, somebody that has experience managing things and, you know, we're in drastic need right now of having to turn the direction of this country. And Governor Romney has spent his career turning businesses around and turning the Olympics around and that's why I wholeheartedly support Governor Romney. I believe he's the best man for the job at this time in our country's history."
  