
    DENVER, CO — Ahead of Senator Amy Klobuchar's third visit to Colorado on Thursday, Amy for America announced the hiring of veteran political operatives to help lead her efforts in the Centennial State.
The new hires include Joe Kabourek as Colorado State Director; Tommy Walker and Jackson Sump as Colorado Deputy State Directors; Mitch Schwartz as Colorado Communications Director; Camilo Vilaseca as Colorado Political Director; and Britta Moen as Colorado Field Director.
"Coloradans are looking for a president who has the experience and record to win and bring people together - Amy Klobuchar is that leader," said Kabourek. "As our team in the Centennial State grows, we're excited to continue discussing Amy's plans to unite the country with voters across Colorado."
Joe Kabourek recently served as Bennet for America's Ballot Access Director and Deputy National Political Director. Prior to that, he served as Executive Director of the Democratic Party of New Mexico, where Democrats won all eleven statewide and federal offices in 2018. Since 2008, Joe has worked on several senatorial, congressional, and statewide races in Colorado.
Tommy Walker worked on Capitol Hill for close to ten years, most recently as Deputy Chief of Staff for Colorado Congresswoman Diana DeGette. Previously, he worked in Senator Klobuchar's office, handling the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee portfolio, and held various positions with Rep. DeGette related to her work on the Energy and Commerce Committee. He grew up in Boulder, CO.
Jackson Sump most recently served as Amy Klobuchar's Iowa Organizing Director. Prior to joining Amy For America, Jackson served as GOTV Director for the successful Minnesota DFL Coordinated Campaign. He has also previously managed field programs throughout the heartland, including Rebecca Otto's gubernatorial campaign in 2018 and Brad Schneider's successful congressional campaign in 2016.
Mitch Schwartz most recently served as Bennet for America's deputy press secretary. In 2018, he served as the communications director for now-Rep. Jason Crow's campaign in Colorado's 6th Congressional District. He worked in SKDKnickerbocker's New York office from 2015-2018, and previously served at NextGen Climate (now NextGen America) and the New York City Council.
Camilo Vilaseca most recently served as Bennet for America's early states field director. Prior to working for Bennet, Vilaseca served as GOTV Director for Denver Mayor Michael Hancock's successful re-election campaign in 2019 and Campaign Manager for Colorado Rep. Bri Buentello's historic win in 2018. He is a veteran of Colorado campaigns at every level of government.
Britta Moen most recently served as Amy for America's Regional Organizing Director for Northeast Iowa. Previously, she worked on Senator Tina Smith's special election campaign in Minnesota's 3rd Congressional District with the Minnesota DFL Coordinated Campaign. As a Minnesota native, she is excited to bring Senator Klobuchar's message of progress, unity and Midwestern values to the Centennial State.
  