
    Shared Prosperity: Yesterday in Ohio, Hillary detailed her comprehensive plan to reign in the special interests and end $55 billion a year in special interest giveaways to drug companies, oil companies, firms that ship jobs overseas and other special interests. Read more.
Previewing Today: Hillary Clinton continues to focus on the economy with an economic roundtable in Cincinnati, a "Solutions for America" event with Mayor Don Plusquellic in Akron and a rally with Gov. Ted Strickland and Rep. and Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones in Lyndhurst, Ohio. President Bill Clinton holds "Solutions for America" events in Texarkana, Longview, Tyler, Nacogdoches and Lufkin, Texas. Chelsea campaigns in Hawaii.
In Case You Missed It: "Obama shouldn't dodge," wrote the Wisconsin State Journal's editorial board. "Our swing state deserves its own debate with questions focusing on Wisconsin, the Midwest and the economy." Read more.
Making News: Hillary won New Mexico! Her victory gave her the final previously unallocated New Mexico delegate.
New Ad: In Texas, the campaign began airing a new ad, "Soldiers." Watch.
Polling Prowess: In Ohio, a new Quinnipiac poll has Hillary up by 21 points over Sen. Obama (55-34). In Texas, a new Public Opinion Strategies poll has Hillary up by 8 points over Sen. Obama (49-41). In Pennsylvania, a new Quinnipiac poll has Hillary up by 16 points over Sen. Obama (52-36).
Recapping Yesterday: Hillary toured a GM Assembly Plant and held a "Solutions for America" economic town hall in Warren, attended a roundtable discussion on the foreclosure crisis in Dayton and "drew constant applause and shouts of approval" at a rally with Gov. Ted Strickland and former Sen. John Glenn in Columbus, Ohio. "The crowds were enthusiastic" during President Bill Clinton's "Solutions for America" rallies in Milwaukee, Waukesha, Madison, and La Crosse, Wisconsin. "Thousands turned out" to hear Chelsea speak at the University of Akron, where she "fielded 22 questions." Chelsea also held an "Our Voice, Our Future" event at Cleveland State University in Ohio.
Facts are Facts: Sen. Obama responded to Hillary's ad urging he debate in Wisconsin with a series of dishonest attacks. Get the facts.
  