
    (New York, NY) February 27th, 2016 — Today Donald J. Trump was endorsed by former Arizona Governor Jan Brewer. Arizona is one of the states most affected by illegal immigration and Mr. Trump has received tremendous support from key officials including Sheriff Joe Arpaio, State Treasurer Jeff DeWit and is now proud to receive the support of the highly respected former Governor.
Mr. Trump says, "I love the state of Arizona and have received incredible support throughout the state. I am leading in all the polls and we have had amazing events with tremendous crowds. I am honored to receive this endorsement from Governor Brewer."
Jan Brewer added, "Arizona's unsecured border is the gateway of illegal immigration into the United States and the politicians in Washington D.C. have continually failed to secure our border. As I've always said: A nation without borders is like a house without walls — it collapses. As Arizona's Governor, I witnessed too much heartache, loss and suffering caused by illegal immigration. I've seen communities destroyed by the drugs, gangs, drop houses and cartels. The cost of health care, education and incarceration for illegal immigrants places a crushing burden on taxpayers. Workers of all backgrounds are deprived of jobs and income from our open, bleeding border."
"For years I pleaded with the federal government to do their job and secure our border. Today, we can elect a President who will do just that - Donald J. Trump. Mr. Trump will secure our borders, defend our workers and protect our sovereignty. Mr. Trump will stand for our law enforcement, our police and our immigration officers. Mr. Trump will actually enforce the rule of law."
"As a Washington outsider, Mr. Trump gets it. He will listen to the people and fight for the citizens of the United States."
Brewer added, "As Mr. Trump says: we either have a country, or we don't. This may be our last chance to ensure our children grow up in a country with borders, and with a government that protects its own people. This is our chance - Donald Trump is our chance - to save this country and Make America Great Again."
Mr. Trump continues to draw a hard line stance on illegal immigration, with the promise to build a wall along the southern border and stop illegal immigration to protect American jobs and families.
  