
    Pool Reports by Brittany Shepherd, Yahoo! News 



Sent:
Reports:




February 3, 202109:10

VP Pool Report #1 - Gather for Buttigieg swearing in
Bonjour from a crisp 35 degree morning at the White House.
I will be your pooler for this morning's swearing in ceremony of former South Bend mayor (and presidential candidate) Pete Buttigieg as transportation secretary, which is expected to take place in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office within the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.
Pool has been covid tested before entering White House grounds.



February 3, 202109:48

VP Pool Report 2 - swearing in ceremony begins
No news.
Your pooler had some time to take in Harris' office before the event began.
The ceremonial office in EEOB is grand, but not tacky. An expansive gold gilded mirror sits atop a black wood burning fireplace, where four perfectly neat cuts of wood sit, waiting to be lit. It's unclear the last time it was used. The wall paint is somewhere between an eggshell and baby blue, which subtly completed the hexagon design wood flooring. To the right of the fireplace stands four flags and adjacent to that is a wooden armoire, richly stained, full of keepsakes that your pooler can't quite make our from where she's standing. A strong nautical motif flows through the room, including painting of ships and a ceiling design that mimics rolling waves.
I'll tweet a few photos.
Harris, followed by Buttigieg and his husband Chasten and the Second Gentlemen Douglas Emhoff, entered the room at 9:40 am. The event was scheduled to begin at 9:30 am. Buttigieg repeated his oath and was sworn in by 9:41. The group took a photo and left soon after. Your pooler could hear the group laughing together as they approached the ceremonial office.
Buttigieg was sworn in on a Bible, which was held by Chasten. Chasten looked at his husband during the oath, and your pooler noticed palpable emotion in his eyes. Pride? Happiness? Relief? It's hard to tell with face coverings. Though he did not shed a tear. Buttigieg is the second of Biden's democratic rivals to have a place in the administration, with Harris being the first.
Pool is waiting to be escorted out of the room now.



February 3, 202110:13

VP pool report 3 - Bible info
Passing on some more information from the VP's office: the Bible Buttigieg was sworn in on belongs to his mother




  