
    EL PASO, TX — This evening, the El Paso Times endorsed Pete Buttigieg for the Democratic nomination for president. The editorial board touted Pete as the best candidate to represent Democratic values, defeat President Trump and lead this country to a better future.
Read excerpts of their endorsement below and read the full endorsement HERE: https://www.elpasotimes.com/story/opinion/2020/02/25/pete-buttigieg-2020-election-el-paso-times-democratic-endorsement-president/4856726002/
For us, both conscience and strategic calculation led to Pete Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, as the best candidate to lead this country to a better future, where the focus is again on finding common ground and uniting Americans.
Buttigieg is a veteran, well-educated and not a millionaire or billionaire. He has served as a mayor, so he has worked closest to the issues that seem to beat down American families. Buttigieg also is multilingual (including Spanish) and so well-read that he is wise beyond his years.
He is a good listener. Most of all he is a consensus-builder, a practitioner of the politics of inclusion.
This also is how Buttigieg differs most from Democratic frontrunner Bernie Sanders, whose far-left rhetoric and combative personality suggest little room for compromise.
If you like Sanders because of his uncompromising commitment to free health care and higher education for everyone, you're more likely to get at least some of what you want from a President Buttigieg who can seek and win compromise. There's just something about his professional-facilitator demeanor that suggests he's the one who could move the needle on an issue as fractious to the nation and as emotional to the Texans of El Paso, Midland-Odessa, Santa Fe and Sutherland Springs as universal background checks, banning bump stocks and finding ways to disarm people who are a threat to themselves or others. [...]
At 38, Buttigieg also would break an age barrier as the youngest president ever. Buttigieg's generation has been shaped by 9/11, the war in Afghanistan, mass shootings, rising student debt, the decline in manufacturing and worries about the environment.
He is calling for reforms in immigration laws and wants to take a more measured approach to dealing with concerns about global warming. Buttigieg also is promising to provide more government transparency and expand health care to all without forcing people to give up their private insurance plans.
He also will work to reduce the federal deficit, which is again threatening the future of our country. The deficit matters no matter who is in power in the White House and Congress. As a naval intelligence officer, he knows the value of a well-trained, well-funded military to protect our national security. He will do more to make sure our veterans are treated well.
Buttigieg has packed a lot of life into 38 years. On a debate stage so far, he has shown the compassion, demeanor and the next-generation politics to be president.
  