
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Stephen A. Cambone of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence. He currently serves at the Department of Defense as Special Assistant to the Secretary and Director for Program Analysis & Evaluation. Prior to this, he served as Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Earlier in his career, Dr. Cambone served as Director of Research at the Institute for National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University. He also served as a Senior Fellow for Political-Military Studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. In 1993, while serving at the Department of Defense as Director of Strategic Defense Policy, he received the Secretary of Defense Award for Outstanding Service. He graduated from Catholic University and went on to earn a master's degree and Ph.D. from Claremont University Graduate School.
The President intends to nominate Linton F. Brooks of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security and Administrator for Nuclear Security at the National Nuclear Security Administration, with the Department of Energy. He is currently the Acting Under Secretary for Nuclear Security and Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the Department of Energy. Prior to his work with the Department of Energy, he served as Vice President and Director for Policy, Strategy and Forces Division of the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA), a federally funded research and development center in Virginia. During the George H.W. Bush administration, he served as Assistant Director for Strategic and Nuclear Affairs at the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and as Head of the U.S. Delegation on Nuclear and Space Talks and Chief Strategic Arms Reductions (START) Negotiator. In this later capacity, he was responsible for final preparation of the START Treaty signed by Presidents Bush and Gorbachev in Moscow on July 31, 1991. Brooks served in the U.S. Navy for thirty years and retired as a Captain. He holds a bachelor's degree from Duke University and earned a master's from the University of Maryland. He is also a Distinguished Graduate of the U.S. Navy War College.
  