
    Today, Hillary Clinton outlined her economic blueprint for rebuilding the middle class, and talked with Virginia voters about the tangible impact that her economic plan would have on their lives. Throughout her campaign, Hillary has been listening to the voices of people all across America. And after seven years of a president who's listened only to the special interests, she believes it is time for a president who brings the dreams, values, and voices of middle class families to your White House.
Her Economic Plan Would:

Provide Fast Acting Stimulus to Help Stave Off Recession, Including Extended Unemployment Insurance and Energy Assistance for Virginia Families: Over two months ago, Hillary called on Congress and the President to take action on fast-acting measures to help jumpstart our ailing economy. While she is heartened that Congress has agreed to provide tax rebates to working families and our seniors, families in Virginia and across the country need more than tax rebates to address their economic problems. That's why as part of her stimulus plan, Hillary called for extending unemployment insurance and for extending emergency assistance to help offset rising energy and gas prices. Hillary's emergency energy assistance plan would provide 750,000 Virginia families with an average of $650 in energy assistance.

Offer a Comprehensive Solution to the Housing Crisis: Hillary believes that we cannot turn our economy around without addressing the housing crisis. She is the only candidate with a comprehensive plan to end the foreclosure crisis and help restore stability to the housing market. Hillary has called on the mortgage industry to observe a foreclosure moratorium of at least 90 days on subprime, owner-occupied homes, and a 5-year freeze in the monthly rate on subprime adjustable rate mortgages. Hillary would also provide $30 billion to states to help at risk families and communities weather the foreclosure crisis. To provide states with additional tools to fight foreclosures, Hillary has introduced the Mortgage Refinancing Initiative Act to empower state housing agencies to use $10 billion to replace unworkable mortgages with stable, affordable loans. More than 16,000 Virginia households received foreclosure notices last year. Hillary's plan would help thousands of families in the state hold onto the American dream.

Provide Quality Affordable Healthcare to All Virginia Families: No One Will Be Left Out. Hillary's American Health Choices Plan will provide quality, affordable health care to all Americans - including the more than 1 million people without insurance in Virginia. Her plan will also benefit the many people who have coverage today but could be just one pink slip away from losing their coverage. In contrast, Senator Obama's plan would leave at least 15 million people without health insurance, including 330,000 people in Virginia.

Help Virginia Families Save and Invest for their Future: Hillary's American Retirement Accounts plan will give all Americans a new opportunity to save for retirement, and provide generous matching tax cuts to help middle-class families save. Hillary's plan would offer 2 million Virginia families up to $1000 in matching tax cuts to help them save. If a Virginia family saves just $80 a month, they could, over a 40-year career, build a retirement nest-egg of $275,000.

Make College Affordable for Virginia Families: Students in Virginia have the seventh-highest level of student debt in the country. Fifty-six percent of Virginia graduates graduate with an average of $18,000 in debt. Hillary's college tax credit would provide at least 425,000 Virginia college students a tax credit of up to $3,500.

Help modernize Virginia's infrastructure and reduce traffic congestion: Hillary's infrastructure plan will help Virginia inspect and repair critical infrastructure, expand mass transit, finance light rail projects, and reduce traffic congestion. Hillary understands that modernizing the state's infrastructure will improve quality of life and strengthen the economy.

Lower the financial burdens on Caregivers in Virginia: Hillary's long-term care plan will provide generous tax cuts to seniors, people with disabilities and their families to offset the growing cost of care. Hillary's new $3000 Caregiver Tax Credit will benefit 128,000 Virginia seniors, people with disabilities and their families.

  