
    The Clinton campaign announced today the release of two radio ads featuring former Louisiana Senator John Breaux.
The 60 second spots, entitled "Stand For Us" and "Get it Done" come one day before Louisiana voters head to the polls.
Hillary has made Gulf Coast recovery a priority in her campaign. She has a clear plan and vows to cut through the red tape to deliver necessary federal assistance and improve federal disaster response. Her plan also proposes the development of a Gulf Coast Corps to attract skilled professionals to the region and employ local workers to rebuild infrastructure and restore public services. Her leadership in the Senate brought 107,000 Louisianan children health care under the State Children's Health Insurance Program that she helped develop. Hillary understands all of the concerns of Louisiana voters and will deliver for them in the White House.
To listen to "Stand By Us", [Click here].
To listen to "Get it Done", [Click here].
Following are the scripts for the ads:
"Stand By Us"
Radio: 60
Senator Breaux:
This is Senator John Breaux.
Louisiana needs a president who hears our voices and can solve our urgent problems. That's why I'm supporting Hillary Clinton.
When Katrina and Rita struck, she was there for us, right from the start. Hillary was one of the first people in the country to call for FEMA to be a separate agency, run by a professional, not by the head of a horse association.
Hillary understands that when a national disaster strikes our government cannot play politics.
And Hillary has been there for Louisiana every step of the way, voting to fund our costal restoration, pushing to get people back in their homes, and fighting to stop giving bonuses to contractors who aren't doing their jobs.
Most important, Hillary has made a commitment that as president she will appoint one person, reporting directly to her to be in charge of the reconstruction of the Gulf Coast.
She knows we need to return competence to government.
Speeches are nice but results are what really matter.
This is John Breaux asking you to join me in voting for Hillary on Saturday.
VO: Paid for by Hillary Clinton for President.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton, candidate for president, and I approve this message.
"Get It Done"
Radio: 60
Senator John Breaux:
Hi, this is Senator John Breaux.
You know, I was in government a long time and I found out something really important.
It's easy to give a great speech but it's a lot harder to get things done.
Hillary Clinton knows how to get things done.
I know her, and I've seen her do it.
I saw Hillary get health care for six million kids, 107,000 right here in Louisiana.
And I saw Hillary push to get cheaper vaccinations for almost every child in America.
I saw Hillary work with our Republican colleagues and win access to health care for every member of the Louisiana National Guard and Reserves, regardless of their deployment status.
So when Hillary Clinton says she'll get health care for every American, I know she'll do it.
And boy do we need it.
This is John Breaux. If you want a president who will finally get something done for people right here in Louisiana, join me on Saturday and support Hillary Clinton.
VO: Paid for by Hillary Clinton for President
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton, candidate for president, and I approve this message.
  