
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate thirteen people and to appoint two people to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to appoint Vayl Oxford, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Domestic Nuclear Detection at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Oxford currently serves as Director of the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as Director for Counterproliferation at the National Security Council at the White House. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director for Technology Development at the Defense Threat Reduction Agency. Mr. Oxford received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy and his master's degree from the Air Force Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate Steven Jeffrey Isakowitz, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Energy. Mr. Isakowitz currently serves as a Senior Manager for Science and Technology Programs at the Central Intelligence Agency. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Comptroller at the National Aeronautics & Space Administration. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief of Science and Space Programs in the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Isakowitz received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate Williamson Evers, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of Education (Planning, Evaluation, and Policy Development). Dr. Evers currently serves as a Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. Prior to this, he served in Iraq with the Department of Defense as a Senior Advisor for Education to Administrator L. Paul Bremer, III of the Coalition Provisional Authority. He has also served on the White House Commission on Presidential Scholars and the National Educational Research Policy and Priorities Board. Dr. Evers received his bachelor's degree, master's degree, and PhD from Stanford University.
The President intends to appoint J. David Cox, Sr., of North Carolina, to be a Member of the Federal Salary Council.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development:
Perry R. Eaton, of Alaska, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 05/19/12
Sonya Kelliher-Combs, of Alaska, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 05/19/08
Brenda L. Kingery, of Texas, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 05/19/12
Julie E. Kitka, of Alaska, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 05/19/12
Kristine Mary Miller, of Colorado, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 05/19/10
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences (Researchers), for four year terms expiring 11/28/10:
Carol D'Amico, of Indiana
David C. Geary, of Missouri
Eric Alan Hanushek, of California
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Council on Disability, for the remainder of three year terms expiring 09/17/08:
Marylyn Andrea Howe, of Massachusetts
Lonnie C. Moore, of Kansas
Cynthia Allen Wainscott, of Georgia
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank:
Janis Herschkowitz, of Pennsylvania (Proprietor of Small Business), for a three year term
David George Nason, of Rhode Island, for the remainder of a three year term expiring 11/14/08
Nguyen Van Hanh, of California (Low Income Cooperative Representative), for a three year term
  