
    In Yesterday's Testimony, Gen. Pace And Sec. Gates Discuss The Importance Of Congressional Support For The Mission In Iraq

Gen. Pace: "From the standpoint of the troops, I believe that they understand how our legislature works and that they understand that there's going to be this kind of debate. But they're going to be looking to see whether or not they are supported in the realm of mission given and resources provided. As long as this Congress continues to do what it has done, which is to provide the resources for the mission, the dialogue will be the dialogue, and the troops will feel supported." (Committee On Armed Services, U.S. House Of Representatives, Hearing, 2/7/07)


Gen. Pace: "There's also no doubt in my mind that just like we look out to our potential enemies to see division in their ranks and take comfort from division in their ranks, that others, who don't have a clue how democracy works, who are our enemies, would seek to take comfort from their misunderstanding of the dialogue in this country." (Committee On Armed Services, U.S. House Of Representatives, Hearing, 2/7/07)


Sec. Gates: "And I think they're sophisticated enough to understand that that's what the debate's really about. It's about the path forward in Iraq. We are where we are. There's relatively little [disagreement] about the consequences should we leave precipitously or should we leave Iraq in chaos. And the question is, what's the best path forward for America? And I think they understand that that debate's being carried on by patriotic people who care about them, and who care about their mission. So that's how I see it. I think – you know, it's, as General Pace indicated, it's a truism from the beginning of time, and the time the first neanderthal picked up a club. You try to see whether your enemies are divided or not. All I would say is, history is littered with examples of people who underestimated robust debate in Washington, DC for weakness on the part of America. And I think a lot of people understand that, as well." (Committee On Armed Services, U.S. House Of Representatives, Hearing, 2/7/07)

  