
    The Hillary Clinton for President today announced a seasoned team of lifelong Vermonters and campaign veterans to lead its efforts in the Green Mountain State leading up to the March 4 presidential primary. Nancy Richardson joins the campaign as Vermont's State Director and will work closely with senior advisor Dana Singiser and Deputy State Director Brad Cheney, both from Vermont.
This leadership team will run the day to day operations of the campaign in Vermont, reaching out to voters across the state and talking about why Hillary Clinton is the best candidate to deliver real solutions for Vermont's working families.
"Hillary is offering real, detailed solutions to the issues important to Vermonters – truly universal health care, a clean environment with green jobs, a stronger economy, better schools," said Clinton Campaign Manager Maggie Williams. "We are committed to running an aggressive grassroots effort across the state, and I am very confident as our organization hits the ground running there."
The Hillary for President Vermont staff includes:
State Director Nancy Richardson has been involved in education in Vermont as Director of Planning for the Vermont State College system and Director of the Institute for Program Development at Trinity College. She has served as Education Advisor to Governor Michael Dukakis, Policy Analyst for the Joint Committee on Education of the Massachusetts Legislature, and Policy Liaison to the U.S. Secretary of Education. She served as Senior Advisor to the Mahoning County, Ohio campaign in the 2004 Presidential election and recently participated in the Hillary Clinton Campaign as a field organizer in the North Country of New Hampshire.
Senior Advisor Dana Singiser also serves as the National Director of Women's Outreach. She grew up in Mendon, Vermont and in her first job in politics she ran the Rutland field office for the Clinton/Gore campaign in 1992. Prior to joining Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign in January 2007, she was Staff Director at the Senate Democratic Steering and Outreach Committee, chaired by Senator Clinton. In 2004, she served as Deputy Political Director for Governor Howard Dean's campaign. She served in President Bill Clinton's administration in the White House and was the Florida Deputy State Director in his 1996 re-election campaign.
Deputy State Director Bradford Cheney is a native Vermonter and graduate of Montpelier High School. He has called all parts of the state home, living in Enosburg Falls, Springfield, Montpelier and St. Johnsbury. Brad joins the Vermont campaign after serving as the Deputy State Director for Senator Clinton's campaign in Virginia. From 2003 to 2006 Brad was the Special Assistant to the Chief of Staff in Senator Clinton's Washington office. In 2002 he worked as the Director of Operations for the New Hampshire Democratic Party's Coordinated Campaign. In 1999 and 2000, he interned for Senator Patrick Leahy in Washington.
Regional Field Organizer Michael Delany is a New England native. Delany was a Field Organizer for the Hillary Clinton campaign in the Lakes Region in New Hampshire. Prior to joining the New Hampshire and Vermont teams, he served as the Director of Correspondence and as a Staff Assistant in Senator Feinstein's Los Angeles office. In 2006, he worked as an intern for Senator Kennedy's Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and the House Sergeant at Arms.
Regional Field Organizer Stephen Anderson is a New Hampshire resident, was a field organizer along part of the Vermont border for the New Hampshire Primary. Prior to joining the campaign, Anderson went backpacking from Russia through South East Asia. Anderson graduated from George Washington University in 2006.
Regional Field Organizer and Rutland Office Director Julie Zelnick is a native of Little Rock, Arkansas. She has been with the Clinton Campaign since April, as Field Organizer in Iowa and South Carolina, and as a Congressional District Director in Wisconsin. She has also worked at a consulting firm and the Progressive Majority, an organization geared to support progressive candidates on down ballot races. Throughout her life, she has enjoyed summer vacations at her family's home on Grand Isle, Vermont.
Student Organizer Emily Walsh is a native of Manchester, NH and is currently a freshman at the University of Vermont. She has worked with the Clinton campaign in New Hampshire since April, working in field and operations. In addition to taking off her first semester of college to stay on the campaign, she was also elected a NH pledged delegate from the first Congressional District.
Student Organizer & Hillblazer Scott McCarty is a lifelong resident of Brattleboro and a senior at the University of Vermont, where he is majoring in history and political science. McCarty has worked on numerous local, state and federal campaigns in Vermont including: U.S. Senate candidate Rich Tarrant, State Senator Hinda Miller's campaign for Mayor of Burlington, Jan Backus' campaign for Lieutenant Governor and Ed Adrian's campaign for Ward 1 City Council in Burlington. This year, McCarty served as a volunteer for the Clinton campaign in Keene, New Hampshire.
  