
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 27
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
January 28
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—actress Sophia Loren, national chairperson, and Speaker of the House of Representatives Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., national vice co-chairperson, National Alliance for the Prevention and Treatment of Child Abuse and Maltreatment;
—officials of the Salvation Army, to receive the organization's annual report; —Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
The White House released manifests listing passengers who have flown on White House authorized military aircraft from July 1 through December 31, 1979. The lists were sent to Representative Jack Brooks, chairman of the House Committee on Government Operations, and were also made available for inspection by the press.
January 29
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—W. Averell Harriman;
—Mr. Moore;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 and 1979 annual reports of the National Advisory Council on Adult Education.
The White House announced that, at the direction of the President, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and Warren Christopher, Deputy Secretary of State, will visit Islamabad February 2 and 3 to exchange views with Pakistani leaders on the new situation in the region and to lay the groundwork for a strengthening of our relationship. David McGiffert, Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, will join these discussions. After their talks in Islamabad, Dr. Brzezinski and Mr. Christopher will stop in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, February 4 for discussions with the Saudi authorities.
January 30
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Patricia R. Harris, Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland, Secretary of Commerce Philip M. Klutznick, Secretary of Energy Charles W. Duncan, Jr., Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, Secretary of Transportation Neil Goldschmidt, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Jack H. Watson, Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Alonzo L. McDonald, Assistant to the President, to discuss domestic policy;
—Senator Walter D. Huddleston, chairman of the Charters and Guidelines Subcommittee of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and members of the subcommittee;
—Mr. Moore;
—representatives of women's organizations.
The White House announced that Vice President Mondale will represent the President at the opening ceremonies of the XIII Olympic Winter Games at Lake Placid, N.Y., on February 13.
January 31
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—a group of Republican congressional leaders;
—Mr. Moore.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Simon Sabimbona of Burundi and Herbert Richard Wright Brewer of Liberia.
February 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Mr. Jordan, and Mr. Aaron; —Mr. Moore;
—Rev. Bernard Fell, chairman of the Lake Placid Olympic Organizing Committee;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—officials and players of the National Basketball Association.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on administration programs and policies given for community and civic leaders from Wisconsin in the East Room at the White House.
  