
    Denver, CO - The Denver Post's editorial board endorsed Hillary Clinton for the democratic nomination today. The endorsement is extremely rare for the Denver Post, which typically refrains from endorsing in presidential primaries.
Excerpts from the endorsement
"Clinton's plan for universal health insurance is far more comprehensive than the hit-and-miss proposal put forward by Obama."
..."as important as that symbolism is, Democrats have an even greater responsibility: to pick the most qualified candidate to lead America at a time when it faces great challenges at home and abroad. Measured by her long record in public life and her thoughtful proposals to deal with America's most pressing problems, The Post believes that candidate is New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton."
"Clinton's long record in public life shows her well prepared to deal with two of America's greatest challenges: ending the war in Iraq and solving our health insurance crisis.
"Clinton is well prepared to oversee a careful disengagement from Iraq and to serve as the military and diplomatic leader of the free world. She served with distinction on the Senate Armed Services Committee, where she mastered the intricate details of national and international security. Obama has no comparable experience on military or diplomatic issues."
The full text of the endorsement is below
Democratic nominee: Clinton is better prepared
By The Denver Post
http://www.denverpost.com/search/ci_8133750
The following endorsement will be published in Sunday's Denver Post in the Perspective section.
When Democrats gather in Denver in August to nominate their candidate for president of the United States, they will make history by nominating someone other than a white male for the nation's highest office.
Whether the oldest political party (with roots dating back to Thomas Jefferson) chooses the first African-American or the first woman to bear its standard, it will send a powerful message that the promise of "liberty and justice for all" truly does mean all Americans.
But as important as that symbolism is, Democrats have an even greater responsibility: to pick the most qualified candidate to lead America at a time when it faces great challenges at home and abroad.
Measured by her long record in public life and her thoughtful proposals to deal with America's most pressing problems, The Post believes that candidate is New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton.
We chose Clinton despite our high regard for Illinois Sen. Barack Obama, whose eloquence and vision lured young voters and independents into Democratic contests in record numbers in Iowa and South Carolina. Clinton has similarly shown a powerful appeal to women and Latinos in New Hampshire, Nevada and Florida.
The difference between the two candidates is that Obama's eloquence is not matched by his achievements in the mere three years he has spent in the U.S. Senate. In contrast, Clinton's long record in public life shows her well prepared to deal with two of America's greatest challenges: ending the war in Iraq and solving our health insurance crisis.
The two Democratic candidates share some commonalities. Both seek to end the war in Iraq, recast the American economy to better serve poor and middle-class citizens, begin dealing with climate change, rein in the runaway budget deficits of the Bush administration and restore America's standing in the world. But while they share a common vision of America's future, Clinton is more likely to forge that vision into real progress.
America must seek a swift end to the war in Iraq. But our precipitous withdrawal in 1975 from an unpopular war in Vietnam led to executions and mass imprisonments of Vietnamese who had fought on our side of the war and a desperate exodus of refugee "boat people." We must end this war honorably, without betraying the brave Iraqi voters who proudly waved their ink-stained fingers to show their faith in America's promises to the tender mercies of al-Qaeda torturers.
Clinton is well prepared to oversee a careful disengagement from Iraq and to serve as the military and diplomatic leader of the free world. She served with distinction on the Senate Armed Services Committee, where she mastered the intricate details of national and international security. Obama has no comparable experience on military or diplomatic issues.
If Iraq is America's most pressing foreign issue, health care is our most serious domestic problem. Clinton led the ill-starred 1993 fight for health care reform. She learned from her past mistakes and was a key architect of the successful Children's Health Insurance Program. Now, Clinton's plan for universal health insurance is far more comprehensive than the hit-and-miss proposal put forward by Obama.
Clinton's health insurance plan was inspired by the one pioneered in Massachusetts by former Gov. Mitt Romney - whose success in that effort is one reason The Post has endorsed him for the Republican presidential nomination.
Obama has criticized Clinton's health care plan because it requires citizens to buy coverage while subsidizing low-income workers. But Obama's voluntary plan simply won't work, any more than a voluntary Social Security plan could work. By allowing seemingly healthy people to avoid buying insurance, Obama would simply saddle the taxpayers with the costs of their care if and when they are stricken by such catastrophic illnesses as cancer.
We genuinely admire both these candidates and confess we'd like to see them team up in Denver in a Clinton/Obama ticket. Marrying Hillary Clinton's proven record of performance with Barack Obama's uplifting vision would truly make history for the Democratic Party - and possibly for America as a whole.
  