
    
  Cato Institute: "Myth" That Romney Stood By No-New-Taxes Pledge

Massachusetts Business Owners Recognized Romney's Tax Increases,Whether He Admitted It Or Not
Cato Institute On Whether Romney Stood By His No-New-Taxes Pledge: "That's Mostly A Myth." "Romney will likely also be eager to push the message that he was a governor who stood by a no-new-taxes pledge. That's mostly a myth. His first budget included no general tax increases but did include a $500 million increase in various fees. He later proposed$140 in business tax hikes through the closing of 'loopholes' in the tax code." (Steven Slivinski, "Fiscal Policy Report Card On America's Governors: 2006," Cato Institute's Policy Analysis, 10/24/06)
Cato Institute: "Romney's Tenure Is Clearly Not A Triumph Of Small-Government Activism."(Steven Slivinski, "Fiscal Policy Report Card On America's Governors: 2006," Cato Institute's Policy Analysis, 10/24/06)

In 2006 Alone, Romney Proposed $170 Million In Business Tax Hikes. "In his budget for 2006, he proposed $170 million more in business tax hikes, almost completely neutralizing the proposed income tax cut." (Steven Slivinski, "Fiscal Policy Report Card On America's Governors: 2006," Cato Institute's Policy Analysis, 10/24/06)

The Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation Estimated Romney's Administration Raised Three-Quarters Of A Billion Dollars Per Year By Increasing Fees And Corporate Taxes. "Fees and taxes have increased more than $700 million a year under Governor Mitt Romney and Lieutenant Governor Kerry Healey, a leading budget specialist said yesterday. Michael J. Widmer president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, which closely tracks state finances said the state has raised roughly $740 million to $750 million per year by increasing fees and corporate taxes gained from what the Romney administration describes as 'closing loopholes.'" (Brian C. Mooney, "Analyst Puts Increase In Fees, Taxes At $700M," The Boston Globe, 9/27/06)
Massachusetts Tax Foundation President Michael Widmer: "Saying That [Romney] Didn't Raise Taxes Is An Incomplete Picture." "Foundation President Michael Widmer said several of Romney's policies while governor resulted in higher taxes, including local aid cuts, fee hikes and changes to corporate tax codes. 'I think it's a mixed record,' Widmer said. 'He faced a large shortfall in the budget when he came into office and I think one has to be realistic about the problem he faced, but at the same time saying that he didn't raise taxes is an incomplete picture.'" (Casey Ross and Dave Wedge, "It's Official: Mitt's In Mix For '08," The Boston Herald, 2/7/07)
Widmer On Romney's Ideas: "Many Of The Proposals Were A Direct Reversal Of State Tax Policies ... And Were Legitimately Called Tax Increases."(Brian C. Mooney, "Analyst Puts Increase In Fees, Taxes At $700M," The Boston Globe, 9/27/06)
Widmer On Romney's First Year: "[W]e've Had Property Tax Increases, Fee Increases And Corporate Tax Increases."(Tom Benner, "Romney Promises Collide With Reality," The Patriot Ledger, 12/27/03)
Widmer In 2004: "Many Of The Changes Last Year, And A Number Of These In This Package, Are Clearly Tax Increases In Our View." (Scott S. Greenberger, "Governor's Fiscal Plan Targets Tax 'Loopholes,'" The Boston Globe, 3/4/04) 
Widmer On Massachusetts Under Romney: "[W]e're Bending Over Backward To Find Surcharges Or Fees Or Some Other Euphemism Because Broad-Based Taxes Have Been Ruled Out ... So The Fees Are Really Adding Up."(Raphael Lewis, "State Senate Eyes New Fees Says Proposed Hikes Would Raise $500M," The Boston Globe, 5/22/03)
Widmer: "It Is Striking The Extent To Which We Are Turning To Fees To Close The Budget Deficit, And Stretching The Meaning Of The Word Fee."(Raphael Lewis, "State Senate Eyes New Fees Says Proposed Hikes Would Raise $500M," The Boston Globe, 5/22/03)
Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation's Senior Research Associate Cam Huff: "As Part Of The Budget Process They Have Turned To Fees As A General Revenue-Raising Measure. ... To A Large Extent The Fees Seem Indistinguishable From A Tax Increase, And That Is A Concern."(Casey Ross, "Fee Hikes More Than Nickels And Dimes," The Patriot Ledger, 7/9/03)
Citizens For Limited Taxation Contemplated A Lawsuit Against Romney's Tax Hikes Masquerading As Fee Increases. "[Barbara Anderson' Citizens for Limited Taxation] is planning a lawsuit to challenge some of the $500 million in hikes they say are tax increases disguised as fees. They include a boost in the gun permit fee from $25 to $100, and a new $3,000-a-year fee on nursing home 'self-payers,' or residents who are not on Medicaid." (Tom Benner, "Romney Promises Collide With Reality," The Patriot Ledger, 12/27/03)

Barbara Anderson, Director Of Citizens For Limited Taxation, On Romney's Agenda: "Based On Our Definition, These Are Taxes."(Jennifer Fenn, "Romney Budget Raises Fees," Lowell Sun, 2/28/03)

Massachusetts Businesses Recognized Romney's Tax Increases, Whether He Admitted It Or Not
While Romney Claimed He Was "Closing Tax Loopholes," Massachusetts Businesses Protested The Corporate Tax Increases Romney Signed Into Law. "Not in the lexicon of Governor Mitt Romney, who makes similar distinctions between raising taxes - bad - and raising fees - good. When it comes to business, the Romney administration is 'closing tax loopholes, not changing tax policy,' insists Robert Pozen, the governor's chief economic adviser. Call it whatever you like; Massachusetts business is not pleased about it. Hundred of businesses wrote letters protesting the corporate tax increases - no, make that corporate loophole closings - which Romney yesterday signed into law." (Joan Vennochi, Op-Ed, "A First Step On Business Taxes," The Boston Globe, 3/6/03)
Associated Industries Of Massachusetts Executive Vice President Brian Gilmore: "Whether You Call It A Tax Or A Loophole, It's An Increased Cost Of Doing Business." "[B]usinesses aren't happy that Romney 'closed loopholes,' as he put it - or took away exemptions and effectively raised taxes on them. 'Since he took office, those loopholes have cost the business community close to $300 million, and there are more on the way, we're told,' said Brian Gilmore, executive vice president of Associated Industries of Massachusetts. 'Whether you call it a tax or a loophole, it's an increased cost of doing business.'" (Tom Benner, "Mitt: Big Plans, Mixed Reviews," The Patriot Ledger, 12/22/04)
Eileen McAnneny Of Associated Industries of Massachusetts: "They're Not Loophole Closings - They Are Policy Changes."(Scott S. Greenberger, "Governor's Fiscal Plan Targets Tax 'Loopholes,'" The Boston Globe, 3/4/04)
American Petroleum Council's Stephen Dodge On Romney's Fee Increase On Gas: "Now, By Anyone's Definition, This Is A Tax. ... This Is Treated As A Tax And Collected As A Tax And Passed Down To Consumers Like A Tax."(Cosmo Macero, Jr., "This Isn't How 'No New Taxes' Should Feel," The Boston Herald, 6/27/03)
Lawrence A. Schwartz, Tax Director For Carlin, Charron & Rosen LLP: ''You Are Going To Create A Climate Where Businesses Will Move Out Of Massachusetts, Period. ... You Can't Be In A State Where There Are Arbitrary And Rigid Tax Rules.''(Shaun Sutner, "Closing Loopholes Not Popular Stand," Telegram & Gazette, 2/21/03)
Rosalind K. Levine, Broker/Associate With RS Residential: ''Our Wonderful Governor Said He's Not Going To Raise Taxes, But What Is A Fee? Is It Not A Tax? ... It's A Tax On The Seller, And The Fee Will Be Passed On To The Buyer.''(Shaun Sutner, "Closing Loopholes Not Popular Stand," Telegram & Gazette, 2/21/03)
  