
    She Will Serve as National Campaign Co-Chair
In a major display of momentum before Super Tuesday, the Hillary Clinton for President Campaign announced today the endorsement of Los Angeles County Supervisor Gloria Molina and named her National Campaign Co-Chair.
"I admire Hillary Clinton's lifetime of work on behalf of children and families, and I trust that she will deliver results when she is President," Molina said. "Her experience in helping to create economic opportunities for working people, ensure access to affordable healthcare, and provide universal pre-kindergarten make her the best Presidential candidate for the unbelievably challenging times that we are living. I respect Hillary deeply, and I know that as President, she will fight for working families like the one I came from—and which have been invisible, if not neglected, under the Bush Administration."
Molina has earned a reputation as a fighter and a groundbreaker. She is the first Latina ever elected to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, the Los Angeles City Council, and the California State Assembly. During the course of her political career, she has made it a priority to support public healthcare, create new public parks, and protect county public library services so that the children of Los Angeles County have safe spaces in which to spend time after school. Like Hillary Clinton, Molina has been a strong fighter for universal preschool. It is thanks to Molina's persistence that Los Angeles Universal Preschool is increasing preschool capacity in underserved areas so as to level the early education playing field.
An advocate for economic development and a leader in the fight against homelessness, Molina has constructed more than 1,000 new affordable housing units in her district over the past decade—which includes all of East L.A. Molina also has served as the key force behind constructing La Alameda Shopping Center, which is expected to create 700 jobs in the unincorporated Walnut Park/Florence-Firestone region of Southeast Los Angeles.
"I am deeply grateful to have Gloria's support," said Hillary Clinton. "She has been a phenomenal leader for Los Angeles County and a strong voice for working families in California."
For a photograph of Supervisor Gloria Molina, please e-mail press@hillaryclinton.com.
  