
    Pool Reports by Jonathan D. Salant, NJ Advance Media 



Sent:
Reports:




February 24, 202309:57

WH Pool Report 1 - checking in and lunch lid
Welcome from the White House, where so far there is nothing public on the schedule until we gather for the president's scheduled departure for Delaware at 5:15 p.m.
Already a lunch lid has been called until 4:45 p.m.



February 24, 202310:47

WH Pool Report 2 -- Zelensky/G7 meeting
From the White House:
President Biden's virtual meeting with President Zelenskyy and G7 Leaders started at 9:10 am ET and ended at 10:38 am ET. Joint G7 Leaders statement to come.



February 24, 202312:14

WH Pool Report 3 - Biden receives update on East Palestine derailment
From the White House
President Biden is receiving an update on the Federal government's response to the Norfolk Southern train derailment in East Palestine, OH from Transportation Secretary Buttigieg, EPA Administrator Regan, HHS Secretary Becerra, and FEMA Administrator Criswell this morning. Secretary Buttigieg is updating the President on his visit to East Palestine yesterday to view the site of the crash and meet with workers and local officials, in addition to outlining the NTSB preliminary report. Administrator Regan is updating the President on EPA's administrative order directing Norfolk Southern to pay for all clean up actions related to the train derailment. Secretary Becerra and Administrator Criswell are outlining the federal support and coordination HHS, CDC, and FEMA are providing to assist with on-going health and safety support as the community of East Palestine rebuilds following this tragic incident.



February 24, 202317:15

WH Pool Report 4 -- gathering at Palm Room doors
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



February 24, 202317:24

WH Pool Report 5 - Biden speaks
Hars to hear. Will send notes.



February 24, 202317:28

WH Pool Report 6 - Biden comments
Impossible to hear as the president walked down the line of reporters.
Highlights:
Biden said there was a private conversation with Zelensky about the F16s, and recounted his conversation with Xi warning that western companies could pull out of China if they sided with Russia and there was no evidence they were doing that now.
Will get quotes later.



February 24, 202317:29

WH pool report 7 - liftoff
Marine One in the air at around 5:28



February 24, 202317:35

WH Pool Report 8 - more Biden
Biden said he had no plans at this time to go to East Palestine, Ohio.
In response to the China question, he was referring to no evidence about the lethal aid going to Russia.
Will listen to recordings ASAP. Thanks to all of the other reporters who heard these comments and shared them.



February 24, 202318:06

WH Pool Report 9 -- Biden quotes
China supplying lethal weapons to Russia:
"No evidence of that so far."
"I had a long conservation with Xi about this in the summer. I said, 'Look this is not a threat, it's just a statement. When, in fact, Europeans saw what was happening and Americans saw what was happening in Russia, in Europe, guess what? Six hundred corporations pulled out and left.' I said, 'You told me the future of China rests on investment from the western world. That matters.' I said I'd just keep an eye on it."
Talking to Zelensky about sending F16s to Ukraine: "That's a private discussion."
Train derailment in East Palestine, Ohio. According to other reporters, Biden said he had no plans to visit. I could not hear him initially nor make out the answer on the tape.
"I had a long meeting with my team and what they're doing. We were there two hours after the train went down. I've spoken with every single major figure in both in Pennsylvania and in Ohio. The idea that we're not engaged is just simply not there. Initially there was not a request for me to go out even before i was heading over to Kyiv. So I'm keeping very close tabs on it. We're doing all we can."



February 24, 202318:07

WH Pool Report 10 - week ahead
Updated Week Ahead (2/24):
On Monday, the President and the Vice President will deliver remarks at a reception celebrating Black History Month.
On Tuesday, the President will travel to Virginia Beach, Virginia. The President will discuss his plan to protect Americans' access to affordable health care, and he will highlight how Congressional Republicans would raise health care costs – including for seniors, and cause millions of people to lose their coverage.
On Wednesday, the President will travel to Baltimore, Maryland. The President will deliver remarks at the House Democratic Caucus Issues Conference on his Administration and Congress' historic investments in America.
On Thursday, the President will go to the Senate Democratic Caucus Lunch.
On Friday morning, the President will award the Medal of Honor to Ret. U.S. Army Colonel Paris Davis for his remarkable heroism during the Vietnam War.
In the afternoon, the President will welcome Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany to the White House. The Chancellor's visit is an opportunity to reaffirm the deep bonds of friendship between the United States and our NATO Ally Germany. At the one-year mark of Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine, the leaders will discuss our ongoing efforts to support Ukraine, impose costs on Russia for its aggression, and strengthen transatlantic security. They will also review our continued cooperation on a range of regional and global security issues, including working together on shared challenges posed by China and our cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.
Later, the President will travel to Wilmington, Delaware.



February 24, 202318:13

WH Pool Report 11 - traveling with the president on Marine One
Traveling with the president to Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle:
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations



February 24, 202318:15

WH Pool Report 12 - handing off
Our work here is done. Good night. Have a good weekend.
Thanks to everyone who provided assistance, especially in trying to get President Biden's comments before he boarded Marine One.




 
Pool Reports below by Catherine Lucey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




February 24, 202318:31

Travel Pool Report #1 - Delaware
Marine One landed at Delaware National Air National Guard Base in New Castle at 6:21 PM.
The motorcade pulled up to Marine One at 6:25 PM. President Biden got in the Beast at 6:26 PM.
At 6:29 PM the motorcade is rolling.



February 24, 202318:48

Travel Pool Report #2- Residence
The president's motorcade arrived at his Wilmington home at 6:41 PM.
Pool did not see the president exit his vehicle.



February 24, 202318:52

Travel Pool Report #3 -lid
At 6:50 PM we have a lid. Good night all.




  