
    "It's outrageous to see Rick Santorum team up with the Obama people and go out after union labor in Detroit and try to get them to vote against me. Look, we don't want Democrats deciding who our nominee is going to be, we want Republicans deciding who our nominee is going to be." — Mitt Romney
"Fox & Friends"
Fox News
February 28, 2012
Watch The Clip Here
BRIAN KILMEADE: "Hey Governor, as you know, yesterday, robo call -- it was found out that robo calls were being made, it wasn't a big secret. Senator Santorum had paid to get Democrats out in the polls to vote for him and not vote for you, essentially. Do you feel as though that is a fair tactic?"
MITT ROMNEY: "Well, it's a dirty trick. It's outrageous to see Rick Santorum team up with the Obama people and go out after union labor in Detroit and try to get them to vote against me. Look, we don't want Democrats deciding who our nominee is going to be, we want Republicans deciding who our nominee is going to be. I know why Obama doesn't want me to face him, but I just think it's outrageous and disgusting, a terrible dirty trick at the last hour, by the way, late in the afternoon on the day before the election, maybe hoping no one would notice, they start sending out calls to Democrats, union members, telling them to go into the Republican primary and vote against Mitt Romney. This is -- this is reminiscent of the dirty tricks in the past and it's got to end and I think Rick Santorum has a lot of explaining to do."
GRETCHEN CARLSON: "All right, so he did respond last night, he was on with Sean Hannity. I want you to listen to this and then we'll have another question.
RICK SANTORUM: "When he runs a robo call of my voice from four years ago saying good things about him, that's not a low moment, and when I run a call basically saying -- calling Democrats who are eligible to vote here to vote for us, that's a low blow? Encouraging people to come and vote for us and we talk about our manufacturing plant and what we're going to do to create jobs? It's a very positive robo call."
GRETCHEN CARLSON: "So he says, the senator says, Governor, that the reason he decided to do that was because he would need the Democrats to vote for him in the general election. That's his excuse for it. Is there a difference, though, between what he's doing and the other negative advertising that you and other candidates have done?"
MITT ROMNEY: "What he's doing is asking Democrats to come in to the Republican primary and vote against me. That's what he did. It was not a positive ad saying how he would be the best Democrat or how he would be lined up with labor. Look, I know he voted against right to work laws, I know that he voted in favor of keeping Davis-Bacon, so he's teamed up with big labor before. But teaming up with Barack Obama's people, they're running ads here as well against me. This is -- this is a new low for his campaign and that's saying something."
  