
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Maryland State Delegate Richard Sossi, Garrett County Republican Chairman Brandon Butler, Former Talbot County Coordinator for Fred Thompson, Karena Dixon, and Former Republican State Senate nominee Toni Jarboe-Duley endorsed Governor Mitt Romney's candidacy for President of the United States.
Announcing their support, Governor Romney said, "Delegate Richard Sossi, Chairman Brandon Butler, Karena Dixon and Toni Jarboe-Duley are exceptional grassroots leaders, and I am proud to have them on my team. Their dedication in calling for conservative change in Washington is refreshing and will help to strengthen our economy, military and families in Maryland and across the nation."
"Governor Romney is the lone Republican candidate with genuine conservative credentials, who can bring change to Washington with his message of hope and strength," said Delegate Sossi. "I am proud to join other Maryland leaders as we work hard to promote Governor Romney's message and enact positive change here at home and across the country."
Background On Maryland Republican Leaders:
Maryland State Delegate Richard Sossi Represents Maryland's Thirty-Sixth House District. Delegate Sossi is the Deputy Minority Whip and serves on the Environmental Matters Committee. While serving in the United States Navy, he was a deputy branch chief for the National Security Agency. Delegate Sossi serves on several caucuses, including Chair of the Queen Anne's County Delegation, the Maryland Rural Caucus, Maryland Legislative Sportsmen's Caucus and the Maryland Veterans Caucus. He is married and has one daughter and one grandson.
Garrett County Republican Chairman Brandon Butler Had Previously Thrown His Support Behind Former Senator Fred Thompson. He is a legislative aide at the Maryland General Assembly in Annapolis and serves on the Garrett County School Board Advisory Committee. As the youngest Republican Chairman in the state of Maryland, Brandon graduated summa cum laude with two degrees from Frostburg State University.
Karena Dixon Has Previously Served As Talbot County Coordinator For Senator Fred Thompson's Presidential Campaign. Karena is self-employed at the White Oak Group, a government relations firm. Previously, she was the Membership & Marketing Director at Talbot County Chamber of Commerce. In 2006, she was elected to the Republican Central Committee of Talbot County.
Toni Jarboe-Duley Is A Former Republican State Senate Nominee And A Delegate For Senator Fred Thompson. Toni is a realtor in Prince George's County and was the Republican nominee for Prince George's County Clerk of the Circuit Court in the 1980's. In 2002, she ran an unsuccessful campaign against the President of the State Senate. She is extremely active in the community, serving on several committees. She is an advocate for school reform.
  