
    Pool Reports by Tommie Clark, WBAL-TV 



Sent:
Reports:




February 22, 202315:32

VP Pool Report 1 
-Aminta Hawkins Breaux, President of Bowie State UniversityComments on UniversityWelcome message
-Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD-05)
-Governor Wes Moore (D-MD)third time in 3 weeks pres or vp in marylandwork, wages, wealth - addressing racial wealth gap
15:17:00 - addressing homebuyers
[Duration:0:16]{15:17:51-07/ Gov. Wes Moore, (D) Maryland} <"Right now we know with this rise of interests rates, which is real, we have to take steps to make sure low and moderate... can remain competitive in this market.">
3:25pm moore finishes remarks



February 22, 202316:04

VP Pool Report 2
On Background from a White House Official:- Today's remarks will occur at the Bowie State University Theatre, Fine & Performing Arts Center in Bowie, Maryland.- Expected Pre-Program Participants Speaking Order:
- Aminta Hawkins Breaux, President of Bowie State University
- Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD-05)
- Governor Wes Moore (D-MD)
- Cashawn Thompson, impacted person
- The Vice President
On background from a White House Official:
Today, February 22, 2023, Vice President Harris will travel to Bowie, MD to announce an action that will lower costs for homebuyers – making home ownership more attainable. The Vice President's announcement will save homebuyers and homeowners with new FHA-insured mortgages an average of $800 per year, lowering housing costs for an estimated 850,000 homeowners in 2023.
During the event at Bowie State University, the Vice President will be joined by elected officials and impacted people who will benefit from the policy. The Vice President's remarks at 3:40 PM ET will be livestreamed at www.whitehouse.gov/live.
Please see the fact sheet HERE
Additional Information:
The Vice President has a long record of fighting for homeowners and homebuyers:

Today's announcement follows a range of actions the Biden-Harris Administration has taken to promote housing stability and affordability. See above fact sheet for more details.
Last March, the Vice President announced the release of the Property Appraisal and Valuation Equity (PAVE) Taskforce Action Plan, which outlined the Administration's plans to root out racial bias in home valuations.
As Attorney General, the VP fought to protect California's homeowners during the financial crisis

o Created the Mortgage Fraud Strike Force which investigated and prosecuted misconduct at all stages of the mortgage process.
o Secured $20 billion settlement from the five largest mortgage servicers accused of contributing to the subprime mortgage crisis.
o Introduced the California Homeowners Bill of Rights, which provided protections to homeowners who are facing foreclosure.
One of the Vice President's top priorities is working alongside the President to lower costs for families. Examples:

Health care: Through the Inflation Reduction Act, the President and Vice President made health care more affordable by:

o Reducing health care premium costs by an average of $800 per year for over 13 million Americans, helping more than 3.5 million people ages 18-34 who purchase marketplace health care plans.
o Lowering prescription drug prices and capping the cost of insulin prescriptions for seniors to $35 per month.

Hearing aids: Beginning October 17, 2022, hearing aids became available over the counter without a prescription, thanks to the President's Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy —lowering average costs by as much as $3,000 per pair, and benefiting the nearly 30 million Americans with hearing loss.
High Speed Internet: The President and Vice President secured commitments from internet service providers to ensure that they offer high quality internet plans for $30/month, meaning millions of families will be eligible to receive internet at no cost.
Energy costs: Through the Inflation Reduction Act, the Administration is lowering energy costs through home energy efficiency and electric appliance rebates and tax credits.





  