
    I AM appointing two additional members of the President's Committee on Religion and Welfare in the Armed Forces. They are Mrs. George Hamlin Shaw and Mr. Francis Keppel.
Since this Committee was established in October 1948, the scope of its work has gradually increased, although its overall responsibility has remained the same. That responsibility is to further the policy of the Government as stated in the Executive order establishing the Committee: "to encourage and promote the spiritual, moral, and recreational welfare and character guidance of persons in the Armed Forces and thereby to enhance the military preparedness and security of the Nation." With the deactivation of USO in the past month, and the continued unsettled state of world affairs, the increasing importance of this Committee's work is apparent to every thinking citizen.
Within the overall responsibility of the Committee there are three major areas of interest that encompass a broad range of specific policies and programs: (1) organized community activities on behalf of service men and women; (2) civilian attitudes toward the needs of service men and women; and (3) policies and programs of the Department of Defense affecting their religious and moral welfare.
The Committee's first annual report, which it recently submitted to me, shows that it already has accomplished much in appraising and helping to develop activities and policies within these three areas.
A program has been developed for organized services that will welcome each service man and woman into community life as a member of that community. Recommendations to the Secretary of Defense on the serious shortage of housing facilities for married military personnel were approved and are now being put into effect. The Committee's report on "Information and Education in the Armed Forces" firmly establishes the policy to provide our military personnel with the information and education they desire and need for maximum military effectiveness.
As the Committee finishes each of its various studies, it has a continuing responsibility to maintain an active interest in each subject and to return to it should the situation require. Therefore, the scope of its work is constantly increasing and it is necessary that it have the additional assistance available from the two additional members I have appointed, and the continuing cooperation of all our citizens.
  