
    CHARLOTTE, NC — Charlotte, North Carolina Mayor Vi Lyles today announced her support for Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg. In her announcement, Mayor Lyles cited Mike's commitment to create an economy with high-quality jobs and economic opportunity for all, his plan to address the threats posed by climate change, and her belief that Mike is best positioned to defeat Donald Trump in November.
"I support Mike Bloomberg to be our next president because the country needs a candidate in 2020 who cares for people and will work every day to ensure we will have a better tomorrow. That candidate is Mike Bloomberg," said Mayor Vi Lyles. "Economic growth, climate change, and improving disadvantaged neighborhoods are just a few of the challenges that I believe are paramount to achieve a more unified, equitable, healthy and financially sound United States, and I know Mike will deliver real results for us as president."
"Mayor Lyles has served her city for decades, becoming one of the nation's most trusted, respected voices for addressing our urgent challenges, from addressing climate change to creating equitable communities where all children can thrive, and I'm honored to have her support," said Mike Bloomberg. "Our campaign chose Charlotte to open its first field office in the country – it's our launching pad to win back North Carolina and rebuild and reunite America."
Lyles is the first African American woman mayor of Charlotte, which is North Carolina's largest city. She previously served two terms on the Charlotte city council as an at-large representative, and during her tenure she was chosen by her peers to serve as mayor pro tem. Lyles also worked for the City of Charlotte for almost 30 years, starting off as an analyst in the city's budget department before becoming budget director. She was assistant city manager for the city from 1996 to 2004. During her time with the city, she helped create the city's first capital budget and led the restructuring of government programs to evaluate and assess performance audits for city programs. She also led and presented the community safety plan and helped develop the city's affordable housing plan and Mecklenburg County's Minority and Women's Business Enterprise Program for small businesses.
Lyles holds a bachelor of arts in political science from Queens University and a master of public administration from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She is a trained facilitator and executive coach, having completed programs at the Institute of Government, North Carolina State University, and the Lee Institute's American Leadership Forum.
Mike Bloomberg is heavily prioritizing the Super Tuesday state of North Carolina. His campaign has more than 125 staffers on the ground and 8 offices open, making it the largest campaign presence from any candidate for president in the state this cycle. Throughout the state, supporters and voters are discussing Mike Bloomberg's record of taking on tough fights on issues including health care, gun safety, and climate change, and why he is best positioned to defeat Donald Trump in November. Early voting in North Carolina begins today as Mike makes his 3rd trip to the state, hosting get-out-the-vote events in Winston-Salem, Greensboro, and Raleigh.
  