
    
  Northern Idahoan praises Dr. Paul's unwavering consistency in advancing freedom

BOISE, Idaho — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was today endorsed today by Bonner County Commissioner Cornel Rasor, a sitting member of the three-person Bonner County Board of Commissioners.
In making his public endorsement, Commissioner Rasor issued the following statement:
"As I reflect on the qualities I would like to see in a President, what comes to mind are several traits. He should be conversant in the document he is sworn to uphold — the U.S. Constitution. He should understand his powers as outlined in that document. He should be a man of commitment and peace and he should be honest and transparent.
"The only candidate that meets those qualifications in my estimation is Ron Paul. He has been consistent in his principles and has not wavered in his commitment to the constitution and the founding principles of this country. No one else running has these qualities and for these reasons I gladly support Ron Paul for President."
Cornel Rasor was raised in Bonner County where he attended local schools. He was brought up on a cattle ranch on Rapid Lighting Creek Road and later in Westmond. He and his four siblings have many fond memories of ranch life together.
In high school he was an active member of the Future Farmers of America where he was also the North Idaho District President. He graduated from Sandpoint High School in 1974 and went on to attend North Idaho College and the University of Idaho where he studied Veterinary Medicine. In 1976 Cornel and his wife Kim were married at the Assembly of God Church in Sandpoint. Together they have three children and 12 grandchildren.
Cornel has been the manager of the Army Surplus here in Sandpoint for the last 31 years. When not busy with the work of the County he tends the Surplus Store. Cornel is active in the Republican Central Committee and currently is the Chairman and the committeeman for the Southside Precinct. Cornel often states that has a passion for the rights and freedoms of the people of Bonner County.
He has led in the formation of a Property Rights Council in Bonner County, the first in the country and is currently working with leaders in other states to form their own citizen advisory boards.
Bonner County is one of Idaho's northernmost counties, with about 41,000 residents. It includes the cities of Clark Fork, Dover, East Hope, Kootenai, Oldtown, Ponderay, Priest River and Sandpoint.
  