
    SACRAMENTO, California — California State Treasurer Fiona Ma endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, lauding his track record of getting things done as Mayor of New York City and his unmatched record on climate change. Ma is the first California statewide-elected official to endorse Mike.
"California is leading the way to a carbon neutral economy. We need a president who understands the real challenges of climate change and eliminating carbon emissions while still growing an economy that benefits everyone," said Treasurer Fiona Ma. "As a three term Mayor of New York City, Mike Bloomberg has a proven track record of getting things done. I'm endorsing him because he is the best candidate to successfully shepherd-in a national green economy."
"Fiona Ma has been a pioneer in California, and we are honored to have her support for our plan to fight climate change and take on the other big challenges of our time," said Mike Bloomberg 2020 Campaign Manager Kevin Sheekey. "Like Fiona, Mike works across the aisle to get things done, and our campaign will continue to outline achievable plans to rebuild America."
Earlier today, Ma appeared at a campaign event in Sacramento where she heralded Mike's executive experience and endorsed his run for president. Ma's endorsement comes on the same day as several other prominent California Democratic women, including Compton Mayor Aja Brown and Compton City Council Members: Michelle Chambers, Emma Sharif, and Tana McCoy. Yesterday, former Mayor of Los Angeles Antonio Villaraigosa also endorsed Mike and joined Mike Bloomberg 2020 as a National Political Co-Chair, demonstrating the momentum the campaign has been getting in California.
As California's 34th State Treasurer, Ma was elected with more votes than any other candidate for treasurer in the state's history and is the first woman of color and the first woman Certified Public Accountant (CPA) elected to the position. Before this, Ma was a member of the State Assembly, representing District 12 and serving as Speaker pro Tempore, where she built a reputation as a solutions-oriented public servant and was adept at building unlikely coalitions to overcome California's most complex problems. Prior to serving as Speaker pro Tempore, she was Assembly Majority Whip, and passed groundbreaking legislation that protected public education and the environment while also expanding access to health care.
Ma has been a licensed CPA in California since 1992 and received a B.A. in Accounting from the Rochester Institute of Technology, an M.S. in Taxation from Golden Gate University, and an MBA from Pepperdine University.
  