
    (New York, NY) February 10th, 2016 - Bill Stern of Columbia, S.C. has endorsed Donald Trump and has been announced Chairman of the Southeast Business Coalition on the Trump for President campaign.
One of the South's most respected business leaders, Bill Stern is President and CEO of Stern & Stern, a commercial real estate development company that owns and manages real estate throughout the United States.
Mr. Trump said,"I am delighted Bill Stern has accepted a leadership role in my campaign. He is a successful real estate developer and for eight years he served as Chair of the South Carolina Ports Authority, which is one of the most important commercial ports in the world. I look forward to working closely with Bill --- with his support we will Make American Great Again."
Mr. Stern stated, "Throughout American history, we've had great Presidents who were lawyers, politicians and military leaders. I believe the complex global challenges of our time call for a President with a background in business, a record of success in creating jobs and the strong leadership skills it will take to Make America Great Again. That's why I'm supporting Donald Trump. He's a world class business leader who I believe will make a world class President of the United States."
Stern has served as Chair of the South Carolina Ports Authority for eight years and has recently been named the first Chairman Emeritus in the port's history. During his period of leadership, South Carolina's port was ranked as the fastest growing in the nation and now ranks number one in container volume growth.
Bill Stern has also served in leadership roles in political campaigns at the national, state and local levels. He served on the George W. Bush for President State Finance Committee, and he was State Finance Chair of the John McCain for President campaign. Other leadership roles include: State Finance Chair, Lindsey Graham for U.S. Senate, Co-Chair, Lindsey Graham for President; and State Finance Chair for Henry McMaster for Lt. Governor, Alan Wilson for Attorney General, and many other state and local political campaigns.
  