
    This afternoon, Second Lady Karen Pence visited George Washington University, where she spoke with students about their participation in the Art Therapy Graduate Program. Upon arrival to the University, she was greeted by the director of the program, Heidi Bardot, Dean Ben Vinson and Provost Forrest Malztman. Mrs. Pence was then led to the art therapy space where current students' artwork are on display.
The Second Lady proceeded through the art therapy space, stopping in multiple classrooms to offer brief remarks to students and their professors.
Following the tour, the Second Lady had the opportunity to meet with current students pursuing the program. She listened to their stories of how they hope to impact the community, what they aspire to do after graduation, and why they chose to pursue a career in art therapy.
To stay updated on the Second Lady's art therapy program visits, follow the Second Lady's Blog Page. To stay updated on her events, follow her on Twitter at, @SecondLady.
About Art Therapy
Second Lady Karen Pence chose one initiative to champion, and it is art therapy. She calls her initiative, Art Therapy: Healing with the HeART. According to the American Art Therapy Association, art therapy is an integrative mental health and human services profession that enriches the lives of individuals, families, and communities through active art-making, creative process, applied psychological theory, and human experience within a psychotherapeutic relationship. Professional art therapists who are experts in human development, psychological, and counseling theories and techniques facilitate Art therapy. For more information about the art therapy profession, visit https://arttherapy.org/.
About George Washington University's Art Therapy Program
Founded in 1971, GW's Art Therapy Program is one of the first of its kind in the country, and one of the first to receive approval from the American Art Therapy Association. The Program trains therapists in professional practice grounded in a broad understanding of the most current clinical art therapy, counseling, and trauma theories. GW's Art Therapy Program offers three options: a Master's in Art Therapy (with a thesis option); a Master's in Art Therapy Practice and a combined Bachelor of Arts/Masters of Arts in Art Therapy.
  