
    Mitt Romney today announced his Alaska Steering Committee.
"Alaska voters have felt the effects of President Obama's policies in Washington," said Mitt Romney. "This president's overreaching regulations and lack of a practical energy policy have hampered Alaska's development of its natural resources. Working with these leaders, I will ensure that Alaska is able to develop its resources, strengthen its economy, and help lead an economic recovery across the country."
Announcing the formation of Mitt Romney's Alaska Steering Committee, Lt. Gov. Mead Treadwell said, "Mitt Romney has such widespread support in Alaska because he is the only conservative candidate with the record and vision to defeat President Obama. More than any other candidate, he stands for a prosperous future for Alaska and the nation."
Mitt Romney's Alaska Steering Committee:
Lisa Murkowski, Anchorage, Is Alaska's Senior United States Senator. She is currently the Ranking Member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and also serves on the Appropriations Committee, Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee, and Indian Affairs Committee.
Mead Treadwell, Anchorage, Was Elected Lieutenant Governor Of Alaska In 2010. He has served as Chairman of the United States Arctic Research Commission, Deputy Commissioner of Alaska's Department of Environmental Conservation, and Senior Fellow of the Institute of the North.
Dr. Pete Higgins, Fairbanks, Served As President Of The Alaska Dental Society In 2008. That year, he was selected as a Delegate to the Alaska Republican State Convention and the Republican National Convention after heading up Governor Romney's successful campaign in Fairbanks.
Carolyne Wallace, Fairbanks, Is A Member Of The Board Of The University Of Alaska Foundation And A Former President Of The College Of Fellows Of The University Of Alaska, Fairbanks. She is a member of the Chancellor's Board of Vistors at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. She is now retired after working in the UAF Administration for over twenty-nine years.
Jacqueline Tupou, Juneau, Served As State Chair Of The College Republican Federation Of Alaska. She is also State Chair of the Conservation Leadership Program, Co-Chair of the Hispanic Republican Assembly of Alaska, and a Member of the Republican State Central Committee.
Susan Fischetti, Eagle River, Was Chosen As One Of Alaska's Three Presidential Electors In 2000 And Voted In The Electoral College For President George W. Bush. She has served as a Republican District Chair and a Member of the Republican State Central Committee.
David Dittman, Anchorage, Is The President Of Dittman Research And Communications Corporation, One Of The State's Leading Public Opinion Polling Operations. During the period from 1990 — 2000, the communications side of his business received more top national awards for political newsprint advertising by the American Association of Political Consultants than any other company in the United States.
Rex Shattuck, Chugiak, Retired In Alaska After Twenty Years Of Service In The United States Air Force. He now works for the Alaska Legislature as Chief of Staff to a Member of the House Finance Committee. Rex has served as his Republican District Chair and a Member of the Republican State Central Committee. In 2008, he was named Delegation Aide for the Alaska Delegation to the Republican National Convention.
Sue Hull, Fairbanks, Serves On The Board Of Education Of The Fairbanks North Star Borough School District As Well As On The Board Of The Association Of Alaska School Boards. She served as a Member of the Alaska State Board of Education from 1983 to 1988 and as Alaska PTA President from 1993 to 1995. Sue has also served on the Board of the Alaska Humanities Forum.
Dr. Jason Rampton, Eagle River, Is A Retired Air Force Officer Who Has Owned And Operated A Dental Clinic For The Last Eleven Years. A strong supporter of local Republican candidates and conservative ballot measures, he served as a Delegate to the Alaska Republican State Convention and an Alternate Delegate to the Republican National Convention in 2008.
Chris Nelson, Anchorage, Was Elected Chairman Of The Alaska Delegation To The 2008 Republican National Convention. A retired Army officer, he has served as a Delegate to the 2004 Republican National Convention, as a Republican District officer and Member of the Republican State Central Committee, and as Victory '98 Executive Director for the Alaska Republican Party. In 2008, he was State Director for Governor Romney's winning campaign in Alaska.
  