
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration.
David Michael Satterfield of Missouri, to be a Career Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Turkey. 
Ambassador Satterfield, a career member of the senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, has been the Acting Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs since 2017. Previously, Ambassador Satterfield served as the Director General of the Multinational Force and Observers in Rome, Italy, from 2014 to 2017 and 2009 to 2013. In 2014, Ambassador Satterfield was special advisor to the Secretary of State for Libya, based in Tripoli, Libya, and served as Charge d'Affaires at the United States Embassy in Cairo, Egypt, from 2013 to 2014. He served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Baghdad, Iraq, from 2005 to 2006, and as the United States Ambassador to Lebanon from 1998 to 2001. Ambassador Satterfield served at the United States embassies in Syria and Saudi Arabia as well as other senior assignments, including Deputy Assistant Secretary, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, and Acting Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs from 2001 to 2005. Ambassador Satterfield is the recipient of the Presidential Distinguished Executive Rank Award, the Secretary of State's Distinguished Service Award, and the United States Department of the Army Outstanding Civilian Service Award. He earned a B.A. from the University of Maryland. Ambassador Satterfield speaks Arabic, French, and Italian.
Jeffrey Byard of Alabama, to be Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security.
Mr. Byard currently serves as Associate Administrator for Response and Recovery at the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In this role, Mr. Byard serves as FEMA's senior-most executive over disaster response, recovery, logistics, and field operations. Prior to joining FEMA, Mr. Byard served in several capacities with the Alabama Emergency Management Agency, most recently as executive operations officer with responsibility for response, recovery, and field operations. On multiple occasions, Mr. Byard led operations for the State of Alabama, including during the country's first large-scale state evacuation during Hurricane Gustav, response and recovery operations for the Deep Water Horizon Oil Spill, and other significant disasters such as the 2011 Super Outbreak, the largest, costliest, and one of the deadliest tornado outbreaks ever recorded. Mr. Byard served honorably in the United States Marine Corps from 1990 to 1994. He holds a B.S. in Business Administration from Troy University.
  