
    Pool Reports by  Bricio Segovia, MVS Radio 



Sent:
Reports:




February 27, 202111:25

VP Extended Pool Report #1 / Gather for Event
Good morning!
The VP extended pool has been gathered for VPOTUS event and is waiting in South Court Auditorium of EEOB. Vice President Kamala Harris is expected to deliver remarks at the 40th Annual Black History Month Virtual Celebration hosted by Congressman Steny H. Hoyer. Event is expected to begin at 11:30AM EST.
An American and VPOTUS flags are on the stage behind the lectern and a little table with a glass of water, napkins and two paper straws. Three big screens are on the sides and behind the lectern with the White House logo and the name of the event: "40th Annual Black History Month. Virtual Celebration".
Photos of the stage and what VPOTUS will see in front of her can be downloaded here:
https://we.tl/t-Jt0UVgaIvE
Guidance for the event can be found here:
https://hoyer.house.gov/content/hoyer-announces-40th-annual-black-histor...



February 27, 202111:35

VP Extended Pool Report #2 / Two minute warning
Two minute warning for VPOTUS to come out on stage.
Event can be watched live here:
https://www.facebook.com/LeaderHoyer/videos/411883793244779/



February 27, 202111:43

VP Extended Pool Report #1 / VPOTUS on stage
[APP Note: This is Report #3. See Report #4.]
VPOTUS entered South Court Auditorium at 11:35 alone after Congressman Hoyer introduced her as "the first black and woman Vice President in the history of the United States".
VPOTUS first words looking at Congressman Hoyer were: "It's so good to be with you it is so good to be with you. This is the 40th time that you have celebrated America's history and America's black history with this."
She thanked the congressman for being "consistent in your continuing leadership, which has always been about fighting to make sure everybody's in the room that truth is acknowledged and everyone is acknowledged in a way that is about fighting for equality fighting for freedom and fighting for justice, and so thank you for inviting me to join".
I am sharing my Otter recording where you can see a live transcription of VPOTUS remarks:
https://otter.ai/u/IVDvJyx23RVkK7KiqOs4gjBHaOk
More tk



February 27, 202112:15

VP Extended Pool Report #4 / VPOTUS Remarks
Previous report should have said #3, I apologize.
VPOTUS exited the stage at 11:55AM EST. Please find below some highlights of VPOTUS remarks. As always, please check against transcript.
-"Every February, we take a a more formal time to remember and honor those who came before us, and they are -and were- the visionaries, they were the innovators. And why do I say innovators? because they had the ability in their moment in time to see what can be unburdened by what had been. They were the innovators, and of course the barrier breakers. And of course, the history makers."
-"I think of history in the context of a relay race, right, a relay race, with each generation, running their course, and then passing the baton to the next. And so the baton is now in our hands. And what matters is how well we run our portion of the race."
-"We are looking at a country of a situation where more than two in three black Americans personally know someone who has been hospitalized, or who has died from COVID-19."
-"Black women workers are being forced out of the workforce in record numbers. And so many black small businesses are being forced to close their doors. In so many ways, this pandemic has been an accelerator. And for those for whom things were bad before, they're even worse now."
VPOTUS noted that this morning the House of Representatives passed the American rescue plan and passed it on to the United States Senate for action. She went through the plan. "This plan is about expanding access to the vaccine", she said, and added: "We know from the data, and from talking with friends and family, that access to the vaccine is a big concern for black and brown communities. And we know why we know that history."
VPOTUS concluded by remembering her mother's words: "my mama tought me to be the first in doing many things, but never the last. I've been one of many in the race of fighting for justice, civil rights and equality". "Never give up", she added, acknowledging the current challenges the nation faces.
Congressman Hoyer said right after VPOTUS concluded her remarks: "Oh my my, wasn't it a wonderful inspirational address".
Enjoy the rest of your Saturday, everyone!




  