
    To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, the Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Canada Concerning Pacific Salmon, with annexes and a related Memorandum of Understanding, signed at Ottawa January 28, 1985. I also transmit for the information of the Senate the report of the Department of State. This treaty would establish a basis for bilateral cooperation in salmon management, research, and enhancement on the west coast of North America. It will enter into force upon exchange of instruments of ratification.
The treaty would establish a bilateral commission with coastwide responsibilities for management of "intercepting" salmon fisheries, fisheries of one Party that harvest fish which spawn in the waters of the other Party. These responsibilities would include management of the fisheries on Fraser River sockeye and pink salmon, now governed by the Convention for the Protection, Preservation, and Extension of the Salmon Fishery of the Fraser River System, signed at Washington May 26, 1930, entered into force July 28, 1937, as amended. That convention would be superseded by this treaty. An annex to this treaty would prescribe specific fishery regimes, establishing allocations, annual catch levels, and broad regulations by time, area, or gear for (1) transboundary rivers, (2) the northern boundary area, (3) chinook, (4) Fraser River pink and sockeye, (5) southern coho, and (6) southern chum.
This treaty represents the culmination of fourteen years of negotiations on this issue. It establishes a basis for bilateral cooperation on management, research, and enhancement of salmon stocks throughout the west coast of North America. This treaty provides a framework that will enable us to conserve this precious resource. The increases in salmon production made possible by this treaty will inure to the benefit of fishermen of both the United States and Canada.
I recommend that the Senate give early consideration to the treaty and give its advice and consent to ratification of the treaty, including its annexes and related Memorandum of Understanding.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
February 12, 1985.
  