
    Governor Romney Has Received Countless Endorsements From Respected Newspapers Around The Country:
Arizona Republic: "Not only is the former governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney, best prepared, according to those criteria, of all the remaining GOP presidential hopefuls. He is also among the most skilled job-creating candidates for chief executive we can imagine." (Editorial, "Romney Right For These Times," Arizona Republic, 2/24/12)
Detroit News: "Romney has a refreshing free market vision for restoring the nation's prosperity. He sees a return to our entrepreneurial roots, freeing individuals to reach for their dreams, take risks and strive for gain with minimal government encumbrances." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney For Michigan GOP Primary," Detroit News, 2/22/12)
Columbus Dispatch: "Romney especially distinguishes himself from his Republican rivals — and the president — through his broad experience in business and in public service. In addition to his years investing in companies at Bain Capital, Romney is widely known for saving the troubled 2002 Olympic Games in Salt Lake City." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney: Experience And Wide Appeal Make Him The Best GOP Presidential Nominee," Columbus Dispatch, 2/5/12)
Denver Post: "As governor of Massachusetts, Romney, despite a Democratic-controlled legislature, left behind a $2 billion rainy day fund. He had earlier rescued the 2002 Winter Olympic Games. Those achievements demonstrate Romney is capable of managing under difficult conditions." (Editorial, "Romney Right For Colorado Republicans," Denver Post, 2/3/12)
Reno Gazette Journal: "Of those remaining, the former Massachusetts governor is the candidate who best represents the long-held values of Republican Party. Equally important, he is the one candidate who can be elected and the one best able to deal with the political realities in Washington, D.C., to accomplish what he and his party hope to accomplish if he's elected president of the United States." (Editorial, "Romney Is The Best Choice For The GOP Nomination," Reno Gazette-Journal, 2/3/12)
Las Vegas Review-Journal: "Mr. Romney is pro-growth all the way. He wants the country to develop all its energy resources, not punish the oil, coal and gas sectors. He wants states and citizens to have more freedom to innovate. And perhaps most importantly, Mr. Romney is a Washington outsider, not a capital insider." (Editorial, "Romney Stands Out In Gop Field," Las Vegas Review-Journal, 1/29/12)
Charleston Post & Courier: "The former Massachusetts governor has an impressive record, in and out of public office. His extensive background, steady temperament and sense of purpose make him the right GOP choice for the crucial task of leading our nation out of tough times and virtual political gridlock." (Editorial, "Vote For Romney On Saturday," Charleston Post & Courier, 1/20/12)
Spartanburg Herald-Journal: "Romney is a genuine conservative. He plans to reduce the size of the federal government. Romney has an extensive plan to return various federal programs to the states, where they can be run more efficiently and with a better eye toward local needs." (Editorial, "Romney Is GOP's Best Bet," Spartanburg Herald-Journal, 1/17/12)
Greenville News: "Romney is best equipped of the Republican candidates to help this country get its financial house in order, to rein in a federal government inclined to add crushing regulations, to free business capital to create jobs and to improve the lives of Americans up and down the economic ladder. He is thoughtful when it comes to protecting the country, enhancing its national security and improving its relationship with trusted allies. At the same time, his executive experience in the business world and in state government gives him an undeniable advantage in this Republican primary." (Editorial, "Romney Best Choice For Republicans," Greenville News, 1/15/12)
San Antonio Express-News: "About the economy and how to revive it, Romney has a pro-growth plan that is solidly conservative." (Editorial, "Romney Is The Clear GOP Choice," San Antonio Express-News, 1/8/12)
Boston Herald: "But perhaps more to the point, there is only one candidate who can put this nation back on the path to fiscal sanity and restore it to its central role on the world stage. That candidate is Mitt Romney." (Editorial, "Nation Needs Romney," Boston Herald, 12/27/11)
The Washington Examiner: "Based on his long years of experience creating thousands of jobs here in the private sector, Romney knows how to fix the economy." (Editorial, "Romney Is GOP's Best Choice," The Washington Examiner, 12/14/11)
Foster's Daily Democrat: "And lest we be remiss in crediting Romney's accomplishments that make him better suited than others to be the GOP nominee, there is his turnaround of the Salt Lake City Olympic Games in 2002. Voters must not forget that Romney did, indeed, make a silk purse out of a sow's ear." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney: Best Suited To Be The GOP's Standard-Bearer," Foster's Daily Democrat, 12/4/11)
The Des Moines Register: "Sobriety, wisdom and judgment. Those are qualities Mitt Romney said he looks for in a leader. Those are qualities Romney himself has demonstrated in his career in business, public service and government. Those qualities help the former Massachusetts governor stand out as the most qualified Republican candidate competing in the Iowa caucuses." (Editorial, "The Des Moines Register's GOP Caucus Endorsement: Mitt Romney Is Best To Lead," The Des Moines Register, 12/17/11)
The Oklahoman: "In the remaining days, weeks and months of his presidency, he will rely on the collective strength of this nation to restore us to greatness. Mitt Romney is the man — the only man — who can beat Barack Obama." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney Is Best Man To Restore Nation's Greatness," The Oklahoman, 12/18/11)
Since Santorum Endorsements Are So Hard To Find, What Did Those Who Knew Him Best Have To Say About His Two Decades As A Washington Insider?
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette Editorial Headline: "Santorum Exemplifies The Worst Of Washington" (Editorial, "Casey For Senate," Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 10/22/06)
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: "[Rick Santorum] Is Washington, D.C." (Editorial, "Casey For Senate," Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 10/22/06)

Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: "[T]he 12-year incumbent is the sort of calculating politician who has made the 109th Congress the out-of-touch and ethics-challenged institution that has added to the store of public cynicism." (Editorial, "Casey For Senate," Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 10/22/06)


Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: "Sen. Santorum has a bigger problem. This self-described fighter has a black belt in hypocrisy. The issue of his non-residence in Pennsylvania is rooted in his slamming of Rep. Doug Walgren 16 years ago for moving to Washington, D.C. The hypocrisy got worse when Mr. Santorum, the alleged champion of taxpayers, stuck the public for the bill to educate his children in a cyber school when his residence in Penn Hills is just a legal fiction." (Editorial, "Casey For Senate," Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 10/22/06)

Philadelphia Inquirer: "[Santorum] bears responsibility for mixing the toxic elixir that poisoned the Republican-led Congress with lobbying scandals. Santorum led a relentless, heavy-handed effort to install only Republicans in top lobbying jobs." (Editorial, "Bob Casey Jr. For Senate," Philadelphia Inquirer, 10/22/06)

Philadelphia Inquirer: "[Santorum] Tolerates Huge Budget Deficits." (Editorial, "Bob Casey Jr. For Senate," Philadelphia Inquirer, 10/22/06)

Allentown Morning Call: "Stated In The Most Basic Way, Mr. Santorum Has Isolated Himself From The Broad Civic Consciousness Of Ordinary Pennsylvanians." (Editorial, "Give Edge To Casey In U.S. Senate Race," Allentown Morning Call, 10/29/06)
The York Dispatch: "Sen. Santorum's Tenure In The Senate Has Been Marked By Pandering To Americans' Fears..." (Editorial, "For U.S. Senate, It's Casey," The York Dispatch, 10/31/06)
Harrisburg Patriot News: "[Santorum] Has Increasingly Become A Divisive Figure Not Only In The State, But In The Nation." (Editorial, "Challenger Will Learn And Listen, Unlike His Incumbent Opponent," Harrisburg Patriot News, 10/29/06)
  