
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Governor Mitt Romney today announced eight new additions to his Exploratory Committee in Florida, including Sherri McVay of Orlando, who will serve as Political Director for the Florida effort.
These new staffers join an already large Florida organization including State Director Mandy Fletcher, senior advisers Sally Bradshaw and Ann Herberger, and Florida adviser Marc Reichelderfer.
"I am so proud of our strong Florida team. Florida is an important state and these individuals bring tremendous experience and added strength to our efforts in the Sunshine State," said Governor Romney.
Fast Facts About Governor Romney's Growing Florida Organization:
Sherri J. McVay - Political Director: An attorney, Sherri leaves Governor Bush's office as Executive Director of the Statewide Advocacy Council to join Governor Romney's team. She is a former Regional Field Director for Florida Bush-Cheney 2004, and previously worked at the White House for Vice President George H.W. Bush. She also served as a Special Assistant for External Affairs at the State Department and on the Presidential Inaugural Committee. Sherri was an active volunteer and fundraiser for Florida's new Governor, Charlie Crist.
Kristy M. Campbell - Communications Director: Kristy most recently served as Press Secretary for Governor Jeb Bush. Prior to that she was Communications Director for the Florida Department of Community Affairs and Public Information Officer to the Florida Division of Emergency Management, facilitating statewide communications during the historic 2004 hurricane season.
Tzaicel Hernandez - South Florida Field Director: Currently Southwest Florida Regional Director for U.S. Senator Mel Martinez, Hernandez has also served as South Florida Regional Field Director for the Republican Party's Senate Campaigns division. Hernandez previously worked as a field coordinator for Representative David Rivera's State House Campaign in Miami.
Nicole James - Central Florida Field Director: Nicole has served twice as Campaign Manager for State Senator Mike Haridopolos and was Governor Crist's Brevard County Grassroots Coordinator. She also served as an analyst in the Appointments Office of Governor Jeb Bush, a Research Coordinator for the National Republican Senatorial Committee and a contributing editor to the Sayfie Review, a Florida political news website.
Jessica Welter - Northwest Florida Field Director: She is a former Legislative Aide to Pensacola Representative Holly Benson, who now serves as Secretary, Department of Business and Professional Regulation for Governor Charlie Crist. Jessica also served as a Legislative Affairs Assistant to Governor Jeb Bush.
Patrick J. McQuillan - Southwest Florida Field Director: Patrick returns to Florida from Booz, Allen Hamilton in Washington, D.C., where he served as a consultant. He previously served as Legislative Affairs Coordinator for the Florida State Technology office, and prior to that, as a Special Assistant in the Office of Governor Jeb Bush.
Nick Hanson - Tampa Bay Field Director: Nick is a proud third generation resident of St. Petersburg. He has long been active in local politics, most recently managing the 2006 legislative campaign for Angelo Cappelli. Previously, he was a teacher with the Pinellas County School District, and he currently serves on the Steering Committee for the St. Petersburg Young Professionals.
Cecilia Rush - Office Manager: Cecilia served on Governor Bush's '94 and '98 gubernatorial campaigns. She has also served as Senior Assistant in the Florida Governor's Mansion, the Governor's Center for Efficient Government, the Foundation for Florida's Future and to the Republican Party of Florida.
  