
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 30
The President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD, for the weekend.
The White House announced that the President and Hillary Clinton will travel to Mexico for a meeting with President Ernesto Zedillo on February 15 and to Central America on March 8-11, visiting Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala.
February 1
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint E. Linn Draper, Jr., as a member of the President's Council on Sustainable Development.
February 2
In the morning, the President traveled to Boston, MA. In the evening, he traveled to New York City and later returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Anne Udall to be a Public Trustee at the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Jamil Mahuad of Ecuador and President Alberto Fujimori of Peru at the White House on February 5.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Atlanta, GA, on February 5 and to Wintergreen, VA, on February 9.
February 3
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph E. Brennan to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Bordogna to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation.
February 4
In the morning, the President met separately with Prime Minister Pandeli Majdo of Albania, Prime Minister Ljubco Georgievski of Macedonia, and Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority in the Cabinet Room at the Washington Hilton Hotel. The President also had brief discussions with Leah Rabin, widow of the late Israeli Prime Minister, and with Steven Flatow, whose daughter was the victim of a 1995 terrorist attack in Gaza.
The White House announced that the President will launch the AmeriCorps Call to Service campaign at the University of Maryland in College Park on February 10. February 5
The President met with President Jamil Mahuad of Ecuador and President Alberto Fujimori of Peru in the Oval Office.
The President announced the nomination of Thomas J. Erickson to be a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Betsy Levitt Cohn, Cynthia Friedman, Alice Kandell, Hilary Rosen, and Howard A. Tullman as members of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities.
The President announced the appointment of Mary Beth Cahill as Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison and Robert B. (Ben) Johnson as Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office on the President's Initiative for One America, a new office the President is creating to follow up on the work of his Initiative on Race.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany on February 11.
  