
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and designate three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey Shane of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy. Mr. Shane is currently the Associate Deputy Secretary of Transportation at the Department of Transportation. In this capacity, he serves as the Secretary of Transportation's principal policy advisor and as the Director of the Department's Office of Intermodalism. Prior to his appointment at the Department of Transportation in March of 2002, he was a partner at the international law firm of Hogan & Hartson L.L.P. Earlier in his career, he has served both as Deputy Assistant Secretary and Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs at the Department of Transportation. He also has served as the Chairman of the Commission on Air Transport of the International Chamber of Commerce and as Chairman of the Military Airlift Committee of the National Defense Transportation Association. He is a graduate of Princeton University and earned his law degree from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Lino Gutierrez of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Argentina. Ambassador Gutierrez is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service. He currently serves as Senior Advisor for International Affairs at the National War College at National Defense University. Previously, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs. Past foreign assignments include: U.S. Ambassador to Nicaragua, Deputy Chief of Mission in Nassau, Chief of the Embassy's Internal Political Unit in Paris, and Chief of the Political Section in Port-au-Prince. Ambassador Gutierrez earned both his bachelor's degree and his master's degree from the University of Alabama.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey Lunstead of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Republic of Maldives. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Dr. Lunstead currently serves as the Director of the Office of Environmental Policy at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as the Afghanistan Coordinator in the Bureau of South Asian Affairs and as the Director of the Office of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh Affairs. Dr. Lunstead is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and earned his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to designate Eduardo Aguirre, Jr. of Texas, to be Acting Director of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Service at the Department of Homeland Security. He is currently the Vice Chairman and First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Mr. Aguirre previously worked for Bank of America for 24 years. Mr. Aguirre was named "One of the 100 most Influential Hispanics in the Nation" by Hispanic Business Magazine for three consecutive years. He is a graduate of Louisiana State University.
The President intends to re-designate LaSalle Doheny Leffall, Jr. of the District of Columbia, to be the Chair of the President's Cancer Panel, for a one-year term. Dr. Leffall currently serves as a Charles R. Drew Professor of Surgery at the Howard University College of Medicine and Howard University Hospital. He is a graduate of Florida A&M University and earned his medical degree from the Howard University Medical School.
The President intends to designate Michael F. Duffy of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, of which he is currently a member.
  