
    Pool Reports by Debra Saunders, Las Vegas Review-Journal



Sent:
Reports:




February 20, 202014:11 

Local Out-of-town Pool Report #1
Greetings,
I will be your local print pooler today.
POTUS is speaking at a graduation ceremony at Las Vegas Metropolitan Police headquarters for Hope for Prisoners today at 11:45 a.m. (x-apple-data-detectors://1)
The event will be live-streamed.
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
I also will send along additional information on participants, color and some quotes.
The following are PREPARED excerpts sent from the White House
We are here to reaffirm that America is a nation that believes in REDEMPTION. We believe in Second Chances. And we want returning citizens to rebuild their lives – and to help us rebuild our country.…Today we declare that you are made by God for a great and noble purpose. You are valued members of our American family and we are determined to help you succeed.…When I ran for president, I pledged to fight for those who have been forgotten, neglected, overlooked, and ignored by politicians in our nation's capital.…When I learned about the case of Alice Johnson, it was clear to me that there were injustices in our sentencing laws that caused people who made small mistakes to pay a huge price.…To redress unfairness in the justice system, just over one year ago I led the effort to pass landmark Criminal Justice Reform. Others had tried and failed, but we got it done.…We have begun a nationwide campaign to encourage businesses to expand Second Chance Hiring. When we say Hire American, we mean ALL AMERICANS.…Together, we are building the most prosperous economy—and the most inclusive society—ever to exist. We want EVERY CITIZEN to join in America's unparalleled success and EVERY COMMUNITY to take part in America's extraordinary rise.…The unemployment rate for African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans has reached the lowest levels in history. African American poverty has declined to the lowest rate ever recorded.…In fact, the Trump economy might be the best Criminal Justice Reform of all. Our jobs market is so strong that businesses are recruiting former prisoners off the sidelines in great numbers.…There is more opportunity, more equality, and more potential in America today than in any society in the history of the world.…



February 20, 202014:58 

Local Out-of-town Pool Report #2
At 11:58, POTUS enters the room and prepares to speak.
But first:
The motorcade saw a number of individuals who watched and took photos on their phones.
Jon Ponder spoke as the pool entered the room.
Mayor Carolyn Goodman administered an oath to 29 graduates clad in blue caps and gowns.
Jon Ponder recalled being introduced at White House for National Day of Prayer event in 2018. He also remembered that President Trump promised he would come to a graduation for the group.
This from Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver a commencement address at HOPE for Prisoners Graduation.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
Local Elected OfficialsMayor Carolyn Goodman, Las VegasMayor Pro Tem Michele Fiore,  Las VegasUndersheriff Kevin McMahill, Clark County
External ParticipantsJon Ponder, President, HOPE For PrisonersDr. Miriam and Sheldon AdelsonLt. Stephen RibackLouis Hockersmith29 Hope For Prisoners Graduates25 Law Enforcement Officials



February 20, 202015:00 

Local Out-of-town pool report #3
POTUS says he "has a feeling" Jon Ponder will get a full pardon.



February 20, 202015:18 

Local Out-of-town pool report#4
About nine minutes into his graduation talk, POTUS mentioned Roger Stone
"There's a lot of press out there" so he wants to address Roger Stone."I want to see this play out to its fullest because Roger has a pretty good chance for exoneration""Roger's definitely a character."He "Was not involved when I ran for president.""It's my strong opinion that the forewoman of the jury" was an anti-Trump activist."You wouldn't know about a bad jury. Anybody here?" Mugs to the group"You're my experts, OK.""How can you have a jury pool tainted so badly?""They say he lied, but other people lied too. Just to mention. Comey lied.""These people know in the front row, you know better than anyone in this room" he said to the graduates."We're cleaning the swamp" - applause in the room"I'm not going to do anything in terms of the great powers bestowed on the President of the United States..."Mentions the sailor who took photos of a submarine. Trump gave him clemencyTrump now talking about Hillary Clinton's emails."I just want to let the fake news media know" laughter follows.
Please check quotes through transcript or video for accuracy.



February 20, 202015:53 

Local Out of Town Pool Report#5
We are out of here at 12:51And headed to McCarran.
From the pre- and post-Roger Stone remarks....
POTUS: “America is a nation that believes in redemption. We believe in second chances.”“You have paid your debt to society” Graduates could say, ‘I’m going to be more successful than Trump”
Dr. Miriam and Sheldon Adelson sat in the front row and got a shout out from the president. She doesn’t need to be a doctor, POTUS says, “You can trust me, her husband doesn’t need the money.”“They like a place called Israel.”
Trump also Thanked Mayor Goodman for being there and noted she was “very much involved with criminal justice reform along with Jared Kushner”Adelsons sat next to Sheriff LombardoAlso spotted in the audience, Nevada GOP head Michael McDonald
After Roger Stone remarks, he returns to criminal justice reformMentions Alice Johnson“We just let out three other people that she knew.”
Trump looks to Jon Ponder, who he has a feeling will get a pardon“Do you think I’m making a mistake with him?”Noo, the audience responds
Mentions the criminal justice reform bill he signed to correct crime bill that “disproportionately affected the black community”
Lt. Stephen Riback appeared with Lois Hockersmith (her name apparently misspelled in guidance?) an addict who went straight after Riback arrested her.  She says that Riback saved her life and that of her son.
Talked up the economy and stock market. Trade deals. 
“We are becoming a very inclusive society,” Trump asserted.
Called Jared Kushner “the father of criminal justice reform.”
“There are some in our society who want to tell you what you can’t do... they want to tell you why you can’t succeed. You don’t want to listen to them.”
“Do not believe those voices for one second.”
“I didn’t do anything wrong than they impeached me a few weeks ago.”
Standing O
Trump handed diplomas to graduates who walked up to the stage to the sound of pomp and circumstance.
Please check with transcript or video.



February 20, 202016:19 

Local Out of town pool report#6
Local pool was escorted from airport before Air Force One went wheels up em route to a campaign rally in Colorado Springs.
Christine Maddela says Jared Kushner day next to the sheriff.
Over and out. at 1:18




 
Pool Reports below by Katie Rogers, The New York Times



Sent:
Reports:




February 20, 202014:25 

Travel pool report #1: Rolling to Hope for Prisoners event
Motorcade is rolling at 11:24 am to the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, where POTUS is going to deliver a commencement speech for the Hope for Prisoners graduating class.
Your pooler has asked about any White House reaction to the sentencing of Roger Stone.
Back to the event: It will be streamed on the White House YouTube page, and here are some excerpted remarks passed along from the White House:
Excerpts from President Donald J. Trump's Commencement Address at Hope for Prisoners Graduation Ceremony (as prepared)
…
We are here to reaffirm that America is a nation that believes in REDEMPTION. We believe in Second Chances. And we want returning citizens to rebuild their lives – and to help us rebuild our country.
…
Today we declare that you are made by God for a great and noble purpose. You are valued members of our American family and we are determined to help you succeed.
…
When I ran for president, I pledged to fight for those who have been forgotten, neglected, overlooked, and ignored by politicians in our nation's capital.
…
When I learned about the case of Alice Johnson, it was clear to me that there were injustices in our sentencing laws that caused people who made small mistakes to pay a huge price.
…
To redress unfairness in the justice system, just over one year ago I led the effort to pass landmark Criminal Justice Reform. Others had tried and failed, but we got it done.
…
We have begun a nationwide campaign to encourage businesses to expand Second Chance Hiring. When we say Hire American, we mean ALL AMERICANS.
…
Together, we are building the most prosperous economy—and the most inclusive society—ever to exist. We want EVERY CITIZEN to join in America's unparalleled success and EVERY COMMUNITY to take part in America's extraordinary rise.
…
The unemployment rate for African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans has reached the lowest levels in history. African American poverty has declined to the lowest rate ever recorded.
…
In fact, the Trump economy might be the best Criminal Justice Reform of all. Our jobs market is so strong that businesses are recruiting former prisoners off the sidelines in great numbers.
…
There is more opportunity, more equality, and more potential in America today than in any society in the history of the world.



February 20, 202014:34 

Travel pool report #2: Event arrival
Motorcade arrived at police headquarters at 11:31 am. Event should be starting shortly.
Background from WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver a commencement address at HOPE for Prisoners Graduation.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
Local Elected OfficialsMayor Carolyn Goodman, Las VegasMayor Pro Tem Michele Fiore, Las VegasUndersheriff Kevin McMahill, Clark County
External ParticipantsJon Ponder, President, HOPE For PrisonersDr. Miriam and Sheldon AdelsonLt. Stephen RibackLouis Hockersmith29 Hope For Prisoners Graduates25 Law Enforcement Officials



February 20, 202015:08 

Travel pool report #3: NEWS - POTUS on Roger Stone - "very good chance of exoneration"
From the stage at the commencement ceremony, POTUS had this to say about Roger Stone's sentencing:
"I want to address today's sentencing of a man, Roger Stone. I'm following this very closely and I want to see it play out to its fullest because Roger has a very good chance of exoneration in my opinion."
Calls him a "character" and says he likes him. "He's a smart guy, he's a little different, but those are sometimes the most interesting. But he's a good person. His family is fantastic."
"Roger was never involved in the Trump campaign for president. Early on before I announced he may have done a little consulting work or something. He's a person who he knows a lot of people having to do with politics. It's my strong opinion that the forewoman of the jury ... is totally tainted."
On fully pardoning Jon Ponder, a former bank robber, three-time convicted felon and host of this event: "We are giving him absolute consideration and I have a feeling he's going to get that full pardon. I'm going to give him an early congratulations, alright?"
He recognized Sheldon and Miriam Adelson, also at this event. "What a family. Miriam is a great doctor. She doesn't have to be a doctor. You can trust me, her husband doesn't need the money. But she devotes her life to addiction."
Recognized Jared Kushner on criminal justice reform: "He does a lot. He works hard."
Event is ongoing.



February 20, 202015:18 

Travel pool report #3a: MORE Stone quotes, Hillary emails, dirty cops, Comey
In an event that was ostensibly a commencement ceremony, POTUS began an extensive criticism against Hillary Clinton, Comey, McCabe and others, using some of his preferred political rally language.
"At some point I'll make a determination, but Roger Stone and everybody has to be treated fairly. And this has not been a fair process."
He continued assailing Stone jury forewoman -- a private citizen -- saying she was anti-Trump and had a "horrible social media account." Says she was a "very strong woman, a dominant person."
"If this woman I hope the judge will find that she is tainted. And if she isn't tainted that would be fine too."
"I want the process to play out. I think that's the best thing to do. Because I'd love to see Roger exonerated. I personally think he was treated very unfairly. They talk about witness tampering but the man that he was tampering didn't seem to have much of a problem with it."
"We had a lot of dirty cops. The FBI is phenomenal. I love the FBI. But the people at the top are dirty cops."
"It's not like the tampering I see when you watch a movie on television."
"Maybe there was tampering and maybe there wasn't. But I can tell you there was tremendous lying and leaking."
"Hillary Clinton linked more classified documents, I believe, than any human being in the United States of America."
"I know Roger, but a lot of people know Roger. Everybody sort of knows Roger. What happened to him is unbelievable. They say he lied but other people lied to. Just to mention, Comey lied, McCabe lied, Lisa Page lied, her lover, Peter Strzok, lied. You don't know who these people are? Just trust me."
Someone in the crowd of reformed prisoners yelled "lock em up!"
He said the people in the front row "get it better than anybody." Says "we're cleaning the swamp" to loud applause.



February 20, 202015:55 

Travel pool #4: Leaving graduation event, bound for airport
After finishing his speech, POTUS handed out diplomas to individual program recipients as "Pomp and Circumstance" played over the sound system.
Motorcade is rolling to airport bound for Colorado Springs rally at 1255 pm.
Notes -
* POTUS on impeachment: "I didn't do anything wrong and they impeached me a few weeks ago. I said 'what happened? What did I do?' The good news, my numbers went through the roof."* POTUS on Kushner: "The father of criminal justice reform."* POTUS on Ivanka/Jobs numbers: He reiterated the repeatedly fact-checked claim that Ivanka Trump has created 15 million jobs. "Ivanka just broke 15 million jobs."* POTUS talked about India trip next week: "We're going to India. We may make a tremendous deal there," on a possible trade deal, before adding he might wait until after the election.



February 20, 202016:14 

Travel pool report #5: Vegas > Colorado Springs
Motorcade pulled up to AF1 at 112 pm. POTUS was boarding when pool climbed out. Wheels up shortly.



February 20, 202016:23 

Travel pool report #5a: Orban readout
From Judd Deere: "President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary on February 17, 2020, and reiterated the importance of the United States-Hungary relationship. The President welcomed Hungary's support for the vision for peace in the Middle East. The two leaders also discussed ways to strengthen economic and counterterrorism ties.



February 20, 202017:08 

Travel pool report #6: Colorado arrival
AF1 touched down at Peterson AFB in Colorado Springs at 3:48 pm after an uneventful but beautifully scenic flight over the mountains. It is a balmy 28 degrees.
We are waiting for POTUS to emerge. He is currently having a meeting with the state's governor aboard AF1, from Judd Deere:
"The President and Colorado Governor Jared Polis are meeting aboard Air Force One which demonstrates the President's ongoing commitment to meet with governors of both parties on issues important to their state."
Greeters from WH:
The President is met by:
Representative Scott TiptonUnited States Representative from Colorado's 3rd Congressional DistrictRepresentative Doug LambornUnited States Representative from Colorado's 5th Congressional DistrictState Representative Timothy GeitnerState Representative from Colorado's 19th State House DistrictState Representative Dave WilliamsState Representative from Colorado's 15th State House DistrictMayor John SuthersMayor of Colorado Springs, ColoradoMrs. Janet SuthersSpouse of Mayor John SuthersGen. John "Jay" RaymondCommander of the United States Space CommandGen. Terrence J. O'ShaughnessyCommander of the United States Northern Command and North AmericanAerospace Defense CommandCol. Thomas G. FalzaranoCommander, 21st Space Wing, Peterson Air Force Base, Colorado



February 20, 202017:22 

Travel pool report #7: Rolling to rally
POTUS deplaned with a group that included the governor, Jared Kushner, Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle.
After spending time with greeters, POTUS walked over to a crowd of supporters, many of them in uniform.
POTUS asked one of the assembled supporters how he thought Bloomberg did in the debate.
"It wasn't pretty," POTUS said.
"You won that debate, sir!" another one shouted.
We are rolling at 4:21 pm.



February 20, 202017:26 

Travel pool report #7a: Boris-POTUS readout
From Judd Deere: "Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom. The two leaders discussed bilateral issues, including the upcoming G7 Summit in June."



February 20, 202018:18 

Travel pool report #8: Rally arrival
Motorcade pulled up to Broadmoor World Arena at 4:40 pm. Vice President is currently speaking.
Sending this now because of poor WiFi. The rally is open press.



February 20, 202018:27 

Travel pool report 8a: POTUS took stage at 4:26 p.m. MT
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



February 20, 202018:30

Travel report #8a correction: It was 5:26 p.m., not 4:26 p.m.
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



February 20, 202020:13 

Travel pool report #9: Rally departure
POTUS wrapped up at 705 pm, after speaking for just shy of 100 minutes.
Rolling for the airport at 712 pm.



February 20, 202020:34 

Travel pool report #10: Colorado > Vegas
Motorcade pulled up to AF1 at 732 pm. POTUS had boarded. Wheels up shortly.



February 20, 202021:18 

Travel pool report #11 newsy: Doug Collins under DNI consideration
AF1 landed at 8:07 pm.
The president, with Dana White in tow, came to speak to us OTR as plane was landing but allowed us to put on the record that he is considering Doug Collins among the candidates for permanent replacement for director of National intelligence.



February 20, 202021:26 

Travel pool report #12: Rolling to RON
Motorcade began rolling to Trump International at 8:23 pm.
Another note: Stephanie Grisham and Judd Deere came back with cupcakes on the flight for Doug Mills, NYT photog/GOAT who turns 60 today. POTUS, aware of the birthday, then came back OTR.



February 20, 202021:40 

Travel pool report #13: RON drop off
Motorcade arrived at Trump International at 8:39 pm. We have a lid.




  