
    CBN


Fresh off his Nevada caucus victory, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump set his sights on Super Tuesday, campaigning in Virginia Beach.
Trump spoke before a packed theater at Regent University as part of the university's Executive Leadership Presidential Candidate Forums series.
Click play to watch Heather Sells' updated report.
"We owe $19 trillion -- most people don't even know what a trillion dollars is, how many hundreds of millions is in a trillion," Trump said. "It's such a number that, it's a name that 10 years ago you never even heard the word trillion, but we owe $19 trillion."
Click play to watch Trump answer Dr. Robertson about what he'd do with the power of Executive Order.
"A very bad budget was passed just about four weeks ago that's going to add at least $2 trillion to it. So we'll be up essentially to $21 trillion, and at a certain point it's really the point of no return. And you really have to have somebody that knows what he or she is doing," he said.
Robertson wanted to know if President Trump would have a litmus test for those he'd nominate to the Supreme Court.
"In your selection as president, what criteria would you use to pick somebody?" he asked.
"Pro-life. We want-- It starts with that, starts with it. A very conservative, a very, very smart, I mean like Judge (Antonin) Scalia would be a perfect He was a perfect representative," he said.
Watch Trump's response below.
"I've always said that Justice (Clarence) Thomas doesn't get enough credit. He is a wonderful man, a wonderful guy (applause) and I've always said Judge (Samuel) Alito is a terrific guy. So, in that realm is what we're talking about for me," Trump explained.
Trump also addressed the President Obama's signature healthcare law.
"We're going to get rid of Obamacare," Trump said. "Obamacare has turned out to be a total disaster."
He also fielded questions about the Iranian nuclear deal in the country's involvement in Iraq.
"I didn't want to go into Iraq; it was one of the worst decisions ever made," Trump said. "We lost $2 trillion, thousands and thousands of lives -- thousands of lives. We have wounded warriors who I love all over the place, and what happens? Iran is now taking over Iraq."
"When you think of how Iran is doing lately, right? Between the Iran deal, we give them $150 billion -- we got nothing for it," he said. "We should have gotten our prisoners back long before we started negotiating...(Secretary John) Kerry - this is the worst negotiator I think I've ever seen."
In addition, Trump did not mince words when talking about his political rival and Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
"Boy, did you ever see anybody so nice to the president, though? 'Oh, the president is wonderful,' she says. 'Oh, the president, he's great... You know why she's doing that, right? You know why? I know why. Boy, oh boy, she's become like a marshmallow."
Trump also addressed President Obama's liberties with executive orders, accusing the president of resorting to them because he's not been effective in dealing with Congress.
"You're supposed to get the congressmen in, the senators in; you're supposed to make deals," he told Robertson. "I deal in politics in other countries cause we're building all over the world. And we have jobs going up all over the world -- a lot of jobs. But I have never seen division like you have now."
"The country is so divided, whether it's African American, white, congressman, Democrat, Republican. I mean it's just like we have a whole divided country. I've never seen anything like it," he said. "But we used to see, and I used to be part of Democrats and Republicans having dinners together with their families and their wives, and it was a nice thing. There'd be combat the next day, but there would be -- they'd get along -- and they'd get things done."
"So today we have a president that can't get anything done, and he signs executive orders," he said.
He said he's first reverse Obama's orders on the Second Amendment and his orders involving immigration.
With 49 delegates at stake, Virginia is an important state for candidates to secure enough delegates to win the Republican presidential nomination.
Trump and others know that making an appearance with CBN Founder and CEO Pat Robertson at Regent University will help their efforts to win the votes of evangelicals, which will be one key to securing victory in the state on March 1.
Regent University has already hosted presidential candidates John Kasichand Jeb Bush, who ended his bid after a poor showing in South Carolina.
Ted Cruz will make an appearance at Regent on Friday, Feb. 26 at 7 p.m., followed by Ben Carson on Monday, Feb. 29 at 2 p.m., the day before Super Tuesday. CBN News will be streaming both events live.
  