
    
  Meridian Republican hails Congressman Paul's devotion to liberty

BOISE, Idaho — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Idaho State Senator Shirley McKague (R-Meridian). Representing the 20th District, Sen. McKague serves an area encompassing Meridian, located just west of Boise. This endorsement is especially notable in that Meridian is the third largest city in the state and part of the largest metropolitan area of about 625,000 Idahoans.
In making her public endorsement, Sen. McKague issued the following statement:
"I have been aware of Ron Paul's voting record since the 1970s when I was inspired to first get involved politically. Dr. Paul has never deviated from voting for the Constitution and protecting the God-given rights of the people. He has not changed while in office and I trust him to continue serving the people and following the principles of our founders as a guide to restoring America."
First elected as an Idaho State Representative in 1997, Sen. McKague served five terms before being appointed to the Idaho State Senate in 2007 where she is currently serving her third term. In spite of being often outspent by establishment candidates, Sen. McKague has never lost an election for an office for which she was running.
For 10 years prior to election to the House, Sen. McKague served as House Committee Secretary, and was also a longtime automotive service station owner and a columnist for the Valley Times publication. Sen. McKague also cites her family of six children, and many precious grandchildren and great-grandchildren, as inspiration for her life of public service to make Idaho better for future generations. She has been married to her husband, Paul, for 41 years and counting.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Idaho State organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  