
    The following' listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 19
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
February 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski; —Vice President Mondale;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President has accepted the invitation of Prime Minister Pierre Eliott Trudeau of Canada to attend the 15th anniversary concert for the Symphonicum Europae Fund, Inc., in New York City on March 3. He will have a private dinner with the Prime Minister for an informal discussion of Canadian-American and world affairs. They will attend the concert at Carnegie Hall following the dinner.
February 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Stuart E. Eizenstar, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Barry P. Bosworth, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, and Mr. Mcintyre;
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Mr. Moore;
—Douglas M. Costle, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and Mr. Eizenstat;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Secretary Blumenthal, to discuss Mr. Blumenthal's forthcoming trip to the People's Republic of China.
February 23
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—representatives of solar groups.
  