
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 3
In the morning, the President met with President Alberto Fujimori of Peru in the White House to discuss Mr. Fujimori's recent visit to Toronto and the hostage crisis in Peru.
The President announced his intention to nominate Marsha Mason to the National Council on the Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations: Lester M. Alberthal, Jr.; Roger J. Baccigaluppi; John E. Bryson; James P. (Tom) Camerlo, Jr.; John T. Chambers; Walter Y. Elisha; Donald V. Fites; Richard S. Fuld, Jr.; Fred Krupp; Lenore Miller; Bernard Rapoport; Jerome A. Siegel; Paula Stern; and John J. Sweeney.
The President announced his intention to designate Michael J. Gaines as Chair of the U.S. Parole Commission.
The White House announced that Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada and his wife have accepted the President's invitation for an official visit to Washington, DC, on April 8.
The White House announced that the President has accepted an invitation to visit The Netherlands on May 28 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Marshall plan and to participate in the U.S.-European Union summit.
February 4
The President announced his intention to nominate Theodore F. Verheggen to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.
The White House announced that the President sent a message to Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel extending condolences on behalf of all Americans to the Israeli people and the families of the victims of the Israeli Defense Forces helicopter tragedy.
February 5
In the morning, the President traveled to Augusta, GA. While en route, aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel to express his condolences. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
February 7
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany concerning European security issues and the future of NATO.
The White House announced the President will travel to Mexico from April 11-12 and to the Caribbean and Central and South America from May 6-13.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn (Kitty) O'Leary Higgins for Deputy Secretary of Labor.
The President announced the following White House staff appointments:
Thurgood Marshall, Jr., Assistant to the President and Cabinet
Secretary;
Maria Echaveste, Assistant to the President and Director for Public
Liaison;
Craig Smith, Assistant to the President and Director for Political
Affairs;
Robert (Ben) Johnson, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy
Director for Public Liaison;
Minyon Moore, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director for Political Affairs;
Karen Skelton, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director for Political Affairs; and
Beverly Barnes, Senior Adviser to the Chief of Staff.
  