
    Dear Marty:
It is with deep regret, and solely out of respect for your wishes, that I accept your resignation as Assistant to the President of the United States of America for Policy Development.
I am sorry Ed Meese and I have been unsuccessful in our attempts to change your mind and persuade you to stay in your key position. But I am well aware of your strong desire to return to the Hoover Institution to resume your research and writing.
Your advice and counsel over the years, especially in helping formulate my basic policy strategy in economic and domestic affairs, have been invaluable.
The service you have rendered to the country by your scholarly research and writing and your unique ability to translate ideas into campaign issue positions and then into effective national policy is deeply appreciated, as you know.
I am indebted to you personally for your dedication and the many contributions you have made to "our crusade" through the years.
I am pleased that you have agreed to continue to help me by serving as a member of both the President's Economic Policy Advisory Board and the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
Thus, in a very real sense, I am counting on you to remain active in the development of our policies as we go forward.
Now that we are once again fellow "Fellows" at the Hoover Institution, Nancy and I extend to you our best wishes as you enter this new phase of your distinguished career in academic life and public service.
I look forward to a continuing close working relationship with you in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
RON
[The Honorable Martin Anderson, Assistant to the President for Policy Development, The White House, Washington, D.C. 20500]
Dear Mr. President:
As you know, I have been planning to return to my research and writing at the Hoover Institution for some time now. At your request, I agreed to serve as Assistant to the President for Policy Development during the initial stages of your Administration to help lay the groundwork for the successful achievement of the policy goals we both share.
Now that this has been established, and consistent with my desire to resume my academic career, as we have discussed, I believe the time has come to submit my resignation as Assistant to the President for Policy Development, effective March 1, 1982.
It has been an extraordinary pleasure and experience to work with you over the past few years—in the presidential campaigns of 1976 and 1980, and especially during the past year in the White House.
Your personal efforts, strength and conviction have been a major factor in the intellectual and political revolutions which have taken place in this country during the last two decades. The changes in public policy you have achieved thus far in your Presidency are of historic magnitude and their effects will be felt and appreciated for many years to come.
I am honored and very pleased to have had the opportunity to assist you in the accomplishment of these goals as a member of the White House staff.
Although I am returning to the Hoover Institution, I continue to feel very much part of your Administration and I look forward to working with you and other members of your staff and Cabinet in the ways you and I have discussed.
With best regards,
MARTIN
Assistant to the President for Policy Development
  