
    Former U.S. Rep. and Texas Attorney General Jim Mattox, Former U.S. Rep. Chapman, and State Sen. Gonzalo Barrientos Endorse Hillary
Austin, TX - Texans for Hillary announced today the support of three influential Texas leaders –Former U.S. Congressman and Texas Attorney General Jim Mattox, former U.S. Congressman Jim Chapman, and State Senator Gonzalo Barrientos - who will mobilize grassroots support within their communities for Hillary ahead of the March 4 Texas primary and caucus.
Mattox, who served three terms in the U.S. Congress from Dallas and two terms as Attorney General, is a prominent voice for the Democratic party in Texas.
"In Texas we have a phrase, ‘she's earned her spurs.' Hillary has spent more than 35 years earning her spurs and she is the best leader for our country," said General Mattox. "Whether working for universal health care or passing legislation to protect our nation's veterans, Hillary has spent a lifetime fighting for the American people. Hillary does more than just deliver beautiful speeches, she delivers results."
Chapman served the 1st Congressional District of Texas for more than 10 years in the US House of Representatives. As former Chairman of the Texas Democratic congressional delegation, Chapman is a respected voice within the Texas Democratic party.
"Hillary is a strong leader who represents the values that are important to the people of our great state—hard work, faith, and commitment to family. Whether fighting for universal health care or working to protect our nation's children, Hillary has proven time and time again she is a leader who can deliver results. She's a work horse, not a show horse and in uncertain times we need a President with tested leadership who can hit the ground running on day one. For more than 35 years, Hillary has produced positive change and there is no one I would trust more with the future of our country. I urge the people of Texas to stand with Hillary on March 5th."
Barrientos is a leading voice within the Hispanic community throughout the state. A former Democratic member of the Texas Senate, Barrientos represented the 14th District from 1985 to 2007. He was also a member of the Texas House of Representatives from Austin from 1975 to 1985.
"Hillary has a long history fighting for the American people and I am proud to support her today. Whether working to protect voter rights or fighting for universal health care, Hillary has consistently demonstrated that she values the issues that are important to the Hispanic community. We need a leader who has the strength and experience to lead on day one. Hillary doesn't just talk about change, she delivers change. My brothers and sisters, I urge you to stand in support of Hillary, so together we can help make history."
The endorsement of these three well-respected and influential leaders demonstrates Texans from across the Lone Star State are rallying behind Hillary's powerful message of providing real solutions for the problems plaguing America's working families. As further evidence of the momentum Hillary is receiving, more than 100,000 Texans have committed to volunteering for Hillary and hundreds more are signing up daily. In the coming days, the campaign will announce the opening of 20 offices statewide to accommodate Hillary's tremendous level of support.
  