
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eleven individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate James W. Pardew to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bulgaria. Pardew is presently the Special Advisor for Southeast Europe in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs. Pardew previously served as Deputy Special Advisor to the President and Secretary of State for Democracy in the Balkans during the conflict in Kosovo and the subsequent peace implementation. From 1996 to 1999, he directed the Military Train and Equip program for Bosnia and represented the Secretary of Defense on the U.S. negotiating team that concluded the Dayton Peace Agreement, ending the war in Bosnia. Pardew served in the U.S. Army for 28 years, earning the Legion of Merit, Bronze Star and Air Medal and retired with the rank of Colonel. Originally from Arkansas, Pardew graduated from the University of Arkansas and earned a Master's degree from Loyola University in Chicago.
The President intends to nominate Susanne T. Marshall to be Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board. Until the Senate confirms Ms. Marshall for the position of Chairman, please note the President's intention to designate Ms. Marshall as Vice Chairman. Marshall has served as a Member of the Merit System Protection Board since 1997. From 1985 to 1997, she was a staff member of the Senate Government Affairs Committee.
The President intends to nominate James Joseph Parmley of New York to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of New York. Mr. Parmely is currently a Major with the New York State Police in Albany, where he has served since 1974. From 1972 to 1974, he was a Road Patrol Deputy in the Livingston County Sheriff's Office in Genesco, New York. He has Associate's Degrees in Business and Criminal Justice from Monroe Community College, and a Bachelor's Degree in Business and Economics from Empire State College.
The President intends to nominate Charles R. Reavis of North Carolina to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of North Carolina. He has worked for the Drug Enforcement Administration since 1979, having been promoted to Resident Agent-in-Charge. From 1973 to 1979, Reavis worked for the Forsyth County Sheriff's Office in Forsyth County, North Carolina. Reavis has a Bachelor of Science degree from Saint Joseph University, and a Bachelor of Science in Human Services from Thomas Edison State College.
The President intends to nominate Michael Robert Regan of Pennsylvania, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. Regan has been employed by the United States Marshal Service since 1988, most recently as a Deputy United States Marshal in Harrisburg, PA. From 1988 from 1990, he was a Deputy United States Marshal in the Southern District of Florida.
The President intends to nominate Timothy DeWayne Welch of Oklahoma, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Oklahoma. Welch has served as a Deputy United States Marshal in Tulsa, since 1993. Mr. Welch was a Highway Patrol Trooped in Oklahoma City from 1989 to 1993, having previously served in the Bixby Police Department from 1981 to 1989.
The President intends to nominate James Thomas Plousis of New Jersey, to be United States Marshal for the District of New Jersey. Plousis has been Sheriff of Cape May County, New Jersey since 1984. He was a Police officer in Ocean City, New Jersey from 1979 to 1984, and in Woodbine, New Jersey from 1975 to 1978. He has a Bachelor of Arts degree from Slippery Rock University.
The President intends to nominate Warren Douglas Anderson of South Dakota, to be United States Marshal for the District of South Dakota. He has served in the South Dakota Highway Patrol in Sioux Falls, South Dakota since 1974, most recently as Captain and District Commander.
The President intends to nominate Todd Walther Dillard of Maryland, to be United States Marshal for the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. Mr. Dillard is being reappointed to a position he has held since 1990. From 1965 to 1990, Dillard served in the United States Secret Service, having been promoted to Criminal Investigator/Inspector. He has a Master of Business Administration from Cornell University.
The President intends to nominate Theophile Alceste Duroncelet of Louisiana, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Louisiana. Mr. Duroncelet has served as Chief Deputy Clerk in the Louisiana Supreme Court since 1996. From 1992 to 1996, he was the Clerk of Court for the Orleans Parish Juvenile Court in New Orleans. He was Courtroom Deputy Clerk for the U.S. District Court in New Orleans from 1966 to 1992. Duroncelet has a Bachelor of Arts degree from Tulane University.
The President intends to nominate James Loren Kennedy of Indiana, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Indiana. He has been Director of Indiana University Police since 2000, a position he also held from 1971 to 1996. From 1996 to 2000, he was Chief of Police for the Bloomington Police Department. Mr. Kennedy has a Bachelor of Science degree and a Doctor of Jurisprudence degree from Indiana University.
  