
    Good afternoon to you all. Thank you all for coming. Norm, welcome back to the White House. Usually at events like this, a new Secretary is joining the Cabinet. This time a new Cabinet is joining the Secretary. I'm pleased that you're back. I'm glad that your wife is with us. I'm going to welcome your family members to the Oval Office. Thank you all for coming.
For 21 years, Norm Mineta represented the Silicon Valley in the United States Congress. He understands the great challenges taking place in the economic life of our country. He has an understanding of the transportation needs of America. He knows that America relies more than ever on the soundness of our roads and rails, bridges and runways. And as our economy grows, so must our capacity to move people and goods quickly and efficiently. This means investment in new infrastructure, as well as overdue repairs of the old. Working with State and local governments, we will work to meet the demands of our growing economy.
Americans are especially concerned about our aviation system. The results of economic expansion are clearly visible at our crowded airports. We must continue to reform and modernize the Federal Aviation Administration, and our Secretary of Transportation brings the talents necessary to address the problems and, more importantly, find the solutions.
Our new Secretary will also work with States and localities in planning new roads and alternative transportation, such as bus and light-rail systems. From Los Angeles to Austin to right here in Washington, the trials of commuting increase every year. It's going to take some clear thinking and creativity to accommodate our Nation's increasing travel demands, and Norm Mineta is the right man for the job.
It's a high honor to serve the two Cabinets, as the Vice President said. Norm has earned this honor. His life is a story of determination and courage and service. As a child, he lived in an internment camp. As a young man, he wore his country's uniform in Korea and Japan. From there, he went on to become a mayor, a Congressman, and a Cabinet Secretary.
I thank him for accepting my invitation to serve again, and I'm honored to have him by my side.
Mr. Secretary.
  