
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 24
The President named Richard Socarides as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor for Public Liaison.
February 25
In the morning, the President met with Second Deputy Prime Minister Prince Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate James B. King to serve a second 4-year term as Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
The White House announced that the President announced the formation of a Capital Budget Commission to report to the President on how best to reflect and encourage public investment while maintaining strict fiscal discipline in the Federal budget. He named Jon S. Corzine and Kathleen Brown as Cochairs. Following consultation with the Cochairs and the congressional leadership, the President will make nine other bipartisan appointments to the Commission.
The White House announced that the President will attend the New York Mets/Los Angeles Dodgers baseball game at Shea Stadium in New York City on April 15 to honor the memory of Jackie Robinson and commemorate the 50th anniversary of the integration of major league baseball.
February 27
At noon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the upcoming summit meeting in Helsinki, Finland.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Brent Scowcroft to be a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force Academy.
February 28
The President announced his intention to nominate Joel I. Klein as Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division, Department of Justice.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ray C. Anderson, Scott Bernstein, Randall Franke, Harry J. Pearce, and M. Susan Savage to the President's Council on Sustainable Development.
The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm which occurred November 13-26, 1996.
  