
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

On February 21, 1791, the United States Senate approved President Washington's nomination of Colonel David Humphreys as the first U.S. Minister to Portugal, thereby establishing diplomatic relations between our two countries. Since that time, the governmental, commercial, and cultural ties between the United States and Portugal have grown and prospered.
Mutually beneficial ties between the United States and Portugal began to take shape long before President Washington agreed to formal recognition of our friendship. Indeed, Portugal was among the nations that led the way to the European discovery and exploration of America: during the 15th and early 16th centuries, Portugal was the center for bold navigational advances that permitted transoceanic travel; there, men such as Christopher Columbus and Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo developed the knowledge and skills that made possible their historic journeys along these shores. The history of America would not be the same were it not for the contributions of the intrepid Portuguese people.
Since the early years of our Republic, Portugal has been a welcome friend. Even before the establishment of formal diplomatic ties, Portugal extended to American shipping the protection of its navy against the Barbary pirates, who were a major threat to U.S. commerce. Soon after diplomatic ties were established, our two countries developed active trade and commercial relations. With seafaring traditions strong in both countries, the Azores played a key role in facilitating trade and commerce, allowing for the provisioning of whaling vessels and other ships. Today our Consulate in the Azores is the oldest active U.S. consular post in the world.
Beginning in the 19th century, over the oceanic bridge provided by the Azores, thousands of Portuguese men and women emigrated to the United States, enriching our history and culture. The deep cultural and familial ties that were subsequently established between the United States and Portugal are reinforced today by our mutual devotion to democratic ideals and the rule of law. Joining with the United States as a founding member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in 1949, Portugal has remained a steadfast ally and a valued partner in efforts to promote global security.
On this occasion, as we celebrate the 200th anniversary of U.S.-Portugal relations, let us rededicate ourselves to strengthening cooperation between our two countries in promoting the ideals of peace and freedom.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 21, 1991, as a day of commemoration of the 200th anniversary of U.S.-Portugal relations. I encourage all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities in recognition of the enduring friendship between the United States and Portugal.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  