
    Former Maryland Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend discusses Clinton's advocacy for women across the globe
Providence, RI - Former Maryland Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend and Rhode Island Lt. Gov. Elizabeth Roberts today joined women from around Rhode Island in launching "Rhode Island Women for Hillary" a grassroots organization to encourage women to support Hillary Clinton's campaign to become America's first women president. The group gathered at 3 Steeple Street, a woman-owned business in Providence, to highlight Hillary Clinton's commitment to issues affecting women in the U.S. and across the globe.
Rhode Island Senate Majority Leader M. Teresa Paiva Weed, former Senate Republican Minority Leader Lila Sapinsley and Bristol resident Suzanne Magaziner have joined Roberts as chairwomen of the group that will organize women for Senator Hillary Clinton's historic candidacy for president.
"From advocating for equal pay, to protecting a woman's right to choose, to fighting for equal rights for women across the globe, Hillary Clinton is a true champion for women's rights and a tireless advocate for policies that positively affect the lives of women and families," said former Lt. Gov. Townsend. "As the first woman lieutenant governor in the state of Maryland, I know a little something about breaking political glass ceilings. I am particularly excited about the prospect of electing a woman president as it will inspire women and girls across our nation."
"Hillary Clinton's commitment to health care for every American is a mission I care about deeply. Our commitment is shared by millions of Americans who understand that health care is vital to creating jobs and creating security for our families. Thousands of Rhode Island women will support Hillary Clinton because we know that she shares our priorities," said Lt. Gov. Roberts. "Over the coming days, we will work together to make history and put Hillary Clinton on the path to becoming our first woman president."
To date, more than 100 women have signed on as members of the group that will organize their friends and family on behalf of Senator Clinton and list continues to grow each day. Organizers also announced a "10 to 1 Challenge" whereby members of the group will each gather names of ten women they know to support Hillary Clinton for president.
The goal is to reach more than 1,000 in the next 72 hours, the kick-off to GOTV efforts in Rhode Island. Rhode Island Women for Hillary will participate in phone banking, canvassing and other field operations in the days leading up to the primary.
Lt. Gov. Roberts and former Lt. Gov. Kennedy Townsend, U.S. Senator Robert Kennedy's eldest child, encouraged Rhode Island women to show their strength by contributing to the get out the vote efforts on the final weekend of the campaign, delivering a victory for Hillary Clinton on March 4th.
Roberts, Rhode Island's highest-ever statewide female officeholder, and other women in attendance spoke about Clinton's plan to end wage discrimination in the workplace, increase capital for women-owned businesses and continue to expand access to family planning, while protecting privacy of women and their reproductive rights.
  