
    NASHVILLE, TN — Today, Nashville Councilmember At-Large Bob Mendes announced his endorsement of Senator Amy Klobuchar for President, citing her honesty, track record of getting things done, and ability to move the country forward on important issues like health care, climate change, and economic justice.
"Our nation is fiercely divided and too many people are being left behind. Senator Klobuchar is a strong progressive with an impressive track record of getting things done and she's the right person to lead us through these rough waters to a better future," said Nashville Councilmember At-Large Bob Mendes.
"Americans want a President who will recognize common ground to move us forward on important issues like healthcare, climate change, and economic justice, and who will also stand her ground and fight for all Americans when necessary," he continued. "The most impressive thing about Senator Klobuchar is that she gets that balance right with intelligence and experience and, most of all, with honesty."
"Councilmember Bob Mendes is a true public servant and advocate for his community. We are honored to have his endorsement," said Amy for America Tennessee State Director Christopher Smith. "Like many Tennesseans, Bob knows that Amy will build the broad coalition we need to win big up and down the ballot in November."
Mendes' endorsement comes as Klobuchar returns to the state for grassroots events in Nashville today, February 28 and in Knoxville tomorrow, February 29. Mendes will introduce her to the crowd at her event in Nashville before she shares her unifying, optimistic message with supporters ahead of Tennessee's primary on March 3.
Nashville Councilmember At-Large Bob Mendes
Nashville Councilmember At-Large Bob Mendes was first elected in 2015 to serve as an At-Large member of Nashville's Metro Council. While in office, he has provided leadership on issues of equity and financial transparency. In addition to his service as a member of the Metro Council, he practices law and is a resident of Nashville's Hillsboro West End neighborhood.
  