
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 31
Josiah Horton Beeman, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to New Zealand, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Western Samoa.
Donald M. Blinken, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Hungary.
March Fong Eu, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federated States of Micronesia.
Richard Dale Kauzlarich, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Azerbaijan.
Submitted February 1
Strobe Talbott, of Ohio, to be Deputy Secretary of State, vice Clifton R. Wharton, Jr., resigned.
Submitted February 2
Michael Kane Kirk, of Florida, to be Deputy Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, vice Douglas B. Comer, resigned.
Rodney A. McCowan, of Oklahoma, to be Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration, Department of Education, vice Donald A. Laidlaw, resigned.
Linda Joan Morgan, of Maryland, to be a member of the Interstate Commerce Commission for a term expiring December 31, 1998, vice Edward J. Philbin, term expired.
Barry S. Newman, of Virginia, to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 2 years, vice Quincy Mellon Krosby, resigned.
Deval L. Patrick, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice John R. Dunne, resigned.
William Alan Reinsch, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration, vice Dennis Edward Kloske, resigned.
Robert S. Willard, of Ohio, to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for the remainder of the term expiring July 19, 1994, vice James E. Lyons, resigned.
Robert S. Willard, of Ohio, to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 1999 (reappointment).
Submitted February 3
Michael R. Bromwich, of the District of Columbia, to be Inspector General, Department of Justice, vice Richard J. Hankinson, resigned.
Lois Jane Schiffer, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Richard Burleson Stewart, resigned.
Submitted February 4
Frank James Anderson, of Indiana, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Indiana for the term of 4 years, vice Ralph D. Morgan.
Jack O. Dean, of Texas, to be U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice William J. Jonas, Jr.
Laurent F. Gilbert, of Maine, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Maine for the term of 4 years, vice Emery R. Jordan.
Kay Collett Goss, of Arkansas, to be an Associate Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, vice Grant C. Peterson, resigned.
Nanette Holly Hegerty, of Wisconsin, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Wisconsin for the term of 4 years, vice Robert J. Keating.
James W. Lockley, of Florida, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Florida for the term of 4 years, vice Wallace L. McLendon.
  