
    The President today announced his choices for four top leadership positions at the Department of Commerce, expressing his intention to nominate James Baker to be Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, Doug Hall to be Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, Sheila Anthony to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs, and Larry Irving to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information.
Baker and Hall will serve as the Director and Deputy Director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), one of the Federal Government's key environmental research agencies.
"Secretary Ron Brown is putting together a superb leadership team at the Department of Commerce," said President Clinton. "I am looking forward to working with them to turn Commerce into one of our administration's most vital agencies."
"We have found the perfect balance to lead NOAA," the President added. "With Jim Baker and Doug Hall, we have a team that will bring great scientific skills, laboratory management experience, a strong commitment to environmental protection, and the savvy required to deal effectively with sensitive issues."
As Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information, Clarence L. (Larry) Irving will direct the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA). "One of the most important missions that I have charged the Commerce Department with is nurturing the key industries of the future, in areas like telecommunications," said the President. "Larry Irving has a clear vision for turning telecommunications innovations into high skill, high wage jobs."
"In addition," said President Clinton, "with his experience on Capitol Hill, Larry will be invaluable in moving legislation swiftly through the Congress.' He will be joined in that effort by Sheila Anthony, someone with the political and management experience to strengthen the lines of communication between Commerce and Capitol Hill. I am so pleased to have a native of Hope, Arkansas, working closely with Congress to get our plans enacted."
  