
    The Clinton campaign today announced that veteran journalist Carole Simpson will serve as moderator for Hillary's Voices Across America: A National Town Hall. The three-time Emmy award winner will join Hillary at the anchor event in New York. The town hall will be broadcast live on Hallmark Channel and online on the eve of Super Tuesday, Monday, February 4, 2008 at 9 p.m. EST. Voters will be able to participate in this historic town hall by attending the New York event or one of the other 21 satellite simulcast events across the country, watching it live on television, and viewing a real-time stream of the event at hillaryclinton.com.
"I'm excited to have Carole serve as moderator of this historic town hall," said Clinton. "Carole has exemplified excellence throughout her career. Her participation in this event will ensure that we keep the voices of the American public at the forefront of this discussion."
Simpson is now a professor at Emerson College and was the longtime weekend anchor of ABC World News Tonight. Simpson began her career in her native Chicago, working for community newspapers, radio and local television. She joined ABC News in 1982 and served as weekend anchor for 15 years, from 1988 to 2003. During the 1992 presidential campaign, she was moderator of the historic second presidential debate, the first to follow a town-hall format and the first to be moderated by a woman and an African-American.
Simpson also was a reporter on the critically acclaimed documentary, Black in White America. For the past four years she wrote two columns for the ABC website and served as an ambassador to high schools for ABC, reaching more than 5,000 students in two years. She is now a regular commentator for National Public Radio.
In addition to three Emmys, two duPont-Columbia Awards, a Peabody Award, and the Milestone in Broadcasting award from the National Commission on Working Women, among others. In 1992, the National Association of Black Journalists named her Journalist of the Year. In 1999, she was inducted into the Chicago Journalism Hall of Fame.
  