
    Today, two new polls show that Americans across the board support President Biden's response to the crises the country faces upon taking office two weeks ago, including support for his approach to the pandemic and his American Rescue Plan.
According to a new Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research poll, 61% of Americans approve of how President Biden is "handling his job in his first days in office," including a quarter of Republicans. The Associated Press notes how the polling shows "a majority of Americans say they have at least some confidence in President Joe Biden and his ability to manage the myriad crises facing the nation, including the raging coronavirus pandemic."
Additionally, Navigator Research released new findings that show seven in 10 Americans support the economic relief package, and that "each provision of it earns support from at least three in five Americans." Overall, 72% of respondents said they support President Biden's American Rescue plan, including 91% of Democrats, 69% of Independents, and 53% of Republicans – an overwhelming majority across all party lines. The polling also showed that three in five people are more concerned that the federal government "will not do enough to get help to regular people" and agree "the government needs to do more to help regular people."
The new research today adds to the drum beat of polls that show a groundswell of bipartisan support among Americans for President Biden's American Rescue Plan. Yesterday, a Quinnipiac poll also showed that 7 in 10 Americans support the plan, which came on the heals of other polls from Monmouth and Yahoo/YouGov – both showing broad support for the President's plan. The recent Monmouth Poll showed that 71% of Americans would prefer Republicans in Congress find ways to work with Biden and Yahoo/YouGov showed that the President's plan more than two-thirds of Americans support core elements of the American Rescue Plan, including direct payments (74%), funding for vaccines (69%), a minimum wage increase (58%).
Bipartisan mayors and local elected officials support President Biden's plan too. 411 bipartisan mayors sent a letter to Congressional leadership urging immediate action on the plan. The National Association of County Officials, US Conference of Mayors, and National League of Cities have all recently praised the American Rescue Plan. And the top economic advisors from the last four presidents: Kevin Hassett, Gene Sperling, R. Glenn Hubbard, and Alan Blinder endorsed the plan and agreed that the cost of doing too little is greater than doing too much.
Read the full findings from AP-NORC and Navigator.
  