
    
  Celebrates common dedication to defense of liberty

BELLEVUE, Washington — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by former Washington State Supreme Court Justice Richard Sanders.
In making his public endorsement, Justice Sanders issued the following statement:
"Dr. Ron Paul has dedicated his life to the defense of individual freedom and constitutional principles. He has done this consistently, with dedication and courage. In the words of the Washington State Constitution, governments 'are established to protect and maintain individual rights.' This is also what I deeply believe. It is my privilege to support Dr. Paul and with this endorsement I encourage others to do so as well."
Justice Richard B. Sanders served on the Washington State Supreme Court between 1995 and 2011. During that time he wrote a record number of opinions in support of individual liberty, many in dissent. It was always his philosophy that it was his duty to stand up for individual rights, even when he had to stand alone. And often he did.
His opinions in defense of individual liberty were often debated on the national scene by scholars, and his writings have been used as course materials in Harvard Law School. Even his critics praised him as the deepest thinker on the court.
For his courageous defense of individual liberty he evoked the love of many, but the anger of those who think the government is there to be protected by the judiciary, not controlled by the Constitution. As court justice he was a champion of liberty who worked to protect the rights of each individual, in every single case.
Justice Sanders is considering a run for the Supreme Court this year to bring back a true fighter for liberty and our Constitution.
Justice Sanders says what he thinks and thinks what he says. He has endorsed Dr. Paul as a champion of liberty and the Constitution, and urges his friends to stand together for freedom and with Ron Paul.
Justice Sanders is the father of Laura Sanders, a 2009 summa cum laude graduate of the University of San Francisco. Laura is enthusiastic in all her endeavors and is the light of her daddy's life.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Washington State organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  