
    Pool Reports by Bricio Segovia, MVS Radio 



Sent:
Reports:




February 2, 202117:19

VP Supplental Pool Report #1 - Sec. Mayorkas Swearing-in
Pool was ushered into the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, at 5:14pm. Waiting for the VP and soon to be sworn in Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas. His family is expected to attend the event.



February 2, 202118:04

VP Supplemental Pool Report #2 - Sec. Mayorkas Swearing-in
Event was supposed to start at 5:30pm. We are told by a VP Office's official that it is running late due to the pool spray happening at the Oval, in which the President signed executive orders on immigration.
See photo attached of the stage at the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, where the VP will ceremonially swear in Alejandro Mayorkas as Secretary of Homeland Security.
[APP Note: Attached photo noted in this report was not included in the report provided to the APP.]



February 2, 202118:21

VP Supplemental Pool Report #3 - Sec. Mayorkas Swearing-in
The event began at 6:05 and lasted about 90 seconds. It took place in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. Neither the Secretary nor the VP took questions shouted by your pooler and ABC's John Parkinsons. I asked Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas if he had any message to the immigrant community as an immigrant himself. Parkinsons asked what it meant to be the first Latino to become Secretary of Homeland Security.
The VP walked in with Secretary and his wife, Tanya; his older daughter, Giselle; and his younger daughter, Amelia. Secretary Mayorkas and his family wore double face masks. Your pooler thinks the VP didn't double mask this time. They all were dressed in black attire and wore black face masks. Secretary Mayorkas brought some color with a purple tie.
VP was on the right of the stage and Mayorkas stood across from her, on the left. Between them, Mayorkas' wife held a Union Prayer Book.
After Mayorkas swore the oath as Secretary of Homeland Security, the VP fervently said: "Congratulations, Mr. Secretary! Congratulations to the whole family. Okay, it's done!". They all exited the stage, then.
Pool was escorted out shortly after.
Mayorkas, who served as DHS Deputy Secretary during the Obama administration, is a Cuban-born lawyer and one of the chief architects of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) immigration program. Mayorkas was among President Joe Biden's earliest announced nominees, and is the first Latino and immigrant to serve as Secretary of Homeland Security. He is set to lead the task force aimed at reuniting migrant families separated at the border by the Trump administration.
FYI this is the oath that Secretary Mayorkas repeated after the VP: "I, Alejandro Mayorkas, do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies foreign and domestic, that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same, that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion, that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office upon which I'm about to enter, so help me God."
Photos and video tk in separate email.



February 2, 202118:46

VP Supplemental Pool Report #4 - Sec. Mayorkas Swearing-in
Please see photos in this link:
https://twitter.com/briciosegovia/status/1356749771067785216?s=
Video of the ceremonial swearing-in of Alejandro Mayorkas as Secretary of Homeland Security can be downloaded here:
https://we.tl/t-4G2cczG3yz
Have a good evening!




  