
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Rodney K. Brown of California, to be a Member of the Farm Credit Administration Board for a six-year term beginning October 14, 2018.
Mr. Brown previously served as President and CEO of the California Bankers Association. Prior to this, he served as President and CEO of Montecito Bank & Trust in Santa Barbara, California, and held positions with First National Bank of Kansas City and Bank of America in San Francisco, California.
Christopher Scolese of New York, to be the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office.
Mr. Scolese currently serves as the Director of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. Previously, he served as the associate administrator at NASA headquarters in Washington, D.C., and as NASA's chief engineer. Mr. Scolese is the recipient of the Presidential Rank Award of Meritorious Executive, the NASA Distinguished Leadership Medal, the Goddard Outstanding Leadership Medal, two NASA Outstanding Leadership Medals, and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) National Capital Section Young Engineer/Scientist of the Year award.
—
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
James Michael Kulikowski of Virginia, to be the Coordinator of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Program and without additional compensation to serve concurrently as Coordinator for Overall Assistance and Economic Cooperation Strategy for the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union.
Mr. Kulikowski currently serves as a Senior Advisor in the Office of Foreign Assistance Resources at the Department of State. Previously, he served as Deputy Staff Director for the Appropriations Committee in the United States House of Representatives. Additionally, Mr. Kulikowski served in the Office of Management and Budget as Chief of the State Department Branch, working in the Office of Global Health Affairs in the Secretary's Office at the Department of Health and Human Services. He assisted with the start-up of the Global Fund to Fight AIDs, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and served at the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), where he was the highest ranking American and a part of the Director General's senior management team. Mr. Kulikowski earned undergraduate, law, and public health degrees from Harvard University.
  