
    Detroit, MI - Republican Presidential Candidate Rick Santorum unveiled his Economic Freedom Agenda for the first 100 days of his Administration this evening in Michigan.
Rick Santorum said: "I'm an Italian guy from a steel town who grew up understanding what makes this country great.  My friends' families worked in the steel mills and my grandfather was a coal miner who worked hard so his children could taste freedom in America.   Back then, America made things, and that meant jobs, it meant strong families and it means a strong economy.  The President tells us those jobs are gone, but he's wrong - and I'm not willing to ever surrender those jobs to China.  We can revive this economy immediately, if we cut taxes across the board and repeal the radical job crushing environmental policies of this Administration.  If we create a level playing field - I will bet on the American worker above anyone else from any other country every time - and we will win.  We must free our economy and put faith back in the American people, not in government.  My plan does that and together we will rebuild America."
SANTORUM 100 DAYS "MADE IN AMERICA"
ECONOMIC FREEDOM AGENDA
UNLEASH AMERICA'S ENERGY: Approve the Keystone Pipeline for jobs and energy security, sign an order unleashing America's domestic energy production without picking winners and losers on Day One, and allow states to choose where they want to explore for oil and natural gas and to set their own regulations for hydrofracturing.
STOP JOB KILLING REGULATIONS:  Eliminate all regulations promulgated by the Obama Administration which have an economic burden over $100 million dollars, on Day One, including repeal of the EPA rule on CO2 emissions that has already shut down six power plants and furloughed 500 workers. Order a review of all regulations, making sure these regulations use sound science and common-sense cost benefit analysis.
REIN IN SPENDING TO SECURE OUR FUTURE:  Propose spending cuts of $5 trillion over 5 years, including spending cuts for the remainder of fiscal year 2013. Propose budgets that spend less money each year than the year before, and reduce the non-defense related federal workforce at least 10 percent, without replacing with contractors.
REPEAL AND REPLACE OBAMACARE: Submit legislation to Congress to repeal ObamaCare and issue an executive order ending related regulatory obligations on the states on Day One.  Work with Congress to replace ObamaCare with competitive choices of healthcare plans to improve the quality and limit the cost of healthcare, while protecting those with uninsurable health conditions. Repeal Dodd-Frank, which is making it harder for businesses to get access to credit and for Americans to buy houses and refinance. 
BALANCE THE BUDGET:  Submit to Congress a budget that will balance within 4 years and call on Congress to pass a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution which limits federal spending to 18 percent of GDP.
PRO-GROWTH AND PRO-FAMILY INDIVIDUAL TAX POLICY: Submit to Congress my comprehensive pro-growth and pro-family tax policies to strengthen opportunity in our country, with lower rates of 10 percent and 28 percent.  To help families, will triple the personal deduction for children and eliminate the marriage tax penalty throughout the tax code.
RESTORE AMERICA'S COMPETITIVENESS:  Cut the corporate tax in half to a flat-tax rate of 17.5 percent to make America competitive internationally, and allow corporations to expense all business equipment and investment.  Eliminate taxes on IRS Code Section 199 manufacturing activity to attract manufacturing back to America. Take the lead on tort reform to lower the cost of doing business in America and to reduce the cost of products and services to consumers. 
NEGOTIATE AND SUBMIT FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS: Because a substantial portion of Americans work for companies which export, initiate negotiations in the first 100 days and submit to Congress at least five free trade agreements to increase our exports during my first year in office.
REFORM ENTITLEMENTS: Cut means-tested entitlement programs by 10 percent across the board, freeze them for four years, and block grant them to the states as Senator Santorum did as the author of welfare reform. Reform Medicare and Social Security so they are fiscally sustainable for seniors and young people.
REVIVE HOUSING: Submit a plan to Congress to phase out within several years Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's federal housing role, reform and make transparent the Federal Reserve, and allow families whose homes are "underwater" to deduct losses from the sale of their home in order to better get a fresh start in difficult economic times.
  