
    Mayor Baldwin cites Mike Bloomberg's common-sense leadership in her endorsement
RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA — Mayor of Raleigh, North Carolina Mary-Ann Baldwin today endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg. In her endorsement, Mayor Baldwin touted Mike's plan to tackle the nation's housing affordability and homelessness crisis, as well as his plans to improve the nation's infrastructure and transportation systems, which will subsequently create new jobs. Baldwin also praised Mike's proven track-record as mayor of New York City, his common-sense approach to leadership, and his commitment as president to unifying the country for all Americans.
"I ran for mayor because I was frustrated by the lack of progress made on pressing issues like affordable housing, and barriers to accessing economic opportunity. This is not just happening at the state level, but nationwide, and it's time for new leadership in the White House so we can start seeing real change. The choices we make to promote inclusiveness and progress are what make this country, and each of its cities, interesting. That is why I'm supporting Mike Bloomberg," said Mayor Mary-Ann Baldwin. "As a former mayor, Mike knows the importance of making sure constituents feel heard and being the voice that brings their ideas forward. As president, his policies – from housing affordability to infrastructure and job creation – will address the needs of all kinds of people. His common-sense leadership is what our country needs right now and he has plans to deliver on his promises."
"Mayor Baldwin is a strong leader who's using her experience in business and philanthropy to drive an ambitious agenda in one of the fastest-growing parts of the country," said Mike Bloomberg. "Local leaders like Mayor Baldwin deserve a strong partner in the White House who will work closely with them to expand opportunity, foster entrepreneurship, and create affordable housing – and that's what I'll do as president. As the capital of a major swing state, Raleigh will play a critical role in November, and I'm honored to have Mayor Baldwin's support."
As Mayor of the capital of North Carolina, Baldwin is an advocate for innovation and entrepreneurship, affordable housing and homelessness, and transit. Before being elected Mayor in 2019, Baldwin served five terms on the Raleigh City Council. Baldwin currently serves as the chair of the Council's Safe, Healthy, and Vibrant Community Committee and is a member of the Council's Economic Development and Innovation Committee.
During her time on Council, she was the City's representative to GoTriangle, Raleigh's regional transit authority, as well as the Downtown Raleigh Alliance. She has also served as chair of City's Law and Public Safety Committee and Transportation Committee and as a member of the Budget and Economic Development Committee, Public Works Committee, Comprehensive Planning Committee, Healthy Neighborhoods Committee, and Technology and Communications Committee. Baldwin was also a former representative to the Metro Mayors Coalition and liaison to the NC State Legislature.
Mike Bloomberg 2020 is heavily prioritizing the Super Tuesday state of North Carolina. Mike has recently earned the support of several mayors in the state from Vi Lyles of Charlotte, Don Hardy of Kinston, and two former Raleigh mayors Charles Meeker and Nancy McFarlane which highlights the strong momentum he has there. His campaign has more than 125 staffers on the ground and 8 offices open, making it the largest campaign presence from any candidate for president in the state this cycle.
As president, Mike will treat homelessness as a national emergency, double annual federal spending, and cut homelessness in half by 2025. Mike also has a national vision to address our country's broken infrastructure. Mike's plan will bring the nation's infrastructure into the 21st century while making it smarter, faster, safer, and greener. The plan empowers local officials to address critical issues, acknowledging that not only do mayors best understand their infrastructure needs, but also that job creation, economic development, and efforts to fight climate change are most effective at the local level.
  