
    Before an enthusiastic crowd of 600 people at Great Basin Brewery in Reno yesterday, Newt talked about his solutions for jobs and economic growth and why he's the best candidate to beat President Obama.
About 300 people packed the southwest Reno pub to hear Gingrich speak. Another 300 or so stood outside and listened to Gingrich's speech on loudspeakers.
"... We are here to campaign," Gingrich said, buoyed by the enthusiastic turnout. "We are competing across the whole state. We want to compete in every single caucus meeting that occurs. And I thought frankly, this was a pretty good starting point. We had a terrific crowd. We had hundreds of people outside who could not get inside.
"This is a pretty good sign that we have a pretty good base here," Gingrich said. "We are looking forward to more gatherings like this."
  ...
  Gingrich was also critical of Democratic President Barack Obama during the Reno speech.
"I have a very simple proposition for the American people," Gingrich said. "Think how much better your Christmas will be when Obama is leaving, and you have a new jobs-oriented president."
Gingrich also said he would approve the Keystone Pipeline as soon as he was in office. He promised to eliminate the capital gains tax and streamline the tax system so citizens could choose to either be taxed by the current system or pay a 15 percent flat tax.
He said he would end Obama's health care initiatives and also was critical of those who have been on federal subsistence for close to two years.
"We will never again pay someone for 99 weeks for doing nothing," Gingrich said.
Gingrich's speech was enough for one attendee to change his preference for president.
"The one thing that is going to sway me from voting for Mitt Romney is when he (Gingrich) said that he needed people to win this election and keep it going," said Nick Smith, 26. "The people have to vote for themselves, and that is what Newt was talking about today when he said it was for the people. It is not about money; it is not about ads."

  