
    Austin, TX - The Obama Campaign today unveiled two new television ads today that highlight Senator Obama's background and his commitment to standing up for working families that are being squeezed by the faltering economy. "Chances I Had" discusses the impact Obama's education had on his life and his commitment to a providing quality education to every child in America as President. "Enough" highlights the economic challenges America's workers face and Senator Obama's plans to revitalize our stalled economy.
In addition, the campaign will expand the buy to include the following markets: El Paso, Tyler-Longview, Amarillo, Lubbock, Odessa-Midland and Waco. The new ads will also run in Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, Austin, Beaumont-Port Arthur, Harlingen and Corpus Christi — where the campaign initially went on the air last Tuesday.
Building on the momentum from sweeping victories in Virginia, Washington, D.C. and Maryland, this week Obama received the endorsements of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union (UFCW) and the Service Employees International Union (SEIU).
See below for scripts and links to video of each ad:
"Chances I Had" (Click Here to View)


VIDEO
AUDIO



Obama's Education Plan:
      - Expand early childhood education
      - Recruit a new generation of teachers
For more details:
      Texas.BarackObama.com
Change We Can Believe In
      Vote March 4th
      Or vote early Feb 19th — 29th
866-675-2008
Texas.BarackObama.com
      Approved by Barack Obama.
      Paid for by Obama for America.


Barack V/O: My parents weren't rich. My father left me when I was very young.
Barack SYNC: The one thing I was able to get was a great education.
Barack V/O: We should give every child the same chances that I had
Barack SYNC: By investing in early childhood education and recruiting a whole new generation of teachers. But government alone is not going to solve the problem
Barack SYNC: We need parents to turn off the television and instill in our children a sense of excellence.
Barack SYNC: We've got to ask more of ourselves
Barack V/O: if we want the kind of world education that they need.
Barack V/O: I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message.




"Enough" (Click Here to View)


VIDEO
AUDIO



B&W still of BO
BO speaking to town hall sized crowd
Barack Obama for President
      Vote March 4th
      Or Vote Early Feb 19-29th
      866-675-2008
      Texas.BarackObama.com
      Approved by Barack Obama.
      Paid for by Obama for President.


BO VO:
I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message.
BO Synch: Ordinary people all across the country are struggling from paycheck to paycheck.
If the plant moves to China, and you've been working there for 20, 30 years and suddenly you have the rug pulled out from under ya…
And you don't have healthcare, and you don't have a pension, you're on your own.
We gotta stop giving tax breaks to companies that are moving overseas and give those tax breaks to companies that are investing
In the United States of America.
Enough is enough.




  