
    "Nobody running for president has done more for the gun violence prevention movement than Mike," said Congresswoman McBath
ROSWELL, GEORGIA — Today, U.S. Congresswoman Lucy McBath (GA-6) endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg for president, citing his unmatched record in gun violence prevention, as well as his commitment and comprehensive plans to combat gun violence.
"I first met Mike when I was searching for ways to fight against the dangerous gun laws that ripped my son from my life," said Congresswoman Lucy McBath. "Mike gave grieving mothers like me a way to stand up and fight back. Nobody running for president has done more for the gun violence prevention movement than Mike. I am proud to stand with him in this race, and work with him when he is in the White House to keep our communities safe."
"Rep. Lucy McBath has channeled the terrible pain of losing a child to gun violence into becoming a national leader for common sense gun safety laws — and I couldn't be more honored to have her support," said Mike Bloomberg. "She showed that gun safety can help Democrats flip red districts to blue, and that's what I'm working to do all over the country in this campaign. As president, I will work with her to pass stronger common sense gun safety laws that the vast majority of Americans support. She knows it's possible to respect Second Amendment rights while also protecting children and communities from gun violence — and together, we will get it done."
Congresswoman McBath represents Georgia's Sixth District, is a mother, a wife, an author, and an advocate. McBath spent 30 years working for Delta Airlines as a flight attendant until the death of her 17-year-old son, Jordan Davis. Jordan was shot and killed in what became known as the "Loud Music Shooting." After his death, McBath turned to advocacy and has dedicated her life to preventing other families from experiencing the same tragedy that she did. After years of advocating to local, state, and federal legislators, McBath decided to run for office herself. After the Parkland shooting, she announced her successful bid for Congress in Georgia's Sixth District, becoming the first Democrat to hold that seat since 1979.
  