
    Key excerpts:
...in the view of The San Diego Union-Tribune Editorial Board, Buttigieg is best suited to beat Trump because of his centrist policies, his military experience, his (admittedly small-scale) executive experience and the enthusiasm he's inspired, with better fundraising and national polling, bigger campaign crowds and more news coverage… He has shown he can manage a national campaign successfully. And in a nation that only legalized same-sex marriage in 2015, his message of generational change could actually inspire change.
Of the six strong Democratic candidates left, half are 77- or 78-year-old men, two are women, one of whom is 70, and then there is Buttigieg. He may have only been mayor of the fourth-largest city in Indiana, but his fresh approach is transformational. He came out in an op-ed in a local newspaper while seeking reelection in 2015, choosing his ability to love openly over his presumed ability to advance more easily in politics. [...]
...the way Buttigieg addressed the fatal shooting of a black man by a white officer in his hometown during this campaign suggests he'll approach tests directly — that he'll show up and step up. He suspended his campaign and returned to South Bend to face anger and criticism head on, to listen to community members, and lead. Michael Patton, president of the local NAACP chapter, supports him, saying, "Pete is someone who has done significant work in our community."
Then there's something progressives should keep in mind: Buttigieg is running as a moderate, but he points out his "Medicare for all who want it" proposal would make him the most progressive president in 50 years. He also points out that when Democrats have been elected to the White House in that span, they have been young, first-time presidential candidates who were new to the national scene and "calling the country to its highest values." He offers a message of hope and change when the nation needs both.[...]
In a recent Telemundo interview, Buttigieg named Mexico's current president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, when asked to do so. Klobuchar could not. Wednesday's latest debate saw them fighting for votes over this and other issues. She took his conventional political attacks too personally and seemed rattled while he rose to the occasion. [...]
It's time for a generational change. It's time to make America good again.
Vote Pete Buttigieg for president of the United States.
Click HERE to read the full editorial board endorsement.
  