
    New Ad: The campaign will soon unveil a new ad in Ohio and Texas. Stay tuned.
On Tap: Today, voters in Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C. head to the polls... Tonight, Hillary will hold a "Solutions for America" rally in El Paso, Texas... Tomorrow, Hillary will campaign in McAllen, Robstown and San Antonio, Texas...On Thursday and Friday, Hillary will campaign in Ohio.
Big Endorsement: In Ohio, former Senator John Glenn will today endorse Hillary at a press conference with Governor Ted Strickland in Columbus.
Donating to Hillary: Supporters continue to contribute online in significant numbers..."My husband has been out of a job for 6 months but he insisted that I send Hillary a donation. It was only $25 but it comes from our hearts."..."This is my first ever political contribution in the 40 years that I've been following politics. I will be making additional contributions at regular intervals to make sure my daughter grows up knowing it will be possible for her to become President."... "I am a poor graduate student and I just made my third $25 contribution after taking a good, long look at my checking account... I also will try to make phone calls over the weekend."
Winning in November: Hillary is the Democrat to beat Sen. John McCain. Hillary has withstood Republican attacks, has the strength and experience to win on national security and has built a strong coalition of women and Latino voters. These two groups made the difference in 2004, swinging the election from Sen. John Kerry to President George Bush. Read more.
Students for Hillary: Yesterday, hours before Hillary spoke at Dr. Larry Sabato's class at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, students stood outside, "shivering in the cold, waving signs, clapping and chanting, 'H, I! H, I, L! H, I, L, L, A, R, Y! Hillary!' (Clap, clap, clap.) 'Our nominee!'" During her address, "students gave her a standing ovation, cheering and snapping photos with cell phones, and then the whole auditorium swayed, arms around each other."
Save the Date: On Thursday, February 21 at 7 p.m. CST, Hillary and Sen. Obama will debate in Austin, Texas. Univision, CNN and the Texas Democratic Party will co-host the debate. Sen. Obama refused to debate Hillary in Wisconsin, Washington, D.C., and Maine.
Green Jobs: In White Marsh, Maryland, Hillary yesterday toured a GM Allison Transmission Plant and detailed her plan to create 5 million good-paying, "green-collar" jobs by investing in energy efficiency and renewable energy. Read more.
FactCheck:In Maryland, Virginia, and Washington, D.C., Sen. Obama is running a radio ad that claims his health care plan provides "universal coverage." Independent health care experts agree Sen. Obama's plan is not universal and would leave 15 million people uninsured. Get the facts.
  