
    The President today announced that he will nominate Peter G. Bourne and Lee I. Dogoloff to be Director and Deputy Director, respectively, of the Office of Drug Abuse Policy.
The Office of Drug Abuse Policy was created by Public Law 94-237 of March 19, 1976. These two individuals are the first to hold these positions.
Bourne is presently Special Assistant to the President for Mental Health and Drug Abuse. In 1965-66 he was chief of the neuropsychiatry section for the U.S. Army Medical Research Team in Vietnam. In 1966-67 he was a consultant to the Southeast Asia Health Branch of AID.
Bourne was director of the mental health unit at the Southside Comprehensive Health Center in Atlanta in 1969-71, and founder and director of the Atlanta South Central Community Mental Health Center from 1970 to 1971. In 1971-72 he was director of the Georgia Office of Drug Abuse.
From 1972 to 1974, Bourne was Assistant Director of the White House Special Action Office for Drug Abuse Prevention. Between 1969 and 1972, he was an assistant professor in the department of preventive medicine and community health at Emory University, and in 1974 he was a visiting lecturer in the department of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School.
He was mid-Atlantic campaign coordinator for the Jimmy Carter Presidential campaign in 1975 and 1976. He is the author of "Men, Stress and Viet Nam" (Little, Brown, 1970).
Lee Dogoloff is presently the Deputy for Drug Abuse Prevention in the Office of Management and Budget's Federal Drug Management Division. He has had extensive experience with drug programs at the local, State, and Federal levels of government.
In addition, he has represented the United States Government at international conferences and has provided technical assistance to a number of countries including Iran, Venezuela, and Thailand, as they develop their own drug programs.
He previously served as the Director of the Division of Community Assistance at the National Institute on Drug Abuse and, prior to that, was Director of Governmental Assistance in the Special Action Office for Drug Abuse Prevention.
Dogoloff has also served as the deputy administrator of the Narcotics Treatment Administration in Washington, D.C., and coordinator of community services for the District of Columbia's Department of Corrections.
  