
    The Dole for President campaign today announced that Arizona Senator John McCain has endorsed Senator Bob Dole for President. Having served as national chairman to the former presidential campaign of Phil Gramm, Senator McCain will become the Dole for President Campaign chief advisor on national security issues.
"I am very pleased to endorse my friend, Senator Bob Dole, for President, and I am honored that he has asked me to serve his campaign in the capacity of chief national security advisor. Bob Dole is quite clearly the quality candidate in this race. He has the experience, wisdom and strength to recover for this country's foreign policy the prestige and purpose which has been so badly squandered by the incumbent Administration," said McCain.
Senator McCain added: "As a decorated veteran whose personal sacrifice for our country distinguishes him from every other candidate in this race, Bob knows how dangerous the world is, how precious our freedom is, and how vitally important it is to remain in the eyes of the world the strongest, most determined nation on earth. It would be an honor to salute him as commander-in-chief, and I am confident I will have that honor next January."
Senator Dole welcomed the endorsement: "I'm proud to have the support of my friend and colleague, John McCain. He is a genuine Vietnam War hero who knows that America must have a strong national defense and strong world leadership. John and I have worked together on a broad range of issues, including the Bosnia resolution. As a nationally recognized Republican leader on foreign and defense policy issues, his counsel and support will be a tremendous asset to our campaign."
Since Senator Gramm's withdrawal from the presidential race on Wednesday numerous high-profile Gramm supporters continue to join the Dole campaign. In addition to Senator McCain, former Gramm Finance Chairman Tom Loeffler has joined the Dole team.
Arizona will holds its presidential primary on February 27 and will send 39 delegates to the Republican National Convention in San Diego in August.
  