
    First Lady of New York City, feminist writer, and mental health advocate throws support behind Sen. Sanders
WASHINGTON – First Lady of New York City Chirlane McCray on Friday announced her endorsement of Sen. Bernie Sanders for president. McCray, who has been a leader on increasing accessibility and quality of mental health care in New York and across the country, highlighted in her endorsement Sen. Sanders track record of expanding mental health coverage and his commitment to ensuring quality, comprehensive mental health and substance misuse care under Medicare for All.
"We have a health care crisis in this country, and that includes a lack of access to quality mental health care services," said Sen. Sanders. "When only one in three African Americans who need mental health care receives it, it's critical that we have the leadership of advocates like Chirlane in cities across the country. I'm proud to receive Chirlane's support today and look forward to working with her to bring mental health care to all of our communities."
"Health care is a crisis in this country," said Chirlane McCray. "It is far too expensive and fragmented for most American families to get the health care they need. Bernie Sanders understands how essential quality healthcare is to the strength of our families and future of our country, and that's why I am proud to support him for President. We need a proven advocate and leader in the White House who knows that there is no health without mental health. Bernie's Medicare for All plan will provide comprehensive care for people, with coverage for mental health, addiction, prescription drugs, dental and vision services. We need a president that delivers results and Bernie has proven time and time again that he is a leader that will get it done."
McCray is nationally recognized as a powerful champion for mental health reform and dubbed one of TIME Magazine's 50 Most Influential People in Health Care for 2018. As First Lady of New York City, she created the comprehensive mental health plan, "ThriveNYC," and spearheads the Cities Thrive Coalition. More than 200 mayors, county officials and thought leaders from all 50 states are part of The Cities Thrive Coalition, together advocating for a more integrated and better-funded behavioral health system. A lifelong activist and writer, McCray continues to fight for gender equity and LGBTQ rights and support survivors of gender-based violence.
Other recent endorsements from progressive leaders in New York include McCray's spouse and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, NYC Public Advocate Jumaane Williams, anti-corruption scholar Zephyr Teachout, and a slate of local and state elected officials including Albany Common Councilman Owusu Anane, New York City Council Members Helen Rosenthal and Justin Brannan, Utica Council Member Delvin Moody, Orange County Legislator Kevindaryán Luján, Rochester City Councilwoman Mary Lupien, Cheektowaga Council Member Brian Nowak, and Former Binghamton Council Member Dan Livingston.
  