
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Good evening. Please be seated.
On behalf of the President of the United States, it will be my great privilege tonight to administer the oath of office to the next Director of the Office of Management and Budget Mick Mulvaney. (Applause.)
Grateful to be joined by family and friends, but most especially grateful to be joined by Pam Mulvaney. Pam, thank you for being here and thank you for your family's commitment to the United States in this new chapter.
 We also have with us a distinguished group of guests. Senator Mike Enzi, chairman of the Senate Committee on the Budget, is with us today. Mr. Chairman, thank you for being with us today.
 Senator Ron Johnson, also on the budget committee. And the Congressman's good friends Senator Tom Cotton, Representative Mark Meadows, Representative Justin Amash, and of course, his fellow South Carolinians -- Senator Lindsey Graham and Senator Tim Scott and Representative Joe Wilson. That's quite a turnout, and I know it means the world to the President, as it does to our new director. Give all these members a round of applause. (Applause.)
 In Congressman Mick Mulvaney, President Trump has nominated someone with an extraordinary record in public and private life. He once described himself as a serial entrepreneur, starting no fewer than four businesses over the course of his life. And along the way, he established himself as a principled, results-driven leader. And he'll be bringing those leadership qualities and his well-earned reputation for fiscal responsibility to his new role leading the Office of Management and Budget.
 These qualities have served him well in public office. In 2006, he won a seat in South Carolina's House of Representatives, followed two years later by a seat in the state senate. Two years after that, he ran for the United States Congress on a promise of faithfully serving the good people of the Palmetto State. I had the great pleasure of knowing Congressman Mulvaney as a member of Congress, and I couldn't be more enthusiastic at the President's decision to task him to lead this vitally important agency and our national budget.
 He quickly established himself in the Congress, as I saw firsthand, as one of the leading fiscal experts on Capitol Hill. He work on the House committees on financial services, oversight, and government reform only added to that sterling reputation. A happy warrior on behalf of fiscal responsibility, Mick Mulvaney will bring those very same qualities to the Office of Management and Budget.
 Mick, President Trump has asked you to lead the Office of Management and Budget, a vital role in a day and age of deficits and debt. And we're both very confident that your leadership, your integrity, and your commitment to protecting America's fiscal and economic future will serve all the people of the United States with great distinction.
 Thank you for stepping up at this time in the life of our nation. And behalf of President Trump, it now is my great privilege to administer to you the oath of office.
 (The oath is administered.) (Applause.)
  