
    Pool Reports by Jada Yuan, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




February 23, 202312:25 CAT

FLOTUS travel pool #1 - gathering and background
Greeting from Windhoek, Namibia, where it is a lovely 85 degrees and sunny. I'll be your print pooler for the day (co-pooler Emily Goodin and I will be trading off during FLOTUS's five-day Africa trip).
Please have patience with our connectivity.
This is day two in Namibia for Dr. Biden. Pool has been covid tested and is gathering at the hotel. We learned from one of our State Department liaisons yesterday that it rained here every day from MLK day until two weeks ago, which is why it's so green even though Namibia is a desert climate. There are palm trees here and insanely strong, bitter coffee (yum!).
FLOTUS will be returning to the State House where she will deliver remarks and attend a closed luncheon with President Habe Geingob and First Lady Monica Geingos. In the afternoon she'll be going to the nearby town of Katutura for an event at Hope Initiatives Southern Africa, an organization that works to lift families out of poverty and curb gender-based violence, according to its website. She'll be joined by Ambassador Randy William Berry as they meet with a Peace Corps volunteer who lives and works there and greet participants in two different programs funded through the United States' President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) initiative program.
In the evening she'll be doing a closed press meet and greet at the U.S. Embassy before returning to the hotel.
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2023
Luncheon with President Geingob and First Lady Geingos
The First Lady will participate in a luncheon with President Geingob and First Lady Geingos at the State House in Windhoek, Namibia and deliver remarks. The First Lady's remarks will be pooled press and the luncheon will be closed press.
Participants in attendance will include Namibian government officials, former Namibian First Ladies, diplomats, education stakeholders, nongovernmental organization (NGO) and community-based leaders, private and public sector guests, and United Nations staff.
Speaking program:· Sustjie Mbumba, Spouse of Vice President of Namibia· First Lady of Namibia Monica Geingos· First Lady Jill Biden
Visit to HOPE Initiatives Southern Africa (HISA) in KatuturaLater in the day, the First Lady will visit Hope Initiatives Southern Africa (HISA) in Katutura to highlight U.S. government programming that supports young people, women, and families and ensures they have access to economic opportunities and health services. Dr. Biden will also highlight the success of the U.S.-Namibia PEPFAR partnership in delivering HIV prevention services to adolescent girls, young women, and mothers, and efforts to combat gender-based violence. PEPFAR, since beginning in Namibia in 2003, is one of the largest overall programs the United States has in Namibia.Hope Initiative Southern Africa (HISA) is a local non-governmental organization (NGO) focused on income generating and economic strengthening programming, based in the Kilimanjaro informal settlement on the outskirts of the neighborhood of Katutura, near Windhoek, Namibia. The organization aims to support women and children living in informal settlements, especially those impact by the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and build a model that will break the cycle of poverty in vulnerable and marginalized communities in Southern Africa.The First Lady will interact with beneficiaries of several U.S. Government-supported programs that work in partnership with HISA, including:· U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) programs focused on empowering adolescent girls and young women through the DREAMS partnership (Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-free, Mentored and Safe), and preventing mother to child transmission of HIV· U.S. Peace Corps-supported economic and community development initiative
Participants:· Patricia Sola, Co-Founder and Director of Hope Initiative Southern Africa (HISA)· John Mafukidze, Co-Founder and Board Chair Hope Initiative Southern Africa (HISA)· Chris Nottingham, Peace Corps Volunteer at Hope Initiative Southern Africa (HISA)· Local family who participates in the economic and community development program· Mothers and their children who participate in a PEPFAR program aimed at preventing mother to child transmission of HIV· Women (21-27 years old) who participate in a PEPFAR program aimed at empowering adolescent girls.· Men (19-30 years old) who participate in the gender-based violence prevention projectVisit to U.S. Embassy WindhoekThe First Lady will deliver remarks and participate in a meet and greet with U.S. Embassy Windhoek staff and their families at the New U.S. Embassy Compound (NEC) in Windhoek, Namibia. The First Lady will thank the Embassy staff and their families for their service. This event will be closed press.



February 23, 202315:57 CAT

FLOTUS travel pool #2 - remarks + State House lunch
Pool just got access to wifi again...
Note from yesterday, pool had asked if there was a reason the uniformed Namibian honor guard greeting FLOTUS was made up of all women soldiers. Today we learned, according to FLOTUS press secretary Vanessa Valdivia that it was "a stated touch" because this was a meeting of two first ladies.
Now, onward to today...
FLOTUS motorcade departed hotel at 12:17pm. A few people walking along the road barely looked up as we passed.
Dr. Biden arrived at the State House at 12:26pm with Namibian First Lady Monica Geingos. FLOTUS is wearing a white dress and a navy blazer. She said a hearty "hello" to the press. Naomi followed Dr. B, wearing a black dress with a high neck and slit, in the style of a Chinese qipao. It had small, lime green flowers all over it and she paired it with very high white heels and a white box clutch that looked like the black box bag she carried yesterday.
FLOTUS office says they'll provide her remarks.
The two First Ladies were greeted by a dance from a group of 14 women from the Damara ethnic group. They called their troupe Khais and wore black and white outfits in a zebra pattern and danced on a zebra hide. They played drums and had homemade tambourines made of a circular wire and bottle caps. The zebra motif, the dancers said was because both zebras and the Damara people come from the mountains. FLOTUS clapped and thanked the dancers.
Up the escalator on the first floor, Dr. Biden was greeted by another singing and dancing group called Makgona Ngwao, made up of members from the Setswana ethnic group. There was also a small rock band with an electric guitar and drums.
She walked into a gala luncheon with 18 tables and sat at a front table. The lunch opened with an incredible choral performance from the UNAM Choir from the University of Namibia, who did a medley of a song called "Winds of Change Sweeping Across the African Continent." The entire leadership of the Namibian government seems to be here, according to Emil Seibeb, a reporter for the Namibian Broadcasting Corporation, the state media. The police chief and prosecutor general are here, plus a table full of generals and captains of industry.
That was followed by a performance from celebrated Namibian poet Nesindano Namises, who roamed the room in a purple dress and red headscarf. Seibeb from the state media tells the pool that she is famous for speaking out for LGBTQIA+ and pro-abortion rights. She drives a car that says "Poetry Namibia," pool discovered as we drove through the parking lot.
Sustjie Mbumba, spouse of the Vice President of Namibia gave opening remarks and got big laughs for calling Biden, "The First Lady of the Republic of America."
Nangula Uandja, a business leader for NIP, recommended that Biden try Namibian barbecue cooked with charcoal "and wash it down with a good lager."
The undisputed champion speaker was Moses Filipus, 17, Windhoek Junior Mayor. He called FLOTUS "your excellency" and got the most laughs out of everyone.
Some excerpts from Moses's speech: What I would like to base my speech on today is something that I've been hearing about my entire life, which is the American dream. The American dream is something that is envied by a lot of people that are not from America. This is not a secret. All of us consume, we consume the media. So that's our main source of media, like for me, as a young African child growing up, I just consumed American media to the point where I even knew about it more than my own. And I think that I speak for most of the youth that, now, it is the goal of the modern youth to achieve the American dream that we see on TV so much. That is why there is a huge disparity between us and our parents. They don't understand that the dream we see on TV is something that we would like to achieve."
(FLOTUS made an impromptu response to this remark, see below...)
He also said, "Namibia is an ocean full of potential." He also offered to be her tourist guide. "Dr. Biden, welcome to Namibia, we have very nice food, very nice animals, very nice music—well not all of the music. Some of the music is okay."
Afterwards he got what seemed to be three rounds of applause and walked over to shake the hands of both first ladies.
First Lady Geingos got a standing ovation and whoops/cheers when she got up to speak. She reference the former First Lady if Namibia who continued to work in a health care clinic as first lady, just as Dr. Biden has continued to be a teacher.
A few quotes:"Dr. Biden, this great turnout is our way of honoring your presence because Namibia is the country of contrasts."
"To travel 15 hours nonstop from Washington DC to Windhoek signals how powerful is our friendship."
"Namibia is a country that needs work. So we're really grateful for your powerful message of friendship. I listened to your American anthem that talks about the land of the free, and our anthem talks about the land of the brave."
"One of the reasons Namibia doesn't make international headlines is because it's a functioning democracy with the fundamentals in place."
"Dr. Biden represents decency, democracy, and diplomacy."
When FLOTUS took the lectern, she kissed Geingos on both cheeks. Then she asked for Moses and asked everyone to clap for him again. Photos from yesterday's events flashed on television screens as she spoke.
She then offered what seemed to be impromptu remarks to Moses:
"Moses, you really don't have to turn on the TV or go to the social media to look for the American dream," she said. "Because I think you'll find it in our president, my husband Joe Biden. He's a man who really started as a man from the middle class who believed he could make a change for people, and now, just somebody in your neighborhood, he became President of the United States. So, that is the American dream." The room applauded.
"And I love the choir when they sang about the winds of change and the winds of hope. And Mr. President, that's what you and I spoke of yesterday. That was the theme of our dialogue together. So, thank you Mr. President and first lady Monica."
She also mentioned that she and second lady Mbumba have something in common besides having been second lady. "We both have beloved granddaughters named Naomi."
She called the visit "such a special experience for me" and recognized Ambassador Randy Berry. "My husband Joe selected him..."
"This is my sixth trip to the continent of Africa, but it's my first as the first lady of the United States, and I chose to visit Namibia after meeting your First Lady in December. (Cheers) Sometimes you meet someone, and you instantly know that you'll be friends and that's how I felt about Monica," she said, and the room went "Awwww."
"The conversation and the laugher came so easily, and I could hear your passion when you talked about your work," she went on. She mentioned that she had accepted Geingos's invitation to come.
FLOTUS highlighted that President Geingob used to be a teacher and told him he has so much more to teach today.
"The other evening I was talking to Joe about this trip and he spoke about his admiration for all that you have achieved here, how seeing your struggle against apartheid inspired him to speak out as a Senator. He understood then as he does now that our futures are intertwined. We face many of the same challenges, from climate change to economic inequality to strengthening democracy, which is why the U.S. African Leaders Summit was held in Washington D.C. in December, because it was so important to him. And it's why I'm proud to be standing here, standing with a strong democracy."
She mentioned that we all share the same vision, "a world that is free," and echoed President Biden's call "to make sure that African countries not only have a voice in organizations like the UN Security Council and the G20, but that those voices are valued as equal partners, working side by side to advance our shared priorities and empowering women and youth, strengthening global health, and building economic prosperity."
She called Namibia a leader in in gender equality. "Mr. President, you and your government, which is full of strong women are setting an example for the world."
And she closed by talking about her visit to Heroes Acres, the war memorial for the Namibian revolution, with First Lady Geingos. "Standing before that breathtaking monument, I felt the dire cost of freedom as well as the good that can grow from it."
Press was ushered out for a buffet lunch at 1:36pm, while the luncheon continued without us. Biden's speech was about 12 minutes.
At 2:40pm, FLOTUS and Geingos exited the ballroom and were greeted by the dancers from the Setswana ethnic group on the first floor. Then they came down the escalator and were again greeted by the Damara dancers in zebra print. They danced and waved white handkerchiefs to say goodbye. Naomi Biden filmed the dancers as she came down the escalator. At 2:42pm, the pool was ushered out. FLOTUS was still saying goodbye to the president and first lady.
On the drive back the station Radiowave, 96.7FM, had two female hosts talking all about FLOTUS's visit and how well Namibia had come off. Regarding the two first ladies, one host said, "I think they are falling in love." Later on, one remarked, "This is a historic visit, she flew directly here from the United States, 15 hours!" One host also talked about how, although she is visiting Kenya next, "the country that they first land in is the key country, the core visit."
The sky had turned gray by the time we got back to the hotel and it looks like rain.
FLOTUS entered the hotel at 2:53pm and pool is holding until her visit to Hope FxB later this afternoon — which will be outside.
Thanks to co-pooler Emily Goodin for her help, as well as Emil Seibeb, from Namibian Broadcasting Corporation.



February 23, 202316:24 CAT

FLOTUS travel pool #3 - correction to Geingos quote
Pool listened to First Lady Monica Geingos's speech again while we were holding and has a few things of note to add to the last report. One, there was a lot of Boschendal wine at the luncheon, a popular wine from South Africa. Thanks to Anita Powell from VOA for that detail.
And a correction to a quote from Geingos:
"Of course, there will always be differences, but what is important is what the Biden presidency represents, and that is decency, democracy, and diplomacy. This luncheon is to celebrate our connection and possibility. We are connected by diplomatic ideals, a commitment to improving the lives of our respective people, and a dedication to embracing global partnerships." She also credited PEPFAR for saving millions of lives.
She also said, "Dr. Biden, you're a friend."



February 23, 202318:24 CAT

FLOTUS travel pool #4 - unscheduled interview
Pool will have more from FLOTUS's visit to Hope Initiatives Southern Africa-Namibia, but after the visit, pool was told to leave the site and was held in the van while FLOTUS did a private interview with CNN. At 5:44pm while pool was being held, we were told to get out of the car and run up a hill.
At 5:47pm, FLOTUS's motorcade drove up the hill 300 or 400 feet. FLOTUS got out with a blue tote bag and walked up to a group of 40 or so very excited children standing outside an informal settlement. (Scores of children, if you will). "Hello, how are you? Candy from the White House!" she said. Then she and Naomi Biden handed out boxes of official White House M&Ms. At the end, when she ran out of candy, a little boy came up and FLOTUS felt so bad she gave him tote bag. Poll reloaded in vans and left at 5:59pm.



February 23, 202320:50 CAT

FLOTUS travel pool #5 - visit to Hope Initiatives Southern Africa
The visit happened before the unscheduled M&Ms movement in pool report #4.
A little more color from that: the tote bag looked to be a White House tote bag. Tara Prindiville of FOX, who was closer to the action says that when FLOTUS ran out of candy, the little boy looked at her with wide eyes. She told the little boy, "I'm so sorry, I don't have any more." He turned away and she said, "Wait!" and gave him the tote bag.
HERE'S STUFF FROM THE HOPE INITIATIVES SOUTHERN AFRICA - NAMIBIA VISIT
Pool left Windhoek hotel at 3:47pm, ahead of FLOTUS, to make the 25-minute visit to Hope Initiatives Southern Africa (HISA) in Katutura. We traveled down a nice highway with palm trees in the median, lined with car dealerships. Saw a sign warning against drunk driving, as well as the new headquarters for Swapo, the leading Namibian political party. Plenty of onlookers on the side of the road, which was filled with people walking to run errands. Over the radio, we heard that a lioness l has escaped out of the back of a moving truck in the northwest farmlands of South Africa and a helicopter hunt is underway.
The landscape got progressively more rural as we entered Katutura, a lower income informal settlement with dwellings and businesses constructed from corrugated metal. One had "barber" painted on the side. There was also a copy shop, Babylon Bar, and a kindergarten. HISA is in a green painted permanent structure and contains a school. It started off in the neighborhood as a soup kitchen and gradually started adding other services.
First Lady Geingos arrived ahead of FLOTUS. FLOTUS had changed into black sneakers and a a long, white, belted shirt dress with an interesting pattern of squares in orange, brown, black, yellow, and various shades of greens and brown. Naomi Biden had also changed into an olive- green jumpsuit and white sneakers. They would be meeting with various people who've been helped by the HISA programs in a classroom / community room. It was decorated with a large white paper sign with yellow, blue, red, and green painted letters that read, "Welcome Dr. Biden" and was also covered in tiny handprints made with paint. A nearly identical sign was hung in between columns of a portico outside. The room also had children's hand-painted self-portraits, a painting of a cheetah, and six singers who greeted FLOTUS.
The purpose of the HISA visit is to highlight U.S. government programming that supports young people, women and families, and ensures they have access to economic opportunities and health services. It will also highlight PEPFAR's work to deliver HIV prevention services to adolescent girls and women, as well as PEPFAR's efforts to combat gender-based violence.
Biden stayed for nearly 40 minutes and met with 10 people who have benefitted from HISA as well as a Peace Corps volunteer, Chris Nottingham, 24, from Atlanta, and married founders Patricia Sola (in a blue dress and headscarf) and John Mafukidze. Naomi stayed in the background while her grandmother interacted with the press, but she did shake hands with participants and even hugged a few. FLOTUS seemed visibly moved by the interactions, and convinced many of the shy participants to step closer to the press so we could hear their stories. She also held hands with some of them as they spoke. Her voice cracked at times, but pool thinks she's been losing her voice all trip.
Skipping ahead to some shouted questions asked by press and then will circle back to more color. The quetions happened while Biden was speaking with two young women about female empowerment. They are both ambassador for USAID's DREAMS program, which stands for Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-free, Mentored and Safe, and is aimed at redusing rates of HIV among adolescent girls and young women. The ambassadors were Ilena Brave, 26, and Adelaide Tembi Gowases, 19 (getting her name). "I think they're a little shy," said FLOTUS as she urged them to stand front of the press. She held their hands the entire time.
Anita Powell of VOA asked if Biden would take these stories back with her and lobby congress to extend PEPFAR.
FLOTUS: Oh, I don't know whether I'll be lobbying Congress, but certainly I will be taking it back and we'll see where it goes. I'll work with my staff and see where we can take it. I mean, I think, you know, that PEPFAR. It started how many years ago with George Bush. Look at how many lives it has saved and how many lives it will continue to save. It's, what, 20 years now?
Geingos: Yeah 20 years.
FLOTUS: Yeah 20 years. It's an amazing program.
When the 19-year-old (again, getting her name) said "the future is female," FLOTUS lit up.
FLOTUS: Yes! I see that in Namibia because you have so many women in government that hold public office. They're not afraid to jump in, you know, and I love that about your government and about your first lady and your president. And that they're promoting that. And, you know, as I got off the plane, you know who I walked out and met? All women. And one man.
[Ambassador Randy Barry sheepishly raised his hand and shrugged his shoulders. Everyone, including both first ladies, laughed.]
FLOTUS told the 19-year-old that she thought maybe her future was in politics.
Emily Goodin of the Daily Mail asked if it was time for the U.S. to have its first female president, since she was talking about women's empowerment.
FLOTUS: It's always time to have a female president, no matter what country you're in. So, I'm very supportive of women running for office.
Pool asked FLOTUS why it was important for her to bring her granddaughter Naomi to Africa.
FLOTUS looked around for Naomi and saw her in a corner.
FLOTUS: Oh, she's hiding! I think -- Because it's just so great for me to be able to bring a member of the family. I think it's a tradition actually that we've seen other families from First Families bring members of their family to see — just see the rest of the world and, I don't know, just experience everything.
Pool mentioned that she'd brought Finnegan to Africa in 2014 when Naomi's younger sister was 14.
FLOTUS: I did! I brought Finnegan and I think we were in Kenya...
Special advisor Anthony Bernal stepped in and pointed out that we were being rude because there were still two more HISA people waiting to speak to FLOTUS.
Here is a comment on Naomi's presence from press secretary Vanessa Valdivia:
"Historically, family members of Presidents and First Ladies have frequently joined them during international travel. The Bidens are following the practices consistent with those used by prior Administrations."Later, Tara Prindiville of FOX asked if FLOTUS had talked to the President about her trip.
FLOTUS said she hadn't, and she hadn't spoken to him since his fall going up the stairs to AF1.
CIRCLING BACK TO THE START OF FLOTUS'S HISA VISIT
First, she met with Chris Nottingham, the Peace Corps volunteer, who came to Namibia in August, did training and then got assigned to HISA, where he does entrepreneurship and professionalism workshops, where he teaches people to write resumes, etc.
Next, she met with a young family who participates in HISA's economic and community development program. I believe they are the Petreaus family -- waiting on confirmation. The eldest sister said she'd had to become head of the household of three younger siblings when one of their mother died. The elder sister said that she was running a small shop making earrings and also worked as a hairdresser and a wig designer, and that the program had helped her siblings with job training. (Pool apologizes, this was all very hard to hear.) One brother was named Moses. The youngest sister was named Amelia.
"Nice to meet you. I'm Jill," said FLOTUS. "This is Monica." Geingos hugged Amelia.
"This is my granddaughter," said FLOTUS.
"Oh, you're cute!" said Amelia. FLOTUS laughed. "She's very cute." Naomi hugged Amelia.
"How did you find them or how did they find you?" FLOTUS asked.
The elder sister said that a community leader looked for "less privileged" famileis and nominated them.
FLOTUS asked if everyone was working. The elder sister said that everyone but Amelia was because she had a small baby.
"You're the older sister?" asked FLOTUS. "Yes, I'm the older sister, taking care of everyone," she said.
FLOTUS seemed moved: "Wow." She asked about the elder sister's earring business. FLOTUS: "Do you sell in town or in the community?" The sister replied that she also sells on Facebook.
Around 5:11pm, thunder started roaring loudly, then rain started pouring down. "Oooh, Wow! Wow!" said FLOTUS.
Moses told her he wanted to be a teacher. She told him she was a teacher. She asked what age he wanted to teach. He said older kids. "Yeah, that's how I felt. I wanted to teach older students," said FLOTUS. When Moses told her he wants to be an English teacher (the subject she teaches), she asked if he had a favorite English author. When he said, "Shakespeare," she turned to the press and said, "Shakespeare! Wow! That's impressive!"
When Ameila told her she wanted to go to school and then raise her baby, FLOTUS turned to co-founder Sola and asked where Amelia would get those finances. "Small jobs? Are there grants available? How does she get money for education?" Sola said there were grants for mothers with young babies.
"Especially a mother, you have to be able to support yourself and your baby, right?" said FLOTUS. "But you'll get there, you'll get there. You'll do it because you have to. Once you have a baby, you have to take care of that baby. That's your responsibility, right? You'll get there. You'll do it. The moms are the tigers. We fight for our kids, right?" 
Next she met with PEPFAR Recipients Monika Shoombe and Linea Nashingo, both of whom had young children. They were hard to hear.
It was at this point that FLOTUS started bringing the participants up closer to the press. "They need to hear your stories," she said. Geingos translated for the PEPFAR recipients, one of whom said the program had given her medication that allowed her to breastfeed her baby without passing HIV along to the baby.
After that she met with Adelaide and Illena, the DREAMS participants. Illena has been able to start a cleaning company that employs 14. "I am the 15th employee," she said.
Adelaide told FLOTUS she has HIV and had felt like she was marginalized.
Adelaide: With DREAMS I've actually been facilitating a PrEP class where I am having interactions with young girls and am empowering them and educating them about how to stay HIV free and AC with PrEP. And also HIV testing and family planning which gives us the opportunity as young women to grow up, graduate and reach our full potential so we can give back to the community and country.
FLOTUS: That mentoring is so important that you reach out to other young women and young boys and help them along the way. Because they need you. They don't often hear it from somebody else in the family that can help them and give them advice like you can.
Adelaide: With me, what DREAMS has actually done for me that is so powerful is I grew up as an introvert and I believe that this guidance has staged me as a young woman. I'm mentally in the right place because of DREAMS. It's sort of like counseling. We also give counseling for women age 10 to 24 about peer pressure so that we don't go through struggles with HIV or gender based violence because we don't know how to speak up. This program gave me a voice.
FLOTUS: It gave you confidence.
Adelaide: Yes. A voice to stand up for myself and also to help other people to come join us.
FLOTUS: Thank you.
Adelaide: I would also like to add that it has economically strengthened young women so they can be doctors, teachers, engineers. It has given each and every woman 10 to 24 an opportunity to go for financial literacy, and learning how to save money so that we can have a generation that is—what's the word? The future is female.
The final people FLOTUS met (after the shouted press questions) were young men participating in HISA's Agents of Change Program, which urges men and boys to speak out against and report cases of gender-based violence. She met Peter Mayavero, 30, and Cleopas Lazarus, 19.
"It's very brave of you to stand up like that," said FLOTUS.
Cleopas explained that what they do is ask boys and men to a soccer game and before they play, they talk to them about gender-based violence and how to prevent it, and how to be a better man. "So, you lure them with soccer!" said FLOTUS
After the meeting was over, press held due to the thunder. FLOTUS gave her private interview to CNN. After the unscheduled movement, FLOTUS went to a closed meeting to say hello to employees at the new U.S. Embassy. It's still an active construction site with no Wi-Fi, so press decided to head back to the hotel, and here we are.
According to Vanessa Valdivia, FLOTUS press secretary, FLOTUS left the embassy for an OTR stop at a restaurant. We have no further details.
Note for context: Today, Feb 23, is the 30th anniversary of the inaugural sitting of Namibia's National Council, after the first Regional Council's elections of 1993. NBC, the Namibian state media, has wall-to-wall coverage. The fact that FLOTUS is making a trip focused on democracy on this day is happenstance.




  