
    
February 29, 2016
Marco's been holding a lot of huge rallies across the country lately. He has even more events coming up. So, what does a Marco Rubio rally actually look like?Yesterday, in Purcellville, Virginia, thousands packed into a Marco event. Here's the step by step.
Parking (The Earlier, The Better)
Needless to say, when a few thousand people are descending upon one place, you want to make sure to arrive early to avoid some traffic and get a good parking spot!

Getting Ready Behind the Scenes
Before anyone even steps foot in the venue, Team Marco staffers set up the stage, seating, and press tables. In Purcellville, that looked something like this:

Even the smallest details don't go unnoticed. Here's what the scoreboard looked like in the gymnasium at Patrick Henry College for Marco's visit:

Lining Up (To Get the Best Spots, of Course)
Every Marco event advertises when the doors open, but folks show up early to make sure they get the best spots. Check out this line!

Check-In
When you RSVP for a Marco event, you can either print a paper ticket or keep the ticket on your smartphone. Thanks to great volunteers, scanning the ticket when the doors open is easy.

Packing the Room
Once checked in, volunteers guide the attendees into the event space. A lot of them bring their own signs.

Sometimes things get a little crazy as folks scramble to be close to the stage. Check this out from a similar event in Virginia Beach:
Doors are officially open! People running to spots for @marcorubio rally https://t.co/9M4hr5SWQQ #WTKRpolitics pic.twitter.com/Ary0GQzKKH
— Kelly Rule (@KellyRuleTV) February 28, 2016

With music playing and the room filling, folks start getting pumped up.

Show Time
The last major part of a Marco rally? Hearing from Marco and sometimes some special guests (at this event, former Virginia Governor George Allen and Rep. Barbara Comstock). By this time, the room is packed.

Going to a Marco rally is easy, exciting, and a great way to learn more about his vision for America's future.
Thousands showed up in Purcellville, and Team Marco hopes to see you at an event soon!
  