
    Pool Reports by Alexander Nazaryan, Yahoo News 



Sent:
Reports:




February 9, 202316:27

SGOTUS travel pool #1: UN details
From the White House:
Upon arrival at the United Nations, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff was greeted by Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield. Following the greet, the Second Gentleman joined foreign representatives for lunch and closed press meeting. The participants included in the lunch are below.
Participants:

Mr. Douglas Emhoff, Second Gentleman of the United States
T.H. Mrs Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Representative of the United States to the United Nations
H.E. Mr. Richard Croker, U.K. Ambassador for General Assembly Affairs
??H.E. Mr. Richard Arbeiter, Deputy Permanent Representative of the Canada to the United Nations
H.E. Mr. ??Gilad Erdan, Permanent Representative of Israel to the United Nations
??H.E. Mr. Krzysztof Szczerski, Permanent Representative of Poland to the United Nations
H.E. Ms. Maria del Carmen Squeff, Permanent Representative of Argentina to the United Nations
??H.E. Mr. Omar Hilale, Permanent Representative of the Kingdom of Morocco to the United Nations
??H.E. Mrs. Alicia Buenrostro Massieu, Deputy Permanent Representative of Mexico to the United Nations
??H.E. Mr. Nicolas de Rivière, Permanent Representative of France to the United Nations




February 9, 202316:29

SGOTUS pool report #2: meeting with UN Secretary General
From a White House official:
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff met with United Nations Secretary General António Guterres. During the meeting, they spoke about countering antisemitism on a global scale and educating the world on Holocaust remembrance.
Other participants included:
Ambassador Linda Thomas-GreenfieldAmbassador Deborah LipstadtMr. Courtenay Rattray, Chef de CabinetMs. Rosemary A. DiCarlo, Under-Secretary-General for Political and PeacebuildingMs. Melissa Fleming, Under-Secretary-General for Global CommunicationsMr. Miguel Moratinos, High Representative for Alliance and Civilisations



February 9, 202316:36

SGOTUS POOL REPORT #3: Remarks
SGOTUS began speaking at the UN anti-Semitism conference at approx. 3:17 Pm.
Emhoff began by acknowledging the humanitarian crisis in Syria/Turkey, following the earthquake there.
"The images just continue to get worse. They are hard to see." He said the Biden-Harris administration would continue to work with partners on the ground on relief efforts.
On his recent trip to Auschwitz-Birkenau and other Holocaust related cites: "The trip was intense. It was emotional. It was somber."



February 9, 202316:48

SGOTUS travel pool #4: Emhoff quotes on anti-semitism
More quotes from the Second Gentleman's address at the UN anti-Semitism summit
"We must all speak out against anti semitism and call out those who don't. Silence is not an option. We must build coalitions to tackle this epidemic."
"Any threat to one community is a threat to all communities."
"It is important to tell the truth about the Holocaust" and "push back against Holocaust denial"
"There must be consequences for those who engage in anti-Semitism. There must be accountability."
"Too often, we see celebrities, comedians, use anti-Semitism to draw cheap laughs, high-profile entertainers, politicians, openly spouting tired, anti-Semitic tropes."
"It's not just about Jews. It about all of us."
"Anti-semitism is often accompanied by other forms of hatred."
Emhoff referenced a "chilling interconnection" between anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred.



February 9, 202316:49

SGOTUS travel pool #5: Remarks over
SGOTUS concluded speaking at 3:29 pm. He remained seated as U.S. and international officials delivered remarks of their own.




  