
    Kingmaker of South Carolina Politics: "I'm calling on you to stand with Joe Biden."
Today, South Carolina Congressman Jim Clyburn announced he is endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States, boosting Biden's strong campaign in the Palmetto State three days ahead of the nation's First in the South primary. Congressman Clyburn, the House's third-ranking Democrat and Majority Whip, is known as the kingmaker of South Carolina politics and gives Biden one of the most influential endorsements in South Carolina, and one that will reverberate throughout the state.
In announcing his endorsement, Clyburn released a video outlining why he is supporting Biden. Below is a full transcript of the video:
"Hello. I'm Congressman Jim Clyburn. We South Carolinians believe one thing: the best way to tell what a person will do is to look at what he or she has done.
"I know Joe Biden. I know his character, his heart, and his record. Joe Biden has stood for the hard-working people of South Carolina. We know Joe. But more importantly, he knows us.
"Joe will build on President Obama's legacy, protect and expand the Affordable Care Act, and take on the NRA.
"In South Carolina, we choose presidents. When President Clinton came to South Carolina, we launched him to the White House. When President Obama came to South Carolina, we launched him to the White House. Now Joe Biden is in South Carolina, and we are going to launch him to the White House.
"I'm calling on you to stand with Joe Biden."
Congressman Clyburn is Biden's 19th Congressional Black Caucus endorsement and 44th Congressional endorsement. Clyburn is also the fourth CBC Chair to endorse Biden. Clyburn also previously served as the Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. Throughout his service in Congress, Clyburn has spearheaded legislation on important rural and economic issues, giving voice to hard-working South Carolinaians for more than two decades. His widely known 10-20-30 federal funding formula was incorporated into the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act — a key achievement of the Obama-Biden Administration– and was included in the Biden Plan for Investing in Our Communities through Housing.
Congressman Clyburn tops off Biden's long list of influential supporters in the Palmetto State, which includes more than 180 leaders such as the state's last two Democratic governors, Jim Hodges and Richard "Dick" Riley; state lawmakers, mayors, community activists, pastors and faith leaders, and local elected officials. Biden's diverse and broad coalition also consists of nearly 200 members of South Carolina Educators for Biden and more than 100 members of South Carolina Women for Biden from every region of the state.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  