
    Bosnia
Q. Mr. President, are you going to make an announcement on Bosnia today? On the airdrop?
The President. I don't think we'll have a final announcement today. But the Prime Minister and I certainly are going to discuss that along with a number of other things.
Q. Mr. Prime Minister, are you concerned that American airdrops might endanger British troops on the ground, put them subject to Serbian— Prime Minister Major. No, I'm not remotely concerned about that. We'll discuss the airdrops. I think, as a humanitarian initiative that's very welcome. And it'll have our support. I don't think it is going to endanger British troops.
Q. What is holding you up, Mr. President, in your decision?
The President. Just going through the procedures we have to go through to discuss this with our allies.
News Conference
Q. When are you going to announce a press conference?
The President. You know, I didn't realize it had been so long since I had one. I really didn't, Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International], until you mentioned it the other day. I need to give you one. I'll get—
Q. When?
The President. I'm going to take it up with our folks. I didn't even know it had been a long time, since I answer these questions all the time.
The Vice President. It seems like there is a press conference every day.
Q. That's not a press conference.
The Vice President. Oh, I know. I know.
The President. I'll do better on that.
Q. You promise?
[At this point, one group of reporters left the room, and another group entered.]
Prime Minister Mulroney of Canada
Q. Do you gentlemen have anything to say about Brian Mulroney in his resignation today?
The President. I wish him well. I talked to him. We had a nice visit. And I don't think that I can add anything to the statement that was made. But I was very appreciative of the conversation we had, and I wish him well.
United Kingdom- U.S. Relations
Q. Can we ask how the special relationship is, Mr. President?
The President. Excuse me?
Q. Can we ask how the special relationship between the U.S. and Britain is?
The President. Absolutely.
Prime Minister Major. You have got the British press. [Laughter]
The President. Absolutely. It's special to me personally, and it's special to the United States, and I think it will be as long as I'm sitting here in this office.
  