
    Naomi C. Earp of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Agriculture (Civil Rights). Mrs. Earp is a retired career civil servant with more than 20 years of experience in Federal equal opportunity policy, charge processing, complaint handling and employment law. She entered Federal services as a GS-9 careerist and worked her way to the Senior Executive Service prior to appointments as Chair and Vice Chair of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under President George W. Bush. Her Federal equal opportunity, civil rights compliance, and public policy career includes positions with the U.S. Departments of Commerce and Agriculture, and the National Institutes of Health. Born and raised in Newport News, Va., Mrs. Earp received a B.S. in social work from Norfolk State University, M.A. from Indiana University, and J.D. from the Catholic University of America, Columbus School of Law. She is widowed with one son.
David B. Cornstein of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States to Hungary. Mr. Cornstein is chairman of Pinnacle Advisors, Ltd and was previously CEO, president, and ultimately chairman emeritus of Finlay Enterprise, a billion-dollar NASDAQ Stock Exchange Company. A native New Yorker, Mr. Cornstein served as chairman of the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation and as vice chair of the city's Economic Development Corporation. He was also chair of the New York State Olympic Games commission and a board member of the Battery Park City Authority and of the Jacob Javits Development Corporation. He has been recognized as Man of the Year by the Chemotherapy Foundation and the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. He earned his B.A. from Lafayette College and M.B.A from New York University.
Jean Carol Hovland of South Dakota, to be Administrator of the Administration for Native Americans, Department of Health and Human Services. Ms. Hovland, an enrolled member of the Flandreau Santee Sioux, currently serves as the Tribal Affairs Advisor to Senator John Thune (R-SD). She began her career with Senator Thune in 2005 as the Native American Outreach Coordinator, meeting regularly with Tribal leaders, Tribal program personnel, and Tribal community members in the Great Plains Region. Ms. Hovland played a key role in developing the Tribal Law and Order Act, the Tribal Veterans Health Care Enhancement Act, and the Restoring Accountability in the Indian Health Service Act of 2017. Prior to her employment with Senator Thune, Ms. Hovland was CEO of Wanji Native Nations Consultants which offered training services for Tribal programs and Tribal governments pertaining to homeland security, emergency management, stress management, and time management. She enjoys spending time with family and friends, fishing, traveling, and attending her son's Special Olympics activities.
Georgette Mosbacher of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Poland. Ms. Mosbacher is President of Georgette Mosbacher Enterprises, Inc., an international business and marketing consulting firm she founded in 1992. She also sits on the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy, to which President Barack Obama appointed her in 2016. From 2001 to 2015, Ms. Mosbacher served as CEO of Borghese Inc., a global cosmetics manufacturer. Prior to that, she was CEO of La Prairie Worldwide from 1988 to 1992, and was Marketing Director at Fabregé from 1976 to 1980. In 1995, she founded the New York Center for Children, which assists children and families in need across New York City. She sits on the boards of the Atlantic Council, the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund, which supports veterans and military families, and Business Executives for National Security. Ms. Mosbacher also previously served as a Co-Chair of the Republican National Committee's Finance Committee, and was the first woman to serve as the General Chairman of the Republican Governors Association. A published author, she has written two books on female empowerment. Ms. Mosbacher earned a B.S. from Indiana University Bloomington.
Joseph Cella of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States to the Republic of Fiji, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga, and Tuvalu. Mr. Cella, a respected businessman and committed community leader, has served since 2010 as Principal of the Pontifex Group, a consulting firm whose practice includes strategic and tactical counsel, communications, crisis management, public relations, political consulting, public policy, operational launching and enhancement, donor and investor prospecting and media advocacy. For nearly two decades, Mr. Cella has worked in the U.S. Senate, the U.S. House of Representatives, political campaigns, and non-profit organizations. In 2004, he co-founded a leading Catholic advocacy organization, Catholic Vote, a project of Fidelis, which has grown to more than 700,000 members. He also founded and serves on the board of the National Catholic Prayer Breakfast. Mr. Cella earned a B.A. from Hillsdale College.
  