
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Today, our Nation relies more than ever on the active involvement of citizens 55 years old or older. It is estimated that more than 70 percent of these Americans work every day to keep our Nation running, contributing to all aspects of our economy and our society. And as our population continues to age, the contributions of older workers will play an increasingly important role in maintaining America's leadership in a highly competitive international marketplace.
Yet despite often impressive job qualifications, these citizens find that the search for employment becomes more difficult as they grow older. Those seeking to change careers or those struggling to find new jobs are too often confronted by employer reluctance or stereotyping. Rather than being judged on their abilities, older people sometimes face the injustice of being judged solely on their age.
But we Americans understand the meaning of fairness and the value of honest labor. Every reasonable measure of job performance tells us that older workers are at least as effective as younger employees. In many cases, their unique combinations of knowledge, skills, insight, and experience make older Americans even more effective.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of March 12 through March 18, 1995, as "National Older Workers Employment Week." I urge all employers to consider carefully the qualifications of men and women 55 and older and to make use of their talents and expertise. I also encourage public officials responsible for job placement, training, and related services to intensify efforts to help older workers find suitable jobs and training.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  