
    The President intends to nominate Dr. Wade F. Horn to be to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Family Support. Dr. Horn is presently the President of the National Fatherhood Institute and is also a member of the U.S. Advisory Committee on Head Start Research and Evaluation within the Department of Health and Human Services. From 1989 to 1993, he served as Commissioner of the Administration for Children, Youth and Families and Chief of the Children's Bureau at HHS and received the Award for Distinguished Leadership in Head Start Research from HHS in 1993. The author of numerous journal articles and several books, he is a graduate of American University and received his Master's degree and Ph.D. from Southern Illinois University.
The President intends to nominate Kevin Keane of Wisconsin to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Public Affairs. He has served then-Governor Tommy Thompson as his Executive Assistant and Communications Director. Before joining the Wisconsin Governor's office, Keane was the Washington Correspondent for Thomson Newspapers and wrote for the Waukesha Freeman Newspaper and the Fond du Lac Reporter Newspaper. He is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire.
The President intends to nominate Lee Sarah Liberman Otis to be General Counsel at the Department of Energy. She is presently Chief Counsel at the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration. In the past she has served in the Civil Division of the Department of Justice from 1984 to 1986 as an Associate Counsel to President George H.W. Bush. She has served as an Assistant Professor at George Mason University Law School and as an Adjunct Professor at Georgetown University Law School. She is a graduate of Yale University and received her law degree from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to nominate Peter S. Watson of California, to be President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. He presently serves as Counsel to Pillsbury Winthrop, LLC in Washington, D.C. and is Counsel at Armitage Associates. He served as a Commissioner on the U.S. International Trade Commission from 1991 to 1996, and was named Chairman of the Commission in 1994. Under George H.W. Bush, he served as the Director of Asian Affairs at the National Security Council and as a Senior Advisor to the President and CEO at the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. He received his law degree from Auckland University Law School in New Zealand, a Master's in Law from McGill University, a Master's in International Business from West Coast University and a Doctorate in International Economic Relations from McGill University.
  