
    You don't know how nice it is to see a picture of yourself that's not 80 percent teeth. [Laughter]
It would be impossible for any of you to know the deep feelings of sentiment and emotion that I feel standing here at this podium. I'll never forget the first day I came to the senate, with five or six of you still members, and with many of those who stand on my left—Peter Zack Geer was Lieutenant Governor; Carl Sanders was Governor; Garland Byrd sat next to me. I was eager to learn about the duties of my first elected public office, and I made friends then that have stood me in good stead ever since.
Many of you helped me a great deal in those early days as a senator, as a candidate, as Governor, candidate again, and now as President. I know it has been somewhat of a surprise to many of you that I was successful in the elections. And as I look around, I have to admit that it's a surprise to me that some of you were reelected so many times yourselves. [Laughter]
But I feel a sense of common purpose with you. As President of the greatest nation on Earth, I bear on my shoulders great and sobering responsibilities. But you, as Georgia senators, bear great and sobering responsibilities as well. And what makes it easier for us successfully to carry out our duties is the knowledge that we are not alone, that in a democracy built on freedom, on the worth of every individual human being, there's a sharing of difficulties, purpose, ideals, and hopes for an even greater future. And this sense of community that binds our Nation together has been most reassuring to me in recent years.
I'd like to thank you for honoring me in this way. I think this is a moment that I will never forget, with all its pleasant flood of memories and friendships.
I look forward to shaking hands with everyone who's a member of the senate or who has been a member in the past, and to pledge to you that the lessons that I learned here—of the importance of public service, of patriotism and dedication, of the ability and willingness to face difficult times with enthusiasm and confidence and purpose—will stay with me forever.
We live in the greatest nation on Earth, and the foundation of our Nation's greatness is its system of federalism, for the States were the original repository of responsibility and authority, and where the cities, counties, and even the Federal Government only have that authority and responsibility dedicated to us by the States.
Thank you again for honoring me. Thank you for your friendship. And I look forward to an even greater future for our State, which is still so dear to my heart and our great Nation.
I might say that Rosalynn was planning to be with us this morning. At this moment, they are having the funeral of Ambassador Dubs, who was killed in Afghanistan. But she wanted to send her personal love to every one of you, and in addition to my friendship, I extend my love to you also.
Thank you.
  