
    Today Mississippi State Senator Billy Hudson, Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, announced his support for Governor John Kasich's presidential campaign.
With his endorsement of Kasich's candidacy, Hudson adds his name to a growing list of prominent Republicans who have joined the Kasich for America leadership team in Mississippi, including former U.S. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, Congressman Gregg Harper, and a number of leading state legislators, local officials and county GOP chairmen.
Said Hudson, "From my own service in state and local government, I know that experience is the most important ingredient for making a strong leader who can get things done. John Kasich's impressive record as a budget hawk in Congress and conservative governor of Ohio convinces me that he has exactly the kind of experience we need to get America back on track. I look forward to doing all I can for his campaign."
A Hattiesburg resident and retired rancher, Hudson has represented Mississippi's 45th Senate District (parts of Forrest and Perry counties) since 2008, winning his most recent reelection with a resounding 87 percent of the vote. He served previously as a Forrest County supervisor.
Said Kasich, "I am grateful to Sen. Hudson for his endorsement of my campaign, which makes our Mississippi leadership team even stronger. His wide experience in public service and his understanding of the issues and values that are important to Mississippi voters will be important assets for our campaign."
Kasich for America Mississippi Leadership Team
Former US Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott
Congressman Gregg Harper
Former State Senate President Pro Tem Giles Ward
State Senator Josh Harkins
State Senator Billy Hudson
State Senator Brice Wiggins
State Rep. Toby Barker
Transportation Commissioner Mike Tagert
Gulfport Mayor Billy Hewes
Ridgeland Mayor Pro Tem Chuck Gautier
Workers Comp Commission Chairman Liles Williams
Tishomingo County Prosecuting Attorney Lee Thorne
Lincoln County Chancery Clerk Tillmon Bishop
  