
    The Hillary Clinton for President campaign today announced a seasoned team of campaign veterans to lead its Rhode Island efforts leading up to the March 4 presidential primary. Christine Heenan joins the campaign as Rhode Island's Communications Director, and Roger Lau comes aboard as the State Director. Gina Ormand will serve as the Political Director, and Jennifer Bramley will be the Deputy Communications Director.
This leadership team will run the day to day operations of the campaign in Rhode Island, reaching out to voters across the Ocean State and talking about why Hillary Clinton is the best candidate to deliver real solutions for Rhode Island's working families.
"Hillary is offering real solutions to challenges Rhode Islanders are discussing around their dinner table – jobs, health care, the economy, better schools. The strength of her support and organization is growing every day," said Clinton Campaign Manager Maggie Williams. "I worked with Christine Heenan in the Clinton White House, and am thrilled that we have such a strong team and organization in the state."
"I am thrilled such an experienced, dedicated group of individuals will be leading my campaign's operation in Rhode Island," Clinton said. "I'm looking forward to running an aggressive grassroots campaign from Woonsocket to Providence, Warwick to Newport. I am confident this team will deliver victory on March 4."
The Hillary for President Rhode Island staff includes:
Communications Director Christine Heenan is a long time veteran of both Rhode Island politics and media relations. Heenan is the founder and President of Clarendon Group where she leads strategic communications and planning practices for the firm. She has served as a senior policy analyst on the White House Domestic Policy Council during the first Clinton administration, a speechwriter to President Clinton, Hillary Clinton, Al Gore, Tipper Gore, and Senator Chris Dodd, and the director of community and government relations at Brown University. Heenan was featured in the January issue of Rhode Island Monthly as one of the top female entrepreneurs in the state.
State Director Roger Lau, a New England resident, was the State Director in Hillary's upset victory in the Massachusetts primary on February 5th, and assisted in campaign efforts in New Hampshire and Maine. Prior to joining the campaign, Lau managed Rep. Niki Tsongas' victorious special election bid to the House of Representatives. Lau is also a veteran of the 2004 presidential campaign, working for Senator John Kerry's national advance team and Democratic National Convention staff. After the campaign, he served as Senator Kerry's Massachusetts' Press Secretary.
Political Director Gina Ormand joined the Clinton campaign in October as a Regional Political Director, overseeing and advising the campaign's victorious operations in Tennessee, Arkansas, and Massachusetts. Ormand was an integral part of the 2006 Democratic Senatorial Campaign Commission (DSCC) team that took back the Democratic majority in the Senate as the Deputy Director of Campaign Services. In 2007, she joined Senator Jon Tester's staff as a senior advisor on scheduling and operations.
Deputy Communications Director Jennifer Bramley is the founder and co-owner of Vision Strategies and has spent more than 14 years working in the communications field for both public and private entities. Bramley served as press secretary, communications director, and speechwriter for Congressman Bob Weygand and Rhode Island General Treasurer Paul Tavares. She also served as an assistant deputy press secretary for Rhode Island Governor Bruce Sundlun.
  