
    LAS VEGAS – Bernie 2020 today launched their final two TV ads in Nevada ahead of the February 22 caucuses.
One of the two ads, titled "Nevada First," highlights how Sanders' will create good paying jobs in Nevada, tackle the climate crisis, and keep immigrant families together.
"Belongs To Us" highlights Sanders' commitment to tackle corruption and stand up for working people when he is in the White House. "When we stand together, we will make billionaires pay their fair share, provide better wages for workers and equal pay for women." Sanders says in the ad. "We will expand Social Security and guarantee healthcare for all."
"Nevada First," and "Belongs To Us" are Sanders' fifth and sixth ads to run in Nevada, following "Fights For Us," "Nuestro Futuro," "Nuestro Momento" and "For All." All six ads have been produced entirely in-house by Bernie 2020 staff.
The full ad, "Nevada First" can be seen here and the transcript is below:
With the world facing a climate crisis, Nevada is poised to power the country and lead America forward.
Only Bernie Sanders has a plan bold enough to avert the climate crisis and put Nevada first.
As president, he'll create good paying jobs building the infrastructure and affordable housing we need keep immigrant families together and end the greed and corruption destroying our planet.
Bernie Sanders. A president who fights for us.
I'm Bernie Sanders and I approve this message.
The full ad, "Belongs To Us" can be seen here and the transcript is below:
Donald Trump is the most corrupt president in American history.
But the greed and corruption undermining our democracy is bigger than one man.
And so is the solution.
When we stand together, we will make billionaires pay their fair share, provide better wages for workers and equal pay for women.
We will expand Social Security and guarantee healthcare for all.
I'm Bernie Sanders and I approve this message because the future doesn't belong to Trump and his billionaire friends. 
It belongs to us.
  