
    To the Congress of the United States:
I take pleasure in transmitting the enclosed report on the Maurice and Manumuskin River and Menantico Creek in the State of New Jersey. The report and my recommendations are in response to the provisions of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, Public Law 90-542, as amended. The study of the Maurice River and these two tributaries was authorized by Public Law 100-33, approved on May 7, 1987.
The study of the Maurice River and tributaries was conducted by a task force composed of representatives of affected municipalities, State and Federal agencies, organizations with river-related interests, and local residents under the leadership of the National Park Service (NPS). The NPS, together with the task force, identified the outstandingly remarkable resources within the study area, analyzed existing levels of protection for these values, investigated major issues and public concerns, assessed the attitude of riparian landowners, reviewed and analyzed the impact of existing and potential development, and developed alternative plans and management strategies.
The NPS determined that 42.4 miles of the Maurice River and its tributaries are eligible for inclusion in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. This is based upon their free-flowing condition and fish, wildlife, and vegetative values. There are also important cultural values and surface water quality of the Manumuskin and Menantico is very good.
In accordance with the wishes of local government, the NPS did not consider Federal land acquisition or management as an alternative for protecting river resources. Instead, the study focused on assisting the political subdivisions in developing and adopting local measures for providing resource protection where existing protection had been inadequate.
Due to strong local and congressional support, the 103d Congress proceeded to designation without waiting for submittal of the required report and Presidential recommendation. While a Presidential recommendation is now moot, I am submitting the report to fulfill the requirements of section 4(a) and sections 5(a)(96) through 5(a)(98) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, February 3, 1994.
  