
    Pool Reports by Gerren Keith Gaynor, theGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




February 8, 202209:28

VP Supplemental Pool #1
Good morning!
I'm your pooler this comfortably cold and sunny AM for VP Harris's remarks for the Child Tax Credit/Earned Income Tax Credit Day of Action.
The pool is tested and awaiting the VP inside the South Court Auditorium. Event is set to start at 9:30 a.m.
Other participants include:
Gene Sperling, American Rescue Plan CoordinatorJanet Yellen, Treasury Secretary
Here's some additional information:
The Vice President and Secretary Yellen will deliver remarks at a Day of Action with non-profits and community-based organizations to encourage all Americans to take advantage of critical tax credits, including the expanded Child Tax Credits and Earned Income Tax Credit. These remarks will be livestreamed at WH.GOV/Live.



February 8, 202209:43

VP Supplemental Pool #2
Here’s a more complete list of participants:
Participants • Gene Sperling, American Rescue Plan Coordinator and Senior Advisor to the President• Secretary Yellen of Treasury• Sharron Holquin• Lisa Ryerson, AARP• Angela Williams, CEO, United Way• Amanda Renteria, CEO, Code for America



February 8, 202209:56

VP Supplemental Pool #3 --
At 9:49 Sharron Holquin, who made brief remarks, introduced VP Harris.
VP Harris called Sperling and Yellen "Two of the most energetic champions" for tax credits.
"If you are eligible .. we want you to get those credits"
"Working families deserve a break."
VP discussed receiving letters from Americans who "work hard everyday" and still "struggle get by."
"We are on the path to cut child poverty by 40 percent .. this is historic."
VP Harris urged all who think they may be eligible to go to ChildTaxCredit.Gov.
She also emphasized the need to file taxes and urged states and organizations to spread the word.
"I believe our work will be worth it because .. when we do that we lift up American families."
Going back to the letter she received from a recipient of the child tax credit:
"Nothing fancy. Just making a difference," the letter said.
VP walked off at 9:56am.



February 8, 202210:06

VP Supplemental Pool #4
We had a pool lid at 10:02 am. It was a pleasure being your pool.




 
Pool Report below by Grace Segers, The New Republic 



Sent:
Reports:




February 8, 202218:52

VP Supplemental Pool #5/DNC fundraiser - technical difficulties
Good evening. Unfortunately, due to technical difficulties, I was unable to join the virtual DNC fundraiser event with Vice President Harris this evening at 6pm. The White House will be sending around a transcript from stenographers.
Have a good night,
Grace




  