
    
"I will work harder than anyone to actually make the changes that make your lives better."
Hillary fought for every vote in the New Hampshire primary. And when she came up short, she took the stage to address the thousands of people who worked so hard for her in the Granite State.
"I want to begin by congratulating Senator Sanders on his victory tonight. And I want to thank each and every one of you.
"And here's what we're going to do: Now we take this campaign to the entire country. We're going to fight for every vote in every state.
"It isn't right that the kids I met in Flint on Sunday were poisoned because their governor wanted to save money."


"People have every right to be angry. But they're also hungry. They're hungry for solutions."
And Hillary made an important pledge:


  " Here's what I'll promise: I will work harder than anyone to actually make the changes that make your lives better."

She talked about the many things that she and Senator Sanders agree on—like the need to overturn Citizens United and guarantee that Wall Street can never be allowed to once again threaten Main Street.
But she also talked about the choice voters have in this election.


  " The real differences in this race are truly over how do we create a future of prosperity, opportunity, and security for all of us."

She vowed to "break through the barriers of bigotry" and make sure that nothing is holding Americans back.
"African American parents shouldn't have to worry that their children will be harassed, humiliated, even shot because of the color of their skin. Immigrant families shouldn't have to lie awake at night listening for a knock on the door. LGBT Americans shouldn't be fired from their jobs because of who they are or who they love. And let's finally deliver something long overdue: equal pay for women in this economy."
And she reminded the audience that this is not a new fight for her.
"We need to break down those barriers and build ladders of opportunity for every person. That has been the cause and work of my life."




  " When children anywhere in our country go to bed hungry, or are denied a quality education, or who face abuse or abandonment, that diminishes all of us."

"That's why I did start my career at the Children's Defense Fund ..."


"That's why I went undercover in Alabama to expose racism in schools. That's why I worked to reform juvenile justice in South Carolina."


"And that is why I went to Flint, Michigan, on Sunday."



  " When people anywhere in America are held back by injustice, that demands action. "

"That's why I believe so strongly that we have to keep up—with every fiber of our being—the campaign for human rights ... across the board for every single American.
"This is who I am. This is what I've always done. This is why I am in this race."
She thanked everyone who is helping to make this campaign what it is—and build a better tomorrow for all our children and grandchildren.
"I'm very grateful to my wonderful family. Knowing they are by my side, it keeps me going every day."


"To the thousands of volunteers and organizers who called neighbors and knocked on doors in the New Hampshire snow ..."


"More than 700,000 people have contributed to this campaign, the vast majority giving less than $100. I know that doesn't fit with the narrative. I know there are those who want to deny the passion and the purpose you all show every day for this campaign."


"But you are the reason we're here. You're the reason we're going to win this nomination and then win this election together."


Hillary is ready to keep fighting, starting right now. If you're with her:



  