
    
  "Falls Short..."


  "A Brilliant Bit Of Misdirection..."


  "Offers No Real Solution..."


  "A Wasted Opportunity..."


  "Would Lock America On An Auto-Pilot Course For Greece"

The Washington Post: "On that goal, measured against his own fiscal commission, Mr. Obama's proposed budget for fiscal year 2013 falls short. At the end of the 10-year budget window, he would have the national debt at a disturbing 76.5 percent of gross domestic product. By comparison, the debt reduction plan envisioned by the Simpson-Bowles commission would reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio close to a more manageable, if still unhealthy, 60 percent." (Editorial, "Obama's Budget Falls Short, But It Beats Many Alternatives," The Washington Post, 2/13/12)
USA Today: "[T]his is the president's fourth year in office. If he had been aggressive about long-term debt in years one through three — and hadn't stiff-armed his deficit-reduction panel — the nation might not be where it is today. History shows that presidential leadership is an indispensable factor in any serious attempt to get the federal budget under control." (Editorial, "Obama's Budget Plan Leaves Debt Bomb Ticking," USA Today, 2/13/12)
The Wall Street Journal: "Federal budgets are by definition political documents, but even by that standard yesterday's White House proposal for fiscal year 2013 is a brilliant bit of misdirection. With the abracadabra of a tax increase on the wealthy and defense spending cuts that will never materialize, the White House asserts that in President Obama's second term revenues will soar, outlays will fall, and $1.3 trillion annual deficits will be cut in half like the lady in the box on stage. All voters need to do is suspend disbelief for another nine months. And ignore the first four years." (Editorial, "The Amazing Obama Budget," The Wall Street Journal, 2/14/12)
Los Angeles Times: "The day after the Greek Parliament approved another round of deep spending cuts in the face of violent protests, President Obama released a budget proposal for the coming fiscal year that offers no real solution to the United States' long-term fiscal problems. This country is hardly Greece, but Washington's current policies put it on a path to accumulate far too much debt. With the U.S. economy improving, it's past time for the administration to lay out a credible plan for bringing the deficit and debt under control. Sadly, Obama's budget proposal shows that he'd rather wait until after the election to have that reckoning." (Editorial, "What About The U.S. Debt?" Los Angeles Times, 2/14/12)
Detroit News: "President Barack Obama's 2013 budget proposal should be dismissed as a blueprint for his re-election campaign. But it's worse than that. If passed as presented — and there's little likelihood of that — the spending plan would lock America on an auto-pilot course for Greece." (Editorial, "Obama Budget Shirks Off Any Pretense To Fiscal Responsibility," Detroit News, 2/14/12)
Denver Post: "Everyone agrees that something must be done about runaway debt and spending. Or at least that's what we'd like to think. We are disappointed the Obama administration has decided to double down on the status quo by submitting a 2012 budget plan of $3.73 trillion in spending, or 25 percent of gross domestic product — the highest level since World War II. The budget would add $8.7 trillion of new spending — and $7.2 trillion to the federal debt — over the next 10 years." (Editorial, "Obama Budget Still Falls Short," Denver Post, 2/15/12)
Bloomberg: "Do as I say, not as I do. That was the unwelcome message in President Barack Obama's federal budget for 2013. The president calls on Congress to begin work on corporate tax reform, including simplifying and lowering the overall corporate rate. Yet his fiscal blueprint doesn't even hint at how he would achieve that. Instead, he would add new layers of tax complexity. ... This is a wasted opportunity, even considering that the final budget of the president's term is largely a political document." (Editorial, "Obama's Budget Misses An Opportunity To Tackle Tax Reform: View," Bloomberg, 2/13/12)
  