
    Three Compton City Councilmembers Also Endorse Mike Today
COMPTON, CALIFORNIA — Today, Compton Mayor Aja Brown endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg, in part due to his plan to address our national infrastructure, reduce waste and bureaucracy by sending Federal dollars to the local level, his All-In-Economy agenda focused on job creation through investment in cities, and equitable economic agenda for Blacks and Latinos, including immigration reform.
They both will participate in a Mike Bloomberg 2020 Organizing Event in Compton today where Mike will share with voters why he is the best candidate to defeat Donald Trump and his plans to unite the country as president. Mayor Brown will be joined by all the female members of the Compton City Council who are also endorsing Mike for president. They are: Michelle Chambers, Emma Sharif, and Tana McCoy.
"I entered public office with the goal of renewing hope, increasing opportunities through strategic reinvestment, and inspiring a new generation of leaders that will help us move toward a better future," said Mayor Aja Brown. "As I look at our country's current political state, we need a president who can champion this vision nationally and ensure no one gets left behind. Mike Bloomberg will work for all Americans and that is why I am proud to endorse him as our next president. He has a proven track record of producing results and is committed to energizing and investing in our nation's people with a real plan to create new economic opportunities and leveling the playing field for people of color."
"Aja Brown is not only one of the youngest mayors in America – she is one of the best," said Mike Bloomberg. "She's taken on Compton's biggest challenges – including jobs, infrastructure, and gun violence – and gotten results by empowering people and rebuilding communities. But she knows we have so much more to do, and as president, I will work with her to invest in Compton and cities like it that experienced decades of neglect by the federal government. I'm really honored to have her support and look forward to campaigning with her."
Following a career in urban planning and economic development, Mayor Brown made history at 31 as the youngest mayor ever elected in the City of Compton. During her time in office, Mayor Brown's Vision for Compton served as a blueprint for reinvestment, resulting in record levels of new economic growth, 25 year lows in unemployment and violent crime. She has led efforts to increase equity through innovation and strategic partnerships, which resulted in multi-million dollar investments in new resource centers and support programs, city parks, significant street improvement projects, which included a new policy to fully restore Compton's infrastructure system for generations to come.
Mayor Brown is the recipient of the esteemed 2016 John F. Kennedy New Frontier Award, the Brave Ones Leadership Award by Leadercast and was awarded the prestigious University of Southern California 2014 Young Alumni Merit Award. Mayor Brown served on the California State Delta Stewardship Council, a governing body created by legislation to achieve the state mandated coequal goals of providing a more reliable water supply for California and protecting, restoring, and enhancing the Delta ecosystem.
She received a B.A. in Public Policy, Urban Planning and Development, along with an M.S. in Urban Planning with a concentration in Economic Development from the University of Southern California.
  