
    "We will build gleaming new roads, bridges, highways, railways, and waterways all across our land. And we will do it with American heart, and American hands, and American grit." --President Donald J. Trump
REBUILDING AMERICA'S INFRASTRUCTURE: President Donald J. Trump is calling on Congress to come together and invest in 21st century infrastructure for all Americans. 

The President urges Congress to pass a bill that delivers new and important infrastructure investment to rebuild our crumbling roads, aging bridges, crowded airports, and other infrastructure.
Building up and upgrading our infrastructure is key to improving the quality of life for all Americans.

Repairing and building new infrastructure will reduce traffic congestion, improve road conditions, and boost commerce across the Nation.


We must also invest in visionary projects that leverage cutting-edge technologies in order to dominate the industries of the future and lead America into the 21st century.

Mastering new technologies such as 5G wireless, advanced manufacturing, quantum computing, artificial intelligence, rural broadband, and more is vital to our future.


We must work to promote efficient permitting processes for infrastructure projects so a six-month project does not turn into a ten-year odyssey.

Efficient permitting is especially critical for energy infrastructure and the ability of Americans to access reliable, affordable, and domestically-produced energy.



STATE OF DISREPAIR: The President supports bipartisan action to fix our infrastructure.

The American people deserve a modern transportation system that reduces traffic, cuts down on commute time, and is safer and more reliable.

World Economic Forum's most recent Global Competitiveness Report ranked America's overall infrastructure 9th in the world and the quality of its roads 11th.


Every day, tens of millions of Americans drive across structurally deficient and aging bridges.

More than 50,000 American bridges are rated as "structurally deficient."
Around 4 in 10 American bridges are more than 50 years old.


Many roads Americans depend on are overcrowded and in poor condition.

One out of every five miles of highway pavement is in poor condition.
More than two out of every five miles of our urban interstates are congested.


The seaports and inland waterways that facilitate commerce and transport American goods require continued investment.

Many of our ports will require additional improvements to support larger cargo ships.
Locks and dams on high-traffic inlands waterways need investment.


Rural Americans are being left behind as a result of outdated infrastructure.

Eighty percent of Americans that lack sufficient broadband access live in rural areas.



RESOUNDING PUBLIC SUPPORT: The American people know full well the state of our infrastructure, and public polling shows they resoundingly support increased investment.

Seventy-nine percent of Americans say increasing infrastructure investment should be an "extremely important" priority for the new Congress, according to a recent Politico poll.
More than 70 percent of Americans support increasing Federal investment for roads, bridges, mass transit, and other infrastructure, according to a February 2018 YouGov poll.
Ninety-three percent of rural Americans say investing in infrastructure is important to creating jobs in their community, according to a Washington Post/Kaiser Family Foundation poll.

  