
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Stephen J. Hadley – Member, Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace
•      Bruce M. Ramer  – Member, Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Stephen J. Hadley, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace
Stephen J. Hadley is Senior Adviser for International Affairs at the United States Institute of Peace and a principal at RiceHadleyGates, an international strategic consulting firm. Previously, he was Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs from 2005 to 2009 and Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor from 2001 to 2005. From 1993 to 2001, he was a partner at Shea & Gardner and a principle at The Scowcroft Group. From 1989 to 1993, Mr. Hadley served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy. Earlier in his career, he served on the National Security Council from 1974 to 1977 and in the office of the Comptroller of the Department of Defense from 1972 to 1974. Mr. Hadley received a B.A. from Cornell University and a J.D. from Yale Law School.
Bruce M. Ramer, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
Bruce M. Ramer is a Partner at Gang, Tyre, Ramer & Brown, Inc., a firm specializing in entertainment and media matters. He is a member of the Board of Trustees of the University of Southern California (USC) and Chair of the USC Institute on Entertainment Law and Business. He is a member of the Board of Councilors of the USC Annenberg School for Communication, the USC Gould School of Law, and the USC Shoah Foundation Institute for Visual History and Education. Mr. Ramer is Founding Chairman and member of the Board of Trustees of the Geffen Playhouse, a member of the Board of Directors of the Southern California Committee for the Olympic Games, and a member of the Board of Trustees of the Herrhausen Institute for International Dialogue. Mr. Ramer served as a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting from October 2008 until December 2012, serving as Chair the last two years. He was a board member of KCET in Los Angeles from 1992 to 2004, and served as its Chair from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Ramer received an A.B. from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs and an L.L.B. from Harvard Law School.
  