
    Voters cite Bloomberg's record of winning tough fights & ability to defeat Trump for their support
NEW YORK — Mike Bloomberg 2020 today released a new video highlighting the stories of voters who have switched their support this cycle to Mike Bloomberg from another Democratic presidential candidate. In their testimonials, these voters cite Mike's record on key issues and track record of delivering.
The video features voters from states including Arkansas, Arizona, Colorado, North Carolina Massachusetts and Missouri, sharing why they support Mike Bloomberg for president. These voters previously supported various Democratic candidates including Bernie Sanders, Joe Biden, Elizabeth Warren, Amy Klobuchar, and Pete Buttigieg.
"Voters around this country are flocking to Mike Bloomberg because they know he is the only candidate in the race who has what it takes to defeat Donald Trump," said Kevin Sheekey, Campaign Manager for Mike Bloomberg 2020. "Mike's proven time and again he can take on Trump and win – from standing up to Trump and the NRA on gun safety, to taking on Trump and the coal lobby, voters know Mike Bloomberg can get it done."

Watch the video here.
The videos, which were filmed by the supporters or captured at Mike Bloomberg 2020 organizing events across the country, showcase the strength of the campaign's unmatched organization in states that are critical to defeating Trump in November.
Voters featured in the video include:

Pat from Colorado, who switched support from Bernie Sanders
Charlotte from North Carolina, who switched support from Bernie Sanders
Brittany and Cedric from Arkansas, who switched support from Bernie Sanders
Mike in Massachusetts, who switched support from Bernie Sanders
Wendolyn from Missouri, who switched support from Joe Biden
Jeff from North Carolina, who switched support from Joe Biden
Angie from Arizona, who switched support from Elizabeth Warren
Phyllis in Massachusetts, who switched support from Amy Klobuchar and Pete Buttigieg

Multiple current and former elected officials have already switched from supporting other candidates to endorse Mike Bloomberg:

Former Florida State Rep. Roberto Asencio, who switched support from Joe Biden
Miami, Florida State Sen. Jason Pizzo, who switched support from Joe Biden
Kingston, North Carolina Mayor Don Hardy, who switched support from Joe Biden
Former North Carolina State Democratic Party Chair Tom Hendrickson, who switched support from Joe Biden
Chattanooga, Tennessee State Rep. Yusuf Hakeem, who switched support from Joe Biden
Atlanta, Georgia City Councilwoman Jennifer Ide, who switched support from Elizabeth Warren

The campaign has opened more than 150 field offices across the country and has hired more than 2,400 staff, with more than 2,000 staff in 43 states and territories, including every Super Tuesday state.
  