
    On the Air: The campaign began airing new ads. In "Dignity," Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. and Cesar L. Chavez, grandson of the late Cesar E. Chavez, make clear that as President, Hillary will fight for the dignity of the voiceless in our society. Watch.
Previewing Today: Hillary will hold "Solutions for America" rallies in Los Angeles, California, Tucson, Arizona, and Albuquerque, New Mexico... President Clinton will hold "Solutions for America" rallies in Huntsville and Fairfield, Alabama and Columbia and Springfield, Missouri.
Join the Conversation: On Monday, Hillary will host a groundbreaking national town hall, "Voices Across America." Voters at events in Super Tuesday states will via satellite join a single conversation and have their voices heard. Hallmark Channel will broadcast the town hall live. Read more.
Endorsement Watch: U.S. Reps. Gene Green and Solomon Ortiz endorsed Hillary... Los Angeles County Supervisor Gloria Molina endorsed Hillary... The Denver Post endorsed Hillary. "Democrats have... [a] responsibility: to pick the most qualified candidate to lead America at a time when it faces great challenges at home and abroad." Read more.
Recapping Yesterday: In California, "the crowd responded often with near-deafening cheers" as Hillary spoke in San Jose. "Thousands of students waited patiently in a line" to hear Hillary at San Diego State University before a "standing-room only" low-dollar fundraiser in San Francisco... In Georgia, in...the Republican bastion that once sent former House Speaker Newt Gingrich to office... thousands of students and others" turned out to hear President Bill Clinton.
By the Numbers: New polls show Hillary ahead of Sen. Obama. Nationally, Opinion Dynamics has Hillary up by 10 points... In New York, Hispanic Federation has Hillary up by 50 points among Latinos... In Massachusetts, Western New England College has Hillary up by 28 points and SurveyUSA has Hillary up by 24 points... In Tennessee, Rasmussen has Hillary up by 14 points... In Connecticut, ARG has Hillary up by 13 points... In New Jersey, SurveyUSA has Hillary up by 12 points... In Alabama, InsiderAdvantage has Hillary up by 6 points... In Missouri, SurveyUSA has Hillary up by 4 points.
Get the Facts: "With unmistakable echoes of Harry and Louise," a famous TV ad the insurance industry used to sideline health reform in the 1990s, Sen. Obama's new mailer falsely attacks Hillary's health care plan. The truth is that while Hillary's plan would provide affordable health care to every American, Sen. Obama would leave 15 million people uninsured. [Read More Here] and here.
In Case You Missed It: "Clinton holds edge among key Hispanics" in the Associated Press. Read more.
  