
    Amy Karpel of Washington, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring June 16, 2020, vice F. Scott Kieff, resigned. Ms. Karpel most recently served as Chief Counsel for Negotiations, Legislation and Administrative Law at the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR). In that position, she provided legal advice to the USTR and other senior officials regarding the application of United States trade law and the negotiation and implementation of United States trade agreements, as well as drafted and negotiated such agreements. Before beginning her work at USTR in 2004, she was as an associate attorney from 1999-2004 at the Law Offices of Stewart and Stewart where she represented United States workers and producers in trade remedy proceedings. Ms. Karpel received her undergraduate degree with honors from the University of Washington, and her law degree cum laude from the American University's Washington College of Law. She is originally from Washington State and is married to John Sloane Strickler. They have one child.
Theodore J. Garrish of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (International Affairs), vice Jonathan Elkind. Mr. Garrish served at the U.S. Department of Energy as General Counsel and later as Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy and also Assistant Secretary for Congressional, Intergovernmental and Public Affairs. He also served as Federal Inspector of the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System. While in the private sector, he previously worked on nuclear export controls with United States companies and assisted emerging nuclear power nations to help them develop legal and regulatory programs and national policies for the use of nuclear energy technology. Earlier in his career he founded Wild Goose Brewery in Cambridge, Maryland. Mr. Garrish holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan in economics and a Juris Doctor cum laude from Wayne State University in Detroit. He now lives in Annapolis, Maryland, with his wife Dory Stacks and their two yellow labs.
  