
    The United States Government, the executive branch and the Congress, are pledged to bring about a reduction in the trade in conventional arms. Last year, I promised to begin reducing U.S. arms sales as a necessary first step. I will continue that policy this year.
In the last fiscal year, the previous administration and my administration made sales commitments totaling many billions of dollars. While high, however, the total was considerably less than it would have been in the absence of new restraints we introduced, particularly in sales commitments to the developing countries of the world. Between January 20 and the close of the fiscal year, I approved and sent to Congress arms sales totaling $5.7 billion, which is less than half the total approved during the same period in 1976.
Today, I am announcing that arms transfer agreements covered by the ceiling which I have established will be reduced by $740 million in fiscal year 1978. This means that for the fiscal year which Began on October 1, 1977, and which will end on September 30, 1978, new commitments under the Foreign Military Sales and Military Assistance programs for weapons and weapons-related items to all countries except NATO, Japan, Australia, and New Zealand will not exceed $8.6 billion. The comparable figure for fiscal year 1977 was $9.3 billion. This is a reduction of 8 percent, figured on constant fiscal year 1976 dollars.
A larger cut in the ceiling would violate commitments already made, including our historic interest in the security of the Middle East, and would ignore the continuing realities of world politics and risk the confidence and security of those nations with whom the United States has vital and shared foreign policy and security interests. A smaller reduction would neglect our responsibility to set an example of restraint that others might follow.
I intend to make further reductions in the next fiscal year. The extent of next year's reduction will depend upon the world political situation and upon the degree of cooperation and understanding of other nations.
I want to emphasize that the restraint policy I announced on May 19, 1977, was not aimed exclusively at the volume of arms transfers. Equally important is restraint in the sophistication of arms being transferred and on the spreading capability to produce armaments. Therefore, in addition to the ceiling, I established five specific controls applicable to all transfers except those to our NATO allies, Japan, Australia, and New Zealand. These controls included: (1) a control on the first introduction of certain advanced systems into an area; (2) a prohibition on advanced systems for export only; (3) a prohibition on various types of coproduction arrangements; (4) tighter controls on retransfer; and (5) special controls on sales promotions.
These guidelines are at the heart of my decisions to approve or disapprove an arms transfer.
As I stated in my October 4 speech to the United Nations, genuine progress in this area will require multilateral efforts. But we are committed to taking the first steps alone to .stop the spiral of increasing arms transfers. I call upon suppliers and recipients alike to join us in a determined effort to make the world a safer place in which to live.
  