
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
February 4
The White House announced that at the invitation of President Carter, President Josip Broz Tito of Yugoslavia will pay a state visit to the United States in March.
February 6
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Cabinet;
—Small Business Administrator A. Vernon Weaver, Jr.;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Representative Tom Bevill of Alabama;
—Democratic National Chairman John C. White;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown. February 7
February 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mike Mansfield, U.S. Ambassador to Japan;
—Ambassador Leonard Woodcock, Chief of the U.S. Liaison Office at Peking, People's Republic of China;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska to discuss the Panama Canal treaties;
—Senator Jennings Randolph of West Virginia to discuss the Panama Canal treaties;
—Senator Howard H. Cannon of Nevada to discuss the Panama Canal treaties.
The President declared emergencies for the States of Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and Connecticut because of the impact of an abnormal accumulation of snow on vital transportation arteries within the States.
February 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Marion Edey, executive director of the League of Conservation Voters;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
February 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin;
—Senator Edward Zorinsky of Nebraska;
—Senator John Melcher of Montana;
—the Intelligence Oversight Board;
—Representative Butler Derrick of South Carolina;
—Douglas A. Fraser, president of the International Union of the United Auto Workers;
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal.
February 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Howard H. Baker, Jr., of Tennessee;
—Senator H. John Heinz III of Pennsylvania;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week).
The President attended the final session of a conference of members of the Federal Regional Councils in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Massachusetts as a result of coastal flooding, beginning about February 6, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  