
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, former United States Senator, Republican National Chairman, and Reagan Secretary of Labor Bill Brock announced his endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney. Senator Brock has had a long and distinguished career in national politics and public service.
"I am proud to support Governor Romney and his campaign for President. My life passion is education reform, and Governor Romney led his state to be the best in the nation in educating their children. I believe he is the only candidate in either Party with the vision, the commitment, and the proven leadership to do as much for all of our children. His support of strong families, low taxes, and more and better jobs is exciting to me. Conservative on the things that really matter, Governor Romney has earned our support, and I pray Tennessee and the Nation will give him their support next Tuesday, and in the days to come," said Senator Brock.
Welcoming Senator Brock's endorsement, Governor Romney said, "It is an honor to have as part of our team such a distinguished public servant. He led our party during a critical time in our nation's history and helped secure Ronald Reagan's election. He knows firsthand that our party's nominee must be a candidate who unites our conservative base like Ronald Reagan did not so long ago."
Background On Former U.S. Senator Bill Brock:
Former Senator Bill Brock (R-TN) Has Had A Distinguished Career In Public Service. Senator Brock began his career in public service in 1962 when he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. In 1970, he was elected by the people of Tennessee to the United States Senate where he served until 1977. After his service in Congress, he would serve as Chairman of the Republican National Committee until 1981. Under President Ronald Reagan, Senator Brock served as the United States Trade Representative and Secretary of Labor. Today he leads a national effort to dramatically strengthen and transform American public education.
  