
    On the heels of a decisive win for Vice President Joe Biden at the Democratic presidential debate in South Carolina, Biden for President announced 82 endorsements from key current and former elected officials, Democratic party leaders, and local community and faith leaders from across Illinois.
Citing their confidence in Joe Biden's ability to unite the party and the country to defeat Donald Trump, Illinois leaders from all 18 congressional districts expressed the need for Joe Biden's leadership on day one to rebuild the middle class and restore the soul of the nation.
"Joe Biden knows firsthand about the struggle working people go through to bring themselves up out of poverty and into the middle class because his family lived that journey — and he's never forgotten where he comes from," said Former Deputy Mayor for the City of Chicago Andy Zopp. "Joe understands what affordable, quality education, job training and health care really mean to workers and families — that they're critical ingredients in a thriving middle class. It's his heart and his experience that make his commitment to rebuilding the middle class so powerful — he doesn't give up on working people and he'll never leave anyone behind."
"I've known Vice President Biden and Dr. Jill Biden for years and I know he is a man of strong character and resolve," said President of Tusk Philanthropies and former Chief of Staff to Dr. Jill Biden Sheila Nix. "I truly believe there's only one person that can save our country from where we are right now, and that's Vice President Biden. I am proud to endorse Joe and I know he is the right man for the job."
"I'm a union girl, so the fact that Joe Biden is union from his belt buckle to his boot sole is important to me," said Vice Chair of the Democrat Party of Illinois and State Central Committeewoman for the 15th Congressional District, Vice Chair of the Saline County Democrats, and Precinct Committeeman Vivian Robinson. "Joe has always been with labor because blue collar America isn't just where he comes from — it's who he is. That's why he's always fought to protect our rights and for the decent wages and quality education, health care and job training opportunities we deserve. Joe knows that our economy isn't working for working people when it takes multiple jobs to make ends meet — and that we can do better. Joe Biden will fight for our workers, our families, and for the strong middle class this country deserves."
"I'm proud to endorse Joe Biden because he has had a long, steady career of fighting for working families and to build a stronger middle class," said Illinois State Representative Emanuel "Chris" Welch (D-District 7). "Joe Biden is also the one Democratic candidate who can appeal across all demographic groups and beat Donald Trump in November. I'm with Joe!"
"Joe knows how to make the federal government work for working people — in ways that make a real difference in their everyday lives," said Conlon & Dunn Partner and Former General Counsel to U.S. Senator Paul Simon (D-IL) Chris Dunn. "Now more than ever, our country needs leadership that can appeal to the best in our fellow citizens and repair our trust in each other."
"Joe Biden always has and always will stand shoulder to shoulder with the Latino community because he fundamentally believes that immigrants and new Americans are what make this country great," said Illinois State Senator and Assistant Majority Leader Iris Martinez. "Joe has always fought for the dignity of all working people — no matter where you come from, and he'll continue to fight for the opportunities from quality, affordable health care and education to job training and better, fairer housing every individual and family deserves."
The full list of endorsements today include:

Sheila Nix, President of Tusk Philanthropies and former Chief of Staff to Dr. Jill Biden
Andrea Zopp, Former Deputy Mayor for the City of Chicago
Iris Martinez, Illinois State Senator, 20th District and Assistant Majority Leader
Emanuel "Chris" Welch, Illinois State Representative, 7th District
Christopher Dunn, Conlon & Dunn Partner and former General Counsel to Sen. Paul Simon
Vivian Robinson, Vice Chair of the Democrat Party of Illinois and State Central Committeewoman for the 15th Congressional District, Vice Chair of the Saline County Democrats, and Precinct Committeeman
Pat Quinn, Former Illinois Governor
Melissa Conyears-Ervin, Chicago City Treasurer
Pat Dowell, Chicago Alderman and Committeeperson, 3rd Ward
Roderick T. Sawyer, Chicago Alderman, 6th Ward
Michelle A. Harris, Chicago Alderman and Democratic Committeeperson, 8th Ward
Patrick Daley Thompson, Chicago Alderman, 11th Ward
Christopher Taliaferro, Chicago Alderman and Committeemen, 29th Ward
Ariel Reboyras, Chicago Alderman and Democratic Committeeperson, 30th Ward
Emma Mitts, Chicago Alderman and Committeeperson, 37th Ward
Brendan Reilly, Chicago Alderman, 42nd Ward and City Council President Pro Tempore
Patrick O'Connor, Former Chicago Alderman, 40th Ward
Julie Morrison, Illinois State Senator, 29th District
Steve Stadelman, Illinois State Senator, 34th District
Chris Belt, Illinois State Senator, 57th District
Curtis Tarver, Illinois State Representative 25th District
Nick Smith, Illinois State Representative, 34th District
Fred Crespo, Illinois State Representative, 44th District, Assistant House Majority Leader
Martin Moylan, Illinois State Representative, 55th District
Jonathan Carroll, Illinois State Representative, 57th District
Sue Scherer, Illinois State Representative, 96th District
Jay Hoffman, Illinois State Representative, 113th District
LaToya Greenwood, Illinois State Representative, 114th District
Kristopher Anderson, Democratic Activist
Tim Egan, Chicago Democratic Committeeperson, 2nd Ward
Lucy Moog, Chicago Democratic Committeeperson, 43rd Ward
Reyahd Kazmi, Entrepreneur and Youth Advocate
Deborah Lane, Financial Secretary-Treasurer, Amalgamated Transit Union Local 308
Timothy Wright III, Community Activist
Vernard Alsberry, Mayor of Hazel Crest
Kevin E. O'Gorman, Political Director, Chicago Regional Council of Carpenters
Mariyana Spyropoulos, Commissioner, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
Rory Hoskins, Mayor of Forest Park
Ken Harris, Will County Board Member, 4th District
John Gulley, Franklin County Board Member, 1st District
Mark Guethle, North Aurora Village Trustee
Marc Poulos, Labor Leader
Billy Halstead, Peoria County Democratic Chair
Matt Cain, Clinton County Board Member and Clinton County Democratic Chair
Kyle R. Hastings, Mayor of Orland Hills
Cynthia Santos, State Central Committeeperson, 5th District
Elizabeth Penesis, Former State Central Committeeperson
Kathleen Griffin, Educator and Union Leader
Steve Shetsky, Service Representative International Association of Fire Fighters
Amanda Howland, Trustee at College of Lake County, Attorney
Thomas Maillard, Young Democrats of Illinois, National Committeeman
Barrett Pederson, Mayor of Franklin Park
Jill Wine-Banks, MSNBC Legal Analyst and Author
Maureen Pikarski, Co-Chair of the DNC's Ethnic Coordinating Council
Michael W. Smith, President, Kankakee Federation of Labor, AFL-CIO
Victor Shi, Youth Activist
Syerra Cunningham, Youth Activist
Marcia Blumenthal Fields, Executive Committee Member, New Trier Democrats
Vincent Casillas, Former Hispanic Communications Director for Obama for America 08 and CEO Casillas Strategies
Lauren Staley Ferry, Will County Clerk
Amy Sipovic Boyles, Former LaSalle County Democratic Chair
Emmanuel Llamas, Aurora Alderman, 1st Ward
Claudia Rodriguez, Democratic Activist
Nancy Rotering, Mayor of City of Highland Park
Miriam Smith, Labor Leader
Jeff Deppe, Rock Island County Board Member, District 9
Pam Davidson, Knox County Board Member, District 3
Wendy LaFauce, Retired Educator
Aurora Austriaco, District 207 School Board Member
Sonia Desai Bhagwakar, Community Leader
Nazneen Hashmi, Deputy Committeeperson for Hanover Township, Community Organizer
Laura Hepp Kessel, Fulton County Board Member
Ashwin Puri, Youth Activist
Jimmy Chau, Firefighter
Ertharin Cousins, Former Permanent Representative to UN Food and Agriculture Organization, Former Executive Director UN World Food Program, Founder and CEO Food Systems for The Future
Natalie Phelps Finnie, Health Care Advocate, APRN, FNP-BC
Marrice Coverson, Pastor of the Church of the Spirit in Chicago
Jorge Perez, Executive Director of Hispanic American Construction Industry Association
Marcelino Garcia, Commissioner Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
Ellen Schanzle-Haskins, Sprinfield Lawyer and Labor Leader
Sherry Tite, Wood River Township Clerk
Jay Briney, Vice President, Illinois Democratic County Chairs Association, and Mason County Democratic Chair

Illinois leaders who have previously endorsed Biden include Congressman Brad Schneider (IL-10), Congressman Danny Davis (IL-7), and former Senator and Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun. Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  