
    Pool Reports by Eli Stokols, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




February 23, 202109:08

Pool report #1 - lunch lid 
Good morning from the White House. I'll be your pooler today, so feel free to send along any questions.
We just received a lunch lid until 11:30 a.m.
More to come.



February 23, 202112:03

Pool report #2 - Two-minute warning to briefing 
Jen Psaki will be out in two minutes. You can find the briefing in the usual places.



February 23, 202112:55

Pool report #3 - briefing ends 
Jen Psaki took the podium at 12:05 p.m. and concluded at 12:54.
Pool will be getting place shortly for the 1:15 p.m. roundtable with essential Black workers in the South Auditorium.



February 23, 202113:06

Pool report #4 - event info 
Pool is getting in place in the South Court Auditorium of EEOB for the 1:15 p.m. roundtable. Event should be available at whitehouse.gov/live and I'll try and flag some color and anything of note.
Cell coverage is a bit spotty so sending this early, from the WH:
Ahead of the POTUS' conversation with essential workers moderated by Domestic Policy Advisor Susan Rice, here are a list of participants:

Demetris "Al" Alfred, St. Louis, Missouri firefighter emergency medical technician
Melanie Owens is a pharmacist at a Walgreens on the South Side of Chicago, Illinois.
Carmen Palmer works at a child care center called Kiddie Academy in Columbus, Ohio.
Jeff Carter is a district store manager for Hyvee Grocers in Cedar Rapids, Iowa




February 23, 202113:35

Pool report #5 - roundtable underway 
The roundtable with Black essential workers began at 1:33 p.m., a bit after the scheduled 1:15 start time.
POTUS and Susan Rice were already seated at separate round tables when we entered at 1:31. They are facing a large screen featuring a live feed— it's a four box — with the individuals taking part (names in last pool note). The text on screen above the feeds reads: "Honoring our history."
Rice led off, saying that frontline workers are "heroes" and noting the disproportionate impact of covid on Black Americans.
You can watch live here: whitehouse.gov/live



February 23, 202114:29

Pool report #6 - roundtable ends + details and Tanden comment 
The roundtable ended at 2:25 p.m. and pool was escorted out.
POTUS did respond briefly to a shouted question from Ed O'Keefe at the end of the event on whether he still has confidence in Neera Tanden' as OMB nomination.
"We're going to push. We still think there's a shot, a good shot," he said.
No major news from the event itself, but he did offer an aside at one point that the ARP was going to pass but, seemingly implying a lack of GOP support, said "it's not going to pass by a lot."
There were also a few passing comments at the very end of the roundtable deriding President Trump's coronavirus response (see below).
Here's a recap:
At the outset, President Biden spoke after Rice, greeting the four individuals and thanking them for their work in the pandemic: "You're basically holding the country together," he said. "I'm not being facetious. I'm being deadly earnest."
He acknowledged that Blacks have been "the most left behind community...it really is."
Rice then introduced each participant, asking them for a short biography and outline of their experiences.
"Al" Alfred, a St. Louis firefighter who acknowledged having met Biden before, described engaging with local governments to get them PPE and to get vaccinated.
Biden asked him to identify one thing that he needs the most, and Alfred said "the funding down to the local level," to ensure PPE and avoid layoffs after the pandemic if budgets "and sustain our jobs."
Biden, referring to written notes on his table, responded by touring the local government funding in the American Rescue Plan, which he said are "designed to keep teachers and firefighters on the job."
"Don't be shy about letting us know what you need," Biden said.
Melanie Owens, a pharmacist on the South Side of Chicago, said contracting covid herself last March has motivated her to help others. She said people in underserved communities have seemed surprised to learn Walgreens and other pharmacies can help them schedule vaccinations and that they are available.
Biden asked about the "reluctance" people have about getting online to explore vaccination options. "Tell me what you sense from your patients," he said.
Owens said her customers have been "excited" and not all that reluctant.
Carmen Palmer, a teacher and single mom in Ohio, spoke about her work to ensure kids have access to nutritious meal. She said the pandemic has "exposed" how precarious her situation is, especially, she continued, in a state that has "not prioritized childcare."
"I'm an essential worker and I'm taking care of essential workers' kids," she said. "I'm just grateful I'm able to still work in the pandemic."
Biden responded and said the ARP would help childcare providers like her, noting the inclusion of the child tax credit. "If we get this done, it'll cut childhood poverty in half," he said.
**He predicted the ARP would pass, but, seeming to imply a lack of Republican support, that "it's not gonna pass by a lot."**
Jeff Carter, who manages two Hi-Vee grocery stores in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, said the pandemic has "challenged us" to focus on safety, described installing plexiglass shields, mask distribution and store sanitation efforts. He also spoke about last year's Derecho storm destroying a third store he'd managed and how the disaster exacerbated an already difficult situation last year, but spoke with optimism about how his store has begun offering vaccinations to customers.
"We just need to get the vaccines delivered so we can go out and do our thing," Carter said.
Biden responded by lamenting the past administration's early response to the pandemic and its politicization of mask-wearing and shutdowns. He also expressed pride at his administration's vaccination effort, said it's on its way to meeting its goal of distributing 100 million shots in his first 100 days in office.
He said he's focused on getting underserved communities help "in places where they're comfortable," and described efforts to send vans with local health professionals into communities.
Biden also told the individuals they know that "injecting bleach doesn't do it for you," a reference to former President Trump. And he lamented that the internet is still full of posts from "vaccine deniers."
He continued to sharpen the contrast with Trump: "We're an administration that thinks science matters, and it has to be available to the poorest among us."
He concluded by saying he cannot say precisely when life will return to normal but that steady progress will continue to be made. "We're going to beat this," he said.



February 23, 202116:04

Pool report #7 - Trudeau bilat starting soon-ish 
The (Zoom) bilat between POTUS and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is a bit behind schedule, but pool is holding now in the west wing lobby and will be heading into the Roosevelt Room shortly for the spray.
A TV monitor with a live feed in the hall showed a long table set up with American and Canadian flags positioned behind a seat for Biden at the end of the table.
I'll try to send any quotes out ASAP.
POTUS will deliver remarks — but not take questions —after the bilat at 5:45.



February 23, 202116:25

Pool report #8 - bilat comments + participants list 
Pool was brought into the Roosevelt Room at 4:16 p.m.
POTUS was seated at the end of the conference table with the two countries' flags behind him. VPOTUS is to his right.
Opening remarks from Biden, reading from an iPad: "I look forward to seeing you in person on the future."
"The United States has no closer friend than Canada."
Biden said the topics they'd discuss are: "Covid-19 , climate change, refugees and migration, fighting tor our values on the world stage and strengthening our democracies at home."
Trudeau, whose live feed was shown in a monitor at other end of the table and another over Biden's left shoulder, then spoke: "It's so great to see you, Joe."
He said Canada was "really excited" to be working with the US again on climate change.
"US leadership has been sorely missed over the past years," Trudeau said before repeating his comments in French.
VP Harris spoke next, mentioned her teenage years in Montreal, which she said made an impression on her about "our two countries' shared values."
"We look forward to working with you."
Chrystia Freeland spoke next, noting her pride in Harris being elected the first woman VP.
"We have a real responsibility now to show that democracies can deliver," she said, before repeating herself in French.
Spray ongoing...
From the WH—
Below, those joining for the bilateral meeting:
Canada

Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada
Chrystia Freeland, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
Marc Garneau, Minister of Foreign Affairs
Harjit Sajjan, Minister of National Defence
Seamus O'Regan, Minister of Natural Resources
Bill Blair, Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness
Mary Ng, Minister of Small Business, Export Promotion and International Trade
Jonathan Wilkinson, Minister of the Environment and Climate Change
Omar Alghabra, Minister of Transport
Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United States of America
Ms. Katie Telford, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime Minister
Mr. Brian Clow, Executive Director of Issue Management, Parliamentary Affairs and Canada-U.S. Relations, Office of the Prime Minister

United States

Joseph R. Biden, Jr., President of the United States of AmericaKamala Harris, Vice President of the United States of America
Tony Blinken, Secretary of State
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Janet Yellen, Secretary of the Treasury
Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense
Pete Buttigieg, Secretary of Transportation
Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security
John Kerry, U.S. Special Presidential Envoy Climate
Brian Deese, Director of the National Economic Council
Jeff Zients, COVID-19 Coordinator and Counselor
Juan Gonzalez, Senior Director for Western Hemisphere
Katherine Brucker, Chargé d'Affaires, a.i., of the United States of America to Canada




February 23, 202116:29

Pool report #9 - spray ends, bilat ongoing 
After the four principals had spoken, Biden introduced SOS Anthony Blinken and NSA Jake Sullivan and others in the room as pool was being ushered out at 4:25 p.m.
We could hear him as we left talking about the five years he spent trying to learn French and how "every time I tried to speak it I made such a fool out of myself."
Bilat ongoing...



February 23, 202116:53

Pool report #10 - some fuller Biden & Trudeau quotes 
Here is a (partial) transcript of the opening comments from President Biden and Prime Minister Trudeau. Look for full comments and the remarks from VP Harris and Deputy PM Freeland in the WH transcript, which should go out before too long.
BIDEN: "As you know, we have a robust agenda today and we're all best served when the United States and Canada work together and lead together."
"I believe the leaders of the major democracies we have -- or, as the leaders of the major democracies, we have a responsibility to prove that democracy can still deliver for our people. There are a lot of leaders around the world who are trying to make the argument autocracy works better. Empowering the full participation of our people, expanding opportunity and equity for everybody, ensuring the benefits of growth are shared more broadly -- that's how we're going to win the battle for the future. So thank you again, Mr. Prime Minister for your partnership and your enduring commitment to the U.S.-China to--to the U.S.-Canadian relationship. We're going to talk about China. I'm looking forward to a very productive discussion. The floor is yours.
TRUDEAU: "Thank you very much, Mr. President, and it's so good to see you and it's such a great opportunity for us to sit down and talk not just about this extraordinary friendship between our two countries but all the work we have to do together to get through covid but also to make sure we're pulling our weight around the world and making the world a better and safer place for everyone, not just with this pandemic but with everything else as well."
[introduces Freeland and Garneau]
"Lots of things to talk about. Obviously, Covid and how we're going to keep our citizens safe is top of mind. But we're also going to talk about the recovery, how we move forward on creating good jobs, [inaudible], strengthening the middle class and helping those working hard to join it. As we move forward there's a lot to rebuild.
"We'll also be talking about climate change. And thank you again for stepping up in such a big way on tacking climate change. U.S. leadership has been sorely missed over the past, uh, past years."



February 23, 202117:24

Pool report #11 - (updated) participants list 
The White House just sent out an updated list of participants again that, unlike the last one, differentiates between who was in the initial, restricted bilat, and who joined in the expanded bilat that followed.
Also, based on initial delay to the bilat, we're expecting a slight delay on the statements in the East Room as well. From the WH...
Here are the lists for the restricted and expanded bilateral meetings with Canada today:
Restricted Bilateral Meeting:Virtual Participants:Canada- Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada- Chrystia Freeland, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance- Marc Garneau, Minister of Foreign Affairs- Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United States of America (by secure phone)- Katie Telford, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime Minister
United States: In-Person Participants:- Vice President Harris- Tony Blinken, Secretary of State- Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs- Juan Gonzalez, Senior Director for Western Hemisphere
Expanded Bilateral Meeting:Canada

Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada
Chrystia Freeland, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
Marc Garneau, Minister of Foreign Affairs
Harjit Sajjan, Minister of National Defence
Seamus O'Regan, Minister of Natural Resources
Bill Blair, Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness
Mary Ng, Minister of Small Business, Export Promotion and International Trade
Jonathan Wilkinson, Minister of the Environment and Climate Change
Omar Alghabra, Minister of Transport
Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United States of America
Ms. Katie Telford, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime Minister
Mr. Brian Clow, Executive Director of Issue Management, Parliamentary Affairs and Canada-U.S. Relations, Office of the Prime Minister

United States

Joseph R. Biden, Jr., President of the United States of America
Kamala Harris, Vice President of the United States of America
Tony Blinken, Secretary of State
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Janet Yellen, Secretary of the Treasury
Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense
Pete Buttigieg, Secretary of Transportation
Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security
John Kerry, U.S. Special Presidential Envoy Climate
Brian Deese, Director of the National Economic Council
Jeff Zients, COVID-19 Coordinator and Counselor
Juan Gonzalez, Senior Director for Western Hemisphere
Katherine Brucker, Chargé d'Affaires, a.i., of the United States of America to Canada




February 23, 202117:55

Pool report #12 - awaiting statements in East Room 
Pool has moved to the East Room, where traditionally the two principals would hold a "2 x 2" press conference after a bilat.
Biden will be making a statement about the meeting from a lectern positioned in front of American and Canadian flags, as will Trudeau via video feed, but there will be no questions, we're told.
A vertical monitor is set at an angle to the left of the lectern for the prime minister's remarks. The single camera for Biden appears to have a teleprompter attached.
The pool has (distanced) seats behind a rope on the opposite side of the room, but there are no chairs set up for other staff.
This was on the schedule for 5:45 p.m. so we're just a bit behind. Unlike the spray in the Roosevelt Room, this should be live-streamed at whitehouse.gov/live



February 23, 202118:20

Pool report #13 - two minute warning to Biden 
And Trudeau.?



February 23, 202118:35

Pool report #14 — Biden + Trudeau statements 
POTUS entered the East Room at 6:21 and PM Trudeau appeared in the monitors simultaneously. Biden removed his mask and immediately began to spoke.
The event was streamed live; please check all rush quotes against transcript.
Biden called the pandemic an "immediate priority" and said the two countries would work together "to strengthen the supply chain" to hasten the economic recovery.
Biden said the countries "agreed to double down" on climate change, "to spur other countries to raise their own ambitions" and said the US and Canada would be launching a joint initiative to meet a goal of zero carbon emissions by the year 2050.
Agreed to work on improving race relations and modernizing NORAD.
Biden also expressed the US support for China to release two Canadians being held there. "Human beings are not bartering chips," he said.
"The United States has no closer and no more important friend than Canada."
Biden wrapped at 6:27, noting he looks forward to their first meeting in person.
Trudeau, speaking first in English and then French, began by thanking "Joe" and said the bilat focused on "our ambitious new partnership roadmap based on shared values and priorities."
He said the discussions around improving supply chains would help "the people hardest hit" by the pandemic recover.
"We stand United to defeat this pandemic and build a better tomorrow," he concluded, thanking Biden "in advance" for the work they'll do together.
Biden responded briefly, saying "au revoir" to Trudeau. He then walked off, putting his mask back on, and left the East Room at 6:32.



February 23, 202118:38

Pool report #15 - LID 
Travel/photo lid called at 6:37 p.m.
Have a good night, all.




  