
    To the Congress of the United States: 
Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, within 90 days before the anniversary date of its declaration, the President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice stating that the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13566 of February 25, 2011, with respect to Libya is to continue in effect beyond February 25, 2018.
Colonel Muammar Qadhafi, his government, and close associates took extreme measures against the people of Libya, including using weapons of war, mercenaries, and wanton violence against unarmed civilians. There remains a serious risk that former members of the Qadhafi government, members of the Qadhafi family, the Qadhafi family's close associates, or others determined to undermine the United Nations peace process might misappropriate Libyan state assets. The diversion of these resources could prolong and deepen the current instability in Libya, which would benefit the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and other terrorist groups and pose a serious risk to the national security of the United States and the security of regional partners.
A strong and united Libya is the best defense against terrorism in the region. The violence among Libyans that began in Benghazi in May 2014, and spread thereafter to Tripoli and throughout the country, has destabilized the country. Until Libyans resolve their underlying political divisions, there will remain a significant threat of civil conflict in Libya. Many of the ongoing political divisions are over power and access to Libya's resources, and further destabilization is possible were sanctions to be lifted. We continue to encourage Libyans to engage in political dialogue and refrain from violence. Those who reject dialogue and obstruct or undermine Libya's democratic transition must be held accountable. While we work with the international community to identify those individuals who pose a threat to Libya's democratic transition, we must also continue to ensure that appropriate sanctions remain in place.
The situation in Libya continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, and measures are needed to protect against the diversion of assets or other abuses by members of Qadhafi's family, their associates, and others hindering Libyan national reconciliation. Therefore, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the national emergency with respect to Libya.
DONALD J. TRUMP
The White House,
February 9, 2018.
  