
    The President today announced that he will nominate Adm. Stansfield Turner as Director of Central Intelligence. Turner is presently Commander in Chief of Allied Forces Southern Europe (AFSOUTH) with headquarters at Naples, Italy.
Turner is a native of Highland Park, Ill., born December 1. 1923. He entered Amherst College in 1941 and, 2 years later, was appointed to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. After graduation in 1946, tie served 1 year at sea before entering Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar for work on a master's degree.
Following Oxford, he held a variety of sea assignments, including command of a minesweeper, a destroyer, and a guided missile frigate, which he placed in commission. His shore assignments included the Politico-Military Policy Division in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Systems Analysis, the advanced management program at the Harvard Business School, and Executive Assistant and Naval Aide to the Secretary of the Navy.
He was selected for promotion to rear admiral in May 1970, and shortly thereafter assumed command of a carrier task group of the Sixth Fleet while serving aboard the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Independence. After that, he directed the Systems Analysis Division of the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations.
On June 30, 1972, Turner became the 36th President of the Naval War College at Newport, R.I., with the rank of vice admiral. During his 2-year tenure there, he instituted major revisions in the college's curriculum to strengthen its academic content.
Effective August 14, 1974, he became Commander of the United States Second Fleet and NATO Striking Fleet Atlantic. He served in that capacity until August 1975, when he was named to become Commander in Chief of AFSOUTH. Upon assuming that position on September 1, 1975, he was promoted to his present grade.
Turner and his wife, Patricia, have two married children, a daughter, Laurel, and a son, Geoffrey.
  