
    
  Spokane County Committeeman and Pend Oreille County Committeewoman illustrate Paul strength inside Washington's 5th Congressional District

BELLEVUE, Washington — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Washington State Republican Central Committee members John Christina of Spokane County and Karen Skoog of Pend Oreille County.
The Ron Paul Presidential campaign welcomed the additions as illustrative of the grassroots support the 12-term Congressman from Texas enjoys in Eastern Washington's fifth Congressional district.
"I am pleased to announce my endorsement of Congressman Ron Paul for the Republican presidential nomination. In the constellation of presidential candidates, Dr. Paul is the North Star. His views have been consistent and unwavering throughout his political career. He is the champion of our cherished Constitution. He supports the principles that have made the Republican Party the Grand Old Party: peace, prosperity, limited government and freedom," said Spokane County GOP Central Committeeman John Christina.
"In this most difficult time in our nation's history, one candidate stands out from the others. A man of principle who has the prescription for what is ailing our great Republic, Dr. Ron Paul," concluded Mr. Christina.
John Christina is a retired military officer and was a Ron Paul alternate delegate to the 2008 Republican National Convention.
"Ron Paul has inspired many to become involved and step up into leadership because he is stating facts others dare not say. His consistent Constitutional positions and understanding of economics are what we need in the White House. Dr. Paul saw this financial crisis coming and has the answer to get us out. Ron Paul is the best Constitutional candidate for president," said Pend Oreille County GOP Central Committeewoman Karen Skoog.
Spokane County is the fourth most populous in the state, with the city of Spokane being the second most populous in the state, comprising over 600,000 Washingtonians in the metro area.
Pend Oreille County is mostly comprised of the communities of Cusick, Ione, Metaline, Metaline Falls, and Newport.
  