
    Austin, TX - The Obama Campaign announced two new television ads will begin running across Texas today. In Voices, Senator Obama highlights his commitment to pushing back against the special interests in Washington, DC and notes his refusal to accept donations to his presidential campaign from PACs and federal lobbyists. Oportunidad, in Spanish, outlines Senator Obama's commitment to reclaiming the American Dream for working families and making sure a college education is within every student's reach.
Script for Voices. Click HERE to view the ad:
BO VO: I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message.
BO SYNCH: If you are ready for change, then we can go head and tell the lobbyists that their days of setting the agenda are over.
ANCR VO: In the Senate, Barack Obama challenged both parties and passed tough new ethics laws reigning in the power of lobbyists. And he's the only candidate refusing contributions from PACs and Washington lobbyists who have too much power today.
BO SYNCH: They have not funded my campaign, they will not run my White House and they will not drown out the voices of the American people.
Graphic:
Vote Tuesday
Polls Open 7 am - 7 pm
866-675-2008
Texas.BarackObama.com
Approved by Barack Obama. Paid for by Obama for America.
See below for the script for Oportunidad. Click HERE to view the ad:



Spanish
English


El costo de la universidad es una gran preocupación para muchas familias.
The cost of a college education is a real worry for many families.


Pero con el Plan de Obama, un estudiante se ganará los primeros $4,000 en colegiatura cumpliendo con servicio comunitario.
But under the Obama Plan a student can earn the first $4,000 of tuition through community service.


Poniendo una educación unviersitaria al alcance de todos.
Putting a college education within everyone's reach.



      Y el Plan de Obama ofrece becas para reclutar más maestros para asegurar que nuestros niños estén listos.
And the Obama Plan offers scholarships to recruit a more teachers to make sure our children are ready (also smart/prepared).


Con Obama … una nueva oportunidad.
With Obama … a new opportunity.


BO: Soy Barack Obama y apruebo este mensaje.
BO: Soy Barack Obama y apruebo esta mensaje.


Pagado por Obama por America
Paid for by Obama for America.



  