
    ON THE AIR: The campaign began airing ads in Alabama, Arkansas, Idaho and North Dakota, expanding Hillary's presence on the airwaves to 16 states. The campaign also began airing new ads in Arizona, California and New York. In "Can Do," Hillary vows to carry Americans' voices with her to the White House and bring people together to solve America's problems. The ad will air in Alabama, Idaho and North Dakota. Watch. In "Arkansas," Hillary speaks of her success expanding health care and improving education in the state. The ad will air in Arkansas. Watch. In "Dignity" Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. and Cesar L. Chavez, grandson of the late Cesar E. Chavez, make clear that as President, Hillary will give a voice to the voiceless in our society. The ad will air in Arizona and California. Watch. ... In "Bobby," Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. suggests the same. The ad will air in New York. Watch..
ALABAMA: A new InsiderAdvantage poll has Hillary up 6 points over Sen. Obama (46-40)... The Anniston Star endorsed Hillary. "[Hillary] delivers competence, substance and savvy... Since joining the Senate, she displayed a knack for getting things done across party lines, just the opposite of what her critics expected." Read more.
ARIZONA: Democratic National Committee Delegate and former State Superintendent of Public Instruction Carolyn Warner endorsed Hillary.
ARKANSAS: President Bill Clinton held "Solutions for America" events in Pine Bluff and Texarkana. Read more. Read more.
CALIFORNIA: In San Jose, "The crowd responded often with near-deafening cheers" as Hillary spoke. Read more... In San Diego, Hillary talked about universal health care before a "boisterous afternoon rally of nearly 7,500 students and supporters... Students began lining up to get into the rally at about 6 a.m., and the line soon snaked across the campus." Read more... In San Francisco, Hillary's low-dollar fundraiser turned into a "standing-room only" event. Read more... Los Angeles County Supervisor Gloria Molina endorsed Hillary and became a National Campaign Co-Chair. Read more... Actresses America Ferrera and Amber Tamblyn led the "Our Voice, Our Future" tour and encouraged young voters to support Hillary and make their voices heard during events at California State University, Dominguez Hills in Los Angeles, California State University, Bakersfield and Fresno State University... Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom held a conference call to invite the people of California to on Monday attend events in Los Angeles and San Francisco and participate in Hillary's national town hall, "Voices Across America."
COLORADO: The Denver Post endorsed Hillary. "Democrats have... [a] responsibility: to pick the most qualified candidate to lead America at a time when it faces great challenges at home and abroad." Read more... In Denver, Councilwoman Judy Montero canvassed for Hillary as part of the Hispanic Leadership Council's week-long organizing tour, "Juntos con Hillary, Una Vida Mejor."... U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette held a conference call to address Sen. Obama's new mailer, which falsely attacks Hillary's health care plan... The campaign invited the people of Colorado to attend an event in Boulder on Monday and participate in Hillary's national town hall.
CONNECTICUT: A new ARG poll has Hillary up 13 points over Sen. Obama (48-35). Read more... Rapid Responders State Rep. Jason Bartlett and former State Democratic Party Chair George Jepsen held a conference call to address Sen. Obama's negative, inaccurate attack on Hillary's health care plan in a mailer to state residents.
DELAWARE: State Sen. Robert Marshall endorsed Hillary. Sen. Marshall also responded to Sen. Obama's negative, inaccurate attack on Hillary's health care plan in a mailer to state residents.
GEORGIA: In "the Republican bastion that once sent former House Speaker Newt Gingrich to office... thousands of students and others" turned out to hear President Bill Clinton. Read more... In Athens, Maryland Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown met with students.
IDAHO: In Boise, U.S. Sen. Maria Cantwell rallied supporters and spoke to voters on Hillary's behalf.
ILLINOIS: Latino elected officials and community leaders held a press conference and endorsed Hillary.
MISSOURI: In St. Joseph and Hannibal, union supporters held roundtables on the economy... A new SurveyUSA poll has Hillary up 4 points over Sen. Obama (48-44). Read more.
NEW MEXICO: Bernalillo County elected officials and community leaders endorsed Hillary. Endorsers included Bernalillo County Commissioner Alan Armijo, Commissioner Deanna Archuleta, Albuquerque City Councilor Debbie O'Malley, and President of the Albuquerque Public Schools Board of Education Paula Maes... Labor leader Dolores Huerta and campaign Senior Advisor Ann Lewis attended events on Hillary's behalf... Hillary supporters invited the people of New Mexico to on Monday attend an event in Albuquerque and participate in the national town hall.
NEW YORK: A new SurveyUSA poll has Hillary up by 16 points over Sen. Obama (54-38). Read more ... In New York City, 1,000 Hillary supporters phone banked, canvassed, and conducted visibility... Prominent New York physicians endorsed Hillary and responded to Sen. Obama's negative, inaccurate attack on Hillary's health care plan.
NORTH DAKOTA: Hillary supporters Nancy Vogeltanz-Holm and Sheila Christensen held a conference call to unveil the campaign's first statewide TV ad and address Sen. Obama's negative, inaccurate attack on Hillary's health care plan in a mailer to state Democrats.
OKLAHOMA: Former Gov. George Nigh endorsed Hillary... Former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack visited Oklahoma State University in Stillwater and discussed Hillary's plan to boost research and development of clean and alternative energy.
TENNESSEE: Former John Edwards supporters including Democratic State Party Vice Chair Elisa Parker announced their endorsement of Hillary... State Sen. Tommy Kilby held a press conference to discuss Hillary's plan for tackling bankruptcy and foreclosures.
TEXAS: U.S. Reps. Gene Green and Solomon Ortiz endorsed Hillary. Both U.S. Reps. Green and Ortiz earlier supported Gov. Bill Richardson's campaign for President. Read more.
UTAH: State Sen. Ross Romero endorsed Hillary. State Sen. Romero earlier supported Gov. Bill Richardson's campaign for President.
VIRGINIA: The campaign named a seasoned team of campaign veterans to lead its efforts in the state.
  