
    "Everywhere we look, we are seeing the effects of the American economic miracle." --President Donald J. Trump
CONTINUING THE ECONOMIC BOOM: President Trump has delivered on his promise to reignite the American economy and usher in a new economic boom. 

More than 5.3 million jobs have been created since President Trump's election.

The economy added 304,000 jobs last month, smashing expectations.


Economic growth has taken off, averaging 3 percent over the last four quarters.
Job openings have exceeded the number of unemployed for the first time on record.
Unemployment remained below 4 percent for eight months in 2018.

Prior to 2018, unemployment had fallen below 4 percent only five times since 1970.
The African American, Asian American, and Hispanic American unemployment rates all fell to record lows in 2018.


Unemployment insurance claims have fallen to a nearly 50-year low under President Trump.
President Trump has brought back American manufacturing, adding hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs since the election.

An average of 18,500 manufacturing jobs have been created every month since President Trump's election, compared to 8,100 per month in the four years prior.



OPEN FOR BUSINESS: America is open for business once again thanks to the President's pro-growth agenda, bringing back investment and jobs that had been driven overseas. 

Business is thriving in America thanks to President Trump's historic tax cuts and deregulation.
President Trump has cut a record number of job-killing regulations, freeing businesses from Washington's overreach.

The Trump Administration eliminated 12 regulations for every new one in 2018, once again surpassing the President's pledge to cut two regulations for every new one.
The President's deregulation has achieved $33 billion in net regulatory savings so far.


President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law, lowering the corporate tax rate to spur investment and growth here at home.

Prior to the President's tax cuts, the United States had the highest corporate tax rate in the world, driving business and jobs overseas.



DELIVERING REAL RESULTS FOR WORKERS AND FAMILIES: Americans are seeing real results and more money in their pockets as a result of our economic resurgence. 

Workers are seeing their largest nominal year over year wage growth in nearly a decade.

Year over year wage gains increased by 3.3 percent in December, the fastest pace since April 2009.


The African American and Hispanic American poverty rates hit all-time lows in 2017.
More than 6 million workers received bonuses, pay raises, and increased benefits in response to President Trump's tax cuts.

The average family of 4 earning $75,000 will keep $2,000 more of its own money.


The President will work to build on these gains and better the lives of all Americans.
The President has unleashed our energy resources, driving down prices for consumers.

  