
    Pool Reports by Catherine Lucey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




February 3, 202110:05

In Town Pool Report #1- Checking In 
Good morning from the White House. Your pooler has been COVID tested.
President Biden was scheduled to join the House Democratic Caucus meeting by phone at 9:45 AM and will meet with Democratic Senators at the White House at 11:30 AM. There is a COVID briefing at 11 AM and Press Secretary Jen Psaki is scheduled to brief at 1:30 PM.



February 3, 202110:37

In Town Pool Report #2 - Coons and Carper 
Senators Chris Coons and Tom Carper of Delaware just spoke to reporters outside at the White House. They said they had just finished an hour long meeting with President Biden.
Some quotes below and I've attached a recording:
Carper said they spoke about the importance of getting the president's nominees confirmed, as well as Covid response and how to revive the economy. He said "the main thing is getting people vaccinated. The main thing is to put the coronavirus in our rearview mirror." He also said "to the extent we can work with our Republican colleagues, let's do that."
Coons said they spoke about the president's conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin and challenges in the US-Russia relationship, as well as the US-China relationship. On Covid, he described Biden as "relentlessly focused on delivering the relief that Americans need" and said it would come in "weeks not months."
On prospect for compromise, Coons said "we did have a conversation about the direct payments and how those might be modified in a way to ensure they're targeted." But he said Biden is "not going to forget the middle class."



February 3, 202110:41

In Town Pool Report #3 - Meeting Participants 
A White House official offers the following on President Biden's meeting with Democratic senators today:
President Biden is meeting this morning with Leader Schumer and Senate Democratic Chairs of the Committees most involved in the drafting of the American Rescue Plan. Below is the list of attendees joining President Biden in the Oval Office – Senator Murray (HELP) and Senator Cardin (Small Business) are overseeing confirmations hearings and are not able to attend.
Majority Leader SchumerSenator Brown (Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs)Senator Cantwell (Commerce, Science, and Transportation)Senator Leahy (Appropriations)Senator Menendez (Foreign Relations)Senator Peters (Homeland Security & Government Affairs)Senator Sanders (Budget)Senator Schatz (Indian Affairs)Senator Stabenow (Agriculture, Nutrition & Forestry)Senator Tester (Veterans' Affairs)Senator Wyden (Finance)



February 3, 202111:02

In Town Pool Report #4 - Video of Coons and Carper 
Flagging this C-SPAN video of Senators Chris Coons and Tom Carper earlier:
https://www.c-span.org/video/?508623-1/delaware-senators-carper-coons-me...



February 3, 202111:28

In town Pool Report #5 - Pool Gathering 
Pool gathered at 11:25 AM. The President was scheduled to meet with Democratic senators at 11:30 AM.



February 3, 202111:53

In Town Pool Report #6 - Oval Office 
Pool entered the oval at 11:43 AM.
President Biden was seated in front of a fire, next to the Vice President. Sen. Schumer was nearby and the other senators were seated.
The President said "welcome everybody" and said it was "great" to be with old friends and called it their "new home" for a while.
His comments were hard to make out. He did not offer any more statements.
He did not respond to shouted questions about whether he would compromise on check eligibility. We were escorted out at 11:45.



February 3, 202112:14

In Town Pool Report #7 - Additional Oval Quotes and Lunch Lid 
A more full quote on Democrats and one more comment on Republicans from the President after reviewing the TV feed.
On Democrats: "With the grace of God and the goodwill of the neighbors and the crick not rising, it's going to be longer than just four years."
On Republican support: "I think we'll get some Republicans."
We have a lunch lid until 1 PM



February 3, 202113:14

In Town Pool Report #8 
Sen. Chuck Schumer came outside at about 1 PM with some of the Democratic senators and spoke briefly to reporters. He said it was an hour and a half long meeting with the president.
"We had a long, serious, substantive meeting where we discussed many of the details of the bill that we have to put together over the next few weeks.""There's agreement, universal agreement we must go big and bold.""We hope our Republican colleagues will join us in that, in that big bold program that America needs.""We want to do it bipartisan, but we must be strong. We cannot dawdle, we cannot delay, we cannot dilute, because the troubles that this nation has and the opportunities that we can bring them are so large.""So we're gonna all work together with this president, we are united as one big whole package, working with our Republican friends, when we can."
He did not take questions.



February 3, 202113:42

In Town Pool Report #9 - Two Minutes Warning 
We got a two minute warning for the briefing at 1:42 PM.



February 3, 2021

In Town Pool Report #10 - Briefing Started 
[APP Note: No additional text was included.]



February 3, 202114:29

In Town Pool report #11 - Briefing Ends 
The press briefing ended at 2:27 PM.



February 3, 202115:27

In Town Pool Report #12 - Lid 
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 3:25 PM.




  