
    Hillary details real solutions during a conversation about making a difference in people's lives
An estimated quarter million Americans logged on to www.hillaryclinton.com Monday evening to watch the unprecedented national town hall, Voices Across America, hosted by the Clinton campaign. Many more watched the live broadcast on Hallmark channel and attended events around the country. Hillary anchored the town hall at a studio in New York and answered questions from voters in the audience and at satellite events in 21 cities across America.
Moderated by veteran journalist Carole Simpson, Hillary detailed real solutions to the nation's challenges and demonstrated she is ready to deliver change on day one. Enthusiastic crowds applauded when Hillary outlined her comprehensive plans to fix our economy, provide universal health care, and end the war in Iraq.
President Bill Clinton attended a satellite event in San Francisco, California, while Chelsea Clinton hosted an event in Hartford, Connecticut and award-winning actress America Ferrera hosted a town hall in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Among the voters asking Hillary a question was 11-year old Liya Wizevich of West Hartford, Connecticut. Liya and her mom Karen's question was selected from tens of thousands of questions submitted online to be asked in-person at the forum. During the town hall, Karen mentioned that she and Liya had met Hillary several times since 2000 and Liya asked how Hillary would improve the future for the next generation.
Clinton responded by saying "...we need to be thinking about the next generation and that is how I think about what I'm doing, because I see an America that once again offers an unlimited potential to you - that gives you the opportunities that many of us took for granted when we were growing up which seem to be receding. The American Dream looks like it's moving away instead of forward toward our young people."
In Birmingham, Alabama, John Atkins asked Hillary about our troubled economy and how to keep jobs in the Untied States. Hillary responded by talking about the importance of reforming the tax code to discourage companies from moving jobs overseas. To fix our economy, Hillary would also end the housing crisis and rebuild our middle class.
Additional questions dealt with LGBT rights, fixing the national infrastructure, and education.
  