
    Pool Reports by Steven Nelson, New York Post 



Sent:
Reports:




February 8, 202213:36

Pool Report 1/Gathered for event 
Good afternoon from the White House. The press pool and pre-credentialed media are gathered for President Biden's remarks on manufacturing, which are scheduled to begin at 1:45.
You can stream the event live on the WH website: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



February 8, 202214:15

Pool Report 2/Remarks begin
President Biden walked on stage at 2:13 in the EEOB. As a reminder, there's video of the event streaming on the White House website.
The press briefing with Jen Psaki, originally scheduled to begin at 2, is expected to be delayed, but we don't yet have a new start time.



February 8, 202214:17

Pool Report 3/Event attendees
The White House shares the following:
In attendance for the President’s remarks on his Administration’s work to rebuild our manufacturing to make more in America, create good-paying union jobs, and lower energy costs for Americans:Secretary of Transportation Pete ButtigiegSecretary of Energy Jennifer GranholmRepresentative Jim Cooper (TN-05)Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic CouncilGina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate AdvisorMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation CoordinatorCeleste Drake, Made in America DirectorJane Hunter, CEO, Tritium
Speaking Program:Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate AdvisorJane Hunter, CEO, TritiumThe President



February 8, 202214:34

Pool Report 4/Remarks Conclude
President Biden finished speaking at 2:31. He immediately turned and walked away without taking any reporter questions.



February 8, 202214:40

Pool Report 5/Briefing time 
Jen Psaki's briefing is now expected to begin at 2:45.



February 8, 202214:43

Pool Report 6/Briefing starts 
The daily briefing started at 2:40, earlier than anticipated.
Jen Psaki stood at the podium and waited for about a minute for tech crews to set up to record the event.



February 8, 202216:34

Pool Report 7/Lid 
We have a travel/photo lid.



February 8, 202220:12

Pool Report 8/Info for tomorrow
The White House shares the following:
On background from The White House:
Tomorrow, the President will participate in a roundtable with CEOs of electric utilities to discuss his Build Back Better agenda, which will make the largest investment in combatting climate change in U.S. history to lower energy costs for working families, create good-paying, union jobs, and build a reliable, clean energy future. The executives and organizations attending tomorrow operate key parts of America’s power grid and they know that the best way to ensure future economic growth is to make long-term investments that will combat the climate crisis, increase the competitiveness of our industries and protect our electrical grid from extreme weather events -- all while lowering costs for American families across the country.
Joining President Biden in the discussion from the Administration:

Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm
National Economic Advisor Brian Deese
National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy
Deputy National Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi

Private Sector Participants:

Nick Akins, Chairman, President and CEO, American Electric Power
Gerard Anderson, Executive Chairman, DTE Energy
Dennis Arriola, CEO, Avangrid
Warner Baxter, Executive Chairman, Ameren
Calvin Butler, SEVP and COO, Exelon
Patricia Vincent-Collawn, Chairman, President and CEO, PNM Resources
Thomas Fanning, Chairman and CEO, Southern Company
Lynn Good, Chairman, President, and CEO, Duke Energy
Thomas Kuhn, President, Edison Electric Institute
Pedro Pizarro, President and CEO, Edison International





  