
    Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Morocco is among America's oldest friends, one of the very first to recognize us as a free nation.
His Majesty and I are continuing a very old tradition.
The messages of our first President and His Majesty's illustrious ancestor, handwritten messages, carried between our two countries by a sailing ship, are very treasured in our National Archives.
Thus, we are ancient friends.
We are also modern partners--ready to stand together before the challenges that face us in modern times.
There is the widening gap between population and food supply.
The United States has proposed that all nations unite in a worldwide war on hunger.
From our talks today, I am more confident than ever that our friends in Morocco are committed to that struggle.
As I said this morning in receiving His Majesty, our ultimate task is to create among the nations of the world a community of peace.
I often read and reread Article I of the United Nations Charter. I believe all of us-and especially those of you who are too young to know how the world felt in 1945--should come to know it line by line.
Its principles govern the actions of American foreign policy from day to day:
--collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace;
--collective measures for the suppression of acts of aggression;
--adjustment or settlement of international disputes by peaceful means;
--the development of friendly relations among nations based upon respect for the principle of equal rights and the self-determination of peoples;
--international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character; and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion.
These words were written 22 years ago. In those years Americans have taken more than 200,000 casualties in collective measures to suppress acts of aggression.
All of us, working together, at different times and in different places, have made sure that aggression did not succeed.
The chances for world security are larger, and the hope for world peace is nearer, because tonight aggression has not succeeded.
Meanwhile, in lands and nations throughout the world much has been done to lift the standards of living.
In Western Europe, Latin America, Africa, and Asia, cooperation in economic and social progress is no longer just a matter of words. It is a fact.
So I tell you tonight that despite the terrible burden of war in Southeast Asia, I am confident that we will pass along to the next generation the gifts of hope and opportunity that illuminate Article I of the United Nations Charter.
I think I speak for all my countrymen, Your Majesty, in expressing this hope and making this prediction, and also in expressing to you our best wishes for your long life and for your good health.
It is our fervent prayer that our two countries will continue to do what is right, and continue to do what is needed to guide us to the peace and the 'progress which our talks reaffirmed today.
Ladies and gentlemen, His Majesty the King.
  