
    WASHINGTON -- Progressive advocate, acclaimed actor and former New York gubernatorial candidate Cynthia Nixon today endorsed Sen. Bernie Sanders for President. Nixon announced her endorsement with a new video, in which she speaks about Sen. Sanders' consistent focus on the issues that impact working families, and his unparalleled ability to galvanize voters in order to defeat Donald Trump in November.
Nixon will hit the campaign trail for Bernie 2020 this weekend, traveling to Las Vegas, Nevada where she will host a debate watch party, speak at First Friday Las Vegas alongside national surrogate Phillip Agnew, kick off canvass launches, and meet with local LGBTQ community leaders. After a packed weekend meeting with hundreds of Nevadans, Nixon will head to the Granite State to rally the vote ahead of New Hampshire's first in the nation primary.
"What you need in a politician is someone with a vision, someone who can galvanize people, and someone who can't be bought. And there is no one who has those three qualities in greater abundance than Bernie Sanders," said Cynthia Nixon. "I know that Bernie is not only the candidate with the best chance to defeat Donald Trump, but also the best chance to start addressing all the things that are wrong with our country. I want Bernie because I know he's for me, but I want Bernie even more because I know he's for all of us."
"As a progressive activist, candidate and life-long New Yorker, Cynthia has stood on the right side of so many issues," said Sen. Bernie Sanders. "From resisting the influence of corporate money in our politics to advocating for equitable education, she has fought for working families. I am proud to have her in our movement to transform this country."
In her 2018 campaign for governor of New York, Nixon refused to accept corporate contributions. Nixon's policy agenda centered on combatting rampant income inequality, full funding for schools not jails, a Green New Deal for New York, rent control, transportation access, health care for all, reproductive rights, criminal justice reform, immigrant and disability rights, empowering voters and ending homelessness.
Cynthia Nixon is a two-time Emmy, two-time Tony, SAG and Grammy Award-winning actress, who has been nominated for four Golden Globes. A lifelong New Yorker, Nixon has been a longtime activist for better funding for public schools, abortion rights and LGBTQ equality. In 2018 Nixon ran for Governor of New York State. Her campaign successfully placed issues of racial, economic and gender inequality front and center. Nixon has been a proud union member since she began working as an actor at the age of 12 to earn money to pay for her college education. She continued to act in a variety of film, stage, and TV roles to put herself through Barnard College at Columbia University. Perhaps best known for her role as Miranda Hobbes on HBO's hit series "Sex and the City," Nixon received her Grammy for her role in the audio version of "An Inconvenient Truth," the seminal book warning about the dangers of climate change. Nixon made her directorial debut at The New Group with Joel Johnson's "Rasheeda Speaking," which received Lucille Lortel, Drama Desk and Outer Critics Circle nominations. Nixon has appeared in over forty stage productions, a dozen on Broadway, and will be seen next in Ryan Murphy's RATCHED on Netflix and in Julian Fellowes' GILDED AGE on HBO. She and her wife Christine have three sons: Sam, Charlie and Max.
  