
    AT THE END OF THREE DAYS of friendly and fruitful reunion, the President and the Prime Minister issued the following statement:
Conscious of the unity of purpose of our two countries, we have restated in a separate Joint Declaration our view of the challenge which confronts the free world and the principles which it seems to us are required to meet it. In our conversations, we have also reviewed other matters of mutual concern to the two governments in various areas of the world.
I. EUROPE
We reaffirm that the North Atlantic Treaty is essential to our common security. We regard this association as far more than a military alliance. We welcome the increasing range of consultation in the Council on political and other problems.
In the economic field we recognize the contribution which the OEEC makes to the stability of Europe. Within the framework of the Atlantic Community, and with regard for its broader interests, we support further progress on the continent toward unity, both political and economic.
With respect to Germany, we agree that so long as it remains divided, there can be no genuine and stable peace. We shall continue our efforts to bring about the reunification of Germany in freedom. We regard the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany as the only German Government freely and legitimately constituted, and therefore alone entitled to speak as the representative of the German people in international affairs.
We reaffirm our abiding interest in the security and welfare of Berlin. We shall continue, as we have stated in the past, to regard any attack against Berlin from any quarter as an attack upon our forces and ourselves.
II. MIDDLE EAST
We discussed the tensions which prejudice the stability of the area and carry a potential threat to world peace. It was agreed that every effort should be made to decrease sources of misunderstanding between this area and the Western world. We are eager to contribute wherever possible to the settlement of difficulties between states in the region. We wish to help peoples of this part of the world achieve their legitimate aspirations.
A settlement between Israel and her Arab neighbors is the most urgent need. This will be possible only if both sides are willing to reconcile the positions which they have hitherto taken. Our two Governments have declared their readiness to contribute to such a settlement by assisting financially in regard to the refugee problem and by guaranteeing agreed frontiers.
In the meantime we are concerned at the state of tension in the area and have considered what steps can be taken to reduce it. The Tripartite Declaration of May 25th, 1950, provides for action both inside and outside the United Nations in the event of the use of force or threat of force or of preparations to violate the frontier or armistice lines. We are bound to recognize that there is now increased danger of these contingencies arising. Accordingly, we have made arrangements for joint discussions as to the nature of the action which we should take in such an event. The French Government is being invited to participate in these discussions.
We believe that the security of states in this area cannot rest upon arms alone but rather upon the international rule of law and upon the establishment of friendly relations among neighbors. The action of the Soviet bloc in regard to arms supplies to Middle East countries has added to the tensions in the area and increased the risk of war. Our purpose is to mitigate that risk.
We express our full support for the efforts of General Burns, head of the United Nations Truce Supervisory Organization, to maintain peace on the borders. We would favorably consider recommendations for any necessary enlargement of his organization and improvement of its capabilities.
We discussed the work of the Baghdad Pact and agreed upon its importance for the security of the Middle East. We noted that this association, in addition to its defense aspects, has an important part to play in the economic and political development of member countries. We believe that it serves the interests of the area as a whole and provides no reason for impairing the good relations we wish to maintain with non-member countries.
The United States Government will continue to give solid support to the purposes and aims of the Pact and its observers will play a constructive part in the work of its committees.
We reviewed the situation in Arabia and the Persian Gulf, with particular reference to current disputes and differences in that area. We believe that these differences can be resolved through friendly discussions.
III. SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA
We reaffirm our view that the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization is a stabilizing influence. We will continue to give it our full support and to work with those countries who are associated with us as our allies in this organization. We welcome the cooperation of our allies and ourselves with other free nations in this important area, through such organizations as the Colombo Plan, in developing the resources and well-being of all participating countries.
IV. FAR EAST
We discussed the situation in the Far East. We are firmly united in our purpose: to deter and prevent aggressive expansion by force or subversion, and to assist the free nations of the area in their self-defense and in maintaining domestic stability and welfare. We are agreed that our policies must be directed to achieve these ends. After frank discussion, some differences remain in our judgments as to the most effective means to achieve these purposes.
We are agreed that trade controls should continue and should be reviewed now and periodically as to their scope, in the light of changing conditions, so that they may best serve the interests of the free world.
V. ATOMIC ENERGY MATTERS
We noted with great satisfaction that atomic energy information now being exchanged as a result of the agreements concluded between our Governments last June represents a gain to the common security. We discussed the development of our close cooperation in this field. We confirmed our resolve to push forward with the setting up, with suitable safeguards, of the International Agency for the promotion of the peaceful uses of atomic energy.
  