
    
February 5, 2016
There are a lot of reasons why Marco surged into a strong Iowa finish on Monday night, but one that shouldn't go unnoticed: his strong support from young voters.Across Iowa, college students and other Millennial voters showed up in big numbers to support Marco.
"My Iowa Caucus Was Packed Full Of College Students And Marco Rubio Won Decisively." @RaymondStarks https://t.co/q6iUEdcaB7
— Independent Journal (@IndJournal) February 3, 2016
Nearly 150 participants crammed in a small room on Drake University's campus to become the first voters of the 2016 presidential election. As we neared start time, the line of voters waiting to register stretched around the hall. After all voters had finally checked in and the beginning motions were attended to, voters eagerly listened to speeches supporting the candidates and ballots were passed out and collected.
After verifying the results with observers and the caucus secretary, we announced that Senator Marco Rubio won a decisive victory in the precinct location—supporters cheered. Using the Microsoft app built in coordination with the Republican Party of Iowa, our precinct caucus finished before 9 PM.
Red Alert Politics, a website focused on news for conservative Millennials, talked about Marco's strong showing:
Iowa State University student Robert Dunn served as the chair of his precinct, organizing one person to speak for each of the GOP candidates and tallying up votes. Dunn said an "overwhelming" 250 people showed up to the precinct, many of them college students. When the final votes were tallied, Marco Rubio came out on top, with Ted Cruz in second, and Donald Trump trailing at a rather distant third place.
Even before the caucuses started, students helped make it happen:
Watch out, University of Arkansas Students for Rubio have officially landed in Des Moines to help out with the Iowa Caucus #arpx @amppob ♥
— madison erstine (@madisonerstine) January 30, 2016
Millennial voters are excited to support Marco, and Team Marco expects a strong showing from them in New Hampshire and beyond!
  