
    
  Nation's Pre-Eminent Pro-Life Advocacy Group Endorses For The First Time Ever In A GOP Presidential Primary

Verona, PA – The Rick Santorum for President campaign is proud to announce that it has received the endorsement of the Susan B. Anthony List.
Marjorie Dannenfelser, President of SBA List, said: "Among the field of strong pro-life candidates in the GOP primary, one stands out as a proven leader in this great human and civil rights cause of our time.  Rick Santorum communicates the vision and has exhibited the strategic and tactical prowess the pro-life movement must have in order to succeed.  Women and children deserve his leadership, grounded as it is in affirming the dignity of every person.  At this inflection point in the primary process and a tipping point in history on the abortion issue, the Susan B. Anthony List endorses Rick Santorum for the Republican nomination for President."
Jane Abraham, Chairman of the SBA List Board of Directors, said: "Each one of the candidates in the Republican presidential field have made a commitment to be a pro-life president.  However, none of them have the record of consistent leadership that Rick Santorum has demonstrated.  At this critical moment in the race, our Board of Directors unanimously decided that we must stand with Rick Santorum, the candidate who throughout his career has stood so strongly for Life."
Rick Santorum said: "I am honored to receive the SBA List's endorsement.  Marjorie, Jane, and the entire SBA List team has emerged as true leaders in preserving and protecting the Culture of Life in America.  Their tireless efforts to defend the defenseless are heroic.  I look forward to working with the SBA List team as we work to reinvigorate the respect for all life – born, unborn, and those of special needs – in America."
The Susan B. Anthony List is a nationwide network of more than 365,000 Americans dedicated to mobilizing, advancing, and representing pro-life women in politics.  Its connected Candidate Fund increases the percentage of pro-life women in the political process.
  