
    For Immediate Release:
Monday, February 8, 2016
MORRISTOWN, NJ - On the day before New Hampshire's First In The Nation Presidential Primary, Governor Chris Christie received the public endorsement of two of the state's most dedicated Veterans advocates, Gold Star Mother Natalie Healy and VFW State Commander Lew Chipola.
"Governor Christie is the sensible, intelligent problem solver we need in the White House," said Healy. "He answers questions with specific, direct solutions based on his experience leading his state as governor. Governor Christie's town hall meeting educated, inspired, and energized me and confirmed my belief after Saturday night's debate that he is the only candidate with the character and qualities we need in our next commander-in-chief. Our country needs a president who is straightforward with the American people, not another politician who presents lofty, ambiguous ideals. Governor Christie has the experience of a strong, tough leader combined with the wit and humor Americans need to give us hope that brighter days are ahead. Governor Christie will be the experienced captain of our sacred ship, and only he can guide it with confidence through the dangerous shoals ahead."
"As a governor with executive experience managing a complex state, Governor Christie is prepared to make tough decisions and deliver results as our next president," said Chipola. "Governor Christie's strong leadership style and direct approach will help America regain the confidence of our allies and will send a clear message to our enemies. As a former US Attorney who prosecuted corrupt politicians and terrorists, I know Chris Christie is tough enough to take on the serious challenges that Congress is afraid to face. He passed historic reforms in New Jersey that many thought were impossible, and he has the experience to reform the VA to ensure that our veterans receive the proper treatment they have earned through their service."
US Army Lt. Colonel Lew Chipola (ret.) of Nashua serves as the New Hampshire State Commander of the VFW.
Natalie Healy of Exeter lost her son, Navy SEAL Senior Chief Petty Officer Daniel Healy on June 28, 2005 when his helicopter was shot down in Kunar Province, Afghanistan. The story of the attack was the basis for the book and motion picture Lone Survivor by Marcus Luttrell.
Chipola and Healy will join the Veterans for Christie coalition led by national co-chairs Paul Chevalier and Walt Havenstein and New Hampshire co-chairs Mark McCabe and Richard Brothers.
View the full New Hampshire endorsement list here.
  