
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 27
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the Alfalfa Club dinner at the Capital Hilton.
The President declared major disasters in the Commonwealth of Virginia in the area struck by flooding beginning January 19 and continuing, and in the State of Ohio in the area struck by flooding beginning January 20 and continuing, and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts.
January 29
In an afternoon meeting in the Oval Office, the President received the annual report of the Interagency Committee on Women's Business Enterprise.
In the evening, the President attended a fundraising event for Senator Carol Moseley-Braun.
The President announced the appointment of Henry W. Foster, Jr., as Senior Adviser to the President on Teen Pregnancy and Youth Issues.
January 30
In the morning, the President had an interview in the Oval Office with the Washington Post, followed by a teleconference interview with several New Hampshire newspapers.
In the afternoon, the President had telephone conversations with Prime Minister Konstandinos Simitis of Greece and Prime Minister Tansu Ciller and President Suleyman Demirel of Turkey to discuss the territorial dispute over an island in the Aegean Sea.
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Representative Ron Wyden of Oregon to congratulate him on his election to the Senate.
The President announced his intention to appoint Todd A. Weiler and Richard G. Womack to the Board of Directors of the Federal Prison Industries Corporation.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Ralph G. Hoard as a member of the International Pacific Halibut Commission.
The White House announced that the President invited NATO Secretary General Javier Solana to Washington for a working visit on February 20.
January 31
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a dinner in the Blue Room for military commanders in chief and civilian defense officials.
The President announced his intention to nominate Toni G. Fay, Audrey Tayse Haynes, and Marciene S. Mattleman to the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Nancy G. Guerra to the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
The President announced his intention to appoint Lynn Conway to the U.S. Air Force Academy Board of Visitors.
The President announced his intention to appoint Huel D. Perkins to the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
February 1
In the afternoon, the President briefly attended a meeting between National Security Adviser Anthony Lake and Sinn Fein President Gerry Adams.
The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher M. Coburn to the Board of Directors of the U.S. Enrichment Corporation.
February 2
In the morning, the President traveled to Manchester, NH. At noon, he visited Walker Elementary School in Concord. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Nashua, where he toured the Lockheed Sanders plant and participated in a roundtable discussion on school to work programs. In the evening, the President traveled to Salem, where he addressed the community at Salem High School, and then traveled to Bedford, NH.
The President announced the appointment of Amy M. Rosen as a member of the Amtrak Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to nominate Franklin Kramer to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Terry Evans to the National Council on the Arts.
  