
    The President. Thank you very much. Please be seated.
I told Coach Bowden that we're about the same size, and I asked why I wasn't invited to play. [Laughter]
Bobby Bowden. You've got to talk to that man right there.
The President. I think it's what you can't see under the suit. [Laughter] Either one of them.
It is a great honor for me as an ardent football fan to welcome the Florida State University football team and the entire FSU football family here today. I want to extend a special thanks to those who made this possible, including the Florida State University president and my longtime friend, Sandy D'Alemberte; interim president Dr. Bernard Sliger—where are you? Bernie, how are you?—who once got me in trouble several years ago by taking me to a music club and making me play with some of his friends; athletic director Bob Goin; and Senator Graham; Senator Mack; Congressman Bacchus; Congressman Hutto; Congressman Peterson; my longtime friend Bud Stack; and many others.
Let me first of all congratulate Florida State on a dream season: a 12-and-1 record, undefeated in its conference; a comeback victory in the Orange Bowl against a remarkable effort by Nebraska; and best of all, its first ever and much deserved national football championship.
I know Coach Bowden has been chasing that championship dream for a long time, and I know that he tells a story on the subject that, for the benefit of the national audience, I hope he won't mind my repeating.
It seems that sometime in the distant future, his sons, Terry and Tommy, arrive together at the Pearly Gates, and they're startled to find that their name is not on the register. So Saint Peter tells Terry and Tommy they'll have to take the elevator down to the other place. When the elevator opens at the bottom, instead of fire and flame, they're shocked to find bitter cold, icicles hanging from the ceiling, the whole place frozen over, at which point Tommy turns to Terry and says, "I guess Dad finally won a national championship." [Laughter]
There have been so many years when so many people thought that the Florida State Seminoles at the end of a given season were the best team in America. It was really rewarding for those of us who follow football year-in and year-out to see this day come. But what this season really teaches is a lesson that Coach Bowden and I both understand, the power of perseverance. You and your team didn't quit when the sportswriters said you couldn't win the big one. You didn't quit after you lost a tough game to a great Notre Dame team. You didn't quit when you were trailing Nebraska with a minute and 16 seconds left on the clock in the Orange Bowl. And in the end, when everything was on the line, you believed in yourselves, you stayed together as a team, and you got the job done.
One of your teammates who isn't here with us today but I'd like to recognize, Charlie Ward, of course, won the Heisman trophy. But right now he's balancing a different kind of ball as a point guard on your basketball team. I might say that I think my basketball team from Arkansas did a pretty good job last night. I hope some of you saw it. I wish he could have been here with all of you today because he certainly earned the right to also be at the White House.
Finally, let me honor the five starters who made this year's all-academic football team in your conference: Derrick Brooks, Ken Alexander, Clifton Abraham, Richard Coes, and again, Charlie Ward. I want to say that because to be a great athlete is very important, but to be a great student athlete is especially admirable. And these five young men should all be very proud.
You have won a national championship for the first time in the history of your school. I am proud of you all. I am proud to welcome you to the White House. I know that your friends, your fans, and your families back home are proud of you, too. I am awfully glad so many of you came up here to be with these young men on this day that they richly deserve. Thank you for the example you have set, and good luck next season. Congratulations.
  