
    The following releases of the Office of the White House Press Secretary, distributed during the period covered by this issue, are not included in the issue.
CHECKLIST—Continued
Released February 18, 1978
News conference: following a meeting with the President and other administration officials to discuss the coal strike—by Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall
Released February 22, 1978 Statement: administration proposal to reauthorize, improve and extend the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act—by Vice President Walter F. Mondale (as read at a news conference in the Briefing Room)
News conference: on the administration's proposal to reauthorize, improve, and extend the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act—by Vice President Walter F. Mondale; F. Ray Marshall, Secretary, Ernest G. Green, Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training, and Arnold H. Packer, Assistant Secretary for Policy, Evaluation, and Research, Department of Labor; Senators Jacob K. Javits and Donald W. Riegle; and Representatives Augustus F. Hawkins and Ronald A. Sarasin
Released February 23, 1978
News conference: on the equal employment opportunity enforcement reorganization plan—by James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director, Harrison Wellford, Executive Associate Director for Reorganization and Management, and Howard Glickstein, Director of the Civil Rights Reorganization Project, Office of Management and Budget Fact sheet: equal employment opportunity enforcement reorganization plan (No. 1 of 1978)
News conference: following their meeting with the President to discuss the coal strike—by Governors Julian Carroll of Kentucky, John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, and Milton J. Shapp of Pennsylvania
Announcement: nomination of James R. Williams to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, Dwayne W. Gilbert to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Georgia, and Richard W. Nehring to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Iowa CHECKLIST—Continued
Released February 24, 1978
Announcement: the President's trip to South America and Africa on March 28-April 3
Announcement: the President's declaration of an energy emergency for the State of Pennsylvania
  