
    Members of Congress
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI): "The president is right to make improving America's infrastructure a national priority, and last week's budget agreement included a $20 billion down payment on this goal. Today's proposal recognizes the urgency of tackling the bureaucratic hurdles that needlessly delay infrastructure projects. Real action to streamline the permitting process will help jumpstart projects that are vital to our communities and our economy. Already in this Congress, the House has passed dozens of infrastructure reforms, and we look forward to working with the administration on this critical issue."
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY): "I appreciate @POTUS' focus on improving America's infrastructure. His proposal to eliminate regulatory barriers and streamline lengthy and over-complicated permitting processes makes sense."
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): "The President's bold plan would improve American safety, make our economy more efficient, and restore and create pieces of civic engineering that our country can be proud of."
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation Chairman Sen. John Thune (R-SD): "Through this guidance and letting Congress have the opportunity to write bipartisan legislation, President Trump has offered us direction to meet infrastructure needs in our nation's states, cities, and rural communities. Aligning federal infrastructure funding with local priorities and looking at other impediments to building would increase accountability and help us meet our most critical infrastructure needs faster."
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation Ranking Member Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL): "Modernizing our transportation and communication networks is something we all agree the U.S. desperately needs in order to create more jobs and maintain our leadership in the global economy."
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA): "The President is a builder who understands the importance of infrastructure to jobs and our economy, and I welcome the release of his Administration's principles today as Congress prepares to develop an infrastructure bill."
House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), Subcommittee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Subcommittee Chairman John Shimkus (R-IL), and Subcommittee Chairman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) "Please permit us to say that President Trump hit the nail on the head when constructing this plan to rebuild America's infrastructure. Here at the Energy and Commerce Committee we have been working hard to build out a legislative agenda that promotes broadband deployment and improves our energy infrastructure and environmental protections."
Sen. Todd Young (R-IN): "By streamlining onerous permitting regulations, empowering states to invest in their own infrastructure priorities, and significantly investing in rural America, this proposal is welcome news for Indiana as we work to ensure our state is equipped for the jobs of today and tomorrow."
Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA): "President Trump was right in his State of the Union Address to call on Congress to find creative solutions to upgrade the nation's infrastructure. Nearly everyone agrees we've got to rebuild our roads, bridges and waterways. For the United States to stay ahead in the 21st century, the nation needs infrastructure that can compete."
Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS): "I am glad the Trump Administration's plan for infrastructure prioritizes the needs of rural America. Recognizing rural and small towns often can't compete with their urban counterparts, the Trump Administration has taken this into account and has unveiled a plan to improve the quality of life for all Americans."
Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO): "The president's focus on expediting new projects, leveraging federal dollars to boost state, local, and private-sector investment, and modernizing rural infrastructure, including broadband expansion, provides a solid foundation for the committee to begin its work on a broad, bipartisan bill."
Sen. Thad Cochran (R-MS): "President Trump's initiative to rebuild and improve infrastructure around the country is ambitious. It will be up to Congress to review the plan carefully and develop legislation to put this plan in motion. I particularly like the plan's attention to assisting rural states and to lessening the costly bureaucratic permitting process for many public works—both of which would be beneficial to Mississippi."
Sen. Deb Fischer (R-NE): "With the plan released today, the administration has put to paper some of the ideas I've long talked about to move important projects forward. These include: empowering states as decisions-makers in the process, reducing regulatory barriers, and streamlining the permitting process. I'm also pleased this plan makes investments in rural America that would strengthen the rural communities, which are the heart and soul of Nebraska."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "The president's infrastructure proposal is a good starting point for discussion and I'm hopeful both parties will work together on this issue. By rebuilding our aging infrastructure and improving job training programs targeted toward in-demand infrastructure-related jobs, we have a great opportunity to further strengthen our economy. I am also glad to see the administration is making infrastructure permitting reform a priority."
Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK): "Today, President Trump announced a bold infrastructure proposal that will provide additional resources and reform existing programs and processes to transform how we address infrastructure investment. By unlocking the overbearing and duplicative permitting process and aggressively leveraging private and local investment with federal dollars, we can stimulate investment, streamline regulations and invest in rural America while providing jobs and economic opportunity across the country."
Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV): "I welcome President Trump's commitment to improving America's infrastructure—particularly when it comes to rural communities—and I appreciate his leadership in moving this process forward. The proposal released today is a great starting point that I'm confident will lead to a strong and comprehensive legislative proposal."
Sen. John Barrasso (R-WY): "President Trump is a champion for upgrading our country's aging roads, highways, bridges, and water infrastructure. America needs a robust infrastructure plan that prioritizes streamlining so needed projects can get done faster and for lower costs. I will work side by side with President Trump to make modernizing our infrastructure a reality."
Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "Glad to see @POTUS put forward a bold and ambitious plan to rebuild our nation's #infrastructure. Especially pleased to see a focus on our rural communities in the plan."
Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL): "Thank you, @RealDonaldTrump, for wanting to reinvest in America's infrastructure!"
Rep. Rick Allen (R-GA): "Rebuilding and modernizing rural infrastructure is critical for my constituents in #GA12. Thankfully, @POTUS understands the importance of these investments. Today's initiative includes proposed investments in a new Rural Infrastructure Program."
Rep. Randy Hultgren (R-IL): "It is encouraging to see the Administration's proposal to expand the use of private activity bonds and definitive support of these vital financing tools for our communities. These bonds help Illinois cities and towns build hospitals, schools, airports, seaports, water infrastructure and more at a time when large infrastructure improvements are at prohibitive cost."
Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL): "I am encouraged that the President has identified reauthorizing the Perkins career and technical education program as a key component in building a modern and dynamic workforce."
Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY): "Thank you @POTUS for offering a comprehensive plan to fix our nation's #infrastructure. Looking forward to working with @POTUS and @SecElaineChao on this important issue!"
Rep. John Faso (R-NY): "President Trump's outline is an ambitious vision for new infrastructure efforts. Upstate New York is in need of new infrastructure investments for expanding broadband access and rebuilding crumbling roads and bridges."
Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH): "The President's outline on rebuilding American infrastructure is a bold vision that focuses federal dollars and leverages state, local, and private investment to strengthen every aspect of our nation's transportation and infrastructure network. The President understands infrastructure extends far beyond roads and bridges."
Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH): "America is long overdue for an upgrade to our outdated, and in some cases crumbling infrastructure, which has been neglected for decades. I am heartened to see that a significant chunk of the money in the President's plan would be invested in rural America."
Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA): "It is vital to have a partner like President Trump in the White House working with Congress to provide a framework for rebuilding America's national transportation and infrastructure network.... I am excited to work with the President on a path forward."
Rep. Ralph Norman (R-SC): "President Trump has made fixing our nation's crumbling infrastructure a top priority, and I could not agree more. With this proposal, we are on the right path to building a stronger America. As a real estate developer myself, it is great to see the President put his builders' hat on."
Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC): "Delivering on the Administration's legislative framework will help build a stronger America, and I intend to take this opportunity to invest in a stronger South Carolina."
House Committee on Natural Resources: "President @realDonaldTrump's infrastructure plan streamlines the permitting process & cuts red tape preventing projects from being developed"
House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: "@POTUS' #InfrastructurePlan calls for simplified and quicker environmental reviews. Too often, important projects stall while the federal government drags its feet. We can both protect the environment and ensure a speedy resolution to these reviews."
State and Local Officials
Governor Paul LePage (R-ME): "Pleased to join @realDonaldTrump and state and local leaders today to discuss our infrastructure needs. I am all in for modernized permitting & public-private partnerships to invest for the future, expand broadband, create jobs & grow our economy #mepolitics"
Governor Rick Snyder (R-MI): "I appreciate @POTUS & his team working to improve our nation's infrastructure. As we work to improve MI's infrastructure, I look forward to working with the Trump Administration and serving as a role model for infrastructure development and solutions."
Governor Phil Bryant (R-MS): "Honored to be at the White House to hear @realDonaldTrump unveil his plan to upgrade and modernize American infrastructure. The plan will return decision-making authority to the states, invest in rural America, eliminate regulatory burdens and streamline the permitting process."
Governor Gary Herbert (R-UT): "As our state continues to grow, we must invest wisely in #infrastructure that will meet the needs of tomorrow. I'm grateful that @POTUS presented a plan that increases state flexibility and eliminates some red tape. #utpol"
Kentucky Commissioner of Agriculture Ryan Quarles (R): "The best part about this plan is that it will allow states to decide how to best spend these infrastructure dollars....Governors and other local elected officials know local needs a whole lot better than Washington, D.C. does. I am glad to see President Trump's administration continue to return power to the states, the government closest to the people."
National Governors Association: "The nation's governors welcome the President's and Congress' focus on improving our nation's infrastructure. That includes roads and bridges, airports, ports, inland waterways, transit, passenger rail, drinking water and wastewater systems, energy and broadband networks."
Speaker of the Iowa House of Representatives Linda Upmeyer (R): "Investing in infrastructure is key to Iowa's bright future. Proud to advocate on behalf of Iowans in DC! Thank you @POTUS for your time today and for your commitment to rural America!"
Mayor of Fort Worth, Texas Betsy Price (R): "Proud to say that Fort Worth has a seat at the table as @POTUS announces the administration's infrastructure plan. High-growth cities like Fort Worth face infrastructure challenges, and it's important that our needs are understood."
Chairman of the Miami-Dade Board of County Commissioners Esteban Bovo (R): "There is a lot of enthusiasm regarding the infrastructure bill. Many leaders from across the country ready to move our communities in the right direction. Thank you to @realDonaldTrump @POTUS for your leadership. #MiamiSMARTplan"
Cabinet Members and Administration Officials
Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke: "President Trump is absolutely right to call for a robust infrastructure plan that rebuilds our national parks, refuges, and Indian schools, and I look forward to helping him deliver on that historic mission.... This is not a Republican or Democrat issue, this is an American issue, and the President and I are ready to work with absolutely anyone in Congress who is willing to get the work done."
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue: "President Trump has made it a priority to rebuild our infrastructure since the day he took office and he has followed through on that commitment. No area of the country needs investment in infrastructure more than rural America. With a quarter of the new federal money heading to rural parts of the country, states will have the ability to expand broadband access, increase connectivity, rebuild roads, and supply affordable utilities. Importantly, states will have the flexibility to choose which projects will best meet their unique needs."
Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross: "President Trump's bold leadership will remove unnecessary bureaucratic barriers that stand in the way of new projects, and leverage $200 billion in Federal funds to spur over $1.5 trillion in investment across urban and rural America."
Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta: "Modernizing our nation's infrastructure is essential to continuing strong economic and job growth. President Trump's bold plan will not only create jobs in construction industries, but will also support job growth across many industries from transportation to technology."
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt: "President Trump's infrastructure plan will revitalize our nation's once-great infrastructure and create a safer and stronger America. Infrastructure includes more than roads and bridges; we will also rebuild our nation's crumbling water infrastructure and clean up contaminated land, both of which are critical to environmental protection and economic growth in our communities. Through regulatory reforms and targeted investments, EPA will play a leading role in this effort."
Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission Ajit Pai: "Too often, regulatory barriers make it harder and more expensive to build out broadband than it needs to be – to the detriment of American consumers. That's why this plan is a welcome and strong call to action. I stand ready to work with the Administration and Congress to turn this plan into a reality as we continue to bridge the digital divide and extend 5G digital opportunity to all Americans."
Trade Associations And Advocacy Organizations
Airports Council International – North America President and CEO Kevin M. Burke: "The infrastructure proposal put forward by President Trump addresses a number of regulatory burdens long identified by the airport industry as barriers to infrastructure development."
American Association of Port Authorities President and CEO Kurt Nagle: "We're pleased to hear @POTUS is recommending a $1.5 trillion infrastructure package. It's reassuring to see that the President recognizes the importance of investing in our nation's crumbling infrastructure."
American Cable Association President and CEO Matthew M. Polka: "ACA applauds President Donald J. Trump for proposing an infrastructure plan that includes spending $50 billion to enhance infrastructure, including broadband, in rural areas. Ensuring all Americans have access to high-performance broadband is important and requires government engagement at many levels."
American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy Duvall: "President Trump's 'Building a Stronger America' plan promises to bring long overdue improvements to the country roads, bridges and broader infrastructure that farmers and ranchers depend on to reach customers at home and abroad. While past infrastructure plans have left rural America in the dust, this administration has not forgotten the rural communities that form the backbone of our nation."
American Iron and Steel Institute President and CEO Thomas J. Gibson: "We welcome the president's framework for rebuilding infrastructure in America. Transportation infrastructure facilitates broad economic growth and directly impacts the competitiveness of the domestic steel industry. We strongly support the streamlining of permits for new infrastructure projects as a key tenet of the plan."
American Petroleum Institute President and CEO Jack Gerard: "Promoting our nation's energy infrastructure could help bring more affordable energy to American consumers, more jobs to American workers, and a better environment to communities across the country."
American Society of Civil Engineers President Kristina Swallow: "The Trump Administration's plan is a solid first step in having a real conversation about solutions for the nation's aging infrastructure and a path to address our infrastructure investment deficit."
Americans for Transportation Mobility (ATM) Coalition Executive Director Ed Mortimer: "The plan released today is an important step on the path to modernizing America's infrastructure. For too long, infrastructure legislation has been viewed as a long shot, but today, it's clear that the momentum is on the side of action. We commend the administration for making this issue a priority, and we look forward to coming together with the broad swath of stakeholders in this debate to make infrastructure modernization a reality."
Associated Builders and Contractors President and CEO Michael D. Bellaman: "ABC applauds the President for sending Congress a plan to rebuild America's infrastructure. It is now time for lawmakers to develop legislation and policy to efficiently modernize America's infrastructure and drive economic growth and prosperity for all Americans. ABC is pleased that the President's plan mirrors many of the key principles ABC believes will deliver the most value to taxpayers."
Associated General Contractors of America CEO Stephen E. Sandherr: "The President has outlined a needed and thought-provoking proposal to rebuild and improve the nation's aging and over-burdened public infrastructure."
Association of American Railroads President and CEO Edward R. Hamberger: "The private freight rail industry commends the Trump administration for formally beginning the discussion on infrastructure legislation with this document today. The sector particularly welcomes the efforts to streamline the federal permitting processes, including in the proposal's attempt to codify Executive Orders into law while also strengthening existing processes."
Business Roundtable Infrastructure Committee Chair and Chairman and CEO of AECOM Michael Burke: "The plan released today by the Trump Administration to renew America's aging infrastructure is an important first step. Accelerating permitting processes and attracting private investment are critical components to fixing our roads, bridges, airports and seaports."
CTIA President and CEO Meredith Attwell Baker: "CTIA is pleased that the Administration's infrastructure plan recognizes the value of mobile connectivity, the importance of wireless leadership, and the need to streamline our nation's infrastructure siting processes."
Farm Credit Council President and CEO Todd Van Hoose: "Farm Credit thanks President Trump for following through on his promise to support rural communities and agriculture through his infrastructure plan. Setting aside 25 percent of funding to ensure rural communities have the opportunity to improve vital services and infrastructure will help keep American agriculture competitive and rural communities viable."
Grow America's Infrastructure Now (GAIN) Coalition Spokesman Craig Stevens: "GAIN applauds President Trump for taking steps to address our nation's critical need for infrastructure revitalization.... It's promising to see the Trump Administration starting off the year focusing on creating a comprehensive plan that will help American workers and the economy."
Mobile Future Chief Public Policy Advisor Robert M. McDowell: "The Administration's focus on removing hurdles to deployment of the small cells that will help power next generation networks is important as wireless technology races toward 5G. Mobile Future welcomes the opportunity to work with all policymakers to encourage investment in America's wireless future."
National Association of Manufacturers President and CEO Jay Timmons: "To get projects back on track, now the President is calling for a substantial $1.5 trillion investment. It's the kind of leadership manufacturers have wanted for a very long time, and it could help us reclaim our rightful place as a global leader on true 21st-century infrastructure. Manufacturers are ready to work with Congress and the Trump administration to deliver a tremendous plan that will literally get America moving again."
National Cable & Telecommunications Association: "As the nation's leading broadband industry, we applaud the Administration's proposal to invest in new infrastructure – including the potential to expand broadband to unserved homes in rural communities – that can support a growing economy and provide new opportunities for all Americans."
National Electrical Contractors Association CEO John M. Grau: "President Trump's $1.5 trillion plan is an excellent first step in moving legislation forward that will help rebuild our nation's aging infrastructure. It is also our next best chance for Congress to work together in a bipartisan manner."
National League of Cities CEO and Executive Director Clarence Anthony: "With the release of this plan, the White House will hopefully start a domino effect in Washington for Congress to pull together a bipartisan bill that works with cities to rebuild America's infrastructure."
National Retail Federation President and CEO Matthew Shay: "We appreciate the President's attention to the urgent need to rebuild America's outdated infrastructure, which has long been a priority for NRF and our members. For decades, we've seen a lack of investment in infrastructure, and American companies, workers and consumers have paid the price."
NTCA–The Rural Broadband Association CEO Shirley Bloomfield: "We greatly appreciate President Trump's focus on rural America in the infrastructure agenda announced today. Calling for a substantial portion of infrastructure funds to be dedicated to rural projects, including rural broadband, and easing permitting processes that hinder the timely deployment of broadband networks are both essential parts of a comprehensive strategy to address the challenges faced by those seeking to deploy and operate wireline and wireless telecom infrastructure alike in rural America."
Natural Gas Supply Association President and CEO Dena E. Wiggins: "We applaud this initiative to simplify and streamline the permit approval process for infrastructure, which has become a long and unnecessarily unwieldy process for all."
Schools, Health & Libraries Broadband (SHLB) Coalition Executive Director John Windhausen: "We welcome President Trump's commitment to improving America's infrastructure and its recognition that rural broadband is a critical component of that investment."
USTelecom President and CEO Jonathan Spalter: "Closing the digital divide, particularly in our nation's most difficult to reach rural areas, requires dedicated and adequate capital – both financial and political.... USTelecom is determined to work with Congress and the Administration on getting our 21st century infrastructure priorities right, including dedicated funding to ensure broadband connectivity for all Americans."
  