
    
 1. Sign up to make calls from home.
One crucial thing that helped Marco to success in Iowa: Thousands upon thousands of phone calls from loyal Marco supporters to voters.

Go here to sign up to make calls from your computer or tablet!
Sign Up to Make Calls for Marco from Home!
2. Sign up to volunteer in the field.
A lot of campaigns talked up their ground game in Iowa, but Marco quietly delivered a surge of support no one expected.
It's not long until we're going to be competing in states across the country, so go here to sign up to help Marco in your area.
@marcorubio encouraging volunteers to #earnit. #iacaucus @teammarcoia pic.twitter.com/RXAcp11lR2
— CLINTHREED (@CLINTHREED) February 1, 2016
Think you can travel to a state that's voting soon?
Go here to sign up for deploy for Marco.
Today, @marcorubio stopped by the Iowa HQ to encourage and thank volunteers. #EarnIt #iacaucushttps://t.co/LLcp1VtxLJ
— Team Marco (@TeamMarco) February 1, 2016
Sign Up to Deploy to an Early State!
3. Share an idea or speech of Marco's with 5 of your friends or family members. 
(Ideally ones from New Hampshire, South Carolina, or Nevada!)
Did you love Marco's speech after the Iowa caucuses?
Send any of your friends from New Hampshire this link:

Have a grandmother in Charleston who thinks seniors aren't getting a fair shake from the federal government? 
Send her Marco's plan for how to help America's senior citizens:

Know any Nevadans who want a candidate with strong religious faith — or a candidate who respects non-believers, too? 
Send them this candid video of Marco talking to an atheist:

Got a friend at UNH, or UNLV, or Clemson who's worried about his student loan debt? 
Send him Marco's plan to control the cost of college:

Have a relative who's been deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan? 
Let them know about Marco's plan to rebuild our military: 

Need more ideas? 
Go to Marco's YouTube channel to find a video!
Or go here to find out his plans for a different policy area!
4. Share something fun about the Rubios.
Go here to read short biographies of Marco and Jeanette.
Here's Jeanette and the kids' thank-you to the state of Iowa for all the hospitality:
A special message for Iowans from Jeanette and the kids before the #iacaucus tonight:https://t.co/aI9fFhIJRh
— Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) February 1, 2016
Here's the family before Marco made his final pitch to Iowa caucus-goers last night:
Marco Rubio and his family pray during the opening of a caucus site in Clive, Iowa on Monday. #IowaCaucus pic.twitter.com/Bge6xKBMH6
— Team Marco Miami (@TeamMarcoMiami) February 2, 2016
And a little bit later . . .
Fist bumps -> pic.twitter.com/McM7nIKiIl
— Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) February 2, 2016
Last night's @marcorubio Lion King moment -> pic.twitter.com/Js2dduVRHy
— Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) February 2, 2016
Here's Marco helping to coach his sons' football team, talking about the lessons he learned from the sport:

And one last thing: Get some Marco swag.
Like the look of the quarter zip Marco's been sporting on the road? Get one for yourself:

Or just get some bumper stickers and yard signs to spread the word.
  