
    
  In final days before primary, influential endorsement adds to Christie's Granite State momentum

For Immediate Release:
Wednesday, February 3, 2016
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Continuing the growing momentum for his campaign in the Granite State as it enters the final stretch, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie received the endorsement of New Hampshire Speaker of the House Shawn Jasper (R - Hudson). Jasper announced his endorsement at a press conference in Concord. Speaker Jasper and Governor Christie were joined at the press conference by Christie supporters Speaker Pro Tem Sherm Packard, House Majority Leader Dick Hinch, Assistant Majority Leader Stephen Schmidt, Senate Majority Leader Jeb Bradley, State Senator Nancy Stiles, and State Senator Jerry Little, as well as additional members of the House.
"After meeting nearly every Republican candidate for President, I am proudly endorsing Chris Christie in order to restore leadership and respect to the Oval Office," commented Jasper. "Chris Christie is the tough executive we need because the problems our nation faces are too great to hand over to an inexperienced caretaker. As the conservative Governor of a Democratic state, Chris Christie has shown he has the strength to tackle challenges directly and forthrightly. Governor Christie implemented bold reforms that saved the taxpayers of his state billions of dollars all while reducing the size of the government workforce and creating over 223,000 new private sector jobs. Governor Christie has worked harder than any other candidate to earn the vote of Granite Staters, and we have seen that he has the mettle to stand up to adversity and accomplish great things for the American people. With America desperate for a strong President again, I encourage my fellow citizens to join me as I proudly cast my vote on Tuesday for Chris Christie to serve as our next Commander-in-Chief."
"I'm honored to have the support of Speaker Jasper," said Governor Christie. "He is a tremendous leader for New Hampshire and will be instrumental in our efforts as we continue to campaign across the country."
Speaker Shawn N. Jasper is currently serving in his 11th term in the New Hampshire House, represents the towns of Hudson and Pelham in Hillsborough County, District 37. In previous terms as a member of the NH House of Representatives, Speaker Jasper has served in several leadership positions, including Deputy Majority Leader, Assistant Majority Leader, Majority Whip, Minority Whip, and on various House standing committees, including Legislative Ethics (Chair), Judiciary, Ways and Means, Legislative Administration and Election Law. He is a member of the Hudson Historical Society, Alpha Gamma Rho Fraternity, the Bektash Shriners, and the Free & Accepted Masons. He has also served on the Hudson Board of Selectmen, the Hudson Municipal Budget Committee, and as Town and School District Moderator. Speaker Jasper, a graduate of Alvirne High School in Hudson and the University of New Hampshire (AD, 1989).
View the full New Hampshire endorsement list here.
  