
    On Friday, February 3rd through Sunday, February 5th, the First Lady will travel to California for a series of events in San Diego and Los Angeles in support of the Biden Administration's Cancer Moonshot and her Joining Forces initiative for military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors.
Friday, February 3, 2023
At 2:15 PM, the First Lady will arrive at San Diego International Airport in San Diego, CA. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Thursday, February 2nd at 12:00 PM.
At 3:00 PM, ahead of World Cancer Day (Feb. 4th) and following the anniversary of the reignition of the Cancer Moonshot, the First Lady will visit a Family Health Centers of San Diego clinic to highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration is supporting health centers to improve access to cancer screenings and early detection for underserved communities. This visit will be pooled press. For media interested in joining the pool, RSVP HERE by Thursday, February 2nd at 12:00 PM.
At 5:00 PM, as part of the First Lady’s Joining Forces initiative, Dr. Biden will deliver remarks at a gathering of the crew and families of the USS Gabrielle Giffords, the U.S Navy littoral combat ship for which she serves as sponsor, in San Diego, CA. This visit will be open press. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Thursday, February 2nd at 12:00 PM.
Saturday, February 4, 2023
At 1:00 PM, as part of the First Lady’s Joining Forces initiative, Dr. Biden will visit The Steven A. Cohen Military Family Clinic at VVSD (Veteran’s Village of San Diego) in Oceanside, CA. During the visit, the First Lady will meet with service providers and military family members connected to the clinic. This visit will be open press. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Thursday, February 2nd at 12:00 PM.
Sunday, February 5, 2023
The First Lady will attend and be a presenter at the 65th Annual GRAMMY Awards in Los Angeles, CA. The 65th Annual GRAMMY Awards will be broadcast live on Sun, Feb. 5, 2023, at 8 PM ET / 5 PM PT on the CBS Television Network and will be available to stream live and on demand on Paramount+.
**All times are local, unless indicated.**
  