
    
  "This is our time. Ted Cruz is our candidate. Now let's do our part to take this take this country back."

HOUSTON, Texas – Today, Texas Governor Greg Abbott endorsed Ted Cruz for President. Greg Abbott was elected as the 48th Governor of Texas. Before serving as governor, Abbott was Texas' longest-serving Attorney General. Governor Abbott has spent his career fighting to preserve Texas values like faith, family and freedom for future generations. As the state's chief law enforcement official, Governor Abbott made protecting Texas communities the focus of his tenure serving as Attorney General.
In his video endorsement of Cruz, Abbott says why he's supporting Cruz for president, "it's our duty as Texas conservatives to support a leader we can trust to restore our values and move this country forward. That's why I'm supporting Ted Cruz for president."
Abbott continues, "Unlike far too many in Washington, the Ted Cruz we've seen in the Senate is the same Ted Cruz we elected. And he's the same Ted Cruz I served with when I was Attorney General and Ted was Solicitor General."
Cruz was selected to be Solicitor General of Texas by Abbott when he was Attorney General. Cruz and Abbott have worked together on a multitude of issues. They've joined together to fight illegal immigration and protect our borders in order to keep our nation safe. As Governor, Abbott has a strong record of conservative leadership. He has worked to create jobs and economic opportunity, improve education, build transportation infrastructure and securing Texas' border in the face of federal government inaction.
"Greg is a man of unwavering principle," said Cruz. "He is a strong leader in the state of Texas and has served Texans well during his time has Attorney General and as now as governor. Greg has a consistent and stalwart record of fighting for conservative principles. I am glad to call Greg a friend and honored to have his support in this race."
The Cruz campaign released a video of Gov. Abbott's endorsement.
Below is a full script of Gov. Abbott's endorsement video:
This is Governor Greg Abbott.
For the first time in decades, Texans have the opportunity to play a critical role in selecting our Republican nominee for president.
After 8 years of relentless attacks on our values from this White House, it's our duty as Texas conservatives to support a leader we can trust to restore our values and move this country forward.
That's why I'm supporting Ted Cruz for president.
Unlike far too many in Washington, the Ted Cruz we've seen in the Senate is the same Ted Cruz we elected. And he's the same Ted Cruz I served with when I was Attorney General and Ted was Solicitor General.
Conservative values are at his core. He's principled, fearless and has conviction.
He's a constitutionalist whose judgment I trust to appoint the right judges to the U.S. Supreme Court.
Join me by doing everything you can to bring Texas home for Ted Cruz. Vote early if you can. Get your friends and family to the polls. Sign up to volunteer or contribute at tedcruz.org.
To my fellow Texas conservatives I say, it's time to deliver.
This is our time. Ted Cruz is our candidate. Now let's do our part to take this take this country back.
  