
    Mr. Mayor and the city officials and Joe and my two good friends up here with me:
We have had a wonderful, wonderful day. I left Washington, D.C., at 7 a.m., arrived at Miami around 9:30, had a wonderful meeting or two in Miami, and from Miami we went to West Palm Beach and we have gone south--south? [Laughter]
All I can say is that we left West Palm Beach, we have had tremendous crowds despite Washington weather, not Florida's weather--and we have had great enthusiasm. We have seen a great many of our older citizens, who are wonderful people. They are terrific individuals who have given so much to this country, and they deserve our love and admiration and respect.
I can't imagine a nicer way to finish a day than to come to Coral Springs, where I understand you have 21,000 superior citizens, where you have here tonight 12,500 people, plus 7,000, as I understand it, young people who are little league experts that can play any kind of athletics better than us old folks can.
But the most important thing--and this is one that inspires me to say more than I really planned on at this stop. I have heard some of the skeptics and some of the cynics and some of the people say America is through. That is a lot of baloney.
I will tell you why. Our older citizens have given us a great country. The next generation is going to keep it a great country, and the young people here are going to make it a better and better country. I know it, and you know it.
We are going to see that this wonderful group of young people, that inspire every one of us, are going to be better educated, brought up with many more things for them to use and to see and to do.
We are going to give them a better government. We are going to give them a government that will give them an opportunity to utilize all this training and education and experience. The hope of this country, but more importantly, the world rests on the shoulders of the wonderful young people who are here.
Good luck, and God bless all of them.
  