
    Campaign Launches Paid Media in Eight Super Tuesday States, Hires Staff in Following States
Today, Biden for President is announcing additional investments in Super Tuesday and battleground states, including new advertising, staff, and endorsements. These investments build on the campaign's already robust Super Tuesday operation and continues Biden for President's investment in battleground states that vote on March 10 and March 17.
"Over the past few months, we have continued to build a strong team on the ground in Super Tuesday states — and we're excited today to add to our Super Tuesday team while also building out our battleground state operation," said Molly Ritner, Director of Super Tuesday States, Biden for President. "Joe Biden has built the broad and diverse coalition that we know it will take to beat Donald Trump, and these resources will allow us to continue to bring the Vice President's message to the voters that we know make up the base of our party."
Today, the campaign will also launch a six-figure, multi-channel paid media effort to encourage early voting across eight key Super Tuesday states, including Alabama, Arkansas, California, Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. "Service," an ad that features President Obama highlighting Biden's accomplishments, will air on broadcast television in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. Additionally, the campaign will run digital ads on YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram in California, North Carolina, and Texas focused on getting out the early vote, along with radio ads in North Carolina and Texas.
In addition to staff in California, Texas, North Carolina, Virginia, Massachusetts, Colorado, Minnesota, Tennessee, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Alabama, and Florida, Biden for President is adding the following state leadership in battleground states:

Claudia Chavez, Illinois
Jonathan Murray, Ohio
Tom Kelly, Michigan
Jennifer Sosa, Arizona
Will McIntee, Missouri
Jacob Spreyer, Washington

The campaign also announced new endorsements today in Super Tuesday and battleground states, including more than 80 endorsements in Illinois, State Rep. Ajay Pittman in Oklahoma, and Portland City Councilors Spencer Thibodeau and Nicholas Mavodones in Maine. These endorsements follow recently announced endorsements in Texas, North Carolina, Virginia, and Washington. Local endorsers have been critical in expanding Biden for President's network and bringing new people into the campaign to support Joe Biden, volunteer, and vote.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  