
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Mississippi Secretary of State Delbert Hosemann.
"I'm proud to gain Delbert's support," said Mitt Romney. "The people of Mississippi are looking for a change in leadership in Washington. Delbert shares my values of cutting spending, shrinking the size of government, and instituting pro-growth economic policies. In the months to come, I plan to spread this same message throughout the state of Mississippi."
Announcing his support, Secretary of State Delbert Hosemann said, "The Republican Party primaries have narrowed the field to four candidates. Each one has unique strengths and is an asset to the future of our country. However, only one can be president. Considering the economic and security issues facing our country, I believe that person is Mitt Romney, and I will support his nomination by the Republican Party for president.
"Our country and our state face economic issues and healthcare issues, and our servicemen and women continue to depart overseas to defend our country. Our current governmental course does not provide a needed solution to our nation's issues. Of the remaining candidates, Mitt Romney possesses the character and skill to provide the greatest opportunity for that solution."
Background on Delbert Hosemann:
Delbert Hosemann was first elected as Secretary of State in 2007. Since taking office, Secretary Hosemann has worked tirelessly to ensure the integrity of the vote, maximized the return on Mississippi's 16th Section lands for the benefit of our school children, and reformed Mississippi's business laws to promote economic growth and create jobs. A true fiscal conservative, Secretary Hosemann has also reduced his budget by over $2 million since taking office.
Mississippi Elected Official and Leaders Endorsing Mitt Romney:
U.S. Senator Thad Cochran
Lt. Gov. Tate Reeves
State Treasurer Lynn Fitch
State Auditor Stacey Pickering
State Agriculture Commissioner Cindy Hyde Smith
State Insurance Commissioner Mike Chaney
Southern District Public Service Commissioner Leonard Bentz
Central District Public Service Commissioner Lynn Posey
Southern District MDOT Commissioner Tom King
Central District MDOT Commissioner Dick Hall
Northern District MDOT Commissioner Mike Tagert
Senate President Pro Tempore Terry Brown
Senator Merle Flowers
Senator Briggs Hopson
Senator Buck Clarke
Senator Joey Fillingane
Senator John Polk
Speaker Pro Tempore Greg Snowden
State Representative Herb Frierson
State Representative Wanda Jennings
State Representative Casey Eure

  