
    Las Vegas, NV — Today, Pete for America released "Primer Día," a new television ad that will run statewide highlighting Pete Buttigieg's ability to unify the country around our most urgent challenges. Amid growing polarization and decades of inaction in Washington, Pete is offering solutions that are bold enough to solve the problems facing our country and big enough to unify the American people. The new 30-second television ad begins airing today, and comes just days after Pete's strong performance in the New Hampshire primary.
Watch "Primer Día"

Pete has undeniable momentum heading into the Nevada caucuses. Since the summer, Pete for America has been building a strong organization and infrastructure that not only looks like Nevada, but also reaches every corner and every community across the state. Pete for America has one of the biggest presences in the Battle Born State, with 12 offices and over 100 staff on the ground — including nearly 80 who are exclusively focused on organizing. The release of the ad comes as Pete returns to the state tonight to participate in a town hall hosted by LULAC, the largest and oldest Hispanic organization in the United States.
Read the full transcript of "Primer Día" below:
Quiero que imagines el primer día después de la presidencia de Donald Trump.
Esta marca de caos y corrupción habrá terminado... Pero estos grandes problemas, desde la economía hasta la atención médica, no van a haber desaparecido.
Yo me estoy postulando para ser el presidente que da vuelta la página y une a nuestro país tan polarizado mientras abordamos los problemas que en ese momento serán tan urgentes como lo son ahora.
I want you to picture the first day after the Donald Trump presidency.
This particular brand of chaos and corruption will be over… But these big issues, from the economy to health care, will not have disappeared.
I'm running to be the president who will turn the page and unify our very polarized country while tackling the issues that are going to be just as urgent then as they are now.
  