
    Campaign kicks off the Women for Mike Bus Tour across Southern California to highlight the importance of women in this election
LOS ANGELES — Today, the Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign announced its Women for Mike National Leadership Council. This follows the launch of "Women for Mike" — a groundswell movement to energize women across the country who support Mike's efforts to defeat Donald Trump, unite the country, and rebuild America. Women for Mike is organizing in communities across the country to amplify women's voices on the issues that matter most. In conjunction with the launch of the Women for Mike Leadership Council, today kicks off a weeklong bus tour across Southern California that will highlight Mike Bloomberg's record and plans to promote issues of importance to women.
The Women for Mike Leadership Council is comprised of 90 women who are endorsing Mike for president and are reflective of the breadth of his support across the country. As members of the Women for Mike Leadership Council, these women will lend their voices to the campaign while activating their networks to support his candidacy in communities across the country.
"I started working for Mike in 1994, and in the years since, I've had a front row seat as he's grown his business, served three terms as mayor of New York City, and given generously to causes he believes in through his foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies. Every step of the way, he hasn't just supported women – he's empowered them to lead, to grow, and to help shape his company, his administration, his charitable giving, and his personal values," said Patti Harris, Mike Bloomberg 2020 Campaign Chair. "I'm honored to serve as chair of his campaign, and I'm delighted to join so many brilliant women on the Women for Mike National Leadership Council. Now more than ever, we need someone in the White House who will be a fierce advocate for women and women's rights, while building a fairer, more equitable future for this country. I know that Mike will be that type of leader – and I look forward to working with this group, and women across the country, to make him the next president of the United States."
At this critical moment for the country and for the Democratic Party, women will be instrumental in selecting the party's nominee and defeating President Trump in November. Many women view Trump as an existential threat to decency, and the safety and security of the nation. The Women for Mike Leadership Council will work to engage women on the issues they care most about and rally them in support of Mike.
The Council Co-Chairs include:

Lonnie Ali, Activist, Philanthropist, and wife of Muhammad Ali
Emma Bloomberg, Founder and CEO, Murmuration
Georgina Bloomberg
Aja Brown, Mayor of Compton, California; California State Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg 2020
Patti Harris, Campaign Chair, Mike Bloomberg 2020
Calandrian Simpson Kemp, Gun Violence Prevention Activist, and Founder, Village of Mothers
Jill Lafer, Former board chair of Planned Parenthood Federation of America and NARAL Pro-Choice New York
Mary Salas, Mayor of Chula Vista, California; California State C0-Chair for Mike Bloomberg 2020
Diana Taylor, Finance Executive; Former New York Superintendent of Banks
Marjorie Tiven, Founder and President, Global Cities, Inc.
Dr. Paula Stone Williams, Teaching Pastor, RLT Pathways, Inc.

"Long before Mike Bloomberg launched his campaign, I wanted him to run for president because I always regarded him as a "can-do" thinker and doer," said Lonnie Ali, Activist, Philanthropist, and Wife of Muhammad Ali. "So I'm delighted to finally have him step into the ring. I believe Mike can restore strength and integrity to our democratic institutions and repair the deep cultural and political divides that have brought this country to a precipice of no return. Mike is a UNITER- not a DIVIDER. Mike has the experience and know how to put this country back on sure footing nationally and internationally — and the temperament to rally a diverse group of Americans around issues like economic opportunity, health care and education."
"I am proud to stand up for Mike Bloomberg in this race and proud to be a part of the Women for Mike National Leadership Council," continued Ali. "Together, the women of this Council, along with a diverse group of women from around the country, will unite and work together to get Mike elected in November."
The first stop of the bus tour was the Mike Bloomberg 2020 Los Angeles field office earlier today. The bus tour will continue on and celebrate its inaugural run with a conversation at The Riveter, a women's co-working space, as part of a weeklong swing through Southern California.
"As we all know, California is going to play a critical role in this election, and I want to make it clear that women, in particular, have the power to make or break a candidacy. That's the message we're trying to get out today, and I'm glad to be able to use my voice as a member of the Women for Mike National Leadership Council to let people know who Mike is and why we are standing behind him," said Mayor of Compton, California Aja Brown. "And what we believe is that Mike has the only vision for America that is truly inclusive, truly equitable, and where women are concerned, truly dedicated to developing holistic policies that address the many areas in which women want a strong advocate in Washington."
Since launching the campaign, Mike Bloomberg has released a series of policies that will help women and working families, including reproductive rights and access, paid family leave, pay equity, improving the quality of child care and early childhood education, and to address the maternal mortality crisis head-on.
"I've known Mike since I was on the board of NARAL Pro Choice New York – and since he was running for mayor of New York City," said Jill Lafer, former board chair of Planned Parenthood Federation of America and NARAL Pro-Choice New York. "I've long held Mike in high regard both as a person and for his unwavering commitment to women and children. I know Mike, and he is a man of his word. When he says that he will fight for things like women's reproductive health and rights, pay equity, generous child care policies, and paid family leave, I know we can consider these policies as good as done. That means something to me, and I am proud to be part of his team. Together with my fellow members of the Women for Mike National Leadership Council, I am confident that we can send Mike to the White House and finally look forward to an administration that is behind women one hundred percent."
As Mayor of New York City, Mike increased the number of contracts that were awarded to women-owned businesses and increased access to reproductive healthcare. At Bloomberg LP, he has worked to create an environment where women can and do succeed. The company provides equal pay, good benefits, and opportunities for advancement. As a philanthropist and political donor, Mike has supported numerous causes like Planned Parenthood that advance women rights and helped elect dozens of women to office through organizations like EMILY's List.
Since the Women for Mike coalition was launched in mid-January, there have been more than 100 Women for Mike events across the country. The campaign has also launched other coalitions, including Proud for Mike, United for Mike, Ganamos con Mike, Mike for Black America, and Veterans and Military Families for Mike. These groups demonstrate Mike's diverse base of support around the country, based on the fact that they know Mike is the Democrat best poised to beat Trump in November.
Members of the Women for Mike National Leadership Council include:
Council Co-Chairs

Lonnie Ali, Activist, Philanthropist, and wife of Muhammad Ali
Emma Bloomberg, Founder and CEO, Murmuration
Georgina Bloomberg
Aja Brown, Mayor of Compton, California; California State Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg 2020
Patti Harris, Campaign Chair, Mike Bloomberg 2020
Calandrian Simpson Kemp, Gun Violence Survivor; Moms Demand Action and Everytown Survivor Network volunteer; Founder, Village of Mothers
Jill Lafer, former board chair of Planned Parenthood Federation of America and NARAL Pro-Choice New York
Mary Salas, Mayor of Chula Vista, California; California State Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg 2020
Diana Taylor, Finance Executive; Former New York Superintendent of Banks
Marjorie Tiven, Founder and President, Global Cities, Inc.
Dr. Paula Stone Williams, Teaching Pastor, RLT Pathways, Inc.

Council Members

Mona Aboelnaga, Managing Partner, K6 Investments
Andi Bernstein, CEO, Beach Walk Media; Executive Team Member, Compass and Oxygen Media; Board Member, Women for Women and The Public Theater
Paula Grant Berry, Trustee, National September 11 Memorial and Museum
Diahann Billings-Burford, First-ever Chief Service Officer for New York City
Lisa Blau, Partner, Able Partners
Guessippina Bonner, Councilmember, Ward 1, Lufkin, Texas
Muriel Bowser, Mayor of Washington D.C. and National Campaign Co-Chair
Nancy Bowman, Gun Violence Survivor and Moms Demand Action volunteer
Lorraine Bracco, Actor and Activist
London Breed, Mayor of San Francisco, California; First Chair of Mike for Black America Leadership Council
Christine Bremer-Muggli, Attorney & Former DNC Member from Wisconsin
Shaundelle Brooks, Gun Violence Survivor and Activist; Founder, Akilah Dasilva Foundation
Anastasia Brown, Music Industry Executive
Sharmaine S. Brown, Gun Violence Survivor and volunteer for Moms Demand Action and the Everytown Survivor Network ; Founder, Jared's Heart of Success Inc.
Karen Cahn, Founder & CEO of iFundWomen
Tara Cortes, PhD,RN, Executive Director and Professor, Hartford Institute for Geriatric Nursing, NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing
Anne Davis, Nashville native and Environmental Activist
Donna Dees, Founder, The Million Mom March
Beth Dozoretz, President, Dozoretz Foundation
Diana Earl, Gun Violence Survivor and Moms Demand Action and Everytown Survivor Network volunteer
Verna Eggleston, Head of Women's Economic Development Initiatives, Bloomberg Philanthropies
Laura Ensler, President, Laura Ensler Consulting
Emma Ellis-Cosigua, Boardmember, FISH Hospitality Pantries; Knoxville community organizer and immigrant rights advocate
C. Virginia Fields, former Borough President of Manhattan, New York
Karen Freeman-Wilson, Former Mayor of Gary, Indiana
Kelisha Garrett, Principal Consultant, Gen-X Consulting Group
Betsy Gotbaum, Former New York City Public Advocate
Linda Grais, Biotech CEO and Independent Board Member
Amy Griffin, Founder and Managing Partner, G9 Ventures
Desiree Gruber, CEO, Full Picture
Janet Hanson, Founder and CEO, 85 Broads
Jean Hobby, Board Member, Catholic Charities Dallas
Mellody Hobson, Co-CEO and President, Ariel Investments
Cathy Isaacson, Civic Leader and Retired Attorney
Mary Ann Jacob, Gun Violence Survivor and Everytown Survivor Network volunteer
Yolanda Jimenez, Former Commissioner, New York City Mayor's Office to Combat Domestic Violence; Former Executive Director, Joe Torre Safe at Home Foundation
Courtney Johnson Rose, Principal Broker, George E. Johnson Properties
Julie Johnson, Representative, Texas House of Representatives; Texas State Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg 2020
Sheila Johnson, founder and CEO of Salamander Hotels and Resorts
Jennifer Jones Austin
Sydney Kamlager Dove, Assemblymember, California State Assembly; California State Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg 2020
Amee Kapadia, Climate Activist and Student
Sari Kaufman, Senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School; Students Demand Action Member and Lead Organizer of Parkland March for Our Lives
Sister Paulette LoMonaco, former Executive Director, Good Shepherd Services, New York City
Pat Maisch, Gun Violence Survivor and volunteer for Moms Demand Action and Everytown Survivor Network
Shelley McMahon, Gun Violence Survivor and Everytown Survivor Network volunteer
Lily Mei, Mayor of Fremont, California
Amy Mello, Former Field Director, Freedom to Marry
Anne Milling, Community Philanthropist/Activist
Brenda K. Mitchell, Everytown Survivor Network Fellow; Inter Faith Outreach Leader for Moms Demand Action in South Suburban Chicago
Brenda Moss, Gun Violence Survivor and Activist
Stephanie Murphy, U.S Representative (FL-7), U.S. House of Representatives; Campaign Co-Chair, Mike Bloomberg 2020
Patty Newburger, Executive Vice President, Event Strategy, Tribeca Enterprises
Maria Pike, Gun Violence Survivor and volunteer with Moms Demand Action and the Everytown Survivor Network
Bev Perdue, Former Governor of North Carolina
Gina Raimondo, Governor of Rhode Island
Mary Reed, Gun Violence Survivor and volunteer for Moms Demand Action and the Everytown Survivor Network
Susan Rockefeller, Documentary Filmmaker, Artist and Conservationist; Founder and CEO, Musings
Desiree Rogers, CEO and Co-Owner, Black Opal Beauty
Lela Rose, Fashion Designer
Daryl Roth, Tony Award Winning Broadway Producer
Cynthia Rowley, Fashion Designer
Gail Schwartz, Former State Senator for Western and Southern Colorado
Laura Turner Seydel, International Environmental Advocate
Cynthia D. Shapira, Pittsburgh Community Leader
Kathy Sheehan, Mayor of Albany, New York
Pam Simon, Gun Violence Survivor and advocate for gun safety with Moms Demand Action and the Everytown Survivor Network
Audrey Smaltz, Entrepreneur and Personality
Dr. Abigail Spangler, Founder of Protest Easy Guns, President of the C.D. Spangler Foundation, and Board of Directors of Spangler Companies, Inc; Virginia State Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg 2020
Silda Wall Spitzer, Co-founder, CEO and Publisher of NewYorkMakers.com
Haley Stevens, U.S. Representative (MI-11), U.S House of Representatives
Katie Sturino, Body Positive Advocate
Pamela Thomas-Graham, Founder & CEO, Dandelion Chandelier; Former CEO, CNBC Television; Former Executive Board Member, Credit Suisse
Lovely Warren, Mayor of Rochester, New York
Shirley Washington, Mayor of Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Karen Weaver, Former Mayor of Flint, Michigan
Wilma J. Webb, Former State Representative, Former First Lady of Denver
Maureen Weigl, Colonel, U.S. Army (Retired)
Victoria Woodards, Mayor of Tacoma, Washington

  