
    
Team Marco released a memo to supporters about the campaign's operation in Georgia, which will vote on March 1st.
Check it out:
To:           Team Marco and Interested PartiesFrom:      Karl Beckstein, Georgia State DirectorDate:       February 23, 2016Subject:  Marco's Strong Operation in Georgia
After a strong showing in South Carolina, Marco's campaign is continuing to gain momentum ahead of the Georgia primary on March 1. We are seeing a wave of grassroots support as conservatives and Republicans coalesce around Marco's campaign for a New American Century.  Over the next week, Marco will be building on the overwhelming amount of support he's already received in the Peach State. As we are demonstrating in Georgia, Marco is the only candidate positioned to unite our party, and win in November.
?  Grassroots support is continuing to grow: The Rubio campaign has Grassroots Chairmen in all 14 Congressional Districts. Just yesterday, the Rubio campaign held 3 events in Macon, Columbus, and Atlanta. Our grassroots support includes prominent Republican activists like former Georgia Republican Party Chairman and form RNC Committeeman Alec Poitevint.
?  Marco's Georgia Headquarters is ready for March 1: The Rubio campaign held the Grand Opening of its Georgia Headquarters yesterday, where over 200 energized supporters came to sign up to volunteer.
?  More Georgia leaders have endorsed Marco than any other candidate: Marco has significantly more Georgia endorsements than any other candidate. So far, Marco has 53 public endorsements with several more on the way. Marco's team includes numerous local and state officials and the support of U.S. Representatives Austin Scott and Lynn Westmoreland.
?  Marco has traveled to Georgia frequently: Marco has visited Georgia four times since announcing his candidacy last April. In 2015, Marco spoke at major Republican events in the Peach State, including the Georgia Republican Party Convention in Athens and the RedState Convention in Atlanta.
?  Team Marco has a strong volunteer effort in the state: Georgia volunteers have traveled across the country to volunteer for Marco. Supporters from Georgia have campaigned for Marco in Iowa, New Hampshire, and South Carolina. No other campaign has so many dedicated volunteers in the Peach State.
  