
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

One of every twenty people in the United States suffers some degree of visual disability. Yet, many eye injuries and disorders could be prevented if Americans took greater care to preserve their vision. Simple measures, such as wearing protective goggles when engaged in hazardous activity, will help avoid eye injuries and save sight. Many disorders that impair vision or cause blindness can be arrested before the eyes become seriously damaged, if they are detected and treated early in their development. Even blindness can sometimes be cured. For example, 95 percent of the 5,000 Americans blinded or visually disabled by cataract, for whom surgery is recommended, could have their vision restored.
Researchers in the visual science are continually striving to reduce the toll of visual disability. Advances made in vision research, many of which have been supported by the Federal Government through the National Eye Institute, and by several philanthropic organizations, can benefit many Americans if only we avail ourselves of them. The simplest way is by making eye examinations a routine part of health care through the professional guidance of ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians. All of us should know where to go in our communities for assistance in visual problems. We must be aware of preventive measures that can be taken at home, school, work, and play to protect our vision. We must learn the warning signals of serious eye problems so we know when to seek professional attention.
To encourage all of us to protect our vision and to care properly for our eyes, Congress, by joint resolution, approved December 30, 1963 (77 Stat. 629; 36 U.S.C. 169a), has requested the President to proclaim the first week in March of each year as Save Your Vision Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of March 2 through March 8, 1975, as Save Your Vision Week. I urge all Americans to join in this observance by taking steps to assure eye safety and by making themselves aware of the vision care facilities available in their communities. I invite the appropriate officials of State and local governments to issue similar Proclamations.
I also invite the communications media, the health care professions, and all other agencies and individuals concerned with the improvement and preservation of vision, to join in public activities supporting programs to improve and protect the vision of Americans.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of February in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-ninth.

GERALD R. FORD
  