
    In his latest column, Chuck Norris asks an important question: "How can alternative to Romney be Romney supporter?"
In 2008 when my wife, Gena, and I were on the campaign trail backing former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee for president, former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum was fighting to get former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney elected. (Listen in this video how Santorum passionately endorsed and elevated Mitt in his bid for the Oval Office.)
Just three years ago in his interview with radio host and conservative commentator Laura Ingraham, Santorum also emphatically told millions of listening Americans: "If you're a conservative, if you're a Republican, there is only one place to go, and that's Mitt Romney."
Why an alleged conservative like Santorum would fight for the flip-flopping Massachusetts moderate on the presidential campaign trail, especially in light of the fact that Huckabee and even McCain were running then with a much clearer conservative record, I will never know.
Yet Santorum now admits that Romney "bragged he's even more liberal than Ted Kennedy on social issues."
And the question that keeps coming to my mind now is this: How can the "alternative to Romney" also be a Romney supporter?
Newt and Santorum are good Christian men, both of whom are passionate to fight the war on religion (specifically Christianity) being unleashed by the Obama administration. They are also avid supporters of Israel.
However, in light of the potential global clash outside our country with regimes like Iran and Syria, and the ongoing domestic assault within our country from the Obama administration, we believe America needs the best of the best veterans of political war to lead us forward.
We truly believe Newt's experience, leadership, knowledge, wisdom, faith and even humility to learn from his failures (personal and public) can return America to her glory days. And he is the best man on the battlefield who is able to outwit, outplay and outlast Obama and his billion-dollar campaign machine.
While I commend Santorum for some of his stands since leaving Congress, like opposing TARP, the stimulus, the Fannie-Freddie bailout and the auto bailout, I have a slew of problems with what he did while serving in the U.S. Senate from 1995-2007.
  ...
  It's no wonder in January that Rep. Ron Paul accused Santorum of having a "very liberal" political record.
I'm also bringing this up now because, if Santorum were to win the nomination, Obama will definitely bring this up in his campaign for the presidency.
And the question that keeps coming back to my mind about Santorum is: How can the "alternative to Romney" also be a Romney supporter?

Read the full column here.
  