
    "Here's the key: Michigan's a state that is hungry for jobs. And this is going to be a jobs campaign and Mitt is the jobs candidate. And whatever your, the hot button might be, whether its taxes, to build jobs, well, press the Mitt Romney button. He's cut them 19 times. If you're for right to work then Mitt Romney is your candidate and that is a cutting issue here in Michigan in terms of the Tea Party conservatives, economic conservatives and Mitt presses their hot button because of his stance for it." — Attorney General Bill Schuette
Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette and Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell
"Mitt Romney's Conservative Vision For Creating Jobs In Michigan" Press Conference Call
February 20, 2012
Click Here to Listen to The Entire Call
Highlights of the "Mitt Romney's Conservative Vision For Creating Jobs In Michigan" Press Conference Call:
MICHIGAN ATTORNEY GENERAL BILL SCHUETTE: "Thank you Amanda. And thank you everybody for dialing in today. I really appreciate the fact that Governor Bob McDonnell would participate not just in this conference call but in a few minutes Governor McDonnell is going to fly to Michigan and be part of a Kent County Republican dinner, a big dinner in West Michigan. He's really working hard for us and what a great voice for Mitt he'll be this evening and throughout the remainder of this campaign through November. Just a quick comment and then I'll turn it over to Bob. Here's the key: Michigan's a state that is hungry for jobs. And this is going to be a jobs campaign and Mitt is the jobs candidate. And whatever your, the hot button might be, whether its taxes, to build jobs, well, press the Mitt Romney button. He's cut them 19 times. If you're for right to work then Mitt Romney is your candidate and that is a cutting issue here in Michigan in terms of the Tea Party conservatives, economic conservatives and Mitt presses their hot button because of his stance for it. So, I like the policy issues that we're hitting right now and the remaining eight days of this campaign on jobs and we're running a tough gritty campaign. I think Michigan likes that. Mitt is scrappy, he's sharpened all his issues and I like our position. And Mitt's going to be the comeback kid. I like it a lot. And let me turn it over to Bob McDonnell. Bob."
GOVERNOR BOB MCDONNELL: "Thank you Mr. Attorney General. I appreciate that very much and I appreciate everybody being on the call. I endorsed Mitt Romney several weeks ago because I think he's the best person for America, which I'm sure in our history. And there's really three reasons for it: it's his leadership, it's his views on taxes and spending and debt, and it's his proven ability to create jobs. And when you look what's ailing America right now, we have a significant lack of leadership in the White House. In fact I say we have a surplus of rhetoric and a deficit of results. It's a very big contrast to what Governors like Rick Snyder in Michigan and other governors around the country are doing on taxes and spending and debt and deficits and energy and jobs that are actually getting things done. This president is spending most of his time blaming the Tea Party or Wall Street or K Street or House Republicans or somebody for the problems instead of actually getting things done. We have no coherent program really on jobs or energy that he's been able to put forward. On deficits and debt, this president has racked up more debt in three years than any president in history. $4.7 trillion added to the national debt. And as Bill said, in Massachusetts, you got a governor who has a record of balancing budgets without raising taxes, in fact cutting taxes on 19 occasions, getting rid of a $3 billion deficit in Massachusetts. And then, thirdly, on the issue of jobs, this president said that if we passed all the stimulus and bailouts that we'd have unemployment that would stay under 8 percent. Well, we've been over 8 percent for the entire Obama presidency except for the first month. So his program of more spending and more regulation and more taxes is not working. It's just not a political statement; it's just a matter of fact. You've got a guy like Mitt Romney who not only has been an executive in Massachusetts but his work at the Olympics was significant, turning it into one of the most successful Olympics that we've ever had. Bain Capital and his work in the private sector, finding ways through the free enterprise system to create over one hundred thousand jobs for other people through working with other business leaders. And so that's the reason I'm going to Michigan tonight, I've been campaigning for Governor Romney around the country. I think he's the right guy for the job. I also think, politically, he's got the best ability to appeal to independent voters, and they determine the outcome of virtually every election. And so, it's a tough campaign, we've got four candidates who are all working hard, each have their own constituencies, each would be a better president than our current president in terms of turning the problems of our country around. But I believe Mitt Romney's the best guy at this time. I'm delighted to see my colleague Governor Rick Snyder of Michigan also endorse Governor Romney last week right before the primary coming up. And so we're optimistic that with a lot of hard work and that endorsement, that he'll have the chance to win Michigan."

  