
    "We will no longer use American military might to construct democracies in faraway lands, or try to rebuild other countries in our own image. Those days are now over. Instead, we will work with allies and partners to protect our shared interests." --President Donald J. Trump
SAFETY THROUGH STRENGTH: President Donald J. Trump has undertaken historic efforts to rebuild our military and strengthen our Nation's defenses. 

Since taking office, President Trump has secured robust funding to rebuild our military and defend the safety and security of our Nation.

This includes a record $700 billion last year and $716 billion this year for funding to face new and evolving threats from hostile powers around the world.


The President also helped secure a $100 billion increase in defense spending from NATO allies.
President Trump is working to ensure our service members receive the best equipment, training, and care.

This includes providing our military with its largest pay raise in nearly a decade.



DEFENDING AMERICA'S INTERESTS: President Trump has acted swiftly and decisively to defend our Nation's interests. 

The United States has worked with our allies to liberate virtually all territory held by ISIS in Iraq and Syria.

ISIS controlled more than 20,000 square miles in Iraq and Syria when President Trump took office.


President Trump is continuing his push for peace on the Korean Peninsula and will meet with Chairman Kim again this month in Vietnam.

Though much work remains, our hostages have been brought home, nuclear testing has halted, and there has not been a missile launch in 15 months.


In the coming months, the Administration will release a proposal to end the Israeli and Palestinian conflict and bring peace based on principled realism, not discredited theories.

It was in line with this commitment to principled realism that President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and moved our embassy there.


President Trump condemned Maduro and his cronies in Venezuela and stood up for American principles by recognizing the legitimate Interim President of Venezuela, Juan Guaido.
President Trump has acted to confront the radical regime in Iran by withdrawing from the disastrous, one-sided Iran nuclear deal and imposing devastating sanctions.

PUTTING AMERICA FIRST: President Trump is fulfilling his promise to stop the cycle of endless wars that have burdened our Nation. 

President Trump is bringing our troops home from endless wars and ensuring that countries in the region increase their contribution to the fight against radical Islamic terrorism.
For nearly two decades, America has been involved in Middle Eastern conflicts that have cost thousands of American lives and trillions of dollars.
It is time to begin bringing our troops in Syria home and for countries in the region to step up their commitments to destroy ISIS remnants and prevent their return.
President Trump is determined to pursue a political settlement in Afghanistan and, should progress be made, we will be able to reduce our troop presence there.

  