
    Former Gov. Madeleine Kunin and Speaker Gaye Symington Will Lead Statewide Efforts for Vermont's March 4 Primary
The Clinton Campaign today announced former Vermont Governor Madeleine Kunin and Vermont House of Representative Speaker Gaye Symington will co-chair the campaign's efforts in the Green Mountain State. Kunin and Symington will mobilize grassroots support for Hillary leading up to Vermont's March 4 primary.
No stranger to women making history, Madeleine Kunin served as the governor of Vermont from 1985-1991, the first woman in U.S. history to be elected to three consecutive terms. Kunin is known for her passionate advocacy on behalf of Vermont's children and environment. Prior to her tenure as governor, Kunin was lieutenant governor and a member of the Vermont General Assembly.
"This year the Vermont primary will count in deciding who will be the Democratic nominee, and I am excited to lead the effort for Hillary Clinton," Kunin. "We will work hard to reach every voter in Vermont, but we also know that there are a lot of supporters ready to swing into action. I have seen Hillary Clinton at work and know how effective she is at solving problems. I support her not only because she is qualified and experienced but also because she represents change."
Speaker Gaye Symington, now in her second term as speaker, has dedicated her life to public service throughout Vermont. Successfully presiding over three legislative sessions, she has earned the reputation of a thoughtful and effective legislative leader. First elected to the legislature in 1996, Symington has established herself as an outspoken advocate for public education, health care reform, and rural economic development.
Kunin and Symington will unveil the campaign's efforts throughout the state and speak to the energy already behind Hillary's campaign in the Green Mountain State tomorrow, February 20, at 3:30 p.m. EST during a press conference call.
Members of the media wishing to participate in the call should RSVP to press@hillaryclinton.com for the dial-in information.
  