
    Today Harry Bancroft "Buck" Limehouse, South Carolina's first Secretary of Transportation, announced that he has endorsed Gov. John Kasich for President and joined the Kasich for America Leadership Team in South Carolina as a Co-Chair.
Said Limehouse, "Lowcountry voters are looking for a conservative with an ability to get things done — someone who can bring people together to solve problems. From balancing the federal budget to turning the economy around in Ohio, John Kasich has made a career out of solving problems that seem unsolvable. His record of results and his positive attitude are making a huge impact on voters here in South Carolina, and I look forward to working with the team to keep the momentum going."
Limehouse, a native of Charleston and a 1960 graduate of the Citadel, earned recognition for modernizing South Carolina's transportation infrastructure as the state's first Secretary of Transportation and a member of the State Infrastructure Bank Board. Limehouse is also the owner and founder of Limehouse Properties, a commercial investment real estate company based in Charleston. He is the father of State Rep. Chip Limehouse, who plays an active leadership role in Kasich for America's organization in South Carolina.
Said Kasich, "It's a pleasure to have both father and son on our team in the Lowcountry. I have no doubt that we will benefit immeasurably from Buck's deep knowledge of South Carolina voters and public policy expertise. Our momentum in South Carolina is growing exponentially, and we're looking forward to the election ahead."
Kasich for America South Carolina Leadership Team
State Senator Paul Campbell, Jr.
State Senator Ray Cleary
State Senator Greg Gregory
State Senator Ronnie Cromer
State Representative Jeff Bradley
State Representative Chip Limehouse
State Representative Gary Clay
State Representative Heather Ammons Crawford
State Representative Donna Hicks
State Representative Phyllis Henderson
Former South Carolina Secretary of Transportation Buck Limehouse
  