
    NEW YORK — Former New York City Mayor David Dinkins endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, praising his strong track record of success as Mayor of New York City, his experience as an entrepreneur and a global philanthropist, and his history of taking on our country's toughest issues. Dinkins also touted Mike's unique ability to get things done for all Americans as president, the same way he did for New Yorkers as Mayor.
"Mike is a good friend and was a great mayor, and I am proud to endorse him for President of the United States," said Former Mayor David Dinkins. "Mike and I share core values of inclusion, fairness, a commitment to strengthening our communities, and supporting the least among us. Being mayor of New York is the second-hardest job in the country. Mike and I know the challenges of governing a major metropolis unlike any other city in the world. Today our nation is in need of compassionate and competent leadership. That's why I'm voting to promote Mike to the hardest job in the country. As mayor, Mike brought all New Yorkers together after the 9/11 attacks, no matter their background, race, or religion. He led the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan and then guided the city through the Great Recession. He fought to get guns off our streets, strengthened our public schools, created nearly half a million jobs, and expanded job training programs for our most vulnerable youth. Upon his arrival at City Hall, Mike assembled an inspired a diverse team of smart, passionate people committed to improving the lives of all New Yorkers. He also sought my counsel, and recognized my service to the city as well as those citizens that supported and trusted me. I have complete confidence in Mike's ability to lead this country during these challenging times and that is why I endorse my friend Mike Bloomberg for President of the United States."
"David Dinkins is a great New Yorker and a great American – a decorated veteran, a trailblazing public servant, and a man of integrity and dignity," said Mike Bloomberg. "When I was in City Hall, I built on the work Mayor Dinkins led to reduce crime and homelessness, build affordable housing, create new cultural programs, and revitalize the city. Mayor Dinkins knows what it takes to lead on issues Democrats care most about, and I'm honored to have his endorsement and support."
Former Mayor David Dinkins began his public service career in 1966 as a member of the New York State Assembly. He was president of the New York City Board of Elections, and served as City Clerk for 10 years before his elections as President of the Borough of Manhattan in 1985 and 106th Mayor of the City of New York in 1989. Dinkins was the first and only African American mayor of New York City.
As Mayor, Dinkins was responsible for the establishment of numerous widely heralded cultural staples such as Fashion Week, Restaurant Week, and Broadway on Broadway. His administration initiated the revitalization of Times Square and secured an unprecedented deal to keep the U.S. Open Tennis Championships in New York for the next 99 years, which generates more annual financial benefits to the city than the Yankees, Mets, Knicks, and Rangers combined. Dinkins also instituted "Safe Streets, Safe City: Cops and Kids," a comprehensive criminal justice plan that expanded opportunities for the children of New York and continued to reduce crime in the years that followed his term.
  