
    Governor Romney On The Importance Of These Times (Fox News' "Fox & Friends," 2/5/08):
Governor Romney: "These are really critical times for our country. We face extraordinary challenges from the jihadists, from new competition from Asia. We see our economy getting weaker. People wonder how they are going to pay their bills, gas bills, heating bills. If America keeps on the same track we're on, we're not going to remain the most powerful nation on Earth. Washington is fundamentally broken, and it's not going to get changed by people who spent their whole life in Washington. You're going to have to have somebody come from the outside, the way Ronald Reagan came from the outside, and shake Washington up. And that's exactly what I intend to do. I don't think it's also possible to have somebody lead our party who is very much outside the house that Reagan built. Senator McCain's a fine fellow, national hero. But his positions on the keystone issues of his 25 years are positions that are more like Democrats than like those of Republicans."
To watch Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pfDUK7hMzk4
Governor Romney On Conservative Support (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 2/5/08):
Governor Romney: "[T]his is just the beginning. We've got a lot of states to go. And what we're seeing is, by virtue of voices like yours and others across the conservative world, conservatives are waking up, and they're saying, 'Look, we just can't take a left turn in our party. We've got to stand by the principles that Ronald Reagan laid out.' And I'm the conservative candidate in this race. It's become a two-person race, and in California over the weekend, as you point out, the polls show that I'm tied there or doing a little better than tied. You never know whether to believe polls or not. But then you look at Maine, we just had a caucus in Maine over the weekend. Both U.S. Senators were fighting for Senator McCain, but you know what, I won there by 50 to 20. The signs are good that conservatives are listening and saying, 'You know what, we don't want to take the liberal path.'"
To watch Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2fO-CYHiQ30
Governor Romney On The Needed Executive Experience (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 2/5/08):
Governor Romney: "You know, I do think there are a couple of things that make it or break it. One is life experience. Senator McCain has spent 25 years in the United States Senate. He's a fine Senator. He has his own perspectives and views there. He's very well noted for major pieces of legislation, but in every case I can recall, the pieces of legislation he's noted for were ones that were, if you will, Democrat pieces of legislation he attached his name to. He was not noted for doing great things within his own party. But then perhaps beyond that is the fact that he spent his life in Congress with 500 people there debating bills, sitting on committees. I spent my life out running businesses and then running the Olympics and then running a state. I have a record of actually having worked to create jobs. I understand how the economy works at the ground level."
To watch Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=opyF1aIOTZU
  