
    Mayor Perkins will also serve as a National Co-Chair of Young Electeds for Mike
SHREVEPORT, LOUISIANA — Shreveport, Louisiana Mayor Adrian Perkins endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, lauding his commitment to energizing local leaders around the country as well as his ambitious vision to fix our failing infrastructure. Mayor Perkins has also been named National Co-Chair of Young Electeds for the campaign and will advise on strategy and policy.
"It is our responsibility to build a nation that our young people can be proud of and motivates them to be contributors as they inherit the challenges of our time," said Mayor Adrian Perkins. "In order to do this, we need leaders who listen, are willing to work across the aisle, and will support local leaders to put our nation on the right path forward. As a mayor, business leader, and philanthropist, Mike Bloomberg has consistently engaged local leaders in an ongoing dialogue and has inspired mayors across the country to do their part. He is a visionary with a plan to build smarter and safer infrastructure that is more sustainable for cities like Shreveport and give us all a better future. I am delighted to give Mike my support."
"Mayor Perkins has led all his life — as class president at West Point, during multiple tours in Iraq and Afghanistan, and now as he moves his hometown forward," said Mike Bloomberg. "We share a belief in the need to rebuild America, starting with infrastructure in communities like Shreveport and extending to our alliances around the world. Mayor Perkins knows how much more he and other mayors around the country could achieve if they had a true partner in the White House — and that's what I'll be. I'm honored to have his support and excited to welcome him as a National Co-Chair of Young Elected Officials."
Mayor Perkins's endorsement follows the announcement of Mike's infrastructure plan that equips and empowers local officials to address critical issues by investing more than a trillion dollars in funding to state and local governments. The plan includes investments tied to clear goals: better roads, safer bridges, clean air and water, and reliable power and broadband for everyone.
Perkins is the 57th Mayor of Shreveport, Louisiana. In the wake of 9/11, Perkins accepted a nomination to the United States Military Academy where he became the first African-American cadet elected Class President in West Point's history. Upon graduation, Perkins deployed to both Iraq and Afghanistan, achieving the rank of Captain and Company Commander in the United States Army and was awarded the Bronze Star for his service. After three tours of duty, Perkins enrolled in Harvard Law School, where he was elected Student Body President.
  