
    Today, ahead of voting on Super Tuesday, Virginia Senator Time Kaine released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"America is afflicted by a President who delights in division, cruelty, lies, chaos, and self-congratulation. We are better than that, and Americans deserve better in the Oval Office.
"Democrats have many good public servants and admirable people running for President. I will vote in the Virginia presidential primary for Joe Biden. Barack Obama wisely chose Joe as his partner in the White House, and for eight years, Vice President Biden worked hand-in-hand with President Obama to rescue the American economy from catastrophe, expand health care to millions of people, revive creative diplomacy to keep Americans safe, tackle global challenges like climate change, and appoint high-quality people across the executive and judicial branches of our government. As a Senator, I saw first-hand Joe's role in these accomplishments.
"It is sad to have a President who no one holds up as a role model for America's kids. By contrast, Joe Biden has exemplary heart, character, and experience. He reminds me of Harry S. Truman, an outwardly ordinary man whose work ethic, faith in the goodness of everyday Americans, and love of country made him a great President. I am proud to vote for Joe Biden."
Senator Kaine is the sixth U.S. Senator to endorse Biden — the most of any candidate in the race. He joins Senators Chris Coons and Thomas Carper of Delaware, Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, Doug Jones of Alabama, and Dianne Feinstein of California. He also joins a slew of leaders from Virginia supporting Biden, including Congressman Donald McEachin, Congresswoman Elaine Luria, Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney, Roanoke Mayor Sherman Lea, Virginia State Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, and other state legislators and local leaders.
Biden has garnered a total of 45 endorsements from members in the House of Representatives from across the country, including the most number of Frontline members who represent critical swing districts. Most recently, Congressman Jim Clyburn of South Carolina — the kingmaker of politics in the Palmetto State — announced he is supporting Biden ahead of Saturday's "First in the South" primary.
In total, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  