
    "Rick Santorum is a Washington insider who is lashing out at Mitt Romney because he had a terrible debate performance. Back in 2008, Senator Santorum endorsed Mitt Romney for president because of Mitt's conservative record. Now, Rick's changed his tune. This sounds like another case of Rick Santorum abandoning his principles for his own political advantage." —Gail Gitcho, Romney Communications Director
Yesterday, Senator Santorum Went On Laura Ingraham's Radio Show To Launch Desperate Attacks On Governor Romney's Conservatism:
Senator Santorum Used His Appearance On The Show To Launch "Blistering Attacks" Against Governor Romney. "Santorum is unloading on Romney, focusing his energy Friday on delivering blistering attacks in appearances on conservative media outlets. Before noon, he had already gone on Laura Ingraham's radio program to launch his broadsides." (Jon Ward, "Santorum Swings Hard At Romney, Says His Team Is 'All Democrats'," The Huffington Post, 2/24/12)
Four Years Ago, Senator Santorum Appeared On The Same Show And Praised Governor Romney's Conservative Record:
On Laura Ingraham's Show In February 2008, Senator Santorum Effusively Praised Governor Romney's Conservatism And Claimed Conservatism Was "In [Romney's] Heart." SANTORUM: "What I know I have seen is over the past 9, 10 months now, is a guy that has gone through that pressure cooker, who has developed a passion, who understands why he's a conservative, and understands the issues, how they weave together, and America. Conservatism is about traditional values and traditional way of American life. And I think he understands that. It's not just in his head anymore, it's in his heart." (Laura Ingraham Show, 2/1/08)
Senator Santorum Claimed Romney's Conservatism Exceeded All Other Candidates: "If You're A Conservative ... There Is Only One Place To Go Right Now. And That's Mitt Romney." SANTORUM: "If you're a conservative, there really is only one place to go right now. I would even argue further than that. If you're a Republican, if you're a Republican and in the broadest sense, there is only one place to go right now. And that's Mitt Romney." (Laura Ingraham Show, 2/1/08)
Santorum Also Praised Governor Romney's Conservatism On National Security: "This Guy Really Gets It ... He Knows What It Means To Be A Commander-In-Chief Under These Circumstances." SANTORUM: "He understands the national security piece. I walked away from there saying i can check that box. This guy really gets it. He understands it. He has a depth of knowledge about it. He knows what it means to be a commander-in-chief under these circumstances." (Laura Ingraham Show, 2/1/08)
Senator Santorum Also Said Romney "Was Tremendously Helpful" In Crafting The Federal Marriage Amendment And Led On The Issue "When It Wasn't A High Priority Of America." SANTORUM: "I worked the marriage issue. ... I worked with Peter Flaherty, with Mitt Romney. They were in constant communication with me throughout the time we were doing this marriage debate. He was tremendously helpful to me in crafting this Amendment and working with people to get moderates, even some moderate people to come on and vote with us. He was a tremendous asset early on, on this issue when it wasn't a high priority of America." (Laura Ingraham Show, 2/1/08)
What's Changed For Senator Santorum? The State Of His Campaign:
ABC's Jake Tapper: "Rick Santorum, Last Night, Committed Political Malpractice Upon Himself." (ABC's "Good Morning America," 2/23/12)
Washington Examiner: "Santorum Blows It: 'I Took One For The Team'" (The Washington Examiner, 2/22/12)
Washington Post: "Rick Santorum Struggles To Defend His Record In Heated Debate" (The Washington Post, 2/22/12)
National Journal: "Santorum Sounds Like Ultimate Washington Insider In Debate" (National Journal, 2/22/12)
  