
    Pool Reports by Katie Rogers, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




February 13, 202113:53

VP pool report: Unscheduled stop at DC VA center
Greetings from an iced-over Washington, where it is sleeting, grey and 27 degrees.
Vice President Kamala Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, the second gentleman, made an unscheduled stop on Saturday at Washington DC VA Center, a veteran's hospital in the capitol. They met the new VA secretary, Denis McDonough and his wife, Kari. The foursome handed out baskets of cookies to essential healthcare workers.
The VP arrived at 1:40 pm.
Healthcare workers and members of the kitchen crew had gathered outside, without coats on, at 1:26 pm, but an awning kept them out of the freezing rain. Some ran in place to keep warm. The VA secretary stood several yards away from the group, holding a box of coffee.
The workers were told to put their phones in their pockets and "enjoy the moment." The roughly two dozen attendees were people of color. The two greeters were Kimberly Callaway, a physicians assistant, and Monique Johnson, a nurse practitioner.
The crowd cheered and applauded as the motorcade pulled up.
"We are so grateful for you," VP said in brief remarks.
"Congratulations!" One woman yelled as the VP elbow-bumped greeters. "We are so proud of you."
VA Sec told the crowd: "I'll keep coming back. You can count on that."
Vp did not speak to pool before climbing into her SUV and departing at 1:44pm.
Background from WH:
Ahead of Valentine's Day, the Vice President and Second Gentleman are delivering two baskets of cookies to essential health care workers at the VA Medical Center in NW Washington, thanking them for their service and hard work. Each cookie is individually wrapped with a note that reads, "Have a sweet Valentine's Day! We appreciate you. Kamala & Doug."
They are joined by Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough and his wife, Kari McDonough, who are providing coffee for essential health care workers. The Vice President ceremonially swore in Secretary McDonough on Tuesday, February 9.



February 13, 202114:07

VP Pool report 1a: McDonough gaggle on vaccines
VA Secretary McDonough gaggled for about four minutes shortly after the VP departed.
Highlights:
- McDonough said hundreds of veterans and DHS personnel would be vaccinated on site on Saturday. "We are very proud of the work that is being done here and I'm very proud of the VA." He said he'd have to get back to us on expected vaccinations today but reports put it at around 800.
- He said 200k of a million-dose allotment to the VA has gone to frontline workers and clinic workers across the country. He said the allotment has been distributed completely: "Those are all shots in arms."
- A kitchen worker and veteran who has recovered from covid told the pool she had been vaccinated but was lacking in protective gear. Asked about this, McDonough said "support for our people is obviously a major priority and we are going to stay on top of that," but that he didn't have any update on supply distribution right now.
- Asked about what shape the previous administration left the VA in on PPE and supplies, McDonough said he'd answered a good amount of questions and departed.
PS: The prior pool report was unnumbered and should be VP pool report 1.
That's a wrap. Stay warm.



February 13, 202114:42

VP Pool report 1b - correction
Correction: The kitchen worker at the VA had been talking about being in need of work supplies, not protective gear.




  