
    Statement from Senator Barbara Mikulski (MD) and Senator Patty Murray (WA) on United States Senate votes on bankruptcy laws:
"We served with Hillary Clinton in the Senate, and no one worked harder with us to improve the lives of women and children, including during the 2001 bankruptcy reform debate. She fought to improve the chances that women could collect child support and alimony when their ex-spouse went into bankruptcy. She fought to ensure that low-income women, who so often used credit cards to buy food, medicine and clothing for their families, could see debt relief. She made the bill better, and together, we made it clear that we expected further improvements before this bill could be signed into law. When the bill that resurfaced in 2005, it had moved in the opposite direction so we voted against it, and Hillary made clear that she strongly opposed it. We were proud to fight alongside our friend to protect the economic security of women and children, even when powerful interests were fighting against her."
Statement from Marcia Greenberger, Co-President, National Women's Law Center and Judith Lichtman, Senior Advisor, National Partnership for Women & Families on United States Senate votes on bankruptcy laws:
"We are strong advocates for women's rights, and we personally support Hillary Clinton because she has fought for women her whole life. In 2001, at our urging, she fought to protect the rights of women and families during the Senate bankruptcy reform debate. While we pressed for a 'no' on that vote, all the women Democratic Senators present voted for that version of the bill, which never became law because the Republican-controlled House refused to accept some of the improvements Senator Clinton and others insisted on. The bill resurfaced in 2005, though Hillary was in the hospital at her husband's bedside and missed the vote. But she didn't let us down: she made clear that she opposed the bill and believed it was 'deeply flawed.' She fought for us. To suggest that Senator Clinton was an outlier who was taking a vote for Wall Street in 2001 is simply false."
organizations for identification purposes only
  