
    WORKING WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR: President Donald J. Trump has had a dozen meetings with American business and union leaders to hear their input.

Ford announced plans to cancel a plant in Mexico, while adding 700 jobs in Michigan.
Fiat Chrysler announced a $1 billion investment in the United States, creating 2,000 jobs.
General Motors announced it planned to invest $1 billion in the United States, creating over 1,000 new jobs.
Softbank announced it would bring 8,000 jobs to the United States, with Sprint keeping 5,000 jobs and OneWeb adding 3,000 jobs.
Lockheed Martin pledged to add 1,800 jobs after a meeting with then President-elect Trump.
President Trump hosted the CEO of Intel to announce a plan to invest $7 billion in a United States factory, creating 10,000 American jobs.
Wal-Mart announced it planned to create about 10,000 jobs in the United States this year.
President Trump has had nearly a dozen meetings with American business leaders and workers across a variety of industries, including manufacturing, retail, and automobile makers.

GETTING GOVERNMENT OUT OF THE WAY: President Trump has tackled rules and regulations that get in the way of jumpstarting job growth for all Americans.

President Trump has required that for every new costly Federal regulation, two existing regulations be eliminated.
President Trump signed legislation, House Joint Resolution 38, to prevent the burdensome "Stream Protection Rule" from causing further harm to the coal industry.
President Trump signed legislation, House Joint Resolution 41, to eliminate a costly regulation that threatened to put American mining and energy companies and their employees at an unfair disadvantage.
President Trump directed the Secretary of Commerce to develop a plan to streamline Federal permitting processes for domestic manufacturers.

ON THE RIGHT TRACK: Since President Trump's inauguration, the economy has been showing steady improvement and high confidence.

In January, the civilian labor force grew by 584,000.
In January, 227,000 jobs were added to the workforce.

In January, 36,000 construction jobs were added.
In January, 5,000 manufacturing jobs were added.



  