
    
This week, Family Research Council Action, one of America's most prominent social-conservative advocacy groups, recognized Marco with its "True Blue" Award.
The award recognizes legislators who have a 100 percent rating according to FRC Action's legislative scorecard, as he did last year.
Here's what the group's president, Tony Perkins, had to say about Marco:
We thank Senator Rubio for consistently voting to uphold the fundamentals of faith, family and freedom. Senator Rubio voted to repeal key parts of Obamacare, protect the unborn, end the forced partnership between taxpayers and Planned Parenthood, and protect state marriage laws before the Supreme Court changed the [natural] definition of marriage.
We can be encouraged by elected officials who are willing to be criticized by some in the media and the intolerant voices of secularism as they stand for family values. Congress as a whole is often criticized, and rightfully so, but there are individual Senators, like Senator Rubio, who deserve praise for their unwavering commitment to stand for life, family, marriage, and religious liberty.
Family Research Council Action and the hundreds of thousands of families we represent are proud to recognize Senator Rubio for his faithful work. Our hope is that in the next Congress, he will be joined by many more like him.

Marco earned the rating this year for, among other things:

his opposition to the redefinition of marriage
the federal government's imposition of Common Core
and federal funding for Planned Parenthood, and
his support for banning late-term abortions and eliminating the death tax



He believes America's values have made America great, and supports strong families and the right to life.
That's why he's received the endorsement of top pro-life figures like Abby Johnson.
He's received a whole set of accolades from other conservative organizations for his sterling voting record:

Marco's unabashedly conservative — and he can unite our party and beat Hillary.
  