
    'Pennsylvania awarded $244.9M from Biden Administration to clean abandoned mines''Biden plan to spend $725M to clean up abandoned coal mine''Abandoned mine cleanup efforts in IL helped by federal money'
Local news outlets from Pennsylvania to New Mexico are reporting on yesterday's announcement that nearly $725 million in Fiscal Year '22 funding is available to 22 states and the Navajo Nation to create jobs and economic opportunity by reclaiming abandoned mine lands (AML) as part of President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
The Department of the Interior will allocate and distribute nearly $725 million of AML funding annually over the next 15 years, which will help communities eliminate dangerous environmental conditions and pollution caused by past coal mining while creating jobs and spurring economic growth. These resources will allow states and Tribes to begin addressing outstanding reclamation needs and to reassess estimated costs of existing projects. And, as required by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, this funding will prioritize projects that employ dislocated coal industry workers.
Here's a sampling of the local coverage: 
Pennsylvania 
Pittsburgh-Post Gazette: Pennsylvania to get surge of money for abandoned mine cleanup 
Pennsylvania's nearly $245 million allocation dwarfs every other state because it has the largest inventory of abandoned mine land problem areas in the nation. …The funding announced Monday is more than triple Pennsylvania's typical annual grant…U.S. Rep. Mike Doyle, D-Forest Hills, said the funding "means that Americans will be put to work in good-paying jobs" while U.S. Rep. Conor Lamb, D-Mt. Lebanon, said it presents an opportunity to "restore the land and prepare it for the opportunities presented by the new economy."
WTAJ (NBC Johnstown, PA): Pennsylvania to get nearly $245M to clean-up abandoned mine lands 
The Dept. of the Interior announced nearly $725 million in funding available to 22 states and the Navajo Nation to create good-paying union jobs by reclaiming abandoned mine lands (AML) with the largest portion going to Pennsylvania. The law will allocate a total of $11.3 billion in AML funding over 15 years, which will help communities eliminate dangerous environmental conditions and pollution caused by past coal mining. This historic funding allocation is expected to address the vast majority of inventoried abandoned mine lands in this country. As required by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, this funding will prioritize projects that employ dislocated coal industry workers.
WPMT (FOX Harrisburg, PA): Wolf, Casey applaud as Pennsylvania receives $244.9 million in funding to clean up abandoned mines across the commonwealth 
Governor Tom Wolf announced Monday that Pennsylvania has been awarded $244.9 million from President Joe Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to clean up abandoned mines across the commonwealth. "We've long needed a solution to accelerate work to address the environmental and public health concerns of our legacy energy development, [and] I'm pleased that the Biden Administration shares my commitment to reclaiming Pennsylvania's abandoned mine-land for productive use," the governor said in a press release. "This bipartisan investment will address the dangers of abandoned mines while simultaneously supporting new, good-paying jobs, economic recovery, and community revitalization."
WHTM (ABC Harrisburg, PA): Pennsylvania awarded $244.9M from Biden Administration to clean abandoned mines 
Governor Wolf announced on Monday that Pennsylvania has been awarded just under $250 million from President Biden's Infrastructure Law to clean abandoned mines across the state. "We've long needed a solution to accelerate work to address the environmental and public health concerns of our legacy energy development, I'm pleased that the Biden Administration shares my commitment to reclaiming Pennsylvania's abandoned mine-land for productive use," Governor Wolf said. "This bipartisan investment will address the dangers of abandoned mines while simultaneously supporting new, good-paying jobs, economic recovery, and community revitalization."
WFMZ (Allentown, PA): Gov. Wolf announces funds towards cleaning up abandoned mines 
Pennsylvania is receiving millions to clean up abandoned mines across the commonwealth. Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf Announced Monday the state has been awarded $244.9 million from President Joe Biden's Infrastructure Law. The money will be used to clean up the more than 5,000 abandoned mines across the state. Wolf said the mines are environmental and safety hazards, which could cause fires and water and air pollution. Wolf said the funds will allow the state to put the land to more productive use, such as for things like recreation, farming or clean energy production.
WBRE (NBC Wilkes Barre, PA): PA to receive around $245M in abandoned coal mine land funds
The U.S. Department of Interior announced nearly $725 million in funding is available to reclaim abandoned mine lands and Pennsylvania will receive the most from that funding. PA will receive just under 245 million dollars. "Even though Pennsylvania is the 33rd largest state in the nation by land area, we are home to 1/3 to the nation's abandoned mine lands. Just imagine that 1/3 of the nation's abandoned mine land in one state," stated Senator Bob Casey (D). Senator Casey says around a million and a half Pennsylvanians lives within one mile of an abandoned mine site.
Pittsburgh Business Times: Pennsylvania will get most from feds' abandoned-mine cleanup funds
Pennsylvania will get the largest share — $244.9 million — of an initial $725 million in federal funding later this year to clean up abandoned coal mines, thanks to the infrastructure law passed late last year…"It's a shot in the arm for coal country," said Mitch Landrieu, Biden administration senior advisor and infrastructure coordinator…The funds from the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, signed in November by President Biden, will provide $11.3 million over 15 years at a rate of $725 million a year. It's in addition to the lesser amounts of money that come to states through the abandoned mine lands funding, paid for by coal companies.
WBVP/WMBA: US Congressman Lamb (17th) Announces Pa Eligible for $244 Million From Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to Reclaim Mine Land
Today, the U.S. Department of Interior announced that nearly $725 million in funding has been made available to states to reclaim abandoned mine lands (AML), allocated as part of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law... For much of the twentieth century mining companies could use our natural resources and leave their sites without restoration. Congress changed that in the 1970s, taking steps to increase funding for remediating these sites, but hundreds of thousands of acres of Pennsylvania remain impacted. This historic funding accelerates that process and is expected to address the vast majority of inventoried abandoned mine lands in this country. This is especially important for Pennsylvania, as the Department of the Interior estimates the state accounts for approximately 46 percent of the United States' remaining reclamation costs.
West Virginia
WV News: West Virginia to receive more than $140 million for abandoned mine lands
West Virginia is slated to receive more than $140 million to reclaim abandoned mine lands, according to the state's congressional delegation. The state is expected to receive $140,751,000 from the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act to clean up former mine lands, according to the offices of Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., Sen. Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va., and Rep. David McKinley, R-W.Va. "Reclaiming our abandoned mine lands will continue to have positive impacts in West Virginia, leading to improvements in our water quality, revitalized landscapes, and further economic development and job creation." Capito said.
WTRF (CBS Wheeling, WV): Biden plan to spend $725M to clean up abandoned coal mines
Nearly $725 million in federal funding is available this fiscal year to 22 states, including West Virginia and the Navajo Nation for the reclamation of abandoned coal mines and cleanup of acid mine drainage. It's included in President Joe Biden's $1 trillion infrastructure package and is part of an overall plan to spend $11.3 billion in the U.S. abandoned mine lands program over 15 years. Reclamation of shuttered coal mine sites is considered crucial to preventing environmental pollution and returning land to its natural setting. The funding is considered key to removing toxic metals and returning fish and wildlife to waterways.
Kentucky 
WTVQ (ABC Lexington, KY): Kentucky to get $74 million for mine reclamation, clean up hazardous sites
The Department of the Interior announced Monday nearly $725 million in Fiscal Year 22 funding, including more than $74 million for Kentucky, is available to 22 states and the Navajo Nation for reclaiming abandoned mine lands (AML) as part of President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law…Kentucky U.S. Sen. Mitch McConnell…"I have been a proud supporter of this program for many years and am thrilled the Senate's bipartisan infrastructure bill will increase its funding significantly."
Illinois
WSIL (ABC Harrisburg, IL): Illinois receives $75 million for abandoned mine cleanup
Illinois will receive more than $75 million in funding from the U.S. Department of Interior this year to boost efforts to clean up abandoned coal mines throughout the state, Governor JB Pritzker announced Monday... "This new federal funding will help clean up abandoned mines across our state, creating jobs and keeping our communities safe," Governor Pritzker said. "I am grateful to President Biden, Secretary Haaland, and bipartisan members of Congress for their work to pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and invest critical funds in our communities that need it most."
WAND (NBC Decatur, IL): Abandoned mine cleanup efforts in IL helped by federal money
Illinois is planning to clean up abandoned coal mines throughout the state with over $75 million in federal funding. The money is coming from the U.S. Department of Interior to boost cleanup efforts. It is part of President Joe Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which is designed to set up well-paying union jobs and catalyze economic opportunity by reclaiming abandoned mine lands, a press release from Gov. JB Pritzker's office said.
WEHT (ABC Tristate): Illinois gets funding to reclaim old mines
Illinois will receive more than $75 million in funding from the U.S. Department of Interior this year to boost efforts to clean up abandoned coal mines throughout the state, Governor JB Pritzker announced February 7. The funding from the U.S. Department of the Interior is part of President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, designed to create good-paying union jobs and make some economic opportunities by reclaiming abandoned mine lands.
New Mexico
KQRE (CBS Albuquerque, NM): Interior department to distribute funds to help coal-impacted communities
The Interior department is giving states $725 million to clean up abandoned coal mines. The money will come from the infrastructure law approved last year and will fund projects to close mine shafts, fix unstable slopes and treat acid mine drainage. New Mexico will receive $2.4 million. The Navajo Nation will get $1.6 million. Interior officials say the funds are needed to deal with pollution in the communities that neighbor coal mines. "This problem is bad. there are 20-thousand under some counts of abandoned coal mines that have been left over decades," said Winnie Stachelberg with the US Department of the Interior.
NM Political Reporter: New Mexico eligible for $2.4 million for cleanup of abandoned mines
The U.S. Department of the Interior announced on Monday that New Mexico is eligible for approximately $2.4 million in federal funding through the abandoned mine land section of a bipartisan infrastructure package that was signed into law in November. This funding is intended to help create jobs and economic opportunities for areas that have been dependent on coal mining.
Tennessee
WJHL (ABC Johnson City, TN): Dept. of Interior invests nearly $725 million into Appalachian mine land restoration this year, TN and VA to receive over $30 million
In another round of Infrastructure Bill investments, the Biden administration announced the allocation of nearly $725 million into the Appalachian Mountains region to reclaim abandoned mine lands. According to a release from the Department of Interior (DOI), $724,849,000 will be distributed to 22 states and the Navajo Nation to invest in abandoned mine land (AML) reclamation.
  