
    Trump's Focus Brings Renewed Optimism To America's Manufacturers
Washington Examiner
By Jay Timmons
Consumer confidence registered a 15-year high after the election. The stock market is shattering records. Job numbers are improving. These data points are evidence that the economic "spirit of optimism" about which President Trump has spoken frequently in recent days is real.
As the National Association of Manufacturers kicks off its annual "State of Manufacturing" tour this week, we can declare that manufacturers in America are optimistic about the future because we now have a true advocate, partner and ally in the White House.
...
But there is a new focus with this administration. From the very first day of business, Trump opened up the White House for listening sessions for manufacturers to share ideas and concerns with him and his staff. And the president personally visited Boeing — a major manufacturing exporter — to celebrate the unveiling of its impressive new Dreamliner.
Recently, Intel’s CEO stood in the Oval Office to announce the company's plan to invest $7 billion in a U.S. factory that will create 10,000 American jobs. Lockheed-Martin pledged to add 1,800 jobs. Numerous automakers have announced major investments in U.S. facilities. And, similarly, other global companies are making major investments in the future of manufacturing in the United States. Take for example, Bayer's $8 billion acquisition of Monsanto. This is the largest deal ever in the agriculture industry and will keep the headquarters in St. Louis, Mo.
...
To connect more people with solid manufacturing careers, we need to see more change from Washington. Trump pledged to slash bureaucratic red tape, cut taxes for our workers and businesses, and negotiate strong trade deals. He vowed to unleash American energy. Manufacturers look forward to Trump delivering on his promises, just as he has already delivered on promises to prioritize major infrastructure projects and reduce the burden of government regulations.
Indeed, Trump is off to a great start, and we are excited about the pro-growth tax reform, healthcare and infrastructure investment plans that are expected to come in the near future.
Manufacturers will continue engaging with the administration to craft policies that put Americans back to work. The only way to lift everyone up and leave no one behind is with a strong and growing manufacturing jobs base. We are proud to work alongside President Trump — and any leader who believes in manufacturing's promise — to make manufacturing and our nation greater than ever before.
Jay Timmons is president and CEO of the National Association of Manufacturers.
Read the entire article here.
  