
    'The answer is not to abandon our streets. It's for police and the community to come together to make them safer through policing that treats everyone with dignity and respect.' – President Biden in New York City 
Local news outlets across the state of New York are reporting on President Biden's comprehensive plan to reduce gun violence and keep our communities safe following his trip to New York City.
During the trip, President Biden and Attorney General Merrick Garland joined with New York City Mayor Eric Adams, New York Governor Kathy Hochul, Members of Congress, and other state and local leaders, and made clear that the solution to gun crime is not to defund our police forces, but to give them resources and training needed to better partner with and protect neighborhoods across the country. The President also reiterated his call for Congress to increase support for proven strategies to reduce gun crime by half a billion dollars – including $300 million to double federal support for community policing and another $200 million for community violence interventions.
Here is a sampling of the coverage:


New York Daily News: In opinion: President Biden writes on gun violence amid new U.S. anti-crime plan, announced during NYC visit[Joe Biden, 2/3/22]
It's time for all of us to say: enough. There are steps we can take to turn pain into purpose, and that is what I was in New York Thursday to announce…Mayor Adams and I agree: The solution is not to defund our police, it's to give them the tools, training and funding to be the partners and protectors our communities need. The answer is not to abandon our streets. It's for police and the community to come together to make them safer through policing that treats everyone with dignity and respect.
Spectrum News 1: Biden heads to New York to discuss combating gun violence, crime: 'We're not about defunding, we're about funding'[Kevin Frey, Justin Tasolides And Rachel Tillman, 2/3/22]
President Joe Biden traveled to New York City on Thursday to discuss his administration's efforts to combat crime and gun violence…Ahead of the trip, the White House announced additional actions to reduce gun crime and make communities safer, building on the comprehensive strategy to tackle gun crime President Biden announced last summer... Biden noted that he directed the Justice Department to "work with state and local law enforcement" to develop partnerships similar to the one in New York.
New York Daily News: Biden praises Mayor Adams' anti-crime plan, unveils new gun crackdown while in NYC: 'We are not about defunding'[Chris Sommerfeldt and Thomas Tracy, 2/3/22]
President Biden praised Mayor Adams' crime-fighting agenda Thursday and unveiled a new federal initiative aimed at stemming a flow of illegal weapons from southern states that has contributed to the city's recent spike in violence…Vowing to be Adams' "partner," Biden said his administration is embarking on a new crackdown on so-called "ghost guns," homemade weapons that typically aren't subject to background checks and lack traceable serial numbers…"If you commit a crime with a ghost gun, not only your state and local prosecutors are going to come after you, but expect federal charges and federal prosecution as well," Biden said.
New York Daily News: Biden brings help: The president promises aid to reverse NYC's rising tide of violent crime[Editorial Board, 2/4/22]
Though there are more than enough guns and willing trigger-pullers already here to do plenty of damage for a long time, we can't argue with Joe Biden that easy access to firearms via the Iron Pipeline is fueling death and destruction on New York streets, so we commend his promise to ramp up the feds' cooperation with cities and states to combat gun trafficking…We welcome the federal funding he wants to send the way of New York and other cities, asking Congress for a $300 million boost in a grant program to hire cops and $200 million more for gun-violence prevention programs. We also welcome a Justice Department crackdown on ghost guns…We applaud his commitment to trying to get new gun safety laws through Congress — one he'll have to honor with action... Biden's never been a "defund the police" type, but dishonest Republicans have leaped at the opportunity to create that impression.
ABC New York: Major crime on the rise in NYC, President Biden promises federal funding[2/4/22]
On the same day that Mayor Eric Adams hosted President Joe Biden in New York City, new statistics were released that show major crime is on the rise…That's why President Biden was at NYPD headquarters with Attorney General Merrick Garland announcing new federal help, like ways to dismantle the iron pipeline of guns flooding our streets from the south…Then, they traveled to queens with the mayor and Governor Kathy Hochul, talking to unarmed violence interrupters, professionals in the community who de-escalate problems before they turn deadly.
CBS New York: President Biden, Mayor Adams Discuss How Federal Government Can Help Stop Flow Of Illegal Guns Into NYC[Dick Brennan, 2/4/22]
President Joe Biden met with elected officials in the city on Thursday and announced federal help to stop the flow of guns into the state…"It's enough. Enough is enough," Biden said…The president gave vent to the frustration of New Yorkers, Mayor Eric Adams, Gov. Kathy Hochul, and the families of slain NYPD detectives Jason Rivera and Wilbert Mora as he announced new money, new programs, and new resolve to stop the flow of illegal guns into the state, guns that are killing cops and civilians alike…"Mayor Adams, you and I agree the answer is not to abandon our streets. That's not the answer. The answer is not to defund the police. It's to give you the tools, the training, the funding," Biden said.
NBC New York: Biden in NYC to Talk Gun War as Recent Deaths of Police, Teens Fuel Crime Concerns[2/3/22]
Running through a grim tally of recent gun deaths, President Joe Biden pledged to New Yorkers and the nation on Thursday that the federal government would step up its fight against gun violence by working more closely with police and communities to stop the surging bloodshed…"It's enough. Enough is enough," Biden told police, law enforcement officials and lawmakers gathered at the city's police headquarters. "We can do something about this."…Biden promised NYC Mayor Eric Adams that the federal government would do what it can to help curb the rise in gun violence across the city.
Associated Press: Biden in NYC: Nation must come together to end gun violence[Colleen Long, Michael Balsamo and Michelle L. Price, 2/3/22]
"It's enough. Enough is enough," Biden told police, law enforcement officials and lawmakers gathered at the city's police headquarters. "We can do something about this."…"The answer is not to defund the police," Biden said. "It is to give you the tools, the training, the funding to be partners, to be protectors and know the community."… Biden called on Congress to pass a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. But he also spoke of the powerful gun lobby that has been effective at curbing any effort to rein in guns and that points to the Second Amendment right to bear arms.
New York Times: Biden Vows to N.Y. Officials That He Won't 'Abandon Our Streets'[Katie Glueck, Zolan Kanno-Youngs, and Michael Wilson, 2/3/22]
Flanked by elected officials including Mayor Eric Adams — a former police captain whose messaging around crime and justice has been embraced by some national Democrats — Mr. Biden highlighted his calls to increase federal investments in policing and pledged that the Justice Department would focus on so-called ghost guns, firearms that are easily assembled from kits but are not regulated by federal gun laws…Mr. Biden, for his part, described a shared vision with Mr. Adams that the best approach to public safety was not to divest from the police but rather to bolster departments, as well as initiatives that employ community members to intervene before violence occurs.
  