
    Long time South Carolina political operatives pledge support for Richardson for President
CHARLESTON, SC -Today, New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson named Lachlan McIntosh, a seasoned political campaign operative, South Carolina Statewide Director and Crawford Cook, an over 40 year veteran of South Carolina politics, Senior Advisor for the Richardson for President team.
"I am thrilled to have Lachlan and Crawford joining my team," said Governor Richardson. "Crawford Cook is one of my oldest friends and my closest political advisors. I am honored and proud to have two of the most reputable names in South Carolina politics on board, building support throughout South Carolina for my campaign."
Heading Richardson's statewide efforts is Summerville native Lachlan McIntosh. McIntosh has worked in South Carolina politics for the past 15 years. Most recently, McIntosh served as Executive Director of the South Carolina Democratic Party and was the Campaign Manager for the Barber for Lt. Governor Campaign. Previously, McIntosh was the Lowcountry Director for the Edwards for President Campaign, an Aide to Governor Jim Hodges, and the Lowcountry Field Coordinator for Hollings for U.S Senate.
"I believe that Governor Richardson is the right man for the job," said Lachlan McIntosh "He has the proven experience and record to solve the problems we are facing in America today and I am excited to be joining the team."
Joining McIntosh in building support and creating a strong campaign for Richardson in the state will be Crawford Cook. Cook has served as a Senior Advisor to Governor Richardson for over 15 years. Cook was the Founder and President of a successful advertising and communications firm that did work in South Carolina and across the world. Additionally, Cook has held senior positions in several Democratic Governors administrations in the state of South Carolina.
"I am very positive about the support we have and will further develop here in South Carolina for Richardson," said Crawford Cook," "Bill's grassroots style of campaigning will play well here and will make him a competitive Presidential candidate in South Carolina."
Earlier this year, Governor Richardson was the keynote speaker at the South Carolina Democratic Party Governors Appreciation Dinner, where he helped honor the former Democratic Governor's of South Carolina.
  