
    Mitt Romney, "I concur that climate change is beginning to affect our natural resources and that now is the time to take action toward climate protection."
  Mitt Romney, "I am convinced it's good for business."
            Verona, PA - Radical environmentalists have made a living by scaring people with the junk science of climate change.  Barack Obama has been the Cap-and-Taxer In Chief, imposing onerous regulation after onerous regulation on American industry while claiming to want to rebuild America's manufacturing base.  Likewise, Mitt Romney has fallen prey to the rhetoric of the environmental left and, while serving as Governor, imposed statewide cap-and-tax regulations on the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
  Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director, said: "Government healthcare mandates, the big bank bailout and governmental takeover of religious freedoms are just a few of the issues where Mitt Romney has joined Barack Obama. And now we find out that radical environmentalism is no different. Governor Romney actually bought into and even supported the radical environmentalist's movement to pass job crushing cap and tax legislation. Studies show that if Mitt Romney had his way, and his legislation would've been passed nationwide - for Michigan - as many as 90,800 jobs would've been lost.
  Rick Santorum has never bought into the radical left's junk science, and has instead stood by the revolutionary American doctrine based on free people and free markets.  Rick Santorum has stood up for opening the tundra of the North Slope of Alaska for drilling, exploring for natural gas, and expediting the approval of the Keystone Pipeline.  The memory of his coal-mining grandfather instilled in him the ideal that America can use its bare hands to dig for greatness, and he firmly believes that our industrial base can be great again."
  ROMNEY WAS A LEADING ADVOCATE FOR CAP AND TRADE
  Romney "Acknowledged That Carbon Dioxide Emissions Are Harming The Environment AndAgreed To Help Design A Regional Emissions Cap" With Surrounding States. "In another nod to environmentalists, Gov. Mitt Romney has joined with New York Gov. George Pataki in a plan to limit greenhouse gases from Northeast power plants. In a July 21 letter to Mr. Pataki, Mr. Romney acknowledged that carbon dioxide emissions are harming the environment and agreed to help design a regional emissions cap for power generating plants." (Shaun Sutner, "Romney Joins Bid To Curb Emissions," Telegram & Gazette, 8/6/03)
  Romney Committed Massachusetts To Implementing The Regional Climate Change Plan Adopted In 2001. "The Plan represents Massachusetts' commitment to implementing the regional climate change plan adopted by the New England Governors and Eastern Canadian Premiers (NEG/ECP) in August 2001." (Gov. Mitt Romney et. al., "Massachusetts Climate Protection Plan," Spring/04)

"Massachusetts Will Attempt To Exceed The Regional Emissions

Targets." (Gov. Mitt Romney et. al., "Massachusetts Climate Protection Plan," Spring/04)
  The Deal Would Have "Modestly Reduced" CO2 Emissions By 2020 As The Regional Cap And Trade System Developed. "Under the agreement, the nine states would have modestly reduced carbon dioxide emissions from power plants in the region by 2020. Each state would have its own emissions cap, and limits would be set on the amount of carbon dioxide that operators could release. They could accumulate unused excess allowances by running their cleanest plants, and then sell or trade the allowances to other operators in an open market." (Anthony DePalma, "Greenhouse Gas Pact Is In Disarray," The New York Times, 12/16/05)
  Romney, In July 2003 Letter To Then-Gov. George Pataki (R-NY): "Now Is The Time To Take Action Toward Climate Protection." "I concur that climate change is beginning to affect our natural resources andthat now is the time to take action toward climate protection. ... I share your interest in ensuring that the economic and security contributions made by our electricity generating system are not negated by the impact of emissions from that system on the health of our citizens. ... Our joint work to create a flexible market-based regional cap and trade system could serve as an effective approach to meeting these goals." (Shaun Sutner, "Romney Joins Bid To Curb Emissions," Telegram & Gazette, 8/6/03)
  Romney Believed The Carbon-Trading Pact Was A Potential Model For The Nation - "I Am Convinced It Is Good For Business." "As governor of Massachusetts, Romney supported a carbon-trading pact among Northeastern states that, like his health care bill, served as a potential model for a national version. Romney even said of the plan, 'I am convinced it is good for business.'" (Andrew Schenkel, "Mitt Romney's Environmental Record," www.forbes.com, 6/3/11)
  A Romney-Signed 2004 Report Stated Massachusetts Was Committed To "Active Participation" To Build A Multi-State Cap And Trade Program. "Massachusetts is committed to active participation in the effort to develop a multi-state cap and trade program covering greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions. At the invitation of New York Governor George Pataki, Governor Romney has joined the initiative to reduce regional greenhouse gas emissions through a CO2 cap and trade program, starting with the electrical power sector." (Gov. Mitt Romney et. al., "Massachusetts Climate Protection Plan," Spring/04)
  Under The Plan, Required Reductions Would Be Made Directly Or Via Trading Emission Credits. "This effort, now called the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), will establish a goal for emissions reductions, allowing those required reductions to be made either directly or through the trading of emission credits."  (Gov. Mitt Romney et. al., "Massachusetts Climate Protection Plan," Spring/04)

"Foy Said That As He Was Negotiating A Cap-And-Trade Regime With

Other States, Mr. Romney Made It Clear He Believed In Human-Caused Global Warming And Wanted A Policy Response." (Jonathan Weisman, "Romney Environment Push Is Fresh Target For His Rivals," The Wall Street Journal, 10/6/11)
  Romney 'Abruptly' Pulled Out Of Compact Talks Hours Before Deadline For Agreement.
  "Officials in New York, New Jersey and several other Northeastern states scrambled yesterday to hold together what was left of alandmark regional pact to control power plant emissions after the governors of Massachusetts and Rhode Island abruptly refused to sign on." (Anthony DePalma, "Greenhouse Gas Pact Is In Disarray," The New York Times, 12/16/05)
  Begs The Question:
  Which Side Is Romney On?  Barack Obama's Or Ours?
  