
    CHARLOTTE AMALIE, U.S. Virgin Islands — Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett (USVI) announced her support for Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, praising his commitment to addressing the country's most pressing infrastructure needs with safer and smarter solutions for the 21st century and his commitment to fighting on behalf of all Americans and getting things done.
"The Virgin Islands were crippled after two massive hurricanes, but Mike immediately stepped up to help and lent his physical, financial, and moral support. He had the individuals who worked on Superstorm Sandy come down and work closely with the local government of the Virgin Islands as we navigated through the federal government," said Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett. "Well before Mike decided to run for President, he committed to making sure Democrats across the country win and support the Democratic values that we fight for. His support helped us win the House in 2018 and he remains committed to taking our country back to its best values. Finally, as a Caribbean and a New Yorker, I like a fighter and Mike not only has the policies to bring equality and wealth creation to communities of color and economic development to keep us competitive in the world, he's not afraid to fight. He'll bring the fight to Donald Trump but he will fight against the terrible policies of the Republican Party. I'm ready to fight with him and get it done."
"Rep. Plaskett's strong leadership was essential to helping the USVI get back on its feet, and for months, my foundation worked with her and the community to support the recovery and rebuilding efforts in the hardest-hit areas," said Mike Bloomberg. "She recognizes that building more sustainable infrastructure is critical to the islands' future, and she has championed those investments in Congress. I'm honored to have her support, and as climate change leads to extreme weather events, I will lead where Donald Trump has retreated, taking on the challenge of building resilience in vulnerable areas, and supporting communities that this administration has ignored." After two category 5 hurricanes devastated the U.S. Virgin Islands in 2017, Mike spoke with Rep. Plaskett and was on the ground in the islands shortly thereafter, with a team that was helping to mobilize an emergency response.
Congresswoman Plaskett represents the United States Virgin Islands' at-large Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives. Plaskett currently serves on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the House Committee on Agriculture. She is also a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, where she serves as Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on the Interior, Energy, and Environment.
  