
    To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am announcing my program to reform the Federal civil justice system. My proposals are intended to increase the efficiency, cut the cost, and maintain the integrity of our Federal courts. I hope that the same spirit of cooperation which led to the 95th Congress' passage of historic civil service reform legislation, which had similar goals for the Executive Branch, will mark Congressional-Administration efforts in reforming the Judicial Branch.
The American system of justice—and the part our Federal courts play in it-has long been the envy of people throughout the world. An impartial and talented judiciary protects the rights of all Americans, ensuring due process guarantees and fair adjudication of disputes. But the courts cannot perform their traditional and essential function if they are required to operate with inadequate resources, saddled with outmoded procedures, and burdened with more business than they can fairly dispose of within a reasonable time. Nor can our citizens avail themselves of their "day in court" if, as is too often true in these days of rising litigation expenses, the price of participation in litigation is beyond their means.
Delay and expense play a part in our civil justice system. We have long recognized that justice delayed is justice denied. For many injured parties, having to wait a year or two to obtain legal relief in the courts is extremely harmful. The benefits of a legal victory are sometimes outweighed by the costs of achieving it. As litigation expenses and the size of court dockets increase, this seems to be happening with increasing frequency. Legal redress should not consume years of time and thousands of dollars.
These problems are not merely the special concern of a particular economic class or racial group, nor are they limited to certain geographic regions; they affect all segments of American society, in all areas of the country.
I am committed to improving access to justice by ensuring that every person involved in a legal controversy has a readily available forum in which that controversy can be resolved speedily, fairly, and at reasonable cost. To achieve this goal, we must do two things. First, we must develop new means for handling disputes that do not necessarily require full court resolution. Second, we must provide the courts with sufficient resources and improved procedures so that they can function fairly and effectively in those cases that must be brought before them.
I know that the Congress shares my concerns and is equally committed to taking effective remedial action. Last year the Congress made an excellent beginning when it created 152 new Federal judgeships and carefully reviewed a number of other legislative proposals designed to improve the administration of justice. But unless we improve the system of justice itself, we may find that the additional judges have been swallowed up by outmoded procedures and by an ever-rising volume of cases. We must take prompt and effective steps to eliminate the remaining obstacles to efficiency in the justice system, and to increase access to Federal courts by those with Federal claims.
Five of the specific measures by which we hope to accomplish these ends have previously been proposed, in whole or part, by my Administration, in the 95th Congress, dealing with arbitration, United States magistrates, the diversity of citizenship jurisdiction of the Federal courts, the Supreme Court's obligatory jurisdiction, and minor dispute resolution. Both before and during the last legislative session, each of these proposals received a great deal of careful Congressional thought and attention. They are introduced again, some with modifications discussed in the last Congress. Each is now ripe for favorable action.
The arbitration proposal would provide an innovative means for resolving speedily, fairly, and at reduced cost certain types of civil cases in which the main dispute is over the amount of money that one person owes to another. This legislation is modeled on court-annexed arbitration plans that have proved successful in several States, including Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York. It would allow Federal district courts to adopt a procedure requiring that tort and contract cases involving less than $100,000 be submitted to arbitration. This approach has been tested since early last year in three Federal courts and the experiences so far have been quite promising. Both litigants and the courts are benefiting from the procedure. Cases going to arbitration are being resolved faster than they otherwise could be and at significantly less expense to the parties. It is time that these benefits were extended to litigants in all Federal trial courts.
The second major element of our comprehensive civil justice program is a bill to enlarge the civil and criminal jurisdiction of Federal magistrates. These judicial officers, who are appointed by the district courts, constitute a potential resource of great value. If magistrates were given broader authority to decide civil cases and to handle less serious criminal matters, as we have proposed, the capacity of the Federal courts would be substantially increased. The result, especially in districts which currently have large case backlogs, would be speedier and less costly dispositions for the litigants.
The third measure that we regard as essential to improving the civil justice system would curtail the exercise of diversity of citizenship jurisdiction in the Federal courts. Too many cases now jamming the dockets in Federal courts involve solely issues of State law that would be more properly and more efficiently disposed of in State courts. The historical basis for permitting these claims to be beard in Federal court—presumed prejudice towards citizens of one State in the courts of another—no longer appears valid. Moving these State law cases to the State courts where they belong would not create an undue burden on any State, but would enable the Federal courts to concentrate on serving the needs of those whose disputes involve questions of Federal law. Under my proposal, diversity jurisdiction would be abolished totally and cases could be brought in Federal court only where Federal law is involved.
The next component of our judicial reform package is a bill that would permit the Supreme Court to exercise greater control over its own docket. By eliminating the Supreme Court's mandatory jurisdiction, except for appeals in three-judge cases, this proposal would do away with the artificial and out-dated distinction between discretionary review and review of right. The change would enable the Court to focus its limited resources on the cases and issues truly deserving of its attention. This, in turn, would permit speedier clarification of the law, to the benefit not only of litigants in the lower courts but also persons wishing to avoid legal controversies.
The last of the proposals carried over from the previous Congress is a bill to improve the means available to the people of the United States for resolving everyday disputes, such as complaints by neighbors, customers, tenants, and family member's. Everyday problems, small or large, if left unsettled, can fester and grow. They can lead to breakdowns in otherwise harmonious neighborhood relationships. They can even lead to crime. This legislation, entitled the Dispute Resolution Act, would provide Federal assistance to the States to improve the institutions that deal with these programs. The programs established by this bill would promote improvements in small claims courts and more widespread use of Neighborhood Justice Centers, a new concept that the Department of Justice is presently testing in Los Angeles, Kansas City, and Atlanta. This legislation would enable the Federal and State governments to work in partnership to improve the delivery of justice to all the people of the United States. No additional funding is being sought; existing funds in the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration will be used to finance these programs.
Passage of these five bills would be a major step in eliminating excessive delays, red tape, and exorbitant costs within the civil justice system. These bills have been discussed in the 95th Congress, and I hope that after further careful examination these bills will be enacted during the 96th Congress. These measures are necessary if we are to derive maximum benefit from the newly authorized judgeships. We will work for their enactment.
In addition to these bills, the Attorney General will transmit to Congress additional proposals to improve the courts which have been developed in consultation with Congressional leaders in this area. These new measures would solve a variety of problems relating to administration of the Federal judiciary, as well as practice and procedure in the courts in the following ways:
—Create a new intermediate Federal appellate court on the same tier as the existing courts of appeals. The new court, which would be known as the "United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit", would be formed by merging the Court of Claims and the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals into a single appellate tribunal with expanded, nationwide jurisdiction for appeals in patent and trademark cases as well as other matters. This new forum would induce economies from the combination of the two existing courts. Most import, however, it would expand the Federal judicial system's capacity for definitive adjudication of national law and thereby contribute to the uniformity and predictability of legal doctrine in these areas, which have long been marked by inconsistent appellate decisions, encourage industrial innovation, and in the long run reduce patent and trademark litigation. I further note that a similar need exists for uniformity and predictability of the law in the tax area, where conflicting appellate decisions encourage litigation and uncertainty. The Justice and Treasury Departments will work with Congress to develop an appropriate solution.
—Permit more effective means of rulemaking and administration within the Federal judiciary through the implementation of two proposals. One proposal requires each court of appeals to appoint an advisory committee composed of persons outside the court to make recommendations on the rules of practice and operating procedure within that court. These committees should do much to assist the courts in formulating sounder rules. The other proposal would restructure the membership of the circuit judicial councils, the governing administrative bodies in the eleven judicial circuits. The councils will be made smaller and more efficient and will include district judges in their membership for the first time. If enacted, these proposals will help assure that the Federal courts conduct their business so as to serve the public more effectively.
—Allowing equitable interest on claims and judgments. There is a serious backlog in civil litigation. Sometimes years pass between the time of an injury and the granting of a judgment. More years may pass while that judgment is appealed. Current Federal law is ambiguous about whether and under what circumstances interest may be paid for the period prior to judgment, and permits unrealistically low as well as conflicting rates of interest while the decision is under appeal. Yet such interest may be essential in order to truly compensate the plaintiff or to avoid the unjust enrichment of the defendant. For instance, a plaintiff who is unlawfully deprived of the use of $20,000 in 1976 and who does not receive a judgment until 1979, could have obtained $4,500 in those three years by investing the money at 7% compounded interest. If a judgment on appeal is entered at a rate well below the prime interest rate, the losing party may well profit from the appeal. The bill proposes that where a defendant knew of his potential liability, interest be awarded for the pre-judgment period where necessary to compensate the plaintiff for his losses or to avoid the unjust enrichment of the defendant. Post-judgment interest rates would no longer be left to inconsistent State laws, but along with the new prejudgment interest standard, would be based on a nationally uniform rate. Litigants would be encouraged to settle cases, and not drag them out needlessly causing additional expense.
—Other measures relating to the sound administration of the Federal judiciary are proposals providing more reasonable terms for chief judges, enhanced integrity for appellate panels, and easier transfer for any case inadvertently started in the wrong Federal court to the proper court without loss of litigants' rights and with savings of time and money.
Finally, I urge the Congress to give serious consideration to improving procedures for litigating class actions, especially for those cases where the alleged economic injury is widespread and large in the aggregate, yet small in its impact on each individual. The Justice Department will continue to have my support in working with Congress to devise class action procedures which will develop methods for courts to handle these complex cases more effectively and at less cost to the taxpayers and the parties involved.
The members of the Judiciary Committees of both houses have shown outstanding leadership in developing answers to the problems facing the justice system. It is now time for Congress as a whole to take action so that the American people will benefit from a more effective civil justice system.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
February 27, 1979.
  