
    Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Treasurer, Superintendent of Public Instruction, and Insurance Commissioner All Join Governor Gavin Newsom in Support for California Senator
Today, California Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis, Secretary of State Alex Padilla, State Treasurer Fiona Ma, Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond and Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara endorsed Senator Kamala Harris for president. They join Governor Gavin Newsom in backing her candidacy. These six officials received more than 40 million votes in California in their most recent elections.
"I am so proud to endorse Kamala Harris' presidential campaign. Kamala paved the way for women, including myself, to run for elected office, and win. I couldn't be more enthusiastic for her presidency," said Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis. "She will bring the same tireless work ethic and progressive values she used to serve Californians to the rest of America. Her bold vision to expand health care, invest in education and make the economy work for all Americans is what we need. I am thrilled to support Kamala Harris for President of the United States.
"Senator Kamala Harris has been a fearless fighter for Californians throughout her career and I'm proud to endorse her campaign for President of the United States," said Secretary of State Alex Padilla. "America needs the progressive leadership and tenacity she would bring as Commander-in-Chief. Kamala Harris has been out front on the issues that matter, including defending our right to vote, strengthening our nation's security, and protecting immigrant communities. As president, she will uphold the American Dream."
"Kamala Harris has long stood up for the vulnerable and the voiceless in California and nationwide, and I am proud to support her candidacy for President of the United States," said Treasurer Fiona Ma. "Her groundbreaking work and experience is what is required at this moment in our country. Her progressive leadership on the issues for Californians is the model for how we can build a better future for all of America."
"Kamala Harris has spent her entire career and the power of her position to fight for and protect California's children and thus, America's future. Beginning with an unprecedented re-entry program that achieved groundbreaking results in reducing recidivism, to her vigilant efforts to ensure that communities across the state were accountable to our youth and their families to help close the school to prison pipeline, Senator Harris is the leader this nation needs," said Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond. "Her proven record and progressive values make her the perfect candidate for President of the United States, and I could not be more enthusiastic about supporting her campaign."
"Kamala Harris has been a champion, fighting for working families, immigrant rights, and health care for all. I have seen up close what she has done for Californians and strongly endorse her candidacy for President of the United States," said Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara. "Her proven track record and progressive vision is what we need from our next President."
These statewide officials join Governor Gavin Newsom and four Members of Congress from California in backing Harris's candidacy: Nanette Barragan, Katie Hill, Ted Lieu, and Barbara Lee. She also has received the endorsements of 21 members of the California State Senate Democratic Caucus, including Senate Pro Tem Toni Atkins. California's early primary will be on March 3, 2020.
Newsom, Lee and labor and civil rights leader Dolores Huerta will serve as California Co-Chairs for Harris's campaign.
  