
    Mr. Mayor, members of the City Commission, and all of you wonderful, wonderful people of Deer field Beach:
It's a great pleasure to be here. We started early this morning from Washington. We ran into a little Washington weather when we got here. [Laughter] The weather has gotten better every stop we have come to, and it just seems to me the crowds get bigger and more enthusiastic. And for all of your wonderful welcome, your friendliness, your enthusiasm, I thank you very, very much.
I am here to tell you that the state of the United States is good, America is great, and we should all be darned proud of it.
I am sick and tired of these people who go around this country downgrading, undercutting, giving the United States the devil. I am proud of it, and so are you. Now we can be proud of it because we have come through, in good shape, a tough recession--it's not perfect, but it's getting better. And we have done it because we had good programs, we had courage,. we had commonsense, and we have realism. And I thank all of you for standing steady and firm. That is what has made it possible. I appreciate it very, very much.
Now let me just say that the United States is a country that is respected and admired. The United States is a country that is second to none in military capability. The United States has the strength to maintain the peace, to deter aggression, and to protect our national security. And we will never let it be different.
Now all of you have been so kind and thoughtful, and you, I think, believe, as I do, in what America stands for and are willing to stand up tall and strong for it, as I am. And so I congratulate you and compliment you.
Before closing, may I make one request of you? I think we have done well in the last 19 months, meeting the challenges, both at home and abroad. I think we could do even better in the next 48 months, and I can do it with your help. I ask for your help on March 9. I would appreciate it. I would be very grateful. And I also ask for your help on November 2 when we will win the final round of a tough competition.
Thank you very, very much.
  