
    "Mitt Romney stands alone among the Republican primary field as the candidate capable of winning the White House, and more importantly, of leading the nation to a prosperous future."
"Mitt Romney For Michigan GOP Primary"
The Detroit News
Editorial
February 22, 2012
http://www.detroitnews.com
State Republicans should go to the polls Tuesday with two missions: Pick a presidential candidate capable of leading this nation to prosperity and stability and choose a nominee who will give the GOP a fighting chance of defeating President Barack Obama this fall. On both counts, Mitt Romney is the best choice in the Michigan primary.
On leadership, the Michigan native and former Massachusetts governor has the strongest resume of the four remaining Republican candidates. He has not only successfully run a state, but also has deep experience in turning around private companies. America today is the ultimate turnaround project.
Romney has a refreshing free market vision for restoring the nation's prosperity. He sees a return to our entrepreneurial roots, freeing individuals to reach for their dreams, take risks and strive for gain with minimal government encumbrances.
He would reverse the rush toward a government-controlled economy and allow the free marketplace to do what it has always done — pull the nation back to its feet.
His focus on the campaign trail has been on job creation. That's an area where he has considerable credibility, having created thousands of jobs as a partner with the private equity firm Bain Capital. While at Bain, Romney helped revive failing companies, rescue businesses from bankruptcy and save jobs that would have otherwise been lost to mismanagement. Count Ann Arbor's booming Domino's Pizza chain as among Bain's most notable success stories.
Romney knows how government policies affect private sector decision making. He understands the consequences of actions that raise business costs. And he gets that business is not the problem in America — a bloated and wasteful government is. He knows how to encourage the former and deflate the latter.
...
Right now, voters are mostly concerned with the economy. But troubling events in the Middle East could easily shift the focus of the election to national security. We are confident that Romney has the temperament, judgment and maturity to make a case for his presidential candidacy even if the election issues become more global.
...
Romney, on the other hand, worked with a Democratic legislature in Massachusetts to enact a remarkable slate of bipartisan reforms. That's exactly the sort of cooperative governing that Washington needs today.
...
Mitt Romney stands alone among the Republican primary field as the candidate capable of winning the White House, and more importantly, of leading the nation to a prosperous future.
  