
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Ohio Auditor Dave Yost. Yost will serve as a Co-Chair of the Romney for President Ohio Leadership Team.
"I'm pleased to earn Dave's support," said Mitt Romney. "Dave understands the need for our country to restore our economy and create jobs for the American people. In the months to come, I look forward to working with Dave to spread my message of more jobs, less spending, smaller government."
"Ohioans are tired of President Obama's broken promises and failed record," said Auditor Yost. "Three years of out-of-control spending, higher taxes, and Obamacare have put America's fiscal health on life support. We need a conservative candidate who actually knows how to create jobs and balance the budget. That's why I'm supporting Mitt Romney. He's the only candidate who not only has a long track record of fiscal discipline, but also a bold plan to lower taxes, cut spending, and reform entitlements in a responsible way. That's what our country is looking for and that's why I'm confident Mitt's message will connect with Ohio voters."
Background On Auditor Dave Yost:
Yost was elected in 2010. Prior to his election as Auditor, Yost was the Delaware County Prosecuting Attorney, where he was known for fighting political corruption. Yost also served as the Auditor of Delaware County and has worked in private practice.
Yost Joins These Officials Who Were Announced Yesterday As Mitt Romney's Ohio Leadership Team:
U.S. Senator Rob Portman
Former U.S. Senator George Voinovich
Congressman Mike Turner
Congressman Jim Renacci
Congressman Steve LaTourette
State Senate President Tom Niehaus
Former Attorney General Betty Montgomery
Former State Treasurer and Hamilton County Prosecutor Joe Deters
State Senator Chris Widener
State Senator Karen Gillmor
State Senator Mark Wagoner
State Senator Shannon Jones
State Senator Troy Balderson
State Senator David Burke
State Representative Al Landis
State Representative Anne Gonzales
State Representative Bob Hackett
State Representative Bruce Goodwin
State Representative Cheryl Grossman
State Representative Cliff Rosenberger
State Representative Craig Newbold
State Representative Gerald Stebelton
State Representative Jay Hottinger
State Representative Mark Butterworth
State Representative Marlene Anielski
State Representative Mike Duffey
State Representative Peter Beck
State Representative Randy Gardner
State Representative Richard Hollington
State Representative Ross McGregor
State Representative Timothy Derickson
  