
    Making News: Automatic delegates' "role is to exercise their best judgment in the interests of the nation and of the Democratic Party," according to Democratic National Committee Chair Howard Dean.
By the Numbers: "Ohio's makeup favors Clinton" reports the Cleveland Plain Dealer. Read more.
Previewing Today: Hillary holds "Solutions for America" town halls in De Pere, Wausau and Madison, Wisconsin. President Bill Clinton attends church services in Columbus and holds "Solutions for America" rallies with Gov. Ted Strickland in Toledo, Canton, Steubenville, and Marietta, Ohio. Chelsea campaigns for her mom in Hawaii.
If You Read One Thing Today: "Hillary Clinton clearly is best to lead nation," a column in the Madison Capital Times. Read more.
In Case You Missed It: "Mr. Obama's Waffle," a Washington Post editorial. "His commitment to pursue public financing for the fall campaign suddenly looks soft." Read more.
Strong in the States: In Ohio, the campaign today opens a new office in Columbus, Hillary supporters canvass in Springfield and Mansfield and volunteers phone bank in Mentor. In Texas, actress and "Ugly Betty" star America Ferrera today campaigns for Hillary in San Antonio, Austin and Houston. In Wisconsin, Ret. General Wesley Clark yesterday stumped for Hillary in Madison, Waukesha and Milwaukee.
Recapping Yesterday: In Wisconsin, Hillary addressed "a packed house" at the Brat Stop in Kenosha. "Before Clinton arrived, chants of 'Hill-a-ry, Hill-a-ry,' could be heard from the crowd, and people put signs on railings that said things like 'HRC #1,' 'This is Hillary country' and 'Welcome Madame President!'" . In Milwaukee at the State Democratic Party's Founder's Day Dinner, Hillary asked Sen. Obama why he refused to debate one-on-one in Wisconsin. In Texas, President Bill Clinton spoke to "at least 3,000" in Amarillo, "about 2,200" in Lubbock and an estimated "4,700 people" in Austin. In Hawaii, Chelsea "spent her second day in the Islands shaking hundreds of hands, posing for photos and signing autographs."
Facts are Facts: In a new television ad, Sen. Obama distorts Hillary's plans for health care and Social Security. Get the facts.
  