
    Today, former North Carolina Congressman and State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Bob Etheridge released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for the President of the United States:
"Every election is important, but the upcoming one might be the most consequential in our lifetime. Issues that matter most to families in North Carolina, like education, health care, and our standing in the world with our allies, have decidedly not been at the forefront of our nation's agenda. I can't recall a more dire time to change this trajectory.
"The good news is, we have a candidate who has not only committed his entire career to creating opportunities for hardworking families in America, but has a proven track record of making progress on the issues that matter most to them. When I had the great honor of serving my fellow North Carolinians in Congress I worked alongside then-Vice President Biden to improve access to health care in rural communities, expand funding for public education, and ensure that economical and agricultural issues important to my home state of North Carolina and the entire country, were always a part of the conversation.
"In 2020, we must hit the ground running to unite our country and rebuild the middle class. We cannot afford a person in the White House who needs on the job training. Americans have witnessed what that does to our standing in the world over the last three years. What we need is a stable hand – someone with a big heart, a clear vision, and a record of working across the aisle to solve some of the biggest issues facing our nation. We need a leader who can help put us back on the right track because our children and grandchildren's futures depend on it.
"That's why, as families in North Carolina and across the country head to the polls this week and in weeks to come, I ask my fellow Americans to think about what is at stake. This election will determine the direction that our state and our country are going to take. I want someone who is experienced, someone who I have worked with to produce results for our communities, and someone who understands not just the rule and nature of North Carolina, but the heart of the people who live here: we care about our communities, our neighbors, and our country. That person is Joe Biden. Today, I am proud to endorse my friend and former colleague for President of the United States."
Joe Biden has the support of all three Democratic U.S. House members in North Carolina and more endorsements in the Tar Heel State than any other Democratic candidate. This includes the support of 25 current and former elected officials in North Carolina, including mayors, state lawmakers, city, and county officials, candidates for office, local activists, both members of North Carolina's Congressional Black Caucus: Congressman G. K. Butterfield and Congresswoman Alma Adams, and Chair of the North Carolina Legislative Black Caucus, Paul Lowe. Earlier this month, Biden received the endorsement of Anthony Foxx, former Secretary of Transportation and mayor of Charlotte.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  