
    Yesterday, the Biden-Harris Administration announced new standards so that EV charging funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is convenient, reliable and Made-in-America. We're making major progress to build a coast-to-coast network of EV chargers, so that the great American road trip can be electrified. These new standards will mean long-distance EV charging is convenient and reliable for everyone, everywhere – no matter what type of car or state they're in. The President's goal is to build a national network of 500,000 electric vehicle chargers along America's highways and in our communities, and to ensure that EVs make up over half of new car sales by 2030, all while advancing an industrial strategy to continue building out the domestic electric vehicle and EV charging industry.
Thanks to the President's leadership and federal investment - through legislation such as the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act – the U.S. is seeing $100 billion in new private sector and manufacturing investments in EVs, batteries and EV charging. Additionally, since the President took office, EV sales have tripled, the number of publicly available charging ports has grown by over 40%, and there are currently more than 3 million EVs on the road and 130,000 public chargers across the country.
Political and industry leaders from across the country praised the announcement. Here's what they're saying:
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse: "If we want to encourage the transition to electric vehicles, we need to ensure they're reliable and convenient. This effort by @POTUS to expand our EV charging network to 500,000 stations by 2030 is an important step." [Twitter, 2/15/23]
Representative Debbie Dingell: "We are building out the first-ever national network of EV charging stations with the best workforce in the world—the American workforce. This is a huge step in creating jobs & ensuring every American can access safe, reliable charging stations across the country!" [Twitter, 2/15/23]
Colleen Quinn, a leader of the National EV Charging Initiative: "To achieve mass adoption of electric cars and trucks, drivers' experience should meet or exceed what gasoline vehicles offer in terms of convenience, reliability, ease of use, and cost. These crucial standards will put us on the highway toward a simple and reliable charging experience." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Miles Muller, Attorney in the Clean Vehicles Program at the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC): "Electric vehicles are already economically competitive, especially when considering the savings on fuel and maintenance. And they are unquestionably better for our health and our climate. With these standards we can make sure that drivers of electric vehicles will also have access to reliable and convenient charging wherever the road may take them." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Katherine Garcia, Director of the Sierra Club's Clean Transportation for All campaign: "Today's announcement is a game changer for EV charging. These standards demonstrate the Biden administration's deep commitment to electric vehicle charging infrastructure that is reliable, accessible, safe, and advances good-paying union jobs in the US." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Joe Halso, Staff Attorney with the Sierra Club: "To meet our climate goals, EVs must be powered by a clean grid. These common-sense standards will speed up the decarbonization of both the transportation sector and the electric sector by ensuring that our battery-powered cars, charging stations, and electric utilities can easily communicate with one another." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Scott Paul, Alliance for American Manufacturing President: "The Biden administration's electric vehicle charging infrastructure announcement represents significant progress in realizing a cleaner future that's Made in America. The results are already clear: Manufacturers are investing in the United States, creating jobs and cultivating a domestic supply chain that would not have been possible otherwise. Made in America EV chargers will no longer be a rhetorical policy aspiration but a reality.
"We need more Buy America implementation plans that offer specific timelines and market signals, as this announcement does. Buy America provisions leverage infrastructure spending into U.S. economic activity, well paid jobs, stronger supply chains, reduced reliance on imports from foreign adversaries, and a cleaner economy. We must also ensure that the guidance remains free of loopholes that undermine the congressional intent of the Build America, Buy America aspects of the infrastructure law." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Adrian Martinez, Deputy Managing Attorney on Earthjustice's Right to Zero campaign: "Today's announcement on EV charging from the White House is a bell-ringing moment for an electric future and clean air. These massive investments in electric vehicle charging and American clean energy jobs will deliver cleaner air in our neighborhoods and protect our climate. We're especially heartened to see billions in investments being laid out to charge electric heavy duty vehicles, which will help lift the burden of diesel tailpipe pollution for communities living in the shadow of large ports and major trucking corridors." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Climate Group: "#EV100 companies are leading the charge to make EVs the new normal by 2030. @POTUS's announcement today gets us closer to that. As drivers and companies continue to choose EVs, a nationwide network of easy-to-use chargers is a critical step in the path to net zero." [Twitter, 2/15/23]
Jason Walsh, BlueGreen Alliance Executive Director: "The NEVI Program, in combination with all the other investments and awards announced today, represents a giant leap forward in building the charging infrastructure we need to achieve EV deployment and climate goals. These minimum standards and BABA guidance reflect the Biden administration's commitment to building this industry to create and protect good jobs manufacturing EV chargers and their components here in the United States. And in a way that benefits the workers and local communities who will bring that infrastructure to life.
"We look forward to working closely with FHWA, the Joint Office, and State Departments of Transportation to see that federal investment in EV charging leaves no opportunities for workers and communities untapped." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Ben Prochazka, Executive Director of Electrification Coalition: "Oil's monopoly on our transportation systems has led to significant national and economic security risks and impacts to our public health and climate. Transportation electrification is the best scalable alternative, and the U.S. must continue accelerating the electrification of all sectors. Implementing the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act created critical investments to ensure we manufacture, assemble, and drive electric in the U.S.
"The standards released jointly by the DOT and DOE today reinforce that EVs are the now and future of transportation, and now every driver of an EV can confidently hit the open road. These standards will ensure that stations are visible and reliable, power levels are sufficient for quick charging, prices are transparent, and payment methods are simple. We applaud the agencies for releasing these standards after sifting through hundreds of thousands of comments.
"The FHWA also announced further details on its Charging and Fueling Infrastructure (CFI) discretionary grant program, which will make available more than $2.5 billion for EV charging stations across the country. This creates the opportunity to build a national charging network in communities and provide critical access to disadvantaged communities.
"In addition, the FHWA finalized plans for the Build America, Buy America Act, applicable to federally funded EV charging stations. The EC supports building a robust and reliable American supply chain as we transition to electric fuel.
"These standards will also support the growth of the medium- and heavy-duty (MHD) EV sector. The electrification of fleets is occurring rapidly, and we applaud the DOE for awarding seven projects a total of $7.4 million for MHD EV charging along corridors.
"Finally, the EC applauds the private sector commitments and announcements to add 100,000 additional charging stations, including the opening of a portion of the Tesla Supercharger network, charging hubs for rideshare and taxi drivers by bp pulse and Hertz, EV charging stations at travel centers and plazas by Pilot Company, General Motors, and EVgo, and the Electrify America project that will deliver clean renewable energy to more than 800 DC fast charging stations. These commitments further demonstrate that the future of transportation is electric.
"The EC helps states, cities, local governments, fleets and more go electric. Visit electrificationcoalition.org for helpful tools and resources, including our new EV Funding Finder, the AchiEVe Policy Toolkit, and much more.
"Today's announcements mark an important milestone on the road to transportation electrification and our improved national security. Soon, all Americans will be able to get their power fix on Route 66!" [Statement, 2/15/23]
Albert Gore, Executive Director of ZETA (Zero Emission Transportation Association): "We commend the Biden administration for its work finalizing the NEVI formula program and for incorporating industry input on the creation of a robust and reliable national charging network.
"These investments will electrify the interstate highway system and expand the network of public charging stations across the country. By laying a foundation of EV chargers along our nation's highways, more Americans can access zero-emission vehicles and support an industry that is creating thousands of American jobs and drawing significant manufacturing investments around the country." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Kevin Brubaker, Deputy Director, The Environmental Law & Policy Center: "The climate crisis is already impacting the Great Lakes region. With transportation now the leading source of climate pollution, electrifying cars and trucks is a critical step to addressing that problem. The Environmental Law & Policy Center welcomes the Biden administration's announcement today of further guidance and funding that will help accelerate this necessary transition." [Statement, 2/15/23]
John Boesel, President and CEO of CALSTART: "CALSTART and our team of zero-emission commercial vehicle and infrastructure partners are grateful to the Biden-Harris Administration and DOE for their support of the East Coast Commercial ZEV Corridor. This program emphasizes community-driven planning alongside freight planners and utilities and will position us for smart and equitable infrastructure deployment on the East Coast. This funding will help us in partnership with others to decarbonize the trucking sector along the eastern seaboard." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Shawn Conrad, CAE, CEO of the International Parking & Mobility Institute (IPMI): "The adoption of electric vehicles for both patrons and fleets in parking, transportation, and mobility represents a sea change in our industry. The NEVI program, along with the multitude of federal, state, and local incentives, will help support this massive initiative nationwide towards smarter cities, greener infrastructure, and greater mobility options. The International Parking & Mobility Institute is a proud member and supporter of the CHARGE Coalition and has launched supporting programs in the areas of electrification and EV readiness for our members and the industry at large. We look forward to advancing EV adoption throughout our membership to the benefit of our members, our communities, and the nation."
"Convenient, reliable and safe access to EV charging is essential to increasing the widespread adoption of electric transportation. Forth applauds the Biden Administration's actions in providing essential funding to communities throughout the nation. Forth is working to assist communities, especially historically underserved communities, in applying for the funding allocated through this program." [Statement, 2/15/23]
Power A Clean Future Ohio: "Mayor David Weiss was an early supporter of electric vehicles, back when it was nearly impossible to find a charger. Now, thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the #InflationReductionAct, Ohio will have more EV chargers than ever before! #LocalsLeadTheWay @ShakerOnline" [Twitter, 2/15/23]
Evergreen Action: "EV adoption is growing rapidly. This strong new guidance from DOT will ensure more convenient, reliable chargers are available across the country—and create clean energy jobs in the process." [Twitter, 2/15/23]
IBEW 569: "@IBEW WIN! @POTUS @JoeBiden just announced new #MadeInAmerica labor standards to advance national network of #ElectricVehicle charging infrastructure. #EVITP with #IBEW! #GreenJobs!" [Twitter, 2/15/23]
Union of Concerned Scientists: "Great news from @WhiteHouse @USDOT @ENERGY today on charging infrastructure for #ElectricVehicles." [Twitter, 2/15/23]
Climate Power: "The 500,000 new electric vehicle charging stations being built across the country?"It's gonna have to be Made-in-America, the products." —@POTUS" [Twitter, 2/15/23]
League of Conservation Voters (LCV): "BIG NEWS: The Biden-Harris administration has announced new steps to build 500,000 EV chargers by 2030, including requiring that all chargers are #MadeInAmerica immediately  The clean energy future is here " [Twitter, 2/15/23]
  