
    Note: In a campaign season characterized by red-hot rhetoric from candidates with highly questionable records of governance, Kasich draws upon many years of policy experience to offer some nuanced approaches on everything from immigration reform to assembling a grand alliance to battle Islamic terrorism.
The Waco Tribune
Waco, Texas
Central Texans who vote in the March 1 Republican primary election have a chance to turn matters around by rejecting prospects who demonstrate little but demagoguery, deceit, cheap shots and hate, even if dressed up in florid evangelical guise and singing hollow hallelujahs. For the sake of this nation and future generations, we recommend Ohio Republican Gov. John Kasich as the GOP nominee for president.
——
Listening to Kasich's remarks at a town-hall meeting in Columbia, South Carolina, last week, Wacoans must have been astonished at how neatly Kasich's priorities matched local challenges, including fighting human trafficking (subject of an engrossing public forum at Antioch Community Church a week ago) and sexual assault on college campuses (something Baylor University leadership has experienced significant problems in addressing).
——
In a campaign season characterized by red-hot rhetoric from candidates with highly questionable records of governance, Kasich draws upon many years of policy experience to offer some nuanced approaches on everything from immigration reform to assembling a grand alliance to battle Islamic terrorism. He has not fallen into the trap Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney did in 2012 of embracing far-right stances in the primary elections that made him impossible to the general electorate in November — a very real danger for the Republican Party in fall 2016.
——
Many Texans will rally around Texas Sen. Ted Cruz or New York impresario Donald Trump. But this nation needs serious healing under a seasoned hand who can lead us in smartly but compassionately addressing matters at home while bolstering our image abroad. This is no time for amateurs.
To read the full article, click here.
  