
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
December 5
In the morning, the President traveled to Wynne, AR, and he returned to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
December 7
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a congressional ball on the State Floor at the White House.
The President announced the recess appointment of Timothy F. Geithner as Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs. Mr. Geithner was nominated on October 8. The President intends to resubmit his nomination when the 106th Congress convenes.
The President announced the recess appointment of Edwin M. Truman as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs. Mr. Truman was nominated on October 8. The President intends to resubmit his nomination when the 106th Congress convenes.
The President announced the recess appointment of John D. Hawke, Jr., as Comptroller of the Currency at the Department of the Treasury. Mr. Hawke was nominated on July 11. The President intends to resubmit his nomination when the 106th Congress convenes.
The White House announced that the President will host the White House Conference on Social Security on December 8 at the Marriott Wardman Park Hotel and December 9 at Blair House.
December 8
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Nashville, TN, where they attended a memorial service for former Senator Albert Gore, Sr.
In the afternoon, they returned to Washington, DC. Later, the President met with Counsel to the President Charles F.C. Ruff to review Mr. Ruff's upcoming testimony before the House Judiciary Committee.
The President announced his intention to nominate John T. Spotila to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Office of Management and Budget.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Cancer Advisory Board: Dr. Elmer Huerta; Dr. Susan M. Love; Mayor James McGreevey of Woodbridge Township, NJ; Dr. Arthur Nienhuis; Dr. Larry Norton; and Dr. Amelie Ramirez.
The President announced the 1998 recipients of the Nation's highest science and technology honors. Recipients of the National Medal of Science are: Bruce N. Ames; Don L. Anderson; John N. Bahcall; John W. Cahn; Cathleen S. Morawetz; Janet D. Rowley; Eli Ruckenstein; George M. Whitesides; and William Julius Wilson. Recipients of the National Medal of Technology are: Denton A. Cooley, M.D.; team award jointly to Kenneth L. Thompson and Dennis M. Ritchie (Lucent Technologies' Bell Laboratories); team award jointly to Robert T. Fraley, Robert B. Horsch, Ernest G. Jaworski, and Stephen G. Rogers (Monsanto); Biogen, Inc.; and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
The White House announced that the President has invited President Carlos Menem of Argentina for a state visit on January 11, 1999.
December 9
In the afternoon, the President participated in the White House Conference on Social Security at Blair House.
December 10
The White House announced that President Jacques Chirac of France has accepted the President's invitation for an official working visit on January 19, 1999.
  