
    Since inauguration, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken immediate and concrete steps to restore America's standing in the world.
Tackle COVID-19 Together to Make Americans & the World Safer

Readout of Vice President Harris's Call with World Health Organization Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus | The White House
National Security Directive on United States Global Leadership to Strengthen the International COVID-19 Response and to Advance Global Health Security and Biological Preparedness | The White House
Executive Order on a Sustainable Public Health Supply Chain | The White House
Executive Order on Promoting COVID-19 Safety in Domestic and International Travel | The White House
Letter to His Excellency António Guterres | The White House
Executive Order on Organizing and Mobilizing the United States Government to Provide a Unified and Effective Response to Combat COVID-19 and to Provide United States Leadership on Global Health and Security

Addressing the Climate Crisis Internationally, and At Home

Remarks by President Biden Before Signing Executive Actions on Tackling Climate Change, Creating Jobs, and Restoring Scientific Integrity | The White House
Statement by Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III on Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad
Executive Order on Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad | The White House
FACT SHEET: President Biden Takes Executive Actions to Tackle the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad, Create Jobs, and Restore Scientific Integrity Across Federal Government | The White House
Executive Order on Protecting Public Health and the Environment and Restoring Science to Tackle the Climate Crisis | The White House
Paris Climate Agreement | The White House

Recognizing America's Strength in Diversity

Preserving and Fortifying Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) 
Reinstating Deferred Enforced Departure for Liberians
Proclamation on the Termination Of Emergency With Respect To The Southern Border Of The United States And Redirection Of Funds Diverted To Border Wall Construction| 
Executive Order on the Revision of Civil Immigration Enforcement Policies and Priorities
Proclamation on Ending Discriminatory Bans on Entry to The United States
Fact Sheet: President Biden Sends Immigration Bill to Congress as Part of His Commitment to Modernize our Immigration System 
Remarks by President Biden in Signing of Executive Order Reversing the 2018 Transgender Military Ban 

Global Leadership
President Biden

Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Call with Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia
Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Call with President Moon Jae-in of the Republic of Korea
Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Call with Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan 
Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Call with President Vladimir Putin of Russia 
Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Call with Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg of NATO 
Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Call with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany 
Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Call with President Emmanuel Macron of France 
Readout of President Joseph R. Biden Call with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom 
Readout of President Joe Biden Call with President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico 
Readout of President Joe Biden Call with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada 

Secretary Blinken

Secretary Blinken's Call with the United Arab Emirates Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan 
Secretary Blinken's Call with Swiss President Parmelin
Secretary Blinken's Call with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba
Secretary Blinken's Call with Colombian Foreign Minister Blum
Secretary Blinken's Call with Swedish Foreign Minister and OSCE Chairperson-in-Office Linde
Secretary Blinken's Call with New Zealand Foreign Minister Mahuta
Secretary Blinken's Call with Pakistani Foreign Minister Qureshi
Secretary Blinken's Call with Indian External Affairs Minister Jaishankar
Secretary Blinken's Call with African Union Commission Chairperson Faki
Secretary Blinken's First Call with Jordanian Foreign Minister Safadi 
Secretary Blinken's Call with Italian Foreign Minister Di Maio 
Secretary Blinken's Call with EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Borrell 
Secretary Blinken's Call with Afghan President Ghani 
Secretary Blinken's First Call with Iraqi Foreign Minister Hussein 
Secretary Blinken's First Call with Israeli Foreign Minister Ashkenazi 
Secretary Blinken's Call with Thai Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Don Pramudwinai 
Secretary Blinken's Call with Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs Locsin 
Secretary Blinken's Call with Australian Foreign Minister Payne 
Secretary Blinken's Call with NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg 
Secretary Blinken's Call with UK Foreign Secretary Raab 
Secretary Blinken's Call with German Foreign Minister Maas 
Secretary Blinken's Call with French Foreign Minister Le Drian 
Secretary Blinken's Call with ROK Foreign Minister Kang 
Secretary Blinken's Call with Japanese Foreign Minister Motegi 
Secretary Blinken's Call with Mexican Foreign Secretary Ebrard 
Secretary Blinken's Call with Canadian Foreign Minister Garneau 

Secretary Austin

Readout of Defense Secretary Austin's Meeting With Mexican Officials
Readout of Defense Secretary Austin's Call With Italian Defense Minister Lorenzo Guerini
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III's Phone Call With Israeli Minister of Defense Gantz 
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin's Call With French Minister of the Armed Forces Parly 
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin's Call With German Federal Minister of Defence Kramp-Karrenbauer 
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III's Phone Call With Indian Minister of Defense Singh 
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III's Phone Call With Australian Minister of Defense Reynolds 
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin's Call With Canadian Minister of National Defense Sajjan 
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin's Call With Republic of Korea Minister of National Defense Suh Wook 
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin's Call With Japanese Defense Minister Kishi 
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin's Call With U.K. Secretary of State for Defense Wallace
Readout of Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin's Call With NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg 

Secretary Yellen

Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen's Call with World Bank President David Malpass 
Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen's Call with IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva 
Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen's Call with Mexican Finance Minister Arturo Herrera Gutiérrez 
Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen's Call with Italian Minister of Economy and Finance Roberto Gualtieri
Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen's Call with Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Taro Aso of Japan
Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen's Call with Canadian Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland
Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen's Call with French Minister of Finance Bruno Le Maire 
Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen's Call with German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz 
Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen's Call with United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak

National Security Advisor Sullivan

Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan's Call with Senior Polish Officials 
Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan's Call with Emma Aparici, Chief Diplomatic Advisor to the President of Spain
Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan's Call with Ibrahim Kalin, Spokesperson and Chief Advisor to the President of Turkey
Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan's Call with Head of Cabinet Bjoern Seibert of the European Commission
Readout of National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan Call with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval of India 
Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan's Call with National Security Advisor Meir Ben Shabbat of Israel 
Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan's Call National Security Advisor Suh Hoon of the Republic of Korea 
Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan's Call with National Security Advisor Hamdullah Mohib of Afghanistan 

  