
    WASHINGTON – Today, Emgage PAC, a prominent Muslim American organizion, announced their first ever presidential primary endorsement of Sen. Bernie Sanders'. The group's endorsement highlights the diverse coalition behind the Bernie 2020 campaign.
"It is an honor to receive this endorsement from Emgage PAC," said Sen. Bernie Sanders. "While Donald Trump has demonized our Muslim communities, our movement is working to bring Muslims and people of all backgrounds into the political system. Together we will create an economy, justice system and immigration system that are rooted in human rights for all."
Emgage PAC is a membership based organization that mobilizes American Muslims to advocate for issues that define the American Muslim experience and become more civically engaged through voting and issue education. They have chapters across the United States, including in the key Super Tuesday states of California, Texas, Minnesota, Virginia, and Florida.
"Emgage is thrilled to endorse Senator Bernie Sanders for President. More than any other presidential candidate, Senator Sanders has built a historically inclusive and forward-thinking movement: one that represents America as a set of ideas grounded in the belief that all humans are equal and worthy of a dignified life." said Wa'el Alzayat, Emgage CEO. "Our endorsement is intended to galvanize Muslim Americans at the polls to ensure that our voices are heard. Furthermore, we hope that this official endorsement by the first Muslim American federal political action committee marks a new era in presidential leaders including Muslim American voices in American political processes and policy-making decisions. We are confident that a Sanders administration will do precisely this. We are proud to stand by his side in 2020. "
Muslim voter turnout was higher than ever in the 2018 midterms in the wake of Trump's election and enactment of discriminatory policies such as the racist Muslim Ban. Emgage PAC is working to increase Muslim voter turnout. Sen. Sanders overwhelmingy holds the broadest support in the Muslim American community because of his consistent allyship on issues of civil liberties, foreign policy, fighting islamophobia and immigration justice.
Last year, Sen. Sanders was the only candidate for president still in the race to attend the Islamic Society of North America (ISNA) convention. He also joined imams, rabbis and pastors at the Islamic Center of Southern California in support of Muslims following the horrific white supremacist attack on a New Zealand Mosque. As part of his day one executive orders, Sen. Sanders has said he will overturn all of Donald Trump's xenophobic and racist immigration policies, including the Muslim Ban. Prominent Bernie 2020 Muslim endorsers include, U.S. Rep. Rashida Tlaib, U.S. Rep. Ilhan Omar, Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, Dr. Abdul El-Sayed from Michigan, and the Muslim Caucus of America.
  