
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Colorado State Representative Bob Gardner (R-21) and former Fort Collins Mayor Ray Martinez endorsed Governor Romney's candidacy for President of the United States.
Announcing their support, Governor Romney said, "We have a strong organization in Colorado, and I am grateful to have the support of Representative Gardner and Mayor Martinez. Our message of bringing true conservative change to Washington is resonating with voters across the country, and our growing team in the Centennial State is playing a critical role in our efforts for a strong showing in the Colorado caucuses."
In a joint statement, Representative Gardner and Mayor Martinez said, 'As Governor Romney continues to campaign across the country, voters are learning why he is the best choice to lead our nation and the only candidate that can bring conservative change to Washington through strong, new leadership. We are committed to working hard in these last critical hours to ensure a strong showing for Governor Romney in Colorado.'
Background On Representative Bob Gardner:
State Representative Bob Gardner Represents House District 21 In The Colorado General Assembly. With both a Masters and a Law Degree, and as a graduate from the United States Air Force Academy, Representative Gardner has brought a wealth of knowledge and experience to the state legislature. Before entering private law practice in 1989, Representative Gardner served as an Air Force judge advocate assigned to the United States Air Force Academy law faculty. There, he taught both procurement and business law. His extensive experience in government-related law, including government contracts and campaign and election finance law, and his time served on the El Paso County Republican Party, has added to his expertise as a state Representative for Colorado House District 21. When not working for the legislature, Representative Gardner practices law at his own practice in Colorado Springs.
Background On Former Mayor Ray Martinez:
Ray Martinez Is The Former Mayor Of The City Of Fort Collins, Colorado. A veteran of the United States Army, Mayor Martinez has more than 30 years experience in public service in Fort Collins. He began his career in the Fort Collins' Police Department, where he became the first Hispanic Sergeant at the agency. Mayor Martinez retired in 1996 after twenty-five years of law enforcement service. As Mayor of Fort Collins, public safety was one of his primary concerns. The United States conference of Mayors appointed Mayor Martinez as Co-Chair of the Mayors and Police Chiefs Committee for the year 2002. He also sat on the National League of Cities Steering Committee for Public Safety and Crime Prevention. Mayor Martinez is an active member of several local advisory and philanthropic boards. With a particular interest in working with youth, he co-founded an organization known as Neighborhoods United to work with at-risk youth to provide them with positive educational and recreational experiences.
  