
    If You Read One Thing Today: "Clinton laid groundwork in this area decades ago," a story in the San Antonio Express-News. Read more.
Real Solutions: In Wisconsin, Hillary released a 13-page blueprint for fixing the economy, detailing her comprehensive plans to provide health care to every American, end the housing crisis, create jobs and rebuild the middle class.
Previewing Today: During the day, Hillary holds "Solutions for America" town halls in De Pere and Wausau and Chelsea visits Beloit College in Beloit, Wisconsin. At night, Hillary and Chelsea rally supporters in Madison.
In Case You Missed It: Rep. Rick Boucher, a supporter of Sen. Obama's, said that an automatic delegate's role "‘is to lend a seasoned judgment, a rational analysis' to the nominating process with an eye toward choosing the most electable candidate."
The Hillary I Know: Chelsea's high school, college and graduate school friends ask students to "Make Chelsea's mom president" in a column for the University of Wisconsin at Madison Badger Herald. Read more.
Active in Ohio: Today in Cleveland, volunteers phone bank. In Massillon, supporters hold "Bring Your Own Phone" parties. In Portsmouth, the campaign convenes a grassroots organizational meeting... Yesterday in Zanesville, First Lady Frances Strickland stumped for Hillary.
Recapping Yesterday: Winter weather forced Hillary to improvise in Wisconsin. Hillary's visit to Miss Katie's Diner in Milwaukee "thrilled six young women seated at a corner booth." At El Ray, "Clinton was a major hit at the Mexican market." ... In Ohio, President Bill Clinton attended church services in Columbus and held several rallies. In Marietta, "thousands waited in line" to hear the former President. In Toledo, the overflow crowd "was enthusiastic, breaking out often in appreciative cheers, shouts, and laughter." In Canton, supporters "greeted him as if he were a rock star." ... In Maui, Hawaii, "about 300 people welcomed Chelsea with signs, cheers, applause and many lei."
Empty Promises: "A November questionnaire asked: ‘If you are nominated for president in 2008 and your major opponents agree to forgo private funding in the general election campaign, will you participate in [the] presidential public financing system?' ... Obama's questionnaire answer: Yes." Today, Sen. Obama appears ready to break his commitment to accept public financing during the general election. Read more.
Making News: Sen. Obama is delivering "the same lines, almost verbatim, as another politician," Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick. Read more.
  