
    Yesterday, President Biden announced his intent to nominate Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, one of our nation's brightest legal minds, as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. President Biden sought a candidate with exceptional credentials, unimpeachable character, and unwavering dedication to the rule of law. Judge Jackson formerly clerked for Justice Breyer, and has broad experience across the legal profession – as a federal appellate judge, a federal district court judge, a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, an attorney in private practice, and as a federal public defender. She has been confirmed by the Senate on a bipartisan basis three times – most recently last year for her current seat. If confirmed, Jackson will be the first Black woman to serve on the Supreme Court.
In addition to positive coverage in national press outlets, Judge Brown has received praise from Republicans, Democrats, and a variety of organizations.
Here's what they're saying:
Washington Post: Opinion: Ketanji Brown Jackson's nomination to the Supreme Court is historic and sound[Editorial Board, 2/25/22]
NBC News: Black women have been calling for Supreme Court representation for years[Donna M. Owens, 2/25/22]
Washington Post: Biden introduces historic nominee Jackson, tapped to be first Black female justice[John Wagner, Mariana Alfaro, Felicia Sonmez and Eugene Scott, 2/25/22]
Fraternal Order of Police: "Judge Jackson comes from a law enforcement family, with two uncles who were career law enforcement officers: one was a Miami-Dade County sex crimes detective, and the other rose through the ranks of the City of Miami Police Department to become the Chief of Police. Her brother served as an undercover officer in a drug-sting unit in Baltimore after graduating from college, so she should know quite well the difficulties and dangers our officers face in the line of duty every single day … From our analysis of Judge Jackson's record and some of her cases, we believe she has considered the facts and applied the law consistently and fairly on a range of issues. There is little doubt that she has the temperament, intellect, legal experience, and family background to have earned this appointment. We are reassured that, should she be confirmed, she would approach her future cases with an open mind and treat issues related to law enforcement fairly and justly. We wish her well as the confirmation process begins." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer: "With her exceptional qualifications and record of evenhandedness, Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson will be a Justice who will uphold the constitution and protect the rights of all Americans, including the voiceless and vulnerable. A true public servant and model jurist, Judge Jackson has demonstrated a commitment to America's foundational principles of freedom, equality, and the rule of law throughout her career. As a clerk for Justice Stephen Breyer, an assistant federal public defender, a federal district court judge, and most recently as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, Judge Jackson has shown brilliance, thoughtfulness, a willingness to collaborate, and a dedication to applying the law impartially. The historic nomination of Judge Jackson is an important step toward ensuring the Supreme Court reflects the nation as a whole. As the first Black woman Supreme Court Justice in the Court's 232-year-history, she will inspire countless future generations of young Americans. Senate Democrats spent the past year working with President Biden to shape a federal judicial system that fully represents America and we will continue that trend by confirming Judge Jackson to the Supreme Court. I commend President Biden on undertaking a thoughtful, deliberate selection process for the next Supreme Court Justice. Once the President sends Judge Jackson's nomination to the Senate, Senate Democrats will work to ensure a fair, timely, and expeditious process – fair to the nominee, to the Senate, and to the American public. Under Chairman Durbin's leadership, Judge Jackson will receive a prompt hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee in the coming weeks. After the Judiciary Committee finishes their work I will ask the Senate to move immediately to confirm her to the Supreme Court. I have no doubt that Judge Jackson would make an outstanding Supreme Court Justice. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson has been confirmed by the United States Senate on a bipartisan basis three times and I expect she will again earn bipartisan support in the Senate." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock: "I applaud the historic nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court. Georgians want a nominee who is fair, qualified, and has a proven record of protecting Americans' constitutional rights and freedoms. I look forward to reviewing this nomination." [2/25/22]
Illinois Senator Dick Durbin, Chairman, Senate Judiciary Committee: "From a strong list of prospective candidates, President Biden has chosen an extraordinary nominee in D.C. Circuit Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson. To be the first to make history in our nation you need to have an exceptional life story. Judge Jackson's achievements are well known to the Senate Judiciary Committee as we approved her to the D.C. Circuit less than a year ago with bipartisan support. We will begin immediately to move forward on her nomination with the careful, fair, and professional approach she and America are entitled to." [Tweet thread, 2/25/22]
Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chair, Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee: "Judge Jackson is an extraordinary nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court and the right choice for this historic moment in our country. From her clerkship at the Supreme Court, to her work as a public defender, to her distinguished service on the D.C. District Court and Circuit Court, Judge Jackson's impressive background of public service makes her an outstanding nominee. Her experience will inform her work as a thoughtful judge with an understanding of the lives of the American people. Her history of standing up for justice, democracy, and equal rights for all Americans is exactly what our country needs right now. Both Republicans and Democrats have already voted for her for past judicial positions, which only affirms her qualifications, character, and integrity. I know Judge Jackson will be an excellent Supreme Court Justice. What an exciting time for our country." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Michigan Senator Gary Peters, Chairman, Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee: "The historic nomination of Judge Jackson to serve on the Supreme Court is a barrier-breaking moment in American history. Judge Jackson is a well-respected jurist whose qualifications and wide-ranging legal experience will undoubtedly serve our nation well. The rulings of our nation's highest court have a direct and consequential impact on the lives of Michiganders, including women's reproductive rights, workers' rights, environmental protections and voting rights. I applaud President Biden for nominating Judge Jackson, who is exceptionally well-qualified and look forward to a prompt confirmation process to ensure the Supreme Court further reflects the diversity of America." [Statement, 2/25/22]
New Hampshire Senator Jeanne Shaheen: "I applaud President Biden's historic nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. Through her background in public service and experience as a federal public defender and on the DC Circuit, Jackson is eminently qualified to serve on the highest bench in the land. Throughout her career, she has demonstrated deep knowledge and respect for the law, balanced judgment and unwavering commitment to justice. Our courts should look like and reflect our communities, and this historic nomination of the first Black woman selected to serve on the Supreme Court is a long-overdue milestone for our country. Jackson has earned this place in history through her impressive record, and I look forward to considering her nomination in the Senate." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Utah Senator Mitt Romney (R): "One of my most serious constitutional responsibilities as a senator is to provide advice and consent on a Supreme Court nomination, and I believe our next justice must faithfully apply the law and our constitution—impartially and regardless of policy preferences. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an experienced jurist, and I know her historic nomination will inspire many. I look forward to meeting in person with Judge Jackson, thoroughly reviewing her record and testimony, and evaluating her qualifications during this process." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Virginia Senator Mark Warner, Chairman, Senate Intelligence Committee: "With his historic selection of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, President Biden has nominated a qualified jurist with extraordinary credentials and a brilliant legal mind who has been repeatedly confirmed by the Senate on a bipartisan basis. I look forward to a timely confirmation hearing in the Senate, fulfilling our constitutional responsibility in a swift manner." [Statement, 2/25/22]
California Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the House: "In nominating Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court, President Biden has chosen a widely respected jurist who will bring to the Court one of the sharpest legal minds in a generation, an unyielding commitment to justice and a strong voice for American values. This is a moment of great pride and patriotism for our nation, as Judge Jackson makes history as the first Black woman selected to serve on the highest court in the land. Judge Jackson will be a force for justice on the Court, with her masterful command of the law, outstanding credentials and broad legal experience. She has excelled during her tenure on the D.C. District Court as well as on the powerful D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, upholding individual rights and the rule of law – and doing so as a proud working mother. Judge Jackson will also be the first federal public defender to serve on the Supreme Court, bringing extensive courtroom experience to the bench. After beginning her career as a clerk for Justice Stephen Breyer and following in his footsteps on the U.S. Sentencing Commission, Judge Jackson will carry on his mission to preserve the Supreme Court's vital role as a defender of our rights and freedoms. Congress and the Country look forward to Judge Jackson receiving a fair and timely hearing, as well as a strong bipartisan vote in the Senate." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Former Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R): "Janna and I are incredibly happy for Ketanji and her entire family. Our politics may differ, but my praise for Ketanji's intellect, for her character, and for her integrity, is unequivocal." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
South Carolina Congressman James Clyburn, House Majority Whip: "Today is a historic day. Ketanji Brown Jackson is an outstanding judge and I applaud @POTUS for nominating her to become the first African American woman on the SCOTUS. I congratulate Judge Jackson and offer my full support during the confirmation process." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Ohio Congresswoman Joyce Beatty, Chair, Congressional Black Caucus: "From her work on the US Court of Appeals, to her years spent as a federal trial court judge, to her early days as a public defender, Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is poised to be the most historic and impactful SCOTUS Justice of the 21st century. Judge Jackson also brings with her the lifetime of learning and perspective of a Black woman, something our nation's highest court has never seen, making the bench look more like the makeup of our nation Judge Jackson has my full faith and support ahead of her Senate confirmation hearing, which must proceed without delay." [Tweet thread, 2/25/22]
Miami, FL Mayor Francis Suarez (R): "Congratulations to Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson on her historic nomination to the Supreme Court. As an alumna of Palmetto High, and the niece of a former Miami Police Chief, Calvin Ross, this is a testament to this family's commitment to public service." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Mesa, AZ Mayor John Giles (R): "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's expertise as an attorney and judge makes her an ideal candidate to serve on our highest court. I believe her historic nomination will garner bipartisan support because of her commitment to upholding the rule of law." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Sterling Heights, MI Mayor Michael Taylor (R): "In addition to serving as mayor I also practice law full time. Today is a historic day for our nation and my profession as Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson will become the first black female Supreme Court Justice. Congrats to Judge Brown and the United States! Great choice, @JoeBiden!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Mercer County, WV Commissioner Greg Puckett (R): Achieving balance and positive social discourse means strengthening our courts with diversity, equity and inclusion. By removing politics and focusing on facts/logic, I support of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to serve on the Supreme Court. #Counties need balance! [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Former President Barack Obama: "I want to congratulate Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson on her nomination to the Supreme Court. Judge Jackson has already inspired young Black women like my daughters to set their sights higher, and her confirmation will help them believe they can be anything they want to be." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton: "This is exciting. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's credentials are impeccable, and by all accounts she has the character & experience to serve honorably as an associate justice of the Supreme Court. Looking forward to her hearing and to seeing her confirmed." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Supreme Court Lawyer Neal Katyal: "Ketanji Brown Jackson is an outstanding jurist and person. Brilliant, fair, and a true and real person. She will be an immense credit to the Court and our country." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Former Attorney General Eric Holder: "This is a strong - and long overdue - choice. She's been a great judge and a superb lawyer who will bring needed perspectives to the Court. There is absolutely no reason why this eminently qualified woman should not be swiftly confirmed. Ignore the partisan noise." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Kevin Jennings, CEO, Lambda Legal: "Lambda Legal's preliminary review of Judge Jackson's record gives us significant comfort that she can be trusted to administer the fair and impartial justice the country needs. We urge the Senate Judiciary Committee to act thoroughly and promptly in fulfilling their constitutional duty to consider President Biden's nominee. All of us deserve and must insist upon a Supreme Court whose members are committed to upholding the Constitution, including its sacred guarantees of liberty, equality, and justice for all." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Fatima Goss Graves, President, National Women Law Center: "Judge Jackson is an eminently qualified public servant with distinguished experience as a federal judge, and her historic nomination promises an end to the erasure of Black women from our most sacred legal institutions. She brings extensive litigation experience at every level of the federal court system. As a District Court judge, she ruled on over 550 cases and is renowned for her careful, methodical approach to ensuring equal justice under the law on reproductive rights, disability rights, and workers' rights. It is incumbent upon senators to give her a fair and timely confirmation without obstruction, honoring their Constitutional duty to advise and consent and their moral duty to treat her with the respect and dignity she deserves." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Shiela Katz, Chief Executive Officer, National Council of Jewish Women: "Today Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson made history as the first Black woman nominated to the US Supreme Court. Based on National Council of Jewish Women's criteria of determining whether nominees are fair, independent, and qualified for lifetime tenure on the federal court, including the Supreme Court, NCJW is thrilled to support Judge Jackson's nomination to the highest court of the land. As the only national Jewish organization which actively vets and endorses federal judicial nominees, NCJW follows the guidance of our tradition which affirms the importance of having ethical, unbiased judges like Judge Jackson who will fight for justice for everyone each and every day. Her keen intellect, integrity, background, and lived experience are what we need on the Court." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Mary J. Novak, Executive Director, NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice and Joan F. Neal, Deputy Executive Director, NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's historic nomination to the United States Supreme Court is critical for this generation and generations to come. The NETWORK community of Spirit-filled justice-seekers celebrates Judge Jackson's nomination and the perspective she will bring to the highest court because of her years of service on the federal district court of D.C. and D.C. Circuit as well as her formative service as a public defender. In our democracy, it is the responsibility of the Supreme Court to safeguard and uphold the God-given dignity of everyone, no matter their race, origin, religion, or immigration status, in every situation, whether at the ballot box, at work, in their home or in the community. We are confident Judge Jackson's proven record of protecting the rights of everyone can only enrich judicial decision making on the highest court. NETWORK praises Judge Jackson's nomination and calls on the Senate to move this historic nomination process forward with all deliberate speed." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Maria Teresa Kumar, President and CEO, Voto Latino: "Judge Jackson is extraordinarily well qualified for a seat on the Supreme Court. Just as importantly, her nomination represents a profoundly important step towards creating a court that reflects the diversity of this country. I remember distinctly how proud I felt when President Obama nominated Sonia Sotomayor to become the first Latina to become a Supreme Court Justice. I'm overjoyed for the millions of Black women and little girls who I know are experiencing a similar sense of pride today. The issues before the Supreme Court will have a profound impact on the Latino community, from voting rights and immigration to our ability to be treated fairly on the job and access critical health care. The choice of a new justice is a profoundly important question that will shape our lives long after the president who named them leaves office. Now that President Biden has done his job and nominated an experienced, qualified jurist to the Court, it's time for the Senate to do its job by running a fair confirmation process. Millions of Americans of all backgrounds will be watching closely to see if Republicans treat a brilliant, accomplished woman of color with the respect she deserves." [Statement, 2/25/22]
USA Today: Opinion: Biden's nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson to Supreme Court is an excellent decision[Donna Brazile, 2/25/22]
  