
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of additional Idaho elected officials.
"It's an honor to have the support of so many conservative Idaho leaders," said Mitt Romney. "This level of support shows that my message of restoring fiscal sanity to Washington is resonating with voters across the country. These supporters will be crucial in helping me spread my message of creating jobs and cutting spending in the months to come."
"It is an honor to announce these additions to Mitt Romney's growing team in Idaho," said Governor Butch Otter. "These last three years have seen unacceptably high unemployment and home values that have fallen, all while the middle class is getting crushed. We need someone who will restore fiscal sanity to the federal government so that we can create jobs and get our country back on track. Mitt Romney is that man and I urge Idaho voters to join me in standing with him."
Idaho Leaders Supporting Mitt Romney:
Senator Dean M. Mortimer
Senator Chuck Winder
Senator Bert Brackett
Senator John Tippets
Senator Denton Darrington
Senator Steve Bair
Senator Jeff C. Siddoway
Senator John C. Andreason
Senator Lee Heider
Senator Shawn Keough
Senator Dean Cameron
Representative Eric Anderson
Representative Linden Bateman
Representative Joe Palmer
Representative Maxine Bell
Representative Sharon Block
Representative Reed DeMordaunt
Representative Marc Gibbs
Representative Lynn Luker
Representative Jim Marriott
Representative Janice McGeachin
Representative Dell Raybould
Representative Mack Shirley
Representative Bert Stevenson
Representative Jeff Thompson
Representative Tom Trail
Representative Fred Wood
Idaho Elected Officials and Leaders Already Supporting Mitt Romney:
Governor Butch Otter
U.S. Senator Jim Risch
U.S. Representative Mike Simpson
Lieutenant Governor Brad Little
Secretary of State Ben Ysursa
Superintendent of Public Schools Tom Luna
State Controller Donna Jones
Attorney General Lawrence Wasden
Senate Pro Tempore Brent Hill
Speaker of the House Lawerence Denney
Senate Majority Leader Bart Davis
Assistant Senate Majority Leader Chuck Winder
House Assistant Majority Leader Scott Bedke
House Caucus Chairman Ken Roberts

  