
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 4
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
February 5
The President met at the White House with:
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Cabinet;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—members of the board of directors and officers of the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, and General Robert E. Huyser, Deputy Commander in Chief, United States European Command, to discuss the situation in Iran.
The President has named Vice President Mondale to head the U.S. delegations to the inaugurations of President-elect Luis Herrera Campins of Venezuela, in Caracas, on March 12, and President-elect Joao Baptista de Oliveira Figueiredo of Brazil, in Brasilia, on March 15.
February 6
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs; —Mr. Moore;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President has accepted with regret the resignation of Manuel D. Plotkin as Director of the Bureau of the Census.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 14th annual report of the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior on the status of the National Wilderness Preservation System.
February 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Moore;
—a group of new Senators of the 96th Congress;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative Jamie L. Whitten of Mississippi;
—Ralph A. Lyman, president of the Lions Clubs International;
—representatives of the Boy Scouts of America, to receive the Scouts' annual report to the Nation;
—Mrs. Carter and Amy, for lunch;
—Vice President Mondale, Senators Jacob K. Javits and Daniel P. Moynihan and Gov. Hugh Carey of New York, Mayor Edward I. Koch of New York City, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., W. Michael Blumenthal, Secretary, and Roger C. Altman, Assistant Secretary, Department of the Treasury, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs.
At the invitation of the President, Crown Prince Fahd Bin Abd al-Aziz al-Sa'ud of Saudi Arabia will make an official visit to Washington on March 13 and 14.
The White House released manifests listing passengers who have flown on White House authorized military aircraft from July 1 through December 31, 1978. The lists were sent to Representative Jack Brooks, chairman of the House Committee on Government Operations, and were also made available for inspection by the press.
As required by Public Law 95-426, the President transmitted to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and to the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee reports on "International Journalistic Freedom," "International Communications Policy," and "U.S. Policy Toward Cuba." He also transmitted to the chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation the report on "International Communications Policy."
In the evening, the President participated in a foreign affairs briefing for a group of Senators.
February 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Blumenthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Barry P. Bosworth, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Mr. Mcintyre, and Mr. Eizenstat;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant
to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski; —Mrs. Carter and Senator and Mrs.
Frank Church of Idaho, for lunch.
February 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretaries Vance and Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Schultze;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week).
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  