
    President Carter met with Prime Minister Anker Jorgensen of Denmark today at the White House. The Prime Minister was accompanied by Foreign Minister K. B. Andersen and other high-ranking Danish officials. Prime Minister Jorgensen, who is also current President of the European Council, is paying an official visit to Washington at the President's invitation. He and Mrs. Jorgensen were the guests at a luncheon given by Vice President and Mrs. Mondale. Secretary Vance will hold a luncheon for the Prime Minister tomorrow. While in Washington, he will also meet with Secretaries Brown, Blumenthal, Schlesinger, and Marshall, with the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, Robert Strauss, and with Members of Congress. The Prime Minister's talks with the President covered a broad range of economic and political topics in U.S. relations with the European Community, and major international issues of mutual interest.
The two leaders reviewed economic trends in their two countries, in the West generally, and in the world. They agreed that continued close cooperation among the industrial democracies is necessary to increase economic growth, resist protectionism, and work toward resolving global economic problems. The two leaders emphasized the importance of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations in encouraging freer trade to promote orderly growth in both developed and developing nations.
Prime Minister Jorgensen gave the President his assessment of developments affecting the European Community, including the direct elections to the European Parliament and the applications by Greece, Portugal, and Spain for Community membership. President Carter reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to European unity and support for the European Community, as underscored by his visit to EC headquarters in January.
The President and the Prime Minister reaffirmed the shared commitment of their nations to NATO and to the defense of Western Europe. The two expressed satisfaction at the progress the allies have made in implementing the measures agreed to at last May's NATO Summit, and they discussed the forthcoming NATO Summit, this May in Washington. They noted close U.S.-Danish cooperation in NATO programs, including joint production with other NATO countries of the F-16 aircraft.
The President and Prime Minister exchanged views on major issues in East-West relations. They noted the close coincidence in the positions of their two governments on the CSCE review conference in Belgrade, and the President praised the role of the EC-Nine within the broader NATO consultations. They stressed the continuing need in the future for similar frank and detailed reviews of the implementation of the entire Helsinki Final Act, including its important provisions regarding human rights and humanitarian matters. The two leaders exchanged views on current developments and prospects for progress in the Middle East, southern Africa, and Cyprus. The two leaders also agreed on the need to reduce arms sold by all weapons-producing nations. The President welcomed Denmark's participation in the International Fuel Cycle Evaluation.
  