
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Romney for President today launched its first television ads. The ads showcase Governor Romney unplugged and up close as he discusses his belief in the strength of the American people.
Three ads will begin airing today. The ads are titled "Unplugged 60," "Unplugged 30" and "Unplugged Iowa."
During the course of the rotation, the ads will be aired in select markets in Florida, Iowa, Michigan, New Hampshire and South Carolina. Scripts and viewing links are below.
Script For "Unplugged 60" (TV:60):
ANN ROMNEY: "Every place that Mitt has gone, he has solved problems that people said were nearly impossible."
VOICE OVER: "Mitt Romney: Business legend - rescued the Olympics - the Republican Governor who turned around a Democratic state."
MITT ROMNEY: "I believe the American people are over-taxed, and the government is over-fed. I believe we're spending too much money, and that's got to stop.
"I believe our laws ought to be written by the people, and not by unelected judges.
"Look, these are critical times we face.
"We face attack from jihadists. We face tougher competition than we've ever known before, coming from Asia.
"We're spending too much money here. We're using too much oil here.
"Our schools are failing too many of our kids.
"This is not a time for more talk and dithering in Washington
"It's a time for action.
"I believe in the people of America. Free American people are the source of this land's great strength.
"I'm Mitt Romney, I'm running for President and I approve this message."
To view "Unplugged 60", please see: 
Script For "Unplugged 30" (TV:30):
ANN ROMNEY: "Every place that Mitt has gone, he has solved problems that people said were nearly impossible."
VOICE OVER: "Mitt Romney: Business legend - rescued the Olympics - the Republican Governor who turned around a Democratic state."
MITT ROMNEY: "I believe the American people are over-taxed, and the government is over-fed. I believe we're spending too much money, and that's got to stop.
"I believe our laws ought to be written by the people, and not by unelected judges."
VOICE OVER: "Mitt Romney."
MITT ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney and I approve this message."
To view "Unplugged 30", please see: 
Script For "Unplugged Iowa" (TV:60):
TV WEATHER WOMAN (VOICE OVER): "...heavy snow at times this morning and we'll continue to see strong winds at 15-25 miles an hour..."
MITT ROMNEY: "Cold and windy, blowing snow... and you made it!
"I believe the best ally of peace in the world is a strong America.
"I believe our laws ought to be written by the people and not by unelected judges.
"I believe the American people are over-taxed, and the government is over-fed.
"I believe we're spending too much money, and that's got to stop.
"Look, these are critical times we face.
"We face attack from jihadists. We face tougher competition than we've ever known before, coming from Asia.
"We're spending too much money here. We're using too much oil here.
"Our schools are failing too many of our kids.
"This is not a time for more talk and dithering in Washington.
"It's a time for action.
"I'm Mitt Romney, I'm running for President, and I approve this message."
To view "Unplugged Iowa", please see: 
  