
    NEW YORK — The world is currently facing a climate change crisis. President Donald Trump has done everything in his power to destroy America's global leadership on climate change, degraded the role of science in federal decision-making, and allowed energy companies and corporations to pollute, putting the health of Americans, particularly vulnerable populations, at risk. Mike is the only candidate with the record and experience to address this problem.
Mike is a global leader in the fight against climate change. He has worked with cities, states and businesses across the U.S. to keep our country moving forward on clean energy, despite President Trump's failed attempts to drag us backwards. Through his role as the UN Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Climate Action, Mike has helped drive climate progress on every continent.
As mayor of New York City, Mike pioneered the most comprehensive sustainability plan in the country, setting a new standard for what cities can accomplish in the fight against climate change. In 2011, he helped launch the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign, which has helped replace 304 coal-fired plants with cleaner energy sources since 2011, including more than 50 since President Trump was elected. In 2019, he launched Beyond Carbon, the largest-ever coordinated campaign to combat the climate crisis in the U.S. As president, Mike will create more clean energy jobs and believes that 100% renewable energy should be a national goal.
Mike's Plan:

Invest in a Clean Energy Economy: Enact robust policies for clean energy, clean transportation and clean buildings to slash emissions 50% by 2030 economy-wide, putting us on the pathway to a 100% clean economy by mid-century or sooner.
Re-establish Global Climate Leadership: Immediately re-join the Paris Agreement and push to raise global ambition to reduce emissions as much as science recommends. He will also restore scientific integrity across the U.S. government.
Promote Equity and Support for Workers: As president, Mike will ensure that environmental justice and equity are central to his administration's fight for our future. He will prioritize the low-income communities and communities of color that have born disproportionate impacts of pollution and climate change and he will support workers and communities affected by the transition away from fossil fuels.

For more information on Mike's climate change and clean energy plan, visit here.
  