
    MANCHESTER — Former New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services Commissioner Tom Burack and New Hampshire Rep. Gary Woods today endorsed Michael Bennet for president of the United States. Burack, who grew up in Jackson and has resided for the past 20 years in Hopkinton, is an attorney and consultant with the firm of Sheehan Phinney Bass & Green, and served as Commissioner from 2006 to 2017. Rep. Woods, a former orthopedic surgeon, has represented the Merrimack 23 district since 2018. He serves on the Committee on Health, Human Services, and Elderly Affairs.
"As an Independent voter, I see an extraordinary opportunity to make my vote count in this primary by supporting Michael Bennet — a highly experienced and tested leader who is uniquely equipped to build the broad coalitions necessary to tackle the climate crisis," said Burack. "Michael brings unmatched knowledge, credibility, and empathy to this crisis, he has a detailed and visionary clean energy plan that will create fantastic new economic and employment opportunities for our communities and nation, and he has the zeal to win the Presidency and take bold climate action from the White House."
"Michael Bennet is the kind of person who understands the average individual but also understands the complexities of national issues," said Woods. "He has the experience - both locally and nationally - to make tough decisions. That's why I'm supporting Michael Bennet for president, and I encourage you to do the same."
America's Climate Change Plan was the first policy Bennet released upon entering the presidential primary race. His plan, which includes paying farmers and landowners to sequester carbon in their trees and soil, draws on a decade of service on the Senate Agriculture Committee. Earlier this month, Bennet toured the Fox State Forest in Hillsborough with the New Hampshire Timberland Owners' Association.
Bennet's New Hampshire endorsements range from Southern New Hampshire University President Paul LeBlanc to Representatives Michael Cahill, Marjorie Smith, Bob Backus, David Luneau, Joyce Fulweiler, and Sherry Dutzy to Former Concord School Board Chairs Claudia Damon and David Ruedig to Former Gov. Hassan Legal Counsel Lucy Hodder.
Bennet represents Colorado in the Senate, but he has not spent a lifetime in politics. He turned around failing businesses in the private sector and improved outcomes for kids as superintendent of the Denver Public Schools. Bennet is the only candidate in this race who has won two elections in a swing state.
Last month, Bennet unveiled The Real Deal agenda, his comprehensive vision to make lasting progress for families and workers across the country with a plan that is progressive, paid for, and popular among the American people. The Real Deal is a political and policy blueprint designed to guide our country's priorities for the next 20 years.
  