
    Pool Reports by George Condon, National Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




February 25, 202109:20

Pool Report #1 
Morning greetings from the White House. Briefing at noon; two pooled events on schedule -- COVID vaccine event at 2:30 and virtual meeting with governors at NGA Winter Meeting at 4:30.



February 25, 202110:03

Pool Report #2 
The Press Secretary's daily briefing is now scheduled for 12:30.



February 25, 202111:33

Pool Report 3 - lunch lid 
There is a lunch lid until 12:15.



February 25, 2021
[APP Note: Report #4 is either missing or does not exist.]


February 25, 202112:36

Pool report 5 2 minutes 
Two minute warning on briefing



February 25, 202113:24

Pool report 6 -- briefing ends 
Briefing started at 12:37 and concluded at 1:16.



February 25, 202114:40

Pool Report 7 
Pool called and waiting for South Court event marking the 50 millionth vaccine shot.



February 25, 202115:06

Pool Report 8 
From the office of President Biden:
Today, the President will deliver remarks on the 50th millionth shot that has been administered since he entered office. The Vice President, Dr. Fauci and Jeff Zients will also be in attendance.
Before remarks, four people will receive their first round of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. They will receive their vaccines from Elizabeth Galloway, a registered nurse.
Victoria Legerwood Rivera currently serves as an Attendance Counselor at Stoddert Elementary School in Northwest DC. She has worked at the school for 11 years and has been working throughout the pandemic.
Linda Bussey has worked at Safeway for 37 years and currently serves a general merchandise manager in Bethesda, MD. Ms. Bussey lives in Southeast DC. Ms. Bussey has been working ever since the pandemic.
Corey Hamilton has served the District of Columbia for eight years as a firefighter EMT stationed at Engine Company 9 in Northwest DC. Mr. Hamilton has been stationed at this location since his graduation from academy and has been working throughout the pandemic.
Gerald Bunn has served the district for 18 years, currently as a firefighter EMT stationed at Rescue Squad 3 locatedIn Southeast D.C. he has been stationed at this location since 2012. Gerald has been working throughout the pandemic.



February 25, 202116:07

Pool Report 9 ..vaccine remarks 
The event in the South Court was both a celebration of vaccines hitting the 50 million mark and a warning from the President that the fight has a long way to go. "This is not a victory lap," he said. "Everything is not fixed. We have a long way to go." That came in remarks at the lectern after he stood and watched four people get their shots from a health care worker at a table set up at the other end of the stage. He concluded his remarks at 3:36, stating "We can do this… It's not over yet. We're getting close." (check exact quotes against transcript.) After he finished his speech, which included two exhortations to continue wearing masks, he walked away toward Dr. Fauci. Then, somewhat sheepishly, he said, "Forgot my mask," and walked back to the lectern to retrieve it and put it on.
The backdrop alternated "50 Million Covid Vaccines" with the Presidential Seal. There were also two U.S. flags and two presidential flags set up, two behind the lectern and two behind the shots table. The president came on stage at 3:14 and stood while the shots were administered to the people listed in the last pool report. During the first one, the president made a joke inaudible to the pool but which seemed to be offering to help administer the shot. It brought laughter. After the first shot, the president exclaimed, "Nothin' to it." At 3:19, after the last shot, the president went to the lectern to speak. He credited the "brilliant team" of scientists at the NIH with making the shots possible. He promised that his team "will follow the science" both on Covid and on the larger battle against cancer. "There is so much we can do. So much progress within our reach." He added,"The more people get vaccines, the faster we're going to beat this virus." He said again that some had said his goal of 100 million in 100 days was too ambitious and then said it was too small. "Today, I'm happy to report we're halfway there." "We're moving in the right direction cleaning the mess left us by the previous administration." He said he will tell "the good and the bad. I'll tell you the successes and the failures." This, he cast as a success. He said the week before his inauguration six millions shots were administered. "This week, 12 million…twice the pace." He credited his administration, saying he had "fixed the problem" of supply" and pointed to the FDA review of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, saying, "We are going to do this the right way… based on science" not on politics. He called this "the greatest operational challenge this nation ever faced." He talked about increasing the number of vaccinators and setting up more large centers to give the shots.
Looking ahead to his trip to Houston, he said he is looking forward to seeing the vaccine center there, calling it "an example of the kind of partnership that will get this job done." He returned again to his key message: "This is not a time to relax" and emphasized the need for continued vigilance. "For god's sake, continue to wear a mask. The worst thing we could do now is let down our guard." He also targeted those reluctant to get the vaccine. "If there is one message that needs to cut through, vaccines are safe and effective." He promised "a massive campaign" to get that message across.



February 25, 202116:24

Pool 10 
Pool is standing by outside South Court for nag rbent



February 25, 202117:07

Pool 11 lid 
A travel photo lid was declared at 5:03 p.m.
One more pool report to come on president's remarks to the National Governors' Association virtual meeting. He repeated what he had said about the vaccine milestone at the previous session. And he made a pitch for the governors to support his American Recovery Plan. Some quotes and color to follow..



February 25, 202117:26

Pool Report 12 - NGA remarks 
For his session with the governors in the South Court, the president was seated at a white table with his back to the pool and staff seated in the audience. He was facing a large TV screen on stage where, zoomlike, there were 33 governors in boxes. NGA Chairman Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York spoke first, thanking the president for his efforts on Covid. He started speaking at 4:35, turning it over to the President at 4:39. He spoke until 4:52 when the pool was ushered out and he began taking questions from the governors. He responded to only one question from the pool. Asked if his phone conversation with King Salman was a good one, the president responded, "Yes."
While Cuomo was talking, many of the other governors could be seen fidgeting. Gov. Kevin Stitt seemed to be in a car and was seen adjusting his seatbelt. Other governors were more formally seated at their desks with state flags behind them. A couple wore face masks. Many were more casual. Gov. Ned Lamont of Connecticut and Gov. Gavin Newsom of California were working on papes. Cuomo remarked about the state of the Covid battle when the president came to office. "When you went to the cupboard, it was all but bare," he said. He said now the country knows what to expect, observing, "Certainty quells anxiety." He concluded by telling the president, "We stand ready as your partners, shovels ready."
The president began by lamenting that the pandemic made the usual Washington gathering and visit to the White House impossible. He invited them to the White House for the 2022 meeting and promised them "whatever food you want." He directly addressed Gov. Abbott of Texas, saying he looks forward to being with him tomorrow and seeing what he can do to help recovery from the storm. "My administration will be there every step of the way with you," he said, stressing that the victims were not Democrats or Republicans but are "our fellow Americans." He said a part of his mission in the White House is "changing the attitude about how we dcal with one another."
He then repeated many of the points he had made earlier about the 50 million milestone in vaccinations, adding a criticism of the "politics of misinformation" and telling the governors, "We have to fight this together." Somberly, he added, "This cruel winter is not over." But he spoke of "a hopeful spring."
On the covid relief plan, he told them "We need to be more ambitious right now." He added, "Red state, blue state, millions of Americans are hurting badly." He said, "We just have to step up." Of his American Recovery Plan, he said, "Instead of chasing Covid, it allows us to get ahead of it." He added, "The American Recovery Plan finishes the job." Also, "The American Recovery Plan meets the moment." Wrapping up his remarks, he stressed the importance of acting now, concluding, "So let's get this done."




  