
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 2
The President met at the White House with David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
The President left the White House for a stay at Camp David, Md.
The White House announced that the President has declared an emergency for the State of California because a threat to public health and safety and property exists in the Sacramento/San Joaquin Delta area of California as the result of torrential rains, high tides, and strong winds, beginning on or about January 13.
February 3
The President returned to the White House from Camp David.
February 4
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—the Cabinet;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Director of the Peace Corps Richard F. Celeste and Peace Corps volunteer Deborah Loft;
—Reggie Jackson of the New York Yankees, Dave Parker of the Pittsburgh Pirates, Julius Erving of the Philadelphia 76'ers, and Franco Harris of the Pittsburgh Steelers. The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a buffet dinner for cast members of the musical "West Side Story."
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 annual report of the Administration on Aging and the 10th annual report on the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968.
February 5
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mr. Moore;
—Sam Brown, Director of ACTION;
—the President's Commission for a National Agenda for the Eighties.
In a White House ceremony, the President announced the release of a 2-year study by the Federal Government of the Puerto Rican economy. Governor Carlos Romero-Barcelo of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico received the study on behalf of the Puerto Rican government and people.
The President attended a briefing by Mrs. Carter given for congressional wives in the East Room at the White House.
The President spoke by telephone in the afternoon with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal Republic of Germany. The purpose of the conversation was to discuss, and for the President to hear from Chancellor Schmidt firsthand, an account of the recently completed meetings between the Chancellor and President Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France. The President was pleased with the conversation. The Chancellor, in that conversation, emphasized that the President could have the confidence in both the Chancellor and President Giscard d'Estaing, particularly when the going is rough. He asked that the President. tell Americans that these two leaders are "by his side" in this situation. The Chancellor made clear, as they did in the communiqué issued following the meetings, that the Soviet Union should take its troops out of Afghanistan without delay, and that there should be no doubt about the fidelity of France and Germany to the Western Alliance and to the United States.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 annual report on the administration of the Railroad Safety Act of 1970.
February 6
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, Under Secretary of Labor John N. Gentry, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, R. Robert Russell, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, John P. White, Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the President;
—Representative Joseph M. Gaydos of Pennsylvania and civic and political leaders from his congressional district;
—Mr. Moore;
—Clark Clifford, the President's personal emissary to India;
—Mr. Schultze;
—representatives of the Chapel of the Four Chaplains in Pennsylvania;
—representatives of the Boy Scouts of America, to receive the Scouts' annual report to the Nation;
—Mayor Robert Kozaren and members of the city council of Hamtramck, Mich.;
—Alexander Trowbridge, president, and Forrest Rettgers, executive vice president, National Association of Manufacturers.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials given for members of the New England Fuel Institute in the East Room at the White House.
February 7
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Thomas McGee, speaker of the house of the Massachusetts General Court.
The White House announced that the President has declared a major disaster for the State of Hawaii as a result of severe storms, high surf, and flooding during the period January 7-16, which caused extensive property damage.
The President transmitted to the Congress the fiscal year 1981 budget for the District of Columbia and the second annual report of the Department of Energy.
The President today announced the appointment of Ruth R. Harkin as a member of the Board of Directors of the Rural Telephone Bank. Harkin is Deputy General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture.
February 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Sol M. Linowitz, Personal Representative of the President to the Middle East peace negotiations;
—Mr. Moore.
The President left the White House for a stay at Camp David.
  