
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Andrew Natsios to be Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development. He is presently the Chairman of the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority. Before his appointment to the Turnpike Authority, he served as Secretary of Administration and Finance for the State of Massachusetts and was Director of the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance at U.S.A.I.D. from 1989 to 1991. He represented the town of Holliston in the Massachusetts House of Representatives from 1975 to 1987 and is a 22-year veteran of the Army Reserves. He is a graduate of Georgetown University and received a Master's in Public Administration from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Maria Cino to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service. She is presently Deputy Chairman for political operations for Victory 2000 at the Republican National Committee. In the past she has served as National Political Director for the Bush for President Campaign and worked as a Government Affairs Consultant with the law firm of Wiley, Rein and Fielding. She spent four years as the Executive Director of the National Republican Congressional Committee and also served as Chief of Staff for former Congressman Bill Paxon. A native of Buffalo, New York, she received her bachelor's degree from St. John Fisher College in Rochester, New York.
The President intends to nominate Brenda L. Becker to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Legislative Affairs. She is presently the Vice President of Congressional Communications for Blue Cross Blue Shield Associates and has held a variety of positions with Blue Cross Blue Shield Associates in the past. Originally from Michigan, she is a graduate of Michigan State University and received her M.B.A. from Central Michigan University.
The President intends to nominate David Aufhauser to be General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury. He is currently a partner with the law firm of Williams & Connolly in Washington, D.C. He received his bachelor's degree from Wesleyan University, his M.B.A from Harvard Business School and his law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Robert E. Fabricant to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (General Counsel). In the past he has served as Chief Counsel to then-Governor Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey as well as in a variety of positions within the Office of Counsel to Governor Whitman before being named Chief Counsel. A native of New Jersey, Mr. Fabricant received his bachelor's degree from Drew University and his law degree from Columbus School of Law at Catholic University.
The President intends to nominate John Robert Bolton to be Undersecretary of State for Arms Control and International Security Affairs. He is currently Senior Vice President for Public Policy Research at the American Enterprise Institute and has previously served in several positions within the Department of State, the Department of Justice and at the U.S. Agency for International Development during the Reagan and Bush administrations. Most recently he served as Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs. A native of Maryland, he received both his bachelor's and law degrees from Yale University.
  