
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICYThis Statement Has Been Coordinated by OMB with the Appropriate Agencies
(Senate Floor)(Sponsors: Walsh (R), New York; Jeffords (R), Vermont)
This statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 2546, the District of Columbia Appropriations Bill, FY 1996, as reported by the Conference Committee. The Administration strongly supports efforts of the District of Columbia to bring fiscal stability, growth and opportunity to the city. The President remains committed to helping put the District back on the path to financial health and we appreciate Congress' decision to provide the full Federal payment to the District.
Regrettably, the conferees chose to include objectionable authorization and related legislation in the Conference Report. Based on these provisions, the President's senior advisers would recommend that the President veto this bill if it were presented to him in its current form.
While the Administration supports many of the school reform endeavors in the District of Columbia appropriations bill, it remains strongly opposed to the language in the legislation allowing the use of Federal taxpayer funds for private school vouchers.
The Administration strongly supports good schools both public and private, and recognizes that private schools are an important part of American education. However, establishing a private school voucher system in the Nation's Capital would set a dangerous precedent for using Federal taxpayer funds for private schools across the country. Private school tuition vouchers would divert badly needed public funds and shift them to private institutions that would retain their ability to exclude students on the basis of their ability to pay or their academic achievement, and that are not accountable to the public. The Administration would support provisions in the bill that would permit the use of public funds for public school choice, and for scholarships for after-school and summer activities at either public or private non-sectarian schools.
The Administration strongly opposes section 2551(b)(6) of the bill which would, in effect, waive the application of labor protection laws, including the Davis-Bacon Act and civil rights provisions, to construction and repair work for the District of Columbia schools. In addition, the Administration recommends that the provision for permitting volunteers within 2561(a)(2) be consistent with the provisions under the Fair Labor Standards Act for volunteering to State and local governments. The Administration would also suggest that the same provision be clarified to exclude labor performed for contractors and subcontractors on work covered by the Davis-Bacon Act.
The Administration strongly opposes the abortion language of the bill, which would prohibit the use of both Federal and District funds to pay for abortions except in those cases where the life of the mother is endangered or in situations of rape or incest. The Administration objects to the prohibition on the use of local funds as an unwarranted intrusion into the affairs of the District. We urge repeal of a similar provision in P.L. 104-92.
The Administration is committed to working with the Congress to produce an acceptable bill as soon as possible. In view of the critical financial needs of the District, we urge the Congress to be responsive to these concerns.
  