
    This is an evening for hospitality and friendship, for dancing and conversation, and not for speeches. And I wanted to say on behalf of myself and Rosalynn and Fritz and Joan [Mondale], the members of our Cabinet and staff, that we're delighted to have all of you come to the White House to be our guests here. It's your home as well as ours.
This is a home that's been occupied by every President since George Washington, and there's been great history made and great entertainment, and great leaders have occupied this beautiful room here on the east side of the White House.
When I was in the State senate, I always felt that I could go to the Governor of my State and get all the answers to my problems. When I got to be Governor, I felt that I could come and see the President and I could get all the answers to my problems. And now that I'm President, I feel like I can go back to the Governors. [Laughter]
I think your Mid-Winter Conference has been superb. I've had reports from my own staff, Jack Watson, and also our Cabinet members, some of whom are here tonight. I think it's been a hard-working, dedicated group, and the partnership that exists between us, as Fritz pointed out to you today, is one that's very valuable to us here in Washington.
So, I'd like for you tonight just to get to know us better, the new Governors of you; sympathize with me, the ones that were Governors when I was. And I give my condolences to the ones who are visiting the White House for the last time as Governors.
But I would like to say now that we have a wonderful store ahead of us of superb entertainment. This past Sunday afternoon we had a historical performance on this platform by Vladimir Horowitz, perhaps the greatest, certainly one of the greatest pianists who ever lived. And tonight we have wonderful entertainment in store for us again. Our country has produced great musicians, and one of the most beautiful and talented of those is Beverly Sills.
This is a night for dancing and for waltzing. She's going to sing some selections from "The Merry Widow," and she'll be accompanied by a great baritone, Allan Titus. So, Beverly, if you and Allan would come forward, we are very eager to hear from you.
  