
    "Barack Obama said that if he doesn't get this economy turned around he should be a one term president or have a one term proposition. We agree he hasn't turned the economy around in fact has made the recovery not take hold. He has had the economic challenges last longer than they should have because of his failed leadership and failed policies. And I think that issue is going to be one of the main issues that Mitt discusses in Minnesota in the coming days as well as for the whole country in the coming weeks and months." — Gov. Tim Pawlenty
Romney Campaign Co-Chair and Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty
"Romney Campaign In Minnesota" Press Conference Call
February 1, 2012
Click Here to Listen to the Entire Call
Highlights of the "Romney Campaign In Minnesota" Press Conference Call:
GOV. TIM PAWLENTY: "Good morning everybody. Thanks for calling. I know after the excitement and news after last night that it's probably a slower start to today but we appreciate you joining the call and we sure appreciate your continued interest in the Romney for President Campaign. As you know, Mitt and Ann and the entire Romney team are just very excited and grateful for the tremendous victory in Florida last night. Fifteen point or so margin of victory. It was the most votes that a Republican candidate has earned in a Republican primary in the history of the Florida primary. It was more votes than Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich combined. If you look at the early crosstabs, it appears Mitt won convincingly across a whole variety of demographic groups in the Republican primary and just a tremendous victory and a validation of the candidate and his vision for America. As you know, Florida is one of those states that has one of the higher unemployment rates, some of the more difficult economic challenges of all the states in the country. One of the main issues in Florida was who's best situated to tackle the economy, to lead this economy out of the doldrums and out of challenges that it's faced. And when that question got framed front and center in Florida, the answer by Florida Republicans was Mitt Romney. And the reason for that is an individual who has vertical experience, deep experience in the private sector as an entrepreneur, investing, starting businesses, growing businesses, providing jobs and they realize that looking to people who spent their whole life in Washington D.C. wasn't the answer. They're looking to somebody who has experience in the real world—outside of Washington D.C. and Mitt Romney answered the bell and did it in a convincing and compelling fashion last night. Today, he's coming to Minnesota, as you probably know. We welcome him here. We're delighted that he's coming. The Minnesota caucuses are next week. They're not—a little different than the Florida primary obviously. The caucus system of the three million of so registered voters in Minnesota. The turnout can vary but in general there's been about 60 to 80,000 attendees on the Republican side of these caucuses. So it's an important but smaller turnout than obviously a primary system. And it's difficult to predict. But I think it's fair to say Mitt wants to win any state where his name appears in a contest or on the ballot. It's going to be competitive. He wants to be here and earn every vote. And as part of that today, at 1pm, he's going to be at Freightmaster Company in Eagan, Minnesota to have a rally and learn about that business and present his message of economic recovery going forward. And in addition to focusing on his Republican competitors and they remain formidable and important and to be respected. But he also wants to make sure that we pay focus and attention to Barack Obama's failure in office. Barack Obama said that if he doesn't get this economy turned around he should be a one term president or have a one term proposition. We agree he hasn't turned the economy around in fact has made the recovery not take hold. He has had the economic challenges last longer than they should have because of his failed leadership and failed policies. And I think that issue is going to be one of the main issues that Mitt discusses in Minnesota in the coming days as well as for the whole country in the coming weeks and months."
  