
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Exploratory Committee today announced Pennsylvania Congressman Charlie Dent is supporting Rudy Giuliani for President. Congressman Dent is the first member of the Pennsylvania delegation to sign on board with Team Rudy. Dent will begin working to enlist other Pennsylvania Republicans to join Mayor Giuliani's campaign effort.
"Mayor Giuliani possesses the experience and the proven leadership our country needs to move forward during this critical time," Congressman Dent said. "Rudy Giuliani successfully led New York City and became known as ‘America's Mayor' because of his dynamic approach to tackling the challenges facing America's largest city.
"It takes a determined fiscal leader to make the kind of transformation he achieved as Mayor of New York – and his record speaks for itself. This is the leadership that makes me proud to be part of the Mayor's campaign," Dent concluded.
Mayor Giuliani expressed his thanks for Congressman Dent's endorsement, "I'm honored to have Charlie's support as we build our team in Pennsylvania."
About Congressman Dent:
Congressman Dent was first elected to Congress in 2004 representing the rapidly growing Lehigh Valley area (comprised of Lehigh and Northampton counties) and portions of Berks and Montgomery counties. A proven vote getter in a district with more registered Democrats than Republicans, Congressman Dent previously served for eight years as a Pennsylvania State Representative and then for six years as a Pennsylvania State Senator.
In Congress, Dent serves on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Committee on Homeland Security. He is the ranking Member on Homeland Security's Emergency Communications Preparedness and Response Subcommittee and has worked diligently to advance legislation to make America safer and our defenses against future terrorist attacks stronger.
Congressman Charlie Dent is a co-chair of the Republican Caucus' influential Tuesday Group and a vocal advocate for alternative energy development. He serves as the Co-Chair of the House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus.
  