
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, Presidential candidate Ted Cruz announced his leadership team in Kansas that demonstrates the campaign's growing grassroots support across the country. The leadership team will be co-chaired by State Senator Tom Arpke, State Representative Amanda Grosserode, State Representative Mark Kahrs, and State Senator Mary Pilcher-Cook. This group will continue the campaign's commitment of running a grassroots campaign that is uniting courageous conservatives across the country.
"I am thrilled to have the support of these elected officials in Kansas," Cruz said. "These men and women are unshakeable forces in the grassroots movement. I appreciate their hard work and I look forward to continuing to coalesce conservatives around our campaign in Kansas, as the March 5th primary approaches."
"There is not a more urgent cause than preserving our nation as a beacon of freedom in the world," Grossrode said. "Ted Cruz's unwavering commitment to individual liberty and limited government makes him precisely the man we need as the next President of the United States."
"I'm excited to see such a strong pro-life candidate and defender of traditional marriage continue to climb in the polls. I am confident that Ted Cruz's message of conservatism will resonate with Kansas voters March 5th," said State Senator Tom Arpke.
"We need someone who will not betray conservative principles, stand for the truth, and fight to retain our liberty in our country and in our states," said State Senator Mary Pilcher-Cook. "Senator Cruz is that person."
The Cruz for President Kansas Leadership Team includes the following:
Congressional Chair
Tim Huelskamp, Congressman District 1
Co-Chair
Tom Arpke, State Senator District 24
Amanda Grosserode, State Representative District 16
Mark Kahrs, State Representative District 87
Mary Pilcher-Cook, State Senator District 10
Leadership Team
Steve Fitzgerald, State Senator District 5
Bill Sutton, State Representative District 43
Brett Hildabrand, State Representative District 17
Blake Carpenter, State Representative District 81
Craig McPherson, State Representative District 8
Dennis Hedke, State Representative District 99
J.R. Claeys, State Representative District 69
John Rubin, State Representative District 18
Kasha Kelley, State Representative District 80
Randy Garber, State Representative District 62
Randy Powell, State Representative District 30
Mike Kiegerl, State Representative District 43
Steve Huebert, State Representative District 90
Tony Barton, State Representative District 41
  