
    Raimondo Named National Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg's 2020 Presidential Campaign
PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND – Today, Rhode Island Governor Gina Raimondo endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg for president, touting his track record of taking on our country's hardest fights – winning – and his ability to defeat Donald Trump.
Governor Raimondo will officially endorse Mike this morning at an event in Providence, where Mike will also deliver remarks and share why he is the best candidate to defeat Donald Trump in November and unite the country.
"Mike is a problem-solver with a long track record of delivering results, and I'm proud to stand with him today," said Governor Gina Raimondo. "From fighting gun violence, to addressing climate change, to combating the opioid crisis and more, Mike understands the issues that impact our lives every day. We cannot risk another four years of President Trump's destructive policies, and I know that Mike is the right leader to take him on."
The Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign also announced that Raimondo will be a National Campaign Co-Chair. In this role, she will advise the campaign on key issues as well as attend events and share with voters why she believes Mike is the strongest candidate to beat President Trump.
"Governor Raimondo has been a trailblazer in Rhode Island. As the state's first female governor, she has made record investments in infrastructure and education, and continues to lead the fight on the frontlines of the opioid crisis," said Mike Bloomberg. "I'm honored to have the support of a leader so committed to driving turnout in this election and helping Democrats win up and down the ballot. I'm looking forward to working with her to defeat Donald Trump and rebuild America."
As the 75th and first female Governor of Rhode Island, Raimondo won a second term this past November with the largest victory Rhode Island has seen in more than a generation. During her time in office, Raimondo has kick-started the state's economy and created thousands of jobs, bringing Rhode Island's unemployment rate in line with the national average and the lowest it's been in three decades. Raimondo's made record investments in infrastructure and education. Under her leadership, Rhode Island became the fourth state in the country to offer tuition-free community college for every high school graduate. Before becoming Governor, Raimondo served as General Treasurer of Rhode Island, notably receiving the largest number of votes of any statewide candidate and tackling the state's $7 billion unfunded pension liability.
  