
    Sen. Sanders Secures Another Primary Victory on the Path to the White House
MANCHESTER -- Tonight in Manchester, the working people of New Hampshire made their voices heard, voting to make Sen. Bernie Sanders the 2020 Democratic nominee for President.
Speaking to a crowd of supporters at the SNHU Field House in Manchester, Sen. Sanders thanked the Granite State for bringing home a victory for working people in New Hampshire and across the country.
"Tonight New Hampshire sent a message that working people are ready for a political revolution in this country. This is what it will take to defeat Donald Trump," said Sen. Bernie Sanders. "This victory isn't about me; it's about us. Tonight is about what our supporters, volunteers and grassroots donors built in New Hampshire."
Since the campaign launched, Sen. Sanders has spoken directly to well over 40,000 Granite Staters at nearly 70 events across all 10 counties. He garnered unprecedented grassroots support in New Hampshire, inspiring a broad coalition of volunteers that powered record-breaking organizing efforts. On his path to victory, Sen. Sanders mobilized 25,000 volunteers in New Hampshire, who put in over 100,000 hours and knocked 850,000 doors since the start of the campaign. More than 1,000 out of state volunteers traveled to the Granite State to help get out the vote for Sen. Sanders, ultimately helping to secure a victory against a well-financed multi-candidate field, showing a grassroots movement funded by millions of small dollar donors.
Looking ahead to the February 22 Nevada caucuses, Bernie 2020 has built the largest operation of any presidential candidate on the ground, with more than 200 staffers and thousands of active volunteers. As the primary season turns to Nevada, South Carolina and Super Tuesday, Sanders' multi-racial working class coalition is powered by the most diverse coalition of any candidate in the race, with polling consistently showing Sanders' strong base of support with Black and Latino voters in Nevada, particularly among women of color. National polling also shows Sanders leading with voters of color across the country.
Recent polling puts Sanders in the lead nationally ahead of Super Tuesday, where Bernie 2020 is making an aggressive $5.5 million television and digital ad buy and deploying new staff to direct and mobilize a huge base of grassroots supporters.
  