
    Michigan leaders tonight made the following statements on Mitt Romney's strong debate performance and his vision for creating jobs in Michigan:
Governor Rick Snyder: "Mitt Romney is not a career politician. He's a businessman who knows how to balance the budget and he has a credible plan to put our country on a sustainable path. That's the kind of leadership we need in Washington. Mitt Romney understands the economy and what it takes to create jobs."
Lieutenant Governor Brian Calley: "Mitt Romney is gaining support among conservative voters in Michigan because it's clear from his track record that he is not afraid to make the tough decisions needed to reduce our nation's debt."
Former Attorney General Mike Cox: "Mitt Romney is gaining support and strength in this primary because of performances like the one he delivered tonight. Michiganders can feel confident that they will have a president who is looking out for them by creating jobs and lessening the crushing debt that we face. The bold economic plan that he laid out today will unleash the entrepreneurial spirit that has been held back by President Obama's anti-growth policies. I look forward to spreading this message to Michigan voters over the next week."
Attorney General Bill Schuette: "Mitt Romney speaks Michigan's language — jobs. He knows Michigan needs jobs and tonight showed he not only has the experience but also the plan to turn Michigan around and create more jobs."
Congressman Bill Huizenga: "Mitt Romney easily won tonight's debate by clearly explaining how he will address the most important issue facing our country: bringing back jobs and expanding the economy. His economic plan is evidence he is ready to tackle the challenges facing our nation. I am confident that his business background coupled with his executive experience has made Mitt Romney the leader we need to turn around our country."
Gary Wolfram, William E. Simon Professor in Economics and Public Policy at Hillsdale College: "Pro-growth conservatives across Michigan are supporting Mitt Romney because of his record, bold economic plan, and performances tonight that display his true understanding of our economy and how to create jobs. Mitt Romney knows that low taxes, less spending, and fair regulatory structure encourage job growth. And Mitt Romney knows this because he has lived in the real economy and knows that Washington doesn't create jobs — entrepreneurs, innovators, and hardworking Americans are the backbone of our economic engine."
Oakland County Executive L. Brooks Patterson: "Mitt Romney showed us again why he will defeat President Obama in November. We need a proven leader who can take a conservative economic message up against President Obama — I can't think of anyone more qualified or better able to do that than Mitt Romney. With Mitt as the nominee, conservatives can be confident that we will have both the right messenger and the leader with the experience to implement pro-growth economic policies."
Republican National Committeeman Saul Anuzis: "Throughout this rollercoaster campaign, one thing has remained true: Mitt Romney is the only candidate with the real world economic experience, pro-growth plan, and record of success that will be needed to go to Washington and enact real change. Today, Mitt Romney laid out the basis for an economic plan that will jumpstart the economy. Tonight, he showcased his ability to take that message to voters and again showed why he will defeat President Obama in November."
  