
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Exploratory Committee today announced that former chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, Dr. Michael J. Boskin, will join the Committee as a Senior Policy Advisor. Currently a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Boskin will serve as Mayor Giuliani's lead advisor on all economic matters.
Dr. Michael J. Boskin said, "I am volunteering to join Rudy's team because, in a talented field of qualified candidates, Rudy Giuliani stands out for his rare blend of intelligence, highly successful experience, leadership and vision. His eight years as Mayor of New York have rightly been judged "the most successful episode of conservative governance in this country in the last fifty years". He trimmed bureaucracy, controlled spending, repeatedly cut taxes, and radically reduced crime and welfare rolls. Not surprisingly, New York, which had been in a downward spiral of rampant crime and fiscal chaos, experienced a renaissance.
"The entire country witnessed what a wonderful job of crisis management Rudy did on and after the terrorist attacks on 9/11. We cannot know now exactly what crises the next President and the nation will confront in 2009 and beyond, but unfortunately it is likely there will be some.
"I look forward to working with his team to bring Rudy the best possible economic information, analysis, ideas and policy options," concluded Boskin.
"Throughout his academic and policy-making career, Dr. Boskin has emphasized the importance of stable low inflation and fiscal discipline," said Mayor Giuliani. "I am honored to have his expertise on my team."
About Dr. Boskin:
Michael J. Boskin is T. M. Friedman Professor of Economics and Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution, Stanford University. He is also Research Associate, National Bureau of Economic Research. He served as Chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) from 1989 to 1993 and chaired the Commission on the Consumer Price Index.
Dr. Boskin has received numerous professional awards and citations. In addition to Stanford and the University of California, he has taught at Harvard and Yale. He is the author of more than one hundred books and articles. He is internationally recognized for his research on world economic growth, tax and budget theory and policy, Social Security, U.S. saving and consumption patterns, and the implications of changing technology and demography on capital, labor, and product markets.
  