
    (Columbia, SC, Feb 16, 2020 ) –– Another member of the South Carolina House of Representatives has endorsed Tom Steyer. Patricia Moore "Pat" Henegan (D-54) was elected to the House of Representatives in 2014. Since that time she has become a well-respected leader and a fierce advocate for her constituents. Before joining the legislature, Henegan built a stellar reputation for her commitment to the community. She served with multiple organizations such as Leadership Carolina, Kiwanis of the Carolinas, Pee Dee Citizens Committee on Judicial Qualifications, Man2Man Fatherhood Initiative, Joint Center for Social Change, Children's Defense Freedom Schools, among others.
As an experienced educator – formerly a teacher and Superintendent – Henegan realizes how integral it is to ensure all children have equal access to a quality education no matter what zip code they are born into.
"In my careful research of all the candidates in this race, Tom Steyer stood out to me for several reasons," said Henegan. She continued, "I looked over his 5 Rights and as an educator, his stance on education is spot on for me! Tom values the importance of public education and believes that all Americans have the right to a free, quality, public education that begins from the time a child is old enough to enter preschool. We know that 3rd-grade reading levels have determined the success that a child will have in life and early childhood education is crucial. I believe Tom Steyer will fight for our children to receive the type of education they deserve and he will fight for decent wages for educators as well."
Of this endorsement, Steyer says: "I am thrilled to have received the endorsement of Pat Henegan. She is a champion for education in the state of South Carolina and a powerful force in the South Carolina House of Representatives who knows the importance of putting people over politics."
Henegan joins South Carolina House members Leola Robinson-Simpson, Russell Ott, John King, Shedron Williams, Annie McDaniel and former Representative, Harold Mitchell who have all given their support to Tom Steyer as endorsers.
  