
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, U.S. Congressman Lynn Westmoreland announced his endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney for President of the United States. Congressman Westmoreland joins a growing Romney for President Georgia Congressional team that includes Congressman Phil Gingrey, Jack Kingston and Tom Price.
Endorsing Governor Mitt Romney, Congressman Westmoreland issued the following statement: "Georgia Republicans play a crucial role on Super Tuesday. Our presidential nomination process has huge implications for the future of the Republican Party. I believe, and I hope Georgia voters agree, that our best hope going forward rests with Gov. Mitt Romney.
"A Georgia GOP primary works as a filter – only a true conservative can get through one. It appears that we are now down to a two-person race and Georgians can help winnow the field and protect our party's conservative values and principles.
"Governor Romney has succeeded in everything that he has done. He rescued the Winter Olympics from disaster, he built an incredibly successful business and he governed a state with notable accomplishments despite working with a Legislature that was more than 80 percent Democratic. One of his opponents has scornfully called him a manager for profit. If excelling in business hurts a candidate in a Republican primary, I'm terrified about the future of the party. We are the party of entrepreneurship, wealth creation and strong, open markets. A successful, visionary executive fits the profile of exactly what we need in the Oval Office during a time of economic turmoil.
"After a year of soul-searching following the 2006 election losses, we need to unite behind a candidate who will fight for low taxes, defend our borders, protect our nation's security, appoint strict-constructionist judges, manage the economy with the experience of a businessman and promote family values. That candidate is Mitt Romney. I endorse him for president of the United States, and I encourage Georgia conservatives to rally to this cause and cast their votes for him on Tuesday."
Welcoming Congressman Westmoreland's endorsement, Governor Romney said, "On Tuesday, the people of Georgia will face a critical decision that will determine the future of our party and our nation. I am proud to have the support of Congressman Westmoreland who has stood strong for conservative principles. I look forward to working with him to advance our common conservative vision for a stronger America."
Background On U.S. Congressman Lynn Westmoreland:
U.S. Congressman Lynn Westmoreland Was Elected To Congress In 2004 After Having Served 12 Years In The Georgia House. Congressman Westmoreland represents Georgia's 3rd District, which stretches from the southern suburbs of metro Atlanta into Middle Georgia. In Congress, he serves on the Transportation and Infrastructure, Small Business and Government Oversight and Reform committees. Prior to his election to the Congress, he served in the Georgia State House and for three years, he was the Republican leader. Throughout his career, he has fought for lower taxes and less government. Prior to his career in public service, Congressman Westmoreland operated his own building and construction company. He and his wife Joan have three children and six grandchildren.
  