
    Hello everyone, it's another night we get to spend together for our nightly chat. Please remember to keep sending me your questions by texting the number 275-236 (ASKBEN).
My first question is from Sumter who asks "how important is it, really, to protect our borders?"
I believe the border is our first line of defense against illegal immigration. Border security is about upholding America's laws as well as defending U.S. national security. Currently, terrorists and criminals are eagerly entering our country. We must stop them or we will risk more tragedies like the death of Kate Steinle, a young woman who was shot in San Francisco last summer. The man accused of perpetrating the crime was an illegal immigrant who had been deported five times but still managed to sneak back into this country. Preventable crimes like that should never happen, and they will not happen when I am president. A Carson administration will enforce a multi-faceted approach to securing our borders, based upon the successful model that had been implemented in Yuma, Arizona, prior to intervention from the Obama administration.
Next, Kate asks "why do you support school choice?"
Kate, the fact is the United States cannot remain competitive in the world if we do not have an education system that meets the needs of students in every corner of our country. It is our moral imperative as Americans to lay the foundation for a world class education for every student, not simply to those in the best neighborhoods or with the money to buy the educational support they need. We must adopt policies that will give parents and students the freedom to design an educational experience that is tailored to their unique abilities, interests and learning needs.
Finally, Anthony asks "how do we address the constant approach of 'government-based' solutions we always here about?" Anthony indicated that he thinks too many politicians seem to think "government" is the answer.
Anthony, I agree with you. Why do we keep looking to government for the answer? It is We the People that have, and always will be the answer. It's time to return to common sense solutions that enrich the American people, not line the pockets of bureaucrats with special favors. Back room deals will have no place in my administration, that I promise — it will actually be transparent for once.
Thank you again for letting me into your homes for our nightly chat.
Goodnight,
Ben
  