
    Gordon England, of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary of Defense, Vice Paul D. Wolfowitz, Resigned, to Which Position He Was Appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Stephen Goldsmith, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2010 (Reappointment), to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
C. Boyden Gray, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the European Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, vice Rockwell A. Schnabel, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Floyd Hall, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of five years (Reappointment), to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Tracy A. Henke, of Missouri, to be Executive Director of the Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness, Department of Homeland Security, vice C. Suzanne Mencer, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Nadine Hogan, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring June 26, 2008 (Reappointment), to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Peter N. Kirsanow, of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring August 27, 2008, vice Ronald E. Meisburg, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Robert D. Lenhard, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2011, vice Danny Lee McDonald, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Ronald E. Meisburg, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board for a term of four years, vice Arthur F. Rosenfeld, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Julie L. Myers, of Kansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Michael J. Garcia, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Benjamin A. Powell, of Florida, to be General Counsel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (New Position), to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Arthur F. Rosenfeld, of Virginia, to be Federal Mediation and Conciliation Director, vice Peter J. Hurtgen, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Ellen R. Sauerbrey, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Population, Refugees, and Migration), vice Arthur E. Dewey, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Dorrance Smith, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Victoria Clarke, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Enrique J. Sosa, of Florida, to be A Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of five years (Reappointment), to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Hans von Spakovsky, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2011, vice Bradley A. Smith, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Roger W. Wallace, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2008 (Reappointment), to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Dennis P. Walsh, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring December 16, 2009 (Reappointment), to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Steven T. Walther, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2009, vice Scott E. Thomas, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
  