
    Yesterday, in Columbia, South Carolina, the Vice President delivered remarks highlighting how, thanks to $65 billion in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Administration is making progress on the expansion of affordable, high-speed internet nationwide. The Vice President announced that more than 16 million households are now saving more than $500 million per month on their internet bills thanks to the Affordable Connectivity Program. The Vice President also announced more than $175 million for 61 Minority Serving Institutions to expand affordable internet access on campus and in their communities.
Assistant Democratic Leader Jim Clyburn (D-SC) joined the Vice President for the event at Benedict College, an HBCU and a recipient of the newly announced grants. The VP also did an interview with WIS News of Columbia, South Carolina.
Read more below:
Bloomberg: Americans Are Saving $500 Million Monthly on Internet Fees[Justin Sink, 2/27/23]
Americans are saving half a billion dollars per month on home internet costs thanks to a federal benefit passed as part of the bipartisan infrastructure bill, Vice President Kamala Harris will announce Monday in South Carolina.
That represents a 40% increase since the federal government launched a website to promote the program last May, with more than 16 million American households now enrolled in the Affordable Connectivity Program. […]
Hundreds of internet service providers — including AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications Inc., and Comcast Corp. — participate in the program, which provides reduced cost plans and federal subsidies up to $30 per month. Families who qualify can also receive discounts on computers or tablets. A total of $65 billion was appropriated in the bipartisan infrastructure bill to expand internet access.
Spectrum: Harris announces $175M investment in internet for minority institutions, including HBCUs[Ryan Chatelain, 2/27/23]
[…] Harris announced the administration is investing more than $175 million to expand high-speed internet at 61 minority-serving institutions, including historically Black colleges and universities. Benedict College is among the HBCUs that will benefit, receiving $3 million. 
Harris said the investments will allow schools to expand their laptop loan programs and upgrade their campus WiFi networks.
"So that here at Benedict, when students are waiting for the Comet bus, they can open up their laptop and keep studying for their chemistry midterm," she said. 
Benedict College will also be able to open a community computer lab that can be used by elementary school students, the vice president said. […]
El Tiempo Latino: Este programa del gobierno de EEUU ha ahorrado $500 millones en internet a los estadounidenses. Mira si eres elegible[2/27/23]
El Programa de Conectividad Asequible (ACP, por sus siglas en inglés) de la administración Biden proporciona Internet de alta velocidad y bajo costo a personas que no tienen acceso o para quienes el costo es demasiado alto.
Este beneficio fue aprobado como parte del proyecto de ley de infraestructura bipartidista, firmado en noviembre de 2021.
Este lunes, la vicepresidenta Kamala Harris tiene previsto destacar los logros del programa desde Carolina del Sur.
Según un comunicado de la Casa Blanca, la inscripción al programa ha aumentado un 40% desde que el gobierno lanzó un sitio web para promocionarlo en mayo de 2022.
Asimismo, indican que los consumidores están ahorrando ahorrando más de $500 millones por mes como resultado del ACP. […]
Additional Coverage: 

The Post and Courier: VP Kamala Harris promises better internet for minority schools in SC visit
WIS: Vice President Harris visits Columbia, talks 'Internet for All'
WRDW: Vice President discusses 'Internet for All' in South Carolina visit
WCSC: Vice President Harris visits SC to talk internet expansion

  