
    Yesterday, President Biden announced his intent to nominate Judge Kentanji Brown Jackson, one of our nation's brightest legal minds, as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. President Biden sought a candidate with exceptional credentials, unimpeachable character, and unwavering dedication to the rule of law. Judge Jackson formerly clerked for Justice Breyer, and has broad experience across the legal profession – as a federal appellate judge, a federal district court judge, a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, an attorney in private practice, and as a federal public defender. She has been confirmed by the Senate on a bipartisan basis three times – most recently last year for her current seat. If confirmed, Jackson will be the first Black woman to serve on the Supreme Court.
A broad range of elected leaders in the Senate and House of Representatives issued statements applauding her qualifications and acknowledging her historic nomination.
Here's what they are saying:
Senators
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer: "With her exceptional qualifications and record of evenhandedness, Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson will be a Justice who will uphold the constitution and protect the rights of all Americans, including the voiceless and vulnerable. A true public servant and model jurist, Judge Jackson has demonstrated a commitment to America's foundational principles of freedom, equality, and the rule of law throughout her career. As a clerk for Justice Stephen Breyer, an assistant federal public defender, a federal district court judge, and most recently as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, Judge Jackson has shown brilliance, thoughtfulness, a willingness to collaborate, and a dedication to applying the law impartially. The historic nomination of Judge Jackson is an important step toward ensuring the Supreme Court reflects the nation as a whole. As the first Black woman Supreme Court Justice in the Court's 232-year-history, she will inspire countless future generations of young Americans. Senate Democrats spent the past year working with President Biden to shape a federal judicial system that fully represents America and we will continue that trend by confirming Judge Jackson to the Supreme Court. I commend President Biden on undertaking a thoughtful, deliberate selection process for the next Supreme Court Justice. Once the President sends Judge Jackson's nomination to the Senate, Senate Democrats will work to ensure a fair, timely, and expeditious process – fair to the nominee, to the Senate, and to the American public. Under Chairman Durbin's leadership, Judge Jackson will receive a prompt hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee in the coming weeks. After the Judiciary Committee finishes their work I will ask the Senate to move immediately to confirm her to the Supreme Court. I have no doubt that Judge Jackson would make an outstanding Supreme Court Justice. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson has been confirmed by the United States Senate on a bipartisan basis three times and I expect she will again earn bipartisan support in the Senate." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Illinois Senator Dick Durbin, Chairman, Senate Judiciary Committee: "From a strong list of prospective candidates, President Biden has chosen an extraordinary nominee in D.C. Circuit Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson. To be the first to make history in our nation you need to have an exceptional life story. Judge Jackson's achievements are well known to the Senate Judiciary Committee as we approved her to the D.C. Circuit less than a year ago with bipartisan support. We will begin immediately to move forward on her nomination with the careful, fair, and professional approach she and America are entitled to." [Tweet thread, 2/25/22]
Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chair, Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee: "Judge Jackson is an extraordinary nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court and the right choice for this historic moment in our country. From her clerkship at the Supreme Court, to her work as a public defender, to her distinguished service on the D.C. District Court and Circuit Court, Judge Jackson's impressive background of public service makes her an outstanding nominee. Her experience will inform her work as a thoughtful judge with an understanding of the lives of the American people. Her history of standing up for justice, democracy, and equal rights for all Americans is exactly what our country needs right now. Both Republicans and Democrats have already voted for her for past judicial positions, which only affirms her qualifications, character, and integrity. I know Judge Jackson will be an excellent Supreme Court Justice. What an exciting time for our country." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Michigan Senator Gary Peters, Chairman, Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee: "The historic nomination of Judge Jackson to serve on the Supreme Court is a barrier-breaking moment in American history. Judge Jackson is a well-respected jurist whose qualifications and wide-ranging legal experience will undoubtedly serve our nation well. The rulings of our nation's highest court have a direct and consequential impact on the lives of Michiganders, including women's reproductive rights, workers' rights, environmental protections and voting rights. I applaud President Biden for nominating Judge Jackson, who is exceptionally well-qualified and look forward to a prompt confirmation process to ensure the Supreme Court further reflects the diversity of America." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Virginia Senator Mark Warner, Chairman, Senate Intelligence Committee: "With his historic selection of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, President Biden has nominated a qualified jurist with extraordinary credentials and a brilliant legal mind who has been repeatedly confirmed by the Senate on a bipartisan basis. I look forward to a timely confirmation hearing in the Senate, fulfilling our constitutional responsibility in a swift manner." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Arizona Senator Kyrsten Sinema: "Today's nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to serve as Associate Justice on the U.S. Supreme Court represents a historic milestone for our country. As Arizona's senior Senator, I take seriously my constitutional duty to provide advice and consent, and I thoughtfully consider all presidential nominees based on a three part criteria: whether they are professionally qualified, believe in the role of an independent judiciary, and can be trusted to faithfully interpret and uphold the rule of law. I look forward to meeting with Judge Jackson and discussing her nomination." [Statement, 2/25/22]
California Senator Dianne Feinstein: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is indisputably well qualified to serve on the Supreme Court. She currently serves as a federal appellate judge on the D.C. Circuit Court and before that spent eight years as a federal district judge on the D.C. District Court. This is a historic nomination. Judge Jackson is the first Black woman to be nominated to the Supreme Court and she embodies President Biden's commitment to ensuring that the federal judiciary is representative of America as a whole. If confirmed, she would become the first former federal public defender to serve on the Supreme Court. She has been confirmed by the Senate three times, as recently as last year with bipartisan support. I look forward to productive hearings before the Judiciary Committee soon." [Tweet thread, 2/25/22]
California Senator Alex Padilla: "@POTUS has made an exceptional choice by nominating Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, an outstanding jurist, to #SCOTUS. The Supreme Court has never before benefitted from the voice and perspective of a Black woman. This nomination is not only historic — it is long overdue." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal: "This historic nomination is truly thrilling. Judge Jackson has an exceptional record of personal accomplishment and character with unquestionable qualifications as a dynamic, brilliant, jurist. She is a star – an example of the best of America. Like her mentor Justice Breyer, she is grounded in the real-world with a strong sense of how legal abstractions dramatically impact everyday Americans. As Justice Breyer said about her, she has a unique combination of commonsense and thoughtfulness. When we met earlier this month, I urged President Biden to nominate a Black woman with powerful intellect and profound integrity – and he has more than met that goal. I look forward to discussing her qualifications with colleagues on both sides of the aisle, as well as meeting with Judge Jackson and spending some time reviewing her record ahead of our Committee's confirmation hearings." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Colorado Senator Michael Bennet: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an impressive and historic choice. Her experience as a public defender and a judge on both the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit is excellent preparation for the Supreme Court. I appreciate Judge Jackson's reputation for independent thinking and fair-minded rulings, which is one of many reasons the Senate confirmed her to the D.C. Circuit on a bipartisan basis. "I look forward to meeting Judge Jackson and reviewing her record more closely in the weeks ahead. At a time of partisan division and public distrust in our institutions, this confirmation process is an opportunity for the Senate to reinforce the American people's confidence in the rule of law and our constitutional checks and balances." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Colorado Senator John Hickenlooper: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson has an accomplished background and breadth of experience. I look forward to thoroughly reviewing her record and legal philosophy as President Biden's Supreme Court nominee." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Delaware Senator Chris Coons: "President Biden has made an excellent choice with his nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court. She is an historic pick with an outstanding record of service that makes her as qualified as any Supreme Court nominee in recent memory. In his decades on the Court, Justice Breyer has not only brought a keen legal mind but an ability to engage and persuade his colleagues in ways that built majorities that could deliver lasting opinions. With this choice, I am optimistic President Biden has selected someone who will be able to serve that same role on the Court. President Biden has done his job, and now it is time for the Senate to do ours. I have been reading into Judge Jackson's record, and I look forward to meeting with her soon and working with my colleagues on @JudiciaryDems to ensure a smooth, swift confirmation process." [Tweet thread, 2/25/22]
Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock: "I applaud the historic nomination of Judge Kentaji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court. It's time the federal judiciary reflects the diversity of our country. Georgians want a nominee who is fair and qualified. I look forward to reviewing this nomination." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Hawaii Senator Mazie Hirono: "Today is an historic day. President Biden has nominated the first Black woman to serve on the highest court of the land. We need a Court that reflects America and understands how the Court's decisions impact the lives of everyday families. Appointing a Black woman will help make that a reality. Judge Jackson is exceptionally qualified and has a proven record of deciding cases based on the Constitution, the law, and the facts. I have no doubt that Judge Jackson will serve as a fair and impartial jurist who will protect the rights of all Americans. Judge Jackson has been confirmed by the Senate on a bipartisan basis three times and hearings should proceed without delay." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen: "Today @POTUS has selected a highly regarded judge and the first former public defender to serve our highest court. This is a historic nominee at a critical moment in our history. I look forward to hearing more from Ketanji Brown Jackson during her nomination process." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Maryland Senator Ben Cardin: "Judge Jackson has extremely impressive legal credentials. It is long past time for the Supreme Court to seat such a highly qualified Black woman as a member, as we strive to provide equal justice under law." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an exceptional choice. As a former public defender, she will bring an invaluable perspective to the Supreme Court. She's been previously confirmed by the U.S. Senate on a bipartisan basis — and I fully support her swift confirmation." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Massachusetts Senator Ed Markey: "I am thrilled by President Biden's nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to serve as Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court," said Senator Markey. President Biden has selected a brilliant and eminently qualified jurist with a proven and successful track record on the bench as a federal judge. She possesses the ability, character, and temperament that justices of the nation's highest court must have. Judge Jackson has dedicated her career to justice, bringing the unique perspective of a former public defender to the bench. With this historic nomination of Judge Brown, President Biden has done much more than fulfill a campaign promise. He has recognized and given voice to millions of Black women who for more than two centuries have never been represented on the nation's highest court. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson will bring to the Supreme Court a needed perspective that has been sorely lacking from its jurisprudence. She will make the Court look more like, and better represent, all the American people. This is a day that is long overdue. I look forward to a smooth and speedy confirmation process." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Montana Senator Jon Tester: "I look forward to meeting with Judge Jackson to discuss her experience and qualifications. Vetting nominees to the Supreme Court is one of the most important responsibilities I have as a Senator, and in order to earn my vote, any nominee will need to demonstrate that they will serve on the Court impartially, uphold the rule of law, and defend Montanans' constitutional rights." [Statement, 2/25/22]
New Hampshire Senator Jeanne Shaheen: "I applaud President Biden's historic nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. Through her background in public service and experience as a federal public defender and on the DC Circuit, Jackson is eminently qualified to serve on the highest bench in the land. Throughout her career, she has demonstrated deep knowledge and respect for the law, balanced judgment and unwavering commitment to justice. Our courts should look like and reflect our communities, and this historic nomination of the first Black woman selected to serve on the Supreme Court is a long-overdue milestone for our country. Jackson has earned this place in history through her impressive record, and I look forward to considering her nomination in the Senate." [Statement, 2/25/22]
New Hampshire Senator Maggie Hassan: "One of the most important responsibilities of the Senate is the confirmation of Supreme Court Justices. Judge Jackson is an accomplished jurist, and I look forward to thoroughly reviewing her record, her judicial philosophy, and her commitment to protecting the rights of all Americans, including upholding the constitutionally protected rights of women. During this time in our country's history, a strong and independent judiciary is more important than ever, and I will approach the review of Judge Jackson with the seriousness and thoughtfulness that it deserves." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Nevada Senator Jacky Rosen: "President Biden's historic nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson will take the Supreme Court one step closer to representing the diversity of our country. I look forward to reviewing her record & making sure Nevadans' voices are heard." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Nevada Senator Catherine Cortez Masto: "The Supreme Court makes decisions on the most critical issues of our time, including a woman's right to choose, voting rights, presidential power, campaign finance, and environmental protections. We need a justice who respects the rights and freedoms enshrined in our Constitution and the rule of law. In the coming weeks, I am looking forward to meeting with Judge Jackson to thoroughly discuss her record and to fulfilling my duties as a senator to provide advice and consent." [Statement, 2/25/22]
New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand: "As a former public defender, a brilliant jurist, and a dedicated public servant, Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an exceptionally qualified Supreme Court nominee who will protect our rights. I look forward to swiftly beginning her historic confirmation process in the Senate!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley: "I thank President Biden for fulfilling his constitutional obligation to put forward a nominee to fill this critical vacancy. Ketanji Brown Jackson has an impressive record of accomplishments and her nomination is an historic first, ensuring that the highest court in our land will better reflect our nation as a whole. President Biden has done his part, and now it's time for the Senate to fulfill our own constitutional obligation by providing advice and consent. I believe it's crucial that the next justice understand the concerted effort being waged by the wealthy and powerful to undermine the political and economic rights of ordinary Americans, and that she shares a commitment to defend our founding Constitutional values. I look forward to meeting with Judge Jackson, reviewing her credentials and learning more about her vision for the Court. Filling a seat on the United States Supreme Court is one of the most significant responsibilities we undertake as United States Senators and I look forward to fulfilling that responsibility." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey: "I am honored to support her nomination. This is a historic nomination and will bring us one step closer in having our institutions better reflect the diversity of our Nation."
Rhode Island Senator Sheldon Whitehouse: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is a thoroughly qualified nominee. She will bring to the Court a wealth of experience, a sharp legal mind, and a firm commitment to equal protection under law. I look forward to considering her nomination in the Judiciary Committee in the weeks ahead." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Utah Senator Mitt Romney: "One of my most serious constitutional responsibilities as a senator is to provide advice and consent on a Supreme Court nomination, and I believe our next justice must faithfully apply the law and our constitution—impartially and regardless of policy preferences. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an experienced jurist, and I know her historic nomination will inspire many. I look forward to meeting in person with Judge Jackson, thoroughly reviewing her record and testimony, and evaluating her qualifications during this process." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Vermont Senator Pat Leahy:"President Biden's nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to serve as a Justice on the Supreme Court is an historic moment for the Court, and for the country. The federal judiciary can and should reflect the diversity that is at the heart of our nation. Only then do we move closer to achieving a more perfect union. Judge Brown Jackson has already demonstrated intellect and impartiality on both the D.C. District Court and the D.C. Circuit Court. The bipartisan votes with which she was confirmed to both these seats is a credit to the record she has shown since first being confirmed by the Senate — unanimously — in 2013. Her record in both the private and public sectors brings a diversity of legal experience that provides informed jurisprudence. This is the kind of nominee we should all expect to our nation's highest court. The President has done his job, nominating a highly qualified, experienced judge for elevation to the Supreme Court. The Senate must now do its job — free of politics and political vitriol — to fairly and objectively evaluate this nominee. We have a true opportunity, after careful review, to provide our advice and consent on this historic nominee. I believe Judge Jackson's nomination is one that can unite the Senate in sending a signal to the American people that our courts should not and must not be partisan arms of our government. I look forward to this historic confirmation process." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Members of Congress
California Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the House: "In nominating Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court, President Biden has chosen a widely respected jurist who will bring to the Court one of the sharpest legal minds in a generation, an unyielding commitment to justice and a strong voice for American values. This is a moment of great pride and patriotism for our nation, as Judge Jackson makes history as the first Black woman selected to serve on the highest court in the land. Judge Jackson will be a force for justice on the Court, with her masterful command of the law, outstanding credentials and broad legal experience. She has excelled during her tenure on the D.C. District Court as well as on the powerful D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, upholding individual rights and the rule of law – and doing so as a proud working mother. Judge Jackson will also be the first federal public defender to serve on the Supreme Court, bringing extensive courtroom experience to the bench. After beginning her career as a clerk for Justice Stephen Breyer and following in his footsteps on the U.S. Sentencing Commission, Judge Jackson will carry on his mission to preserve the Supreme Court's vital role as a defender of our rights and freedoms. Congress and the Country look forward to Judge Jackson receiving a fair and timely hearing, as well as a strong bipartisan vote in the Senate." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Massachusetts Congresswoman Katherine Clark, Assistant House Democratic Leader: "A graduate of Harvard Law and a former public defender with a historic record of protecting civil rights. And now, the first Black female nominee to the Supreme Court. Make way for JUSTICE Ketanji Brown Jackson." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New York Congressman Hakeem Jeffries, Chairman, House Democratic Caucus: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is a groundbreaking, visionary, highly capable legal mind who has dedicated her career to ensuring that the rights and protections afforded by our Constitution apply equally to those who need them the most. Her time as a public defender, on the U.S. Sentencing Commission and as a federal judge, combined with her life experience as a Black woman, has provided her with unique knowledge and perspective to strengthen the high court and balance the scales of justice. The Senate should provide Judge Jackson with the full and fair consideration the American people deserve and then confirm her to the Supreme Court." [Statement, 2/25/22]
New York Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney, Chairman, Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee: "I'm thrilled to see Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's historic nomination to our nation's highest court. Her exemplary service on the D.C. Circuit, as well as her experience as a federal district court judge, a public defender, and a clerk for Justice Breyer, make her extremely qualified for this position. As Americans face grave threats to voting rights, abortion access, health care, and more, we need someone like Judge Jackson on the Supreme Court who has a record of being a champion for equal justice under the law. I applaud President Biden on his decision, and I look forward to seeing the Senate move forward with her historic nomination." [Statement, 2/25/22]
New York Congressman Jerry Nadler, Chairman, House Judiciary Committee: "This is a phenomenal choice by @POTUS. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an exceptional jurist and will no doubt continue to serve this nation honorably on the Supreme Court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New York Congressman Gregory Meeks, Chairman, House Foreign Affairs Committee: "I applaud @POTUS' historic nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson to the SCOTUS as an important step towards greater inclusion. While she will inspire generations of Black women to come, she'll also add value to the Court & broaden its perspective given her strong legal background." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congressman, Chairman, House Veteran's Affairs Committee: "I'm thrilled that @POTUS has nominate Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the U.S. Supreme Court. Judge Jackson is a fair and accomplished jurist. Her historic nomination will contribute greatly to the Supreme Court's role of upholding equality and justice in our country." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Ohio Congresswoman Joyce Beatty, Chair, Congressional Black Caucus: "From her work on the US Court of Appeals, to her years spent as a federal trial court judge, to her early days as a public defender, Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is poised to be the most historic and impactful SCOTUS Justice of the 21st century. Judge Jackson also brings with her the lifetime of learning and perspective of a Black woman, something our nation's highest court has never seen, making the bench look more like the makeup of our nation Judge Jackson has my full faith and support ahead of her Senate confirmation hearing, which must proceed without delay." [Tweet thread, 2/25/22]
New York Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez, Chair, House Small Business Committee: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an excellent choice. She is one of our top legal minds and has always been dedicated to justice, I'm looking forward to her swift confirmation by the Senate. With her nomination she will not only be making history, but will inspire millions." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New York Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, Chair, House Oversight Committee: "Promises made, promises kept. Excited to see Judge Ketanji Jackson nominated to the highest court. #girlboss #SCOTUSnominee" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Arizona Congressman Ruben Gallego: "President Biden's nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court is a historic decision. The first Black woman nominee, a well-respected jurist, and former public defender, Judge Jackson's service on our highest Court is sure to make our country proud." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Arizona Congressman Greg Stanton: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an outstanding and historic choice. She is a brilliant and highly regarded jurist, and her experience as a public defender and trial court judge bring important perspective to our nation's highest court. The Senate has already confirmed Judge Jackson once and should quickly act to confirm her now." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congressman Adam Schiff: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is a brilliant and fair jurist. Someone who has dedicated her life to public service and making our nation more just. She is an outstanding and historic choice for the Court, and deserves a strong and bipartisan confirmation." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congressman Mike Thompson: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an exciting & historic pick to serve on our country's highest court. She will bring a breadth of knowledge & intellect to SCOTUS & inspire the next generation of our nation's legal minds. I look forward to seeing the Senate confirm her nomination." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congresswoman Sara Jacobs: "I enthusiastically applaud @POTUS 's nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson for the #SCOTUS. With Judge Brown's impeccable credentials and vitally important experience as a public defender and on the DC Circuit Court, she is not only a historic choice, but the right one." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congressman Jared Huffman: "Exciting, historic news. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an exceptionally qualified nominee who will undoubtably uphold the Constitution and protect the rights of everyone in America." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congresswoman Judy Chu: "Congratulations to Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson on being the first Black woman nominated to the Supreme Court! She has incredible credentials and already gained bipartisan support in her last confirmation. The Senate should confirm her quickly!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congresswoman Barbara Lee: "Ketanji Brown Jackson's intellect, integrity, and devotion to our nation's highest ideals are unparalleled. As a Black woman and former public defender, she will bring invaluable life experiences to a court in dire need of perspective. Congratulations, Judge Brown Jackson!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congresswoman Karen Bass: "The nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is a proud moment for this country. A fair jurist with an unyielding commitment to justice, I look forward to supporting her through this nomination process and ensuring she becomes the first Black woman to sit on our highest court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congressman Ro Khanna: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson has impeccable credentials to serve on the Supreme Court. This nomination brings us a step closer to building a multiracial, multicultural democracy. Thank you @POTUS for the wise and brilliant choice." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congressman Mike Levin: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson has exceptional qualifications, an extraordinary legal mind, and an unwavering devotion to justice. She's an excellent choice to serve on the Supreme Court who will bring a long overdue perspective as the first Black woman to serve on the high court. I hope the Senate moves forward on her historic nomination without delay, and that every Senator gives her the fair and thorough consideration she deserves." [Tweet Thread, 2/25/22]
California Congressman Ted Lieu: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is exceptionally qualified and deeply committed to equal justice under the law. If confirmed, she will become the first Black woman to serve on #SCOTUS. We commend @POTUS for his excellent choice and look forward to a fair confirmation in the Senate." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congressman Jimmy Gomez: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, a former public defender & one of our nation's brightest legal scholars, is an exceptional choice for the Supreme Court. This is #BlackHistory in the making — and I urge my Senate colleagues to confirm her nomination swiftly." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congresswoman Linda Sánchez: "History was made today with the nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the U.S. Supreme Court. @POTUS has chosen a highly qualified candidate with decades of experience who will make our nation's highest court more reflective of America." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
California Congresswoman Jackie Speier: "History made! @POTUS nominating Ketanji Brown Jackson to be the FIRST black woman on SCOTUS. A highly qualified jurist & sharp legal mind. Precisely what is needed on our highest court. Hoping for her swift confirmation as 4th woman on the court and the 6th female justice EVER." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Colorado Congresswoman Diana DeGette: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is one of the sharpest legal minds in the country and is fiercely devoted to upholding the rights of all Americans. She will be an excellent addition to the highest court in our land." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Colorado Congressman Jason Crow: "Today, @POTUS makes an historic and long-overdue nomination to #SCOTUS. Judge Brown is an exemplary nominee and will serve our country with honor and distinction. I encourage the Senate to provide a fair hearing and timely confirmation." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Colorado Congressman Joe Neguse: "Judge Jackson is an outstanding jurist and accomplished lawyer who will be a phenomenal Supreme Court Justice. Congratulations to @POTUS and Judge Jackson on her historic nomination!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Connecticut Congressman John Larson: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is a historic nominee for the Supreme Court. She is one of our nation's brightest legal minds and is extremely qualified. I commend @POTUS for his excellent choice." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Connecticut Congresswoman Jahana Hayes: "President Biden has nominated Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to #SCOTUS. She is an exceptional candidate with impeccable credentials, unimpeachable character & unwavering dedication to the rule of law. Congratulations Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson on this historic nomination." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Delaware Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester: "2 years ago, to the day, I sat in the audience and felt an enormous sense of pride when then-candidate Biden announced he would nominate a Black Woman to the Supreme Court. Today, that feeling is only amplified. I am very much looking forward to JUSTICE Ketanji Brown Jackson. Judge Jackson is a brilliant jurist and as well-qualified as any potential nominee. She has the kind of knowledge and lived experience that will serve all of us so well on the land's highest court." [Tweet Thread, 2/25/22]
Florida Congresswoman Val Demings: "They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary and they shall walk and not faint." Isiah 40:31 Congratulations Judge Brown Jackson on your historic nomination." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Florida Congressman Darren Soto: "Thrilled to support @POTUS' nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson, 1st Black woman, to US Sup Court today! Judge Brown grew up in FL, was a public defender, trial court judge, & is now on DC Circuit Court of Appeals. She'll protect justice for ALL Americans." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Florida Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz: "A historic and exceptional selection by @POTUS, Ketanji Brown Jackson will be a phenomenal @Scotus justice. I'm confident that her deep federal bench and defense experience, and strong Miami-Dade County ties, will allow her to serve our nation well." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Florida Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy: "Congratulations to Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson on her nomination to the Supreme Court. Judge Jackson has Florida roots and an outstanding professional and educational background. I hope the Senate considers her swiftly and fairly." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Florida Congresswoman Frederica Wilson: "For many years, I have had the privilege of witnessing Ketanji Brown Jackson's greatness as a judge. Now, the entire nation will see for itself. Congratulations, Ketanji, on your historic nomination to the United States Supreme Court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Florida Congressman Charlie Crist: "Applauding @POTUS' nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court! It's past time our nation's top court looks like America. She's a proven leader with a long qualified history in our justice system — Floridians are proud to have a South Florida native selected!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Florida Congresswoman Lois Frankel: "Some good news to start our day: @POTUS has officially announced the exceptionally brilliant Ketanji Brown Jackson as his nominee to #SCOTUS. This is a historic day for women, for #BIPOC representation, and for our Judiciary! I look forward to having her voice join the Court and encourage my Senate colleagues to start the confirmation process as soon as possible. Congratulations, Judge Brown Jackson, on your nomination!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Georgia Congresswoman Carolyn Bourdeaux: "Representation matters. Thank you President Biden for keeping your promise and nominating the first African American woman to the highest court in our land. I look forward to seeing Ketanji Brown Jackson's confirmation to the Supreme Court of the United States." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Georgia Congresswoman Lucy McBath: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is one of our nation's brightest and most insightful legal minds. She has exceptional experience on the federal bench and has a lifetime of unwavering dedication to the rule of law. Throughout her career, she has been a firm, fair, and prudent jurist, and I look forward to the confirmation and exemplary service of the nation's first Black woman on the Supreme Court." [Tweet Thread, 2/25/22]
Georgia Congressman Hank Johnson: ".@POTUS today delivered on another promise. His nomination of a Black woman to serve on #SCOTUS is not mere symbolism but an essential step for our country's promise of justice for all. I applaud President Biden's nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Illinois Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi: "I am pleased to learn of President Biden's nomination of the eminently qualified Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson. I look forward to her becoming the first Black woman to serve on the Supreme Court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Illinois Congresswoman Marie Newman: "I applaud @POTUS for his HISTORIC choice of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson as the next Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. I look forward to the Senate confirming her nomination to become the first Black woman in American history to serve on the Supreme Court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Illinois Congressman Bobby Rush: "Judge #KetanjiBrownJackson is a distinguished jurist in her own right and she sits on the shoulders of other preeminent justice-seeking Black women in American history. This is a proud moment for America. It's a proud moment for women — and for Black women in particular." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Illinois Congressman Sean Casten: "This is an excellent choice by @POTUS. Judge Jackson is a brilliant, widely respected jurist with outstanding credentials who will bend the arc of history towards justice every day." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Illinois Congressman Bill Foster: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is one of the sharpest legal minds in the country and is fiercely devoted to upholding the rights of all Americans. She will be an excellent addition to the Supreme Court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Indiana Congressman André Carson: "Congratulations to Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, who has been nominated by @POTUS to the Supreme Court! She is eminently qualified to fill this vital post on the highest court in the land, at this critical time. I urge my Senate colleagues to confirm her with all deliberate speed." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Maine Congresswoman Chellie Pingree: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an outstanding choice to replace Justice Breyer, who she clerked for after graduating from Harvard Law School. She was recently confirmed to the DC Circuit Court with bipartisan support so I expect her SCOTUS nomination will receive swift approval." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Maryland Congressman David Trone: "I applaud @POTUS for making history today by nominating the first Black woman to the Supreme Court. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson has dedicated her life to public service and will serve her country well. Congratulations!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Maryland Congressman John Sarbanes: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is an exceptionally qualified jurist, a dedicated public servant and a strong voice for equal justice. I applaud @POTUS' historic Supreme Court nomination and I urge the Senate to confirm her quickly." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Maryland Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger: "I commend @POTUS' historic nomination. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is exceptionally qualified and will be a strong voice for the American people in our nation's highest court. I urge my Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle to confirm Judge Brown Jackson to the U.S. Supreme Court swiftly, just as they did when she was nominated to the U.S. Court of Appeals last year." [Tweet Thread, 2/25/22]
Maryland Congressman Anthony Brown: "An experienced judge. A public defender. A historic nomination. An exceptional pick. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson would become the first Black woman to serve on the Supreme Court. She is ready. It is time." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Massachusetts Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley: "Today, President Biden made good on his promise and met the moment with the historic nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson to serve on the Supreme Court. Judge Jackson is an impeccably qualified nominee who is principled and committed to equal justice under law. In this moment, it is critical that we have Supreme Court justices like Ketanji Brown Jackson who will work toward a vision of justice that is inclusive and equitable, and recognize the dignity and humanity of the very people her decisions would impact. As a former public defender and the first Supreme Court nominee with a background in criminal legal reform since Justice Thurgood Marshall, Judge Jackson fits the bill. The Senate must move swiftly to confirm Judge Jackson. Furthermore, we must keep pushing to expand the court, restore its balance and integrity, and work toward a Supreme Court that will protect the rights and well-being of millions of people who call America home and deliver on its promise of equal justice under the law. Our democracy depends on it." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Massachusetts Congresswoman Lori Trahan: "I couldn't be happier to see Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson nominated to #SCOTUS. She's brilliant, exceedingly qualified & will make history as the first Black woman and public defender on our nation's highest court. I look forward to her swift confirmation by the Senate." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Massachusetts Congressman Bill Keating: "As a former DA who knows the importance of capable jurists, I can confidently say @POTUS has selected an eminently qualified nominee in Ketanji Brown Jackson. I look forward to Judge Brown Jackson's confirmation and to a SCOTUS that better reflects the citizens it serves." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Massachusetts Congressman Jake Auchincloss: "This is a historic, and long overdue, day for our nation. There is no one more qualified than Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, and she is an excellent choice to serve on the Supreme Court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Michigan Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence: "I could not be more thrilled with the nomination of Judge Kentaji Brown Jackson as our next United States Supreme Court Justice. In addition to an unparalleled dedication and commitment to public service, she is a highly-distinguished and widely-respected jurist. Judge Jackson has a long track record of championing the rule of law and justice with her experience serving on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, U.S. District Court for D.C., the U.S. Sentencing Commission, and as a federal public defender. As the little Black girl who grew up on the eastside of Detroit, it's hard to describe what this moment means for me. Black women have been overlooked for centuries—in employment, education, politics, C-suites, and all aspects of society. The impact Judge Jackson will have on the Supreme Court cannot be understated. She brings with her a set of values, perspective, and lived experiences that will make the Supreme Court more fair and just. Today, we're making Black history. Today, we're making American history. I look forward to a swift and fair confirmation process for Judge Jackson." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Michigan Congresswoman Haley Stevens: "Congrats Judge Jackson on your history making appointment to the United States Supreme Court. Let's do this!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Minnesota Congresswoman Betty McCollum: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's historic nomination is a fantastic choice given her impressive qualifications. Having been confirmed to the DC Circuit Court with bipartisan support, I anticipate a quick confirmation to SCOTUS." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Missouri Congressman Emanuel Cleaver: "By all accounts, Ketanji Brown Jackson is an outstanding legal mind & precisely the kind of jurist that deserves to sit upon the highest court in America. I welcome this decision from @POTUS —& look forward to history being made when the Senate confirms this impeccable nominee!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Missouri Congresswoman Cori Bush: "I am proud to witness the long-awaited, long-overdue nomination of the first Black woman to the United States Supreme Court. I applaud President Biden for fulfilling his campaign promise and naming Judge Jackson, a judge with a strong track record of advancing civil rights, as our nation's next Associate Justice. In this court's 233-year history, all but seven Supreme Court justices have been white. History shows that the appointment of a Black justice with a strong record of affirming constitutional rights is crucial to confronting this country's many crises. With so much at stake – from voting rights and reproductive justice to immigration protections and our fundamental right to health care – millions more Americans will benefit from the moral clarity and distinctive jurisprudence of Judge Jackson. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson has committed herself to a longstanding judicial career rooted in integrity. In a moment marked by racial inequity, climate catastrophe, and attacks on civil rights, a track record of moral clarity is crucial - I trust that is what Justice Jackson will bring to the bench. I'm proud to support Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's nomination to the Supreme Court – and I look forward to her swift confirmation by the United States Senate." [Statement, 2/25/22]
New Jersey Congressman Bill Pascrell: "This is an excellent historic selection. Judge Jackson is an outstanding jurist and will bring needed balance to a badly slanted High Court. The Senate has already confirmed Judge Jackson once and should confirm her now fast. Bravo!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New Jersey Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman: "Judge Jackson currently serves on the nation's second-most powerful court and is undeniably one of our country's brightest legal minds. She will bring a new, necessary perspective to the #SCOTUS bench. She will also be an inspiration to Black women and girls everywhere." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New Jersey Congressman Donald Payne: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson would be an excellent addition to the Supreme Court. I am proud that President Biden has fulfilled his campaign promise to nominate an African-American woman to the Supreme Court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New Jersey Congressman Andy Kim: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, President Biden's #SCOTUSnominee makes history today as the first Black woman nominated for the Supreme Court. She is exceptionally qualified & I'm confident Judge Jackson will rise to meet this moment and continue her outstanding public service" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New Mexico Congresswoman Teresa Leger Fernandez: "During a sad moment for peace in the world, we have an occasion for hope with the historic nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court. I join the Nation in celebrating President Biden's pick and know the Court will be better for her presence and contributions." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New York Congressman Mondaire Jones: "It's about time we had a Black woman, and a former public defender, on the Supreme Court. I look forward to her speedy confirmation." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New York Congressman Ritchie Torres: "Judge Brown is a distinguished jurist who will bring her outstanding qualifications & commitment to the rule of law to the #SCOTUS. This is a historic moment for our country & we look forward to a fair hearing in the Senate." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New York Congressman Paul Tonko: "My warmest congratulations to Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson on her historic and well-deserved Supreme Court nomination by @POTUS today. I look forward to swift action from the Senate to confirm this eminently qualified nominee to our nation's highest court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New York Congresswoman Yvette Clarke: "At long last, we have arrived at a moment in history where the culmination of centuries of struggles and perseverance is bearing fruit. President Biden's nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson as his Supreme Court nominee is a reflection of America's promise." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
New York Congressman Tom Suozzi: "An outstanding and historic choice! An accomplished lawyer, Judge Jackson will be a phenomenal Supreme Court Justice." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
North Caroline Congressman David Price: "I'm pleased @POTUS nominated Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson for SCOTUS. From public defender to DC Circuit Court of Appeals, Judge Jackson is a champion at upholding justice for all Americans. This is a historic moment & I look forward to her confirmation." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
North Carolina Congresswoman Kathy Manning: "Congratulations to Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson on her historic nomination to the Supreme Court. From public defender to DC Circuit Court of Appeals, Judge Jackson has exhibited a lifetime commitment to justice & will be an exceptional Justice." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Ohio Congresswoman Shontel Brown: "I applaud @POTUS' historic nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson. Judge Jackson's distinguished career, unparalleled integrity, and lifelong commitment to justice make her extremely well-qualified to serve on the Supreme Court. Time to make history. #SheWillRise" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Ohio Congressman Tim Ryan: "I've always said our next Justice must be someone we can trust to side with workers on the bench. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is a historic pick with strong credentials—a career as a public defender, a record of supporting workers, and consistent bipartisan support in the Senate." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Oregon Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici: "Congratulations to Judge Ketanji Brown on her historic nomination to the Supreme Court. She is remarkably qualified for this position, and will bring an important perspective to the deliberations and decisions of the Court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Pennsylvania Congressman Dwight Evans: "Representation matters and today @POTUS kept his promise to nominate the 1st African American woman to SCOTUS. I applaud this historic pick and look forward to seeing Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson confirmed." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Pennsylvania Congresswoman Mary Gay Scanlon: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is exceedingly qualified to join the Supreme Court. She is a well-respected, no-nonsense jurist who received bipartisan support in the Senate before. This is a historic day for our nation. I hope to see Judge Jackson's confirmation proceed swiftly." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Rhode Island Congressman David Cicilline: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's demonstrated commitment to justice, dedication to the Constitution, and knowledge of the rule of law make her highly qualified to serve as our nation's next Supreme Court Justice. Her previous experience on the U.S. Sentencing Commission and as a federal public defender would be a welcome addition to the Court. Her historic nomination as the nation's first Black woman to serve on the Court is long overdue and I look forward to her swift confirmation." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Rhode Island Congressman Jim Langevin: "From public defender to Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court, Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is a brilliant jurist who brings extensive experience from nearly every level of our legal system. I have no doubt she will serve our nation - and our Constitution - well." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Tennessee Congressman Jim Cooper: "The historic appointment of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court will ensure the highest court in the land will better reflect our diverse nation. This Senate confirmed her to the D.C. Circuit on a bipartisan basis, and I look forward to her swift confirmation again." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Tennessee Congressman Steve Cohen: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is a brilliant, analytical and experienced judge. She's ready to make a difference and would be the 1st Black woman to sit on the highest court. With a history as a public defender and as a district & appellate court judge, she'll make a great Justice." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Texas Congressman Colin Allred: "Judge Jackson's nomination to the Supreme Court by @POTUS is historic. As the first Black woman nominated, she will help make our highest court look a little bit more like the rest of America and her experience will be invaluable to the court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Texas Congresswoman Veronica Escobar: "In nominating Judge Jackson to the Supreme Court, @POTUS has chosen one of our nation's brightest legal minds and a devoted public servant. I expect for the Senate to move forward with a fair and timely bipartisan confirmation because history can't wait for JUSTICE Jackson." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Texas Congressman Joaquin Castro: "Congratulations to Ketanji Brown Jackson on her historic nomination to the Supreme Court. Her credentials and experience as a public defender will make her an exceptional champion for justice and the rule of law. I look forward to the Senate's swift confirmation." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Texas Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson: "This is a historic moment. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson just became the first Black woman nominated to serve on the United States Supreme Court. Judge Jackson will bring an impressive record of both legal and lived experience to our highest court. I look forward to a quick, strong, and bipartisan confirmation in the Senate." [Tweet Thread, 2/25/22]
Texas Congressman Marc Veasey: ".@POTUS's historic nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson will mark the first time a Black woman has been considered for the U.S. Supreme Court. Judge Jackson has dedicated her career to upholding justice and defending others. I am thrilled to witness her nomination!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Texas Congresswoman Sylvia Garcia: "In nominating Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to serve on the Supreme Court, @POTUS has chosen one of our country's brightest legal minds and public servants. This is a historic and excellent moment in our nation's history!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Virginia Congressman Gerry Connolly: "Again, President Biden displays his commitment to an American government that looks like the American people it serves. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is eminently qualified — both professionally and personally — and I look forward to her history-making tenure on the Court." [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Washington Congresswoman Suzan Delbene: "Judge Jackson is an incredibly qualified & historic nominee with a vast & diverse legal career, most recently on the DC Circuit. I congratulate her on her nomination & hope the Senate will consider her without delay." [Tweet, 2/26/22]
  