
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and appoint five individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Stephen McFarland, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guatemala. Mr. McFarland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as the Director of Stability Operations Training at the Foreign Service Institute at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Team Leader of the Provincial Reconstruction Team Embedded with Marine Corps Regimental Combat Team 2 in Western Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission and Chargé d'Affaires in Guatemala. Mr. McFarland received his bachelor's degree from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Donald E. Booth, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zambia. Ambassador Booth, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Liberia. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of Specialized and Technical Agencies in the Bureau of International Organization Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Office of West African Affairs. Ambassador Booth received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University. He received his master's degrees from Boston University and the National War College.
The President intends to nominate Gillian A. Milovanovic, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mali. Ambassador Milovanovic, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Macedonia. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Pretoria. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Stockholm. Ambassador Milovanovic received her bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania and her master's degree from Temple University.
The President intends to nominate Nancy E. McEldowney, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bulgaria. Ms. McEldowney, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Turkey. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Azerbaijan. Earlier in her career, she served as the Director of European Affairs at the National Security Council. Ms. McEldowney received her bachelor's degree from New College and her master's degrees from Columbia University and the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Scot A. Marciel, of California, to be given the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Ambassador for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Affairs.
The President intends to appoint John J. Sullivan, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (Department of Commerce Representative).
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members on the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy:
Michael R. Hightower, of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/30/10;
Nancy L. Johnson, of Connecticut, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/30/08;
J. Patrick Michaels, Jr., of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/30/10;
Anthony Joseph Principi, of California, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/30/09.
  