
    "When Republicans and Democrats talk, debate, and seek common ground, we can achieve breakthroughs that move our country forward and deliver for our citizens." --President Donald J. Trump
TRANSFORMING OUR CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM: President Donald J. Trump joined with members of both parties in Congress to make our criminal justice system fairer for all Americans.

The landmark First Step Act signed into law by the President reformed decades of policies that failed to ensure a fair justice system for all Americans.
President Trump worked with Congress to pass commonsense sentencing reforms, such as eliminating three-strike mandatory life sentencing for Federal drug offenders.
The First Step Act will help prepare inmates to successfully rejoin society, including through vocational training and educational coursework.
This legislation will make our communities safer by reducing recidivism and keeping violent criminals and sex offenders off our streets.
The Act received widespread support across the political spectrum, demonstrating that true bipartisanship is possible when both sides work to find common ground.

FIGHTING THE OPIOID CRISIS: President Trump has worked with Congress to combat the opioid crisis that has devastated our communities. 

President Trump has joined Republicans and Democrats in Congress to enact bold legislation to combat the opioid crisis.
The President signed the bipartisan SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act in October 2018, marking the largest single piece of legislation to address a drug crisis in history.
The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act expands access to addiction treatment and cracks down on the trafficking of illicit drugs.
This legislation passed both the House and Senate by overwhelming, bipartisan margins.

ADVANCING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY: President Trump has championed bipartisan legislation to train our workforce and promote economic prosperity. 

President Trump signed bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the Carl D. Perkins Career Vocational and Technical Education Act in July 2018.

Reauthorization had stalled in Congress for years before breaking through last year.


President Trump signed the Women's Entrepreneurship and Economic Empowerment Act in January 2019, promoting opportunity for female entrepreneurs worldwide.
President Trump signed a sweeping new Farm Bill that expands crop insurance, doubles how much farmers can borrow, and helps open up new markets for American farmers.

CARING FOR OUR VETERANS: The President has joined with Congress to ensure our veterans receive the respect and quality care they deserve. 

The President signed the VA Mission Act, enacting sweeping reforms to ensure that veterans have access to quality care and reduce the complex bureaucracy of the VA.
President Trump and Congress advanced legislation providing a record $73.1 billion to provide medical care to our veterans.
The President signed the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, making it easier to discipline and fire poor performing VA employees.
President Trump signed bipartisan legislation to reform the VA's long claims appeals process.

  