
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Eliot Pedrosa of Florida, to be the United States Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, vice Mileydi Guilarte. Mr. Pedrosa is a Principal Shareholder of the international law firm Greenberg Traurig and chairman of the firm's Miami litigation department.  He is also chairman of the Dean's Advisory Council of the Green School of International and Public Affairs at Florida International University.  Mr. Pedrosa was previously appointed by Florida Governor Rick Scott to serve as a member of the Third District Court of Appeal Judicial Nominating Commission, recently completing his term as Vice Chairman.  Previously he served as an attorney in the enforcement division of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Mr. Pedrosa is a graduate of Harvard Law School and Florida International University, graduating summa cum laude.
Charles E. Cook III of Maryland, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Homeland Security, vice Charles H. Fulghum.  Mr. Cook is currently the President of C. Cook Advisory Services, LLC.  He is also on the Board of Advisors of Sehlke Consulting Services.  Mr. Cook served as a member of the Federal Government's Senior Executive Service for 20 years.  Throughout his career, he managed programming, budgeting, execution and chief financial officer duties at many levels for the United States Navy, Office of the Secretary of the Navy, Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Senate Appropriations Committee (Defense Subcommittee), and the United States Marine Corps.  He also served as the Acting Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Financial Management & Comptroller) from April 2013 through August 2013.  Mr. Cook holds a bachelor's degree in business administration and accounting from Northeastern University and received Presidential Rank Awards for his accomplishments in Federal service in both 2007 and 2011.
John L. Ryder of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term of 5 years expiring 5/18/20, vice Richard C. Howorth, term expired.
  