
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 3
In the morning, the President traveled from Bedford to Manchester, NH. In the afternoon, he traveled to Merrimack, NH, and then to Manchester before returning to Washington, DC.
February 5
The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel Guttman to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
The President announced the designation of Harold J. Creel, Jr., as Chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission.
February 6
In the morning, the President met with Vice President Gore, Chief of Staff Leon E. Panetta, Secretary of Defense William J. Perry, Deputy Secretary of Defense John P. White, and Deputy National Security Adviser Samuel R. Berger to discuss the National Security Council's review of B-2 bomber acquisition options.
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from the following Ambassadors: Hugo Paemen, head of delegation of the Commission of the European Communities, Mooketsa Mogwe of Botswana, Fernando Cossio of Bolivia, Ferdinando Salleo of Italy, John McCarthy of Australia, Ljubica Acevska of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Juli Minoves-Triquell of Andorra, Kunihiko Saito of Japan, Nitya Pibulsonggram of Thailand, Mircea Geoana of Romania, and Miomir Zuzul of Croatia.
The White House announced that the President has appointed Ambassador to the United Nations Madeleine Albright to head the delegation to the inauguration of Rene Preval as President of Haiti in Port-au-Prince on February 7.
February 7
The President announced his intention to nominate David D. Spears as a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Wendell D. Garrett, Richard S. Lanier, Susan Keech McIntosh, and Lawrence L. Reger to the Cultural Property Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas Buergenthal, Samuel DuBois Cook, Rositta E. Kenigsberg, Lynn Lyss, Ruth B. Mandel, Harvey M. Meyerhoff, and Elie Wiesel to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
February 8
In the morning, the President attended a meeting in the Vice President's office between Vice President Gore and Deputy Prime Minister Richard Spring of Ireland.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine on February 21 in the White House.
February 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Alexandria, VA, and then returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan on February 23 in Santa Monica, CA.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joaquin (Jack) F. Otero as Assistant Secretary of Labor for International Labor Affairs.
The President announced his intention to appoint William J. Bratton to the National Commission on Crime Control and Prevention.
The President declared disasters in the States of Oregon and Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by high winds, severe storms, and flooding beginning January 26 and continuing.
  