
    Columbus, OH — Newt 2012 announces, today, the lineup of its leadership team for Ohio with an impressive group of state political leaders with former Congressman Bob McEwen at the helm. He will lead the state's campaign effort by recruiting support throughout the state — both politically and financially. Congressman McEwen was a member of the US House of Representatives in Southern Ohio's Sixth district, and like Newt, he is "opposed to abortion, gun control, high taxes, and costly government programs."
The Buckeye leaders include some of the most outspoken political leaders in the state and include:
Doug Preisse has a background that combines more than two decades' experience in local, state, and national politics, as well as several years' experience in government service, consulting, and direct lobbying. Preisse's career includes a seven-year association with the Ohio Senate, where he served as a majority caucus staff member, legislative aide, and campaign manager for several successful elections. He has maintained a close association with senate members and staff by continuing to be involved in the political process. He currently serves as Chair of the Franklin County Republican Party and sits on the State Central Committee.
Representative John Adams is currently serving his third term at the Statehouse, where he was elected to serve as Majority Whip by fellow legislatures. He represents the 78th House District, which is comprised of Shelby and Champaign counties and part of Auglaize County. He is a member of the National Federation of Independent Business/Ohio (NFIB) and was also appointed to the NFIB/Ohio Leadership Council. Rep. Adams served as the chairperson of the annual Shelby County United Way Campaign, as president and member of the Board of Directors of the American Heart Association of Shelby County, and as vice president of the Shelby Rotary Club. After high school, he earned the honor of being selected to serve in the Navy SEALs.
Representative Mike Dovilla, a fourth-generation Ohioan, is a U.S. Navy officer, Iraq war veteran, and small business owner. He was elected State Representative in 2010 after knocking on 15,927 doors and is currently serving his first term representing the 18th House District in southwestern Cuyahoga County. Previously, Rep. Dovilla served as a Presidential appointee at the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, a senior advisor to former U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich, and a Presidential Management Fellow at the U.S. Department of State.
Kay Ayers currently serves as Vice Chair of the ORP, where she is responsible for supporting the duties of the Chairman in addition to overseeing various party-building activities and outreach efforts, especially among women voters. Ayers also served as president of the Ohio Federation of Republican Women and as a vice chair for the National Federation of Republican Women.
Senator Bill Seitz is a lifelong resident of Western Hamilton County. He has worked to represent the best interests of the Greater Cincinnati area at the Statehouse and is known for his colorful floor speeches and legal acumen.
State Senator Gary Cates ?is the Senior Vice Chancellor for Innovation and Enterprise Development at the Ohio Board of Regents. Prior to his appointment to the Board of Regents, he was elected to serve two terms in the Ohio Senate, representing the people of Ohio's 4th Senate District, which includes all of Butler County. While at the Senate, he served as chairman of the Education Committee and was a member of the Finance Committee, the State and Local Government and Veterans Affairs Committee, the Highways and Transportation Committee, and the Health and Human Services and Aging Committee. Before joining the Senate, Cates served four terms in the Ohio House of Representatives and was Speaker Pro Tempore — the chamber's number-two leadership post — for two of those terms.
Representative Ron Maag is currently serving his second term at the Statehouse. He represents the 35th House District, which includes parts of Warren and Hamilton counties. Rep Maag is a 4-H advisor, as well as a long-time member of the National Rifle Association.
Rocky M. Boiman currently resides in Green Township, where he recently founded his small business, the Rocky Boiman Football Academy. While his eight year professional career in the National Football League has taken him many places, his heart has always remained in Green Township, where he has been a dedicated supporter of Republican and conservative causes. He has shown his support while serving as a Precinct Executive, Second Vice President of the Green Township Republican Club, and through his extensive support on numerous Hamilton County Republican candidates- including Congressman Steve Chabot, Senator Rob Portman, and Hamilton County Commissioner Chris Monzel.
Doug Preisse said that "Newt Gingrich is a great American leader with a pro-growth strategy to put Americans back to work.  I am supporting him because I know he will work to balance the budget and create jobs for Ohio and all Americans and create an energy policy that removes the government obstacles so we can realistically return to $2.50 a gallon for gas.
Newt responded by saying that "I look forward to working with this esteemed group of Ohio political leaders and will work with them to help ensure that we move our country forward to create an economic environment that benefits both families and businesses. I believe one of the first items on the agenda of a healthier economy is to create a responsible energy policy that results in $2.50 a gallon for gas."
  