
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals for key administration posts: Jon Leibowitz, Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission; Charlie Rose, General Counsel at the Department of Education; and Roy Keinitz, Under Secretary for Policy at the Department of Transportation.
President Obama said, "It gives me great confidence to announce the addition of such distinguished individuals to my administration, and I am grateful that they will be dedicating their considerable talents to serving the American people. I look forward to working with each of them as we steer America toward a new era of prosperity and security."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the follow individuals today:Jon Leibowitz, Nominee for Chairman of Federal Trade CommissionJon Leibowitz is currently the only Democratic Commissioner on the FTC. He was sworn in as FTC Commissioner on September 3, 2004. In joining the Commission, Leibowitz resumed a long career of public service. He was the Democratic chief counsel and staff director for the U.S. Senate Antitrust Subcommittee from 1997 to 2000, where he focused on competition policy and telecommunications matters. He served as chief counsel and staff director for the Senate Subcommittee on Terrorism and Technology from 1995 to 1996 and the Senate Subcommittee on Juvenile Justice from 1991 to 1994. In addition, he served as chief counsel to Senator Herb Kohl from 1989 to 2000. Leibowitz worked for Senator Paul Simon from 1986 to 1987. In the private sector, Leibowitz served most recently as vice president for congressional affairs for the Motion Picture Association of America - from 2000 to 2004 - and worked as an attorney in private practice in Washington from 1984 to 1986. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Wisconsin with a B.A. in American History (1980), Leibowitz graduated from the New York University School of Law in 1984. He is a member of the District of Columbia Bar, and has co-authored amicus briefs before the U.S. Supreme Court on issues ranging from gun control to the census.
Roy Kienitz, Nominee for Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy, Department of TransportationRoy Kienitz is currently the Deputy Chief of Staff for Governor Rendell. Roy has been a leader on Gov. Rendell's staff for Transportation, Alternative Energy, and Environment initiatives since 2003. As part of Gov. Rendell's staff Kienitz directed a number of major capital projects including the PA Convention Center expansion, Pittsburgh sports arena and the Port of Philadelphia. Prior to his time in Pennsylvania, Kienitz served as Secretary of the Maryland Department of Planning where he implemented state's Smart Growth policies. Kienitz advocated has also served as the Executive Director to the Surface Transportation Policy Project where he was a strong advocate for innovation in transportation policy. Kienitz's prior experience also includes working for Former Senator Moynihan as Chief of Staff and the U.S. Senate Environment & Public Works Committee. Kienitz has received various awards including the Special Recognition Award from the National Park Service, U.S. Department of Interior for work promoting new transportation strategies for National Parks. Originally from California, Kienitz earned his bachelor's degree in Aquatic Biology from the University of California in 1983.
Charlie Rose, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of EducationCharlie Rose is a founding partner and corporate secretary of Franczek, Radelet & Rose in Chicago where he specializes in representing school districts, municipalities and other public organizations in labor relations, collective bargaining and education law. He has served as the lead negotiator on collective bargaining agreements for many organizations including Chicago Public Schools, the City of Chicago, the Chicago Park District and the Illinois State Board of Education. Rose is a member of the National Council of School Attorneys and was elected a Fellow of the College of Labor & Employment Lawyers in 2008. He is a founding member of the Board of Directors of Advance Illinois and also serves on the Chicago Advisory Board of Facing History and Ourselves. Additionally, he was one of the first members of the Advisory Board of the National College of Education at National-Louis University. In 2006 he received the "Vision in Education Award" from ED-RED recognizing him for his leadership on education reform. Rose has been an Adjunct Lecturer of Labor Arbitration and Collective Bargaining at DePaul University College of Law and an Adjunct Professor of School Law at Northeastern Illinois University. Rose graduated from Villanova University in 1979 with his B.A. in Economics. He received his J.D. from DePaul University in 1982.
  