
    Show of home-state strength includes support of New Jersey's Governor, Lt. Governor ,US Senator, every Democratic member of the US House, top leaders from both state legislative chambers, all four Democratic county executives, Newark's mayor and entire city council, and all 21 county Democratic party chairs
Newark, NJ -- In a show of home-state strength, 52 New Jersey Democratic officials announced their endorsement of Cory Booker for president today.
The long list of endorsements includes the formal backing of Gov. Phil Murphy, First Lady Tammy Murphy, Lt. Gov. Sheila Oliver, Sen. Robert Menendez, every Democratic member of the U.S. House from New Jersey, the New Jersey Senate president, the New Jersey Assembly speaker, all four Democratic county executives, Newark Mayor Ras Baraka and every member of the Newark city council, and all 21 county Democratic party chairs.
Cory Booker said, "I'm honored to have the endorsement of so many great New Jersey Democratic leaders -- people I've been proudly working alongside as a member of the Newark city council, as mayor, and as Senator. New Jerseyans are fortunate to have these Democratic leaders standing up for them, and I'm grateful to have their support on our campaign to reignite our country's sense of common purpose to build a more fair and just nation for everyone."
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy said, "I am proud to endorse Cory Booker for president. We need a president who will lift us up and bring us together, instead of knocking us down and sowing division. We need a president who runs to find solutions to the problems that others ignore. We need a president who recognizes the inherent value found in every corner of our country, in every American, and those who have come here for a better life. We need a president with bold vision and an even bolder optimism. I have known Cory since he was a Newark Councilman preparing his first run for Mayor — then watched as he breathed new life into our largest city. Now, as a United States Senator he is setting an example by working across the aisle to get things done, while never failing to stand up for his principles. We share a common basic principle — that social and economic progress go hand-in-hand, and must be achieved together. Even if I were not Governor, I would still give Cory my full endorsement because he is the right man at the right time to lead our nation back to where we know we should be. At this time in our history, we need Cory Booker as president."
New Jersey First Lady Tammy Murphy said, ""Wherever and whenever Cory Booker has seen people struggling to get by, he answered the call of public service. Over the years, Cory has implored us to also answer that call to service — to put community over self, partnership over self-interest, and bold ideas over self-preservation. I am honored to join Phil in endorsing Cory for president, and I look forward to helping the nation come to know the selfless, dedicated man New Jersey proudly calls one of our favorite sons."
U.S. Senator Robert Menendez said, "Cory Booker has the ability to bring our nation together at a time when the country is being torn apart by the most divisive president in history. He is someone who is willing to reach out to the other side in common cause to achieve great things, as he did recently on criminal justice reform, but will also fiercely fight on principle. I think our country needs, and the Democratic Party needs in its candidate, someone who can unite this nation, reject the politics of hate, solve real challenges and take us forward. Cory Booker is exactly that type of person and will be that type of president."
U.S. Representative Donald Norcross (NJ-01) said, "New Jersey led the blue wave in 2018 and in 2020 we will be proud to lead again by supporting Senator Cory Booker for President. Cory Booker has always been a champion for working families and now he's leading the fight against Trump's disastrous, divisive policies. Cory stands for justice, equality and opportunity, and that's why we are proud to stand with him. I am honored to support my friend, and New Jersey's own, Senator Cory Booker for President."
U.S. Representative Jeff Van Drew (NJ-02) said, "I am proud to endorse Senator Booker's bid for the presidency. While he and I don't agree on every issue, he has shown time and again that he's relentlessly focused on building bridges and working together to get things done for the people of New Jersey, and for every American. His record of bipartisan accomplishment and message of bringing Americans together regardless of their backgrounds or political views is something this country desperately needs."
U.S. Representative Andy Kim (NJ-03) said, "Senator Booker represents the best of New Jersey and the best of America. I'm proud to stand with him and work together to put power back in the hands of working people and create a better life for our next generation."
U.S. Representative Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05) said, ""The proud son of New Jersey's Fifth District, Cory has never forgotten where he came from and the Jersey Values we all hold dear. At a time when the loudest voices are often the ones at the political extremes that divide us, Cory Booker is a uniter, and will fight for all Americans, just as he has always fought for New Jersey."
U.S. Representative Frank Pallone (NJ-06) said, "I am proud to endorse my Senator, Cory Booker, in his campaign for President. Cory will bring Americans together. He is what we need to move our country forward from the divisive policies of Donald Trump. Cory will approach the campaign and the presidency with a hopeful, optimistic and patriotic mindset. As the nation has an opportunity to meet Cory, I am certain that voters will agree that he is our best choice to defeat Trump, and return our country to its rightful place as a beacon of hope, freedom and democracy."
U.S. Representative Tom Malinowski (NJ-07) said, "I spent my last days as an Asst. Secretary of State reassuring America's allies that no matter who occupied the White House America's institutions would remain strong, and our commitment to our allies would be absolute. This Administration has taught us that it does matter who is in the White House. Senator Booker has been a strong and principled leader on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. I am confident he will bring to the presidency the steady hand and commitment to American values needed to restore our country's leadership role in the world."
U.S. Representative Albio Sires (NJ-08) said, "Cory Booker has long put the needs of his constituency ahead of all else - from his time in Newark, to his time in the Senate. Cory knows how to make an impact on the local level, make a real difference in a person's daily life and I can't think of a more important skill for a president to have. If you just look at his track record and his dedication to important issues, like transparency in the judiciary, infrastructure investment, tax reform, and criminal justice reform, it is clear that Cory Booker is a superb candidate for the presidency."
U.S. Representative Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09) said, "Cory is indefatigably dedicated to service for his country and has never given himself up to the cynicism that consumes so much of our public discourse. Sam Rayburn liked to say that any jackass can knock down a barn, but it takes a carpenter to build one. Cory Booker is a builder. Cory believes America's greatest days are in front of us. So do I. Democrats are blessed with the deepest national field I can remember, so I would not endorse a candidate so early if they didn't stand above the rest. America desperately needs Cory's optimism and I endorse him without reservation. He will make a terrific President."
U.S. Representative Donald Payne, Jr. (NJ-10) said, "As Cory's Congressman, I am 100 percent in support of his candidacy for president of the United States. Having served as City Council President under Mayor Booker, I witnessed first hand his commitment to public service and how hard he worked to improve the lives of constituents. Since his election to the U.S. Senate in 2013, he has represented New Jersey in a way that makes me hope that all Americans will see up close - a great American leader."
U.S. Representative Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11) said, "I am proud to endorse Senator Cory Booker for President of the United States. Senator Booker has distinguished himself as a tireless public servant. As Mayor of Newark and Senator of New Jersey, he worked every day to improve the quality of life for people throughout our state. He has fought for criminal justice reform and to strengthen middle-class families, and I know first-hand from working with him while at the U.S. Attorney's Office in Newark that he will continue that fight for all Americans as President of the United States."
U.S. Representative Bonnie Watson-Coleman (NJ-12) said, "Cory Booker has shown his commitment to America time and again ­­– not to a single group or class or party platform, but to the fundamental principles that guide us at our best: equality, fairness, justice, and acceptance. It is values like those that have made this nation the greatest in the world, a beacon of freedom and opportunity. It is values like those that have always guided Cory's leadership and policy making. And it is his commitment to those values and his desire to see all of America rise together that has earned my support of his candidacy for President of the United States."
New Jersey Senate President Steve Sweeney said, "Senator Booker is the candidate we need to lead our country. He has pledged his commitment to making life better for the middle class and he will stand strong for the working men and women of America. I am proud to endorse Cory Booker for President of the United States."
New Jersey Assembly Speaker Craig Coughlin said, "Senator Booker has always demonstrated a strong commitment to protecting the interests of working families. He's a proven leader who shares our core values, and we will work tirelessly to elect him as the next President of the United States of America."
Bergen County Executive James Tedesco said, "Our country stands at a crossroads, more divided than at any time in our history. We need a president who will inspire a renewed sense of unity, reignite our aspirations as a country and lead with compassion, not fear. Cory Booker, a son of Bergen County and fierce advocate for our residents, is the best candidate to lead our country forward and I am proud to endorse him to be our Democratic nominee and the next President of the United States"
Essex County Executive Joe DiVincenzo said, "I have worked with Senator Booker on the local and national levels and, no matter what the issue, his concern has always been about doing what is best for the public. His unique way of bringing people together, courage to work across party lines and passion to challenge what is wrong are the traits America needs in its next leader. Without a doubt, I strongly support Cory Booker for President in 2020."
Mercer County Executive Brian Hughes said, "As County Executive of Mercer County, New Jersey's capital county, I can attest that Senator Cory Booker has consistently focused on the issues that matter most to our residents. I have had the privilege of standing alongside Cory Booker as he fought to beef up funding for public safety in the City of Trenton, as he pushed for infrastructure upgrades to our regional rail system, and as he initiated sweeping changes to our public schools in order to do what is best for our children. I am so proud to support Cory Booker for the Democratic nomination for President of the United States of America."
Newark City Council President Mildred Crump said, "Cory has always been dedicated to a life of service. His ability to lead with optimism and compassion is exactly what this country needs. Serving as Council President, during his tenure as Mayor, was an honor and I'm proud to support my Senator for President of the United States of America."
Newark City Council member Luis Quintana said, "Cory Booker was a leader in his community before he ever assumed office as City of Newark Central Ward Councilman and Mayor. As a young man, I knew he had a bright future and am so proud to support him in his new venture to become the new President of the United States."
Newark City Council member Carlos Gonzalez said, "I have had the opportunity to work closely with Senator Booker from 2006 to 2015 for the betterment of the City of Newark. He is always mindful of the decisions he has had to make on behalf of the citizens of Newark, of New Jersey, and of our nation. Then, Mayor Cory Booker, had the vision to make many difficult choices for the well-being of his people, which is why I respect him and will support him in all his endeavors. I do not have any hesitations in supporting him in his journey to become President."
Newark City Council member Eddie Osbourne said, "I, Councilman Eddie Osborne, support Cory Booker for President. I first met him at Newark Now, an organization Cory built to help Newark residents with skills and tools to transform their neighborhoods. I saw the ambition, desire, and potential as a politician and supported himin his campaign to become the Central Ward Councilman and then Mayor. From that day, I knew he would be Mayor of the City of Newark and eventually the President of the United States of America. He does a lot for the City of Newark and will do a lot for the country."
Newark City Council member Anibal Ramos said, "I served with Mayor Booker on both our first terms, his as Mayor and mine as North Ward City Councilman. His grace in the face of adversity, his propensity to care, and his extraordinary leadership are the qualities I am searching for my next President. I and the North Ward stand fully behind Cory Booker in his 2020 Presidential Campaign."
Newark City Council member Joe McCallum said, "I have known and worked with Senator Bookersince 2002, when he first ran for Mayor of Newark. I consider him a friend and a mentor, who has always been there for the residents of the West Ward. I am sure that it would be a great benefit to our City, to have Sen. Cory Booker as our next President. I wholeheartedly support his candidacy and I will be there for him, because I know that he will be there for us."
Bergen County Democratic Party Chair Lou Stellato said, "We are facing what is potentially the most consequential election in our country's history. Given these high stakes we need a proven winner and champion of Democratic values. Someone that can heal the wounds of division and manufactured fear. That candidate is one of Bergen County's own, Senator Cory Booker, and it is with great pride and enthusiasm that I endorse him for President."
Camden County Democratic Party Chair James Beach said, "Our country needs a staunch candidate who is committed to leading with compassion and humility. Senator Booker's pledge to fight for working families and to expand opportunities for the middle class is why I'm proud to support Cory Booker for President."
Cape May County Democratic Party Chair Brendan Sciarra said, "Cory Booker will represents the values and leadership skills of the America we know."
Essex County Democratic Party Chair Leroy Jones said, "Senator Booker is a leader who will stand firmly in protecting the promise of our democracy and will work in a bipartisan manner to advance our country's commitment to justice and equality for all. Essex County will do what it can to ensure that we elect Senator Booker in November of 2020."
Hudson County Democratic Party Chair Andy DeGise said, 'I'm a proud Jersey girl and Cory Booker is as Jersey as they come. He is tough yet compassionate, he is strong yet able to build consensus, he is bold yet will never use his words or his actions to embarrass us. Hudson County stands strong with Cory Booker to become the next President of the United States of America. He has committed his life to public service for the people of New Jersey and will make an extraordinary leader for our nation.'
Hunterdon County Democratic Party Chair Arlenes Quinones Perez said, "Senator Booker is a presidential candidate that we can all be proud to support. His campaign of hope and a better future is exactly what America needs in this very difficult period of our history. And not only will Senator Bookerlead us to a better future but he will represent New Jersey well in the process."
Middlesex County Democratic Party Chair Kevin McCabe said, "Senator Booker embodies the leadership, aspiration and inspiration that our state and our nation desperately needs. Those of us who have known him for years know of his strong commitment to working middle-class families. We will work every single day to ensure that he is our Democratic nominee and that he is elected as our next president of the United States."
Monmouth County Democratic Party Chair Dave Brown said, "I have known Sen. Booker for many years and he's always been strong, immovable and always passionate about his work for those he represents and will make a great President of the United States"
Passaic County Democratic Party Chair John Currie said, "Senator Booker has spent his entire career devoted to being a champion for under-served communities. His steadfast commitment to creating economic opportunities for working class Americans is what makes him so special. I'm proud to support our Senator's nomination for President of the United States."
Union County Democratic Party Chair Nick Scutari said, "Senator Booker is a long-time champion for working families, and he is the best candidate to ensure that every American has on opportunity at their American Dream. He understands the issues of an increasingly complex world and is a tireless advocate for all working men and women. Senator Booker is the most qualified candidate to lead our nation and I look forward to supporting his nomination for President of the United States."
Warren County Democratic Party Chair Tom Palmieri said, "Senator Booker's message to infuse empathy and love to the dialogue between Americans is critical for our nation. Senator Booker will be President for all hardworking American families and, we need his ability to lead with compassion and love now more than ever. Senator Booker will lead us to a better America."
New Jersey Democratic leaders endorsing Booker today also include:
New Jersey Lieutenant Governor Sheila OliverNewark Mayor Ras BarakaHudson County Executive Tom DeGiseNewark City Council Vice-President Augusto AmadorNewark City Council member John Sharpe JamesNewark City Council member LaMonica McIverAtlantic County Democratic Party Chair Mike Suleiman Burlington County Democratic Party Chair Joe AndlCumberland County Democratic Party Chair Steven ErricksonGloucester County Democratic Party Chair Fred MaddenMercer County Democratic Party Chair Janice MironovMorris County Democratic Party Chair Chip RobinsonOcean County Democratic Party Chair Wyatt EarpSalem County Democratic Party Chair Steven CaltabianoSomerset County Democratic Party Chair Marguerite SchafferSussex County Democratic Party Chair Leslie Huhn
  