
    
  "Days after 9/11, Congressman Paul introduced legislation restoring pilots' Second Amendment rights, and he has championed this cause ever since"

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The campaign of Texas Congressman and 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul issued the following statement regarding President Obama's proposal to reduce funding for the Federal Flight Deck Officer Program. Paul introduced the first legislation allowing pilots to carry firearms on airplanes after 9/11.
See comments from Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton below:
"President Obama's budget statement claims that there is less need for the Federal Flight Desk Officer Program because the government has implemented 'other physical security measures.' In other words, now that the government is violating the Fourth Amendment rights of every airline passenger, President Obama no longer feels the need to give even limited respect to the Second Amendment rights of pilots.
"If the President were really interested in reducing unnecessary spending and enhancing our security without sacrificing liberty, he would support eliminating the unconstitutional Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Our security is not enhanced by a bureaucracy that treats grandmothers, children, and U.S. Senators as criminal suspects.
"The President should also join Congressman Paul in supporting the repeal of all federal rules and regulations that prevent airline pilots — many of whom are veterans — from being able to arm themselves. Days after 9/11, Congressman Paul introduced legislation restoring pilots' Second Amendment rights, and he has championed this cause ever since.
"Of the five men currently seeking the presidency in the major parties — President Obama, Governor Romney, Speaker Gingrich, Senator Santorum, and Congressman Paul — Paul is the only one who has never supported any type of gun control. Ron Paul is clearly the only candidate gun owners and all lovers of liberty can trust to defend the Second Amendment as President."
  