
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Advisory Committee on Small and Minority Business Ownership. The President also announced his intention to designate R. Miller Hicks Chairman.
Al Cardenas is cofounder and senior partner of the firm of Barron, Lehman & Cardenas in Miami, Fla. Previously he was senior partner of Cardenas, Chomat, Geiss, Amador & Dienstag in 1978-79. He has practiced law since 1974. He has been active in community affairs and served as a member of the Dade County Mayor's Committee on Economic Development. He was also a member of the board of directors of the Greater Miami Restoration Board. He was born January 3, 1948, in Havana, Cuba.
William Jackson Greer is chairman of the' board of Intex Products, Inc., of Greenville, S.C. In 1971 he purchased the industrial and textile divisions of Texize Chemicals, Inc., and formed Intex Products, Inc. He founded Texize Chemicals in 1945, serving as president and treasurer and chairman of the board until 1971. He is a member of the board of directors of the National Association of Manufacturers. Mr. Greer was born November 20, 1908, in Honea Path, S.C.
R. Miller Hicks is president of R. Miller Hicks & Co., a business development and consultant firm incorporated over 23 years ago in Austin, Tex. He is past chairman of the board of Dynamic Broadcasting Corp. and vice president of Investors, Inc., a mortgage banking corporation. He is a past member of the U.S. Regional Export Expansion Council. He was born April 29, 1925, in Athens, Tex.
LeRoy W. Jeffries is founder and president of LeRoy W. Jeffries and Associates, Inc., a marketing and public relations firm in Los Angeles, Calif. Previously he was senior vice president and director of advertising with Johnson Publishing Co. He has also held positions with the Urban League of Greater New York, the National Urban League, and served as a consultant to the chairman of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. He was born August 14, 1912, in Greensboro, N.C.
Katherine D. Ortega is a consultant with Otero Savings and Loan Association in Alamogordo, N. Mex. Previously she was president and director of Santa Aria State Bank in Santa Ana, Calif., in 1975-77; vice president and cashier, Pan American National Bank in Los Angeles, Calif., in 1972-75; and tax supervisor, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. in 1969-72. She was the first woman president of a bank in the State of California. Ms. Ortega was born July 16, 1934, in Tularosa, N. Mex.
Lincoln Johnson Ragsdale, Sr., is president and chairman of the board of Valley Life and Casualty Insurance and owner of International Investment Co. in Phoenix, Ariz. He is past president of the International Construction Co. and was secretary and a member of the board of directors of the Southwest Savings and Loan Association. He is currently a member of the National Urban League board of trustees and member of the board of directors of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. He was born July 27, 1927, in Muskogee, Okla.
Stanley S. Scott is vice president of public affairs, Philip Morris U.S.A., in New York, N.Y. He was director of corporate public affairs and assistant director, corporate relations and communications, in 1977-79. Mr. Scott served as Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Africa, Department of State, in 1975-77, and was Special Assistant to the President in the White House in 1973-75. He was assistant director of public relations, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, in 1966-67. Mr. Scott was born July 2, 1933, in Bolivar, Tenn.
Walter Larke Sorg is president, Walter Larke Sorg Associates, a management consulting firm in Washington, D.C. Previously he was appointed to participate in the organization and development of the Office of Minority Business Enterprise, Department of Commerce, in 1969. He later served as Assistant Director, Director of National Programs, and Acting Director. He was engaged in financial printing in 1947-69. Mr. Sorg was born April 5, 1926, in Springfield Gardens, N.Y.
  