
    MANCHESTER, N.H. — Today 41 New Hampshire community leaders endorsed Sen. Bernie Sanders for president, adding to Sanders' diverse and growing coalition across the state.
The slate of community leaders cited Sen. Sanders' strength on issues such as confronting the climate crisis, Medicare for All, immigration reform, as well as his ability to defeat Donald Trump.
"We are proud to welcome the support of New Hampshire leaders who work tirelessly to ensure a better future for their communities and all Granite Staters," said Shannon Jackson, Bernie 2020 New Hampshire State Director. "This is a people-powered movement that relies on the dedication of local leaders like these"
Salem Democratic activist, Sean Lewis, said, "As the father of a newborn, I need access to high-quality medical care. As a single income household, my wife and I need health care that's affordable. As someone who cares about the future, I need a President who will not only take back the White House but change the very nature of American politics so that the government once again works for working class people. My child's future depends on it."
Immigrant rights activist and community leader Sebastian Fuentes of Thornton, said, "Senator Sanders says that we need to be ready to fight for somebody we don't even know. To me, that represents my children and future generations. That, to me, is as powerful as the movement Bernie has created. His consistency for almost 40 years about the same issues we are fighting now is remarkable. He was standing alone then. He is no longer alone. He has a grassroots movement telling the establishment that enough is enough and we do want change. We need Medicare for All, affordable quality education, a Green New Deal, and compassionate immigration reform. I stand by Senator Bernie Sanders. He is the change we need."
Bernie 2020 has also welcomed endorsements in the Granite State from organizations including the New Hampshire Youth Movement; SEA/SEIU Local 1984; New Hampshire American Postal Workers Union; and Rights and Democracy. Elected officials and community leaders in New Hampshire have also thrown their support behind Sen. Sanders, including New Hampshire's highest ranking Democrat and gubernatorial candidate Andru Volinsky, 22 State Representatives, 7 local and county elected officials, 7 local environmental leaders, and 49 small business owners representing 41 small businesses across all counties.
The full list of community leaders endorsing today, include:

Bill Beardslee, Faith Leader - Keene
Jean Bernard, Democratic Activist - Stratham
Doug Bogen, Environmental Activist - Barrington
William Bryk, Democratic Activist and Attorney - Antrim
Carmen Buford-Paige, Community Leader - Dover
Roger Burkhart, Faith Leader - Rochester
Krista Conn, Democratic Activist - Rumney
Sally Craft, Democratic Activist - Lancaster
Andy Davis, Community Leader - Conway
Julia Davis, Democratic Activist - Plymouth
Jeff Dickler, Democratic Activist - Rindge
Corinne Dodge, Democratic Activist - Derry
Nelle Douville, Civil Rights and Women's Rights Activist - Gilford
Jennifer Dube, Democratic and Environmental Activist - Raymond
Marie Duggan, Economics Professor - Keene
Judy Elliott, Peace Activist - Canterbury
Sebastian Fuentes, Immigrant Rights and Democratic Activist - Thornton
Jim Giddings, Democratic and Peace Activist - Greenville
Chhatra Gurung, Democratic Activist - Hooksett
Madalasa Gurung, Nepali Community Leader and Activist - Hooksett
John Hartley, Attorney and Democratic Activist - North Hampton
Will Hopkins, Peace Activist - Belmont
Chistine Hurley, Democratic Activist - Freedom
Manny Krasner, Democratic Activist and Attorney - Farmington
Chloe La Casse, Educator and Progressive Activist - Concord
Leslie LaMois, Democratic Activist - Harrisville
Cathy Lanigan, Democratic Activist - Peterborough
Sean Lewis, Democratic Activist - Salem
Basra Mohamed, Immigration Attorney - Manchester
Joanna Murphy, Democratic Activist - Sutton
Tilak Niroula, Community and Political Activist - Manchester
Marcus Ponce De Leon, Democratic Activist - Manchester
Alissandra Rodriguez-Murray, Community Activist - Manchester
Philip Spagnuolo, Former NH State Representative - Laconia
Kathy Staub, Democratic Activist, Fmr. School Board Member - Manchester
Catherine Stearns, Democratic Activist - Wilmot
Virginia Towler, Civil Rights Activist and Author - Dover
John Tuthill, Fmr. NH Rep. and Environmental Activist - Acworth

  