
    "We need somebody, like Mitt Romney, who understands budgets, who understands priorities, who understands turnarounds and can get this budget, this country, this tax code, and this economy back on track." — Oakland County Sheriff Mike Bouchard
RNC Committeeman Saul Anuzis, Oakland County Sheriff Mike Bouchard, and Fmr. State Senate Majority Leader Mike Bishop
"Romney's Bold Vision to Get Michigan Back On Track" Press Conference Call
February 23, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call
Highlights of the "Romney's Bold Vision to Get Michigan Back On Track" Press Conference Call:
SAUL ANUZIS: "Hello, we just wanted to talk about how the Governor's tax plan and jobs plan is important for Michigan. And obviously, I think the overwhelming factor is that the tax plan is fairer, flatter and simpler and this is something that jobs providers in particular have been looking for. A couple of the reasons that it is very important for Michigan is we have one of the largest agricultural communities in the country. The elimination of the inheritance tax is going to be huge for family farmers and family processors that are a very big part of our economy and obviously jobs here statewide. Secondly, I think this is a boon for the middle-class and working Americans in Michigan. The across-the-board 20 percent cut is something we're all going to feel immediately. It's something that will have a big impact on our working-class families so I think that is a huge impact. The R&D tax credits are another thing that's important. Michigan has a tremendous research and development base. Whether it's in ag, pharma, high-tech or auto, we have companies across the state that are leading the country and leading the world in those areas. So having a consistent R&D tax credit is going to be something that will bring investments back. And finally, this territorial tax system is huge for us. It's a big boon for Michigan. We have, I think, almost 400 Fortune 500 companies have operations here in Michigan, and to be able to bring some of that investment money back and invest it here and create jobs here and expand our base here would be huge for Michigan. We're talking about close to about a trillion dollars in estimated funds that are out there that could be brought back under a territorial tax system. So I think from a Michigan perspective, this is a great proposal. It is a huge proposal for Michigan working families as well. So I think this plays extremely well here."
OAKLAND COUNTY SHERIFF MIKE BOUCHARD: "Yeah, I think, from my point of view obviously, in very challenging times you need a leader that not only gets the challenges, but understands how to move the ball down field for a solution. I run one of the nation's largest law enforcement organizations and we've had to make some extremely tough cuts over the last number of years. Michigan, in particular, has been in a recession a lot longer than the rest of the country. I'm down 170 positions and had to really focus budgets and priorities together and forge them within a balance. The federal government is not only not doing that, but they're worse than that. They're wasting money on programs that couldn't be afforded in the best of times and they're not keeping within the lines. So, from my point of view, again—in Oakland County, we do a three-year adopted budget, rolling budget, with a five-year lookout. In Washington, the Senate hasn't adopted a budget in 1000 days. That's an abject failure. Every person involved in that leadership realm ought to be fired, period. And that goes right to the top of the president for not getting that done. We need somebody, like Mitt Romney, who understands budgets, who understands priorities, who understands turnarounds and can get this budget, this country, this tax code, and this economy back on track. I mean, it's a 20,000 foot view, but it's one that is critical to understand. He's gotten these things done in the past, in the private sector, and our current administration and our current president hasn't and it shows."
FMR. STATE SENATE MAJORITY LEADER MIKE BISHOP: "Well thank you for including me in the call. Just a continuation of the last two comments, I would say that this country is starving for common-sense leadership and, regardless of your political affiliation, I think we can all agree the reason why we're participating in this process is because we love our country. We're very concerned at where it is today. I think that what we're missing here, and Sheriff Bouchard just made a great point, we don't see that leadership in our federal government and we certainly don't see it in the office of the presidency. Mitt Romney represents somebody that we believe can make a real difference and who will reject the status quo and move forward with some common-sense approaches to government. And he'll bring it from the private sector and, frankly, we do not have enough participation in government today from the private sector, folks that have had experience in turning things around and who will reject the status quo. As a member of the Michigan Legislature, and as a leader of the Michigan Senate, I had a chance to watch a dysfunctional government up-close with Jennifer Granholm at the helm. And it was unfortunate to watch up-close, but it's one of those environments that we see all too often today. Mitt Romney was a completely different leader in his state role as governor. He was a guy who had an 85 percent Democrat legislature. He was able to work with them as a leader would. He cut taxes 19 times. And what's amazing about this leader is that he balanced the budget all four years in a row. I mean, that in a state in turmoil, that is a huge feat. It's something that this president can learn from. He's got a Senate who he cannot lead and cannot get to pass a budget. In Mitt Romney's case back in Massachusetts, he turned a $3 billion budget deficit into a $2 billion rainy day fund. That's the kind of record, a record in the business sector, and a record as a leader in government, that I think you can't help but to feel optimistic about for the future of our country."
  