
    Atlanta, GA — Former United States Senator Mack Mattingly and his wife Leslie today endorsed Newt Gingrich for President, saying Gingrich has "the right plan" for turning around our nation.
"I have watched this race for the Republican nomination with great admiration," said Mattingly, who represented Georgia from 1981 to 1987. "The four candidates before us now each bring a strong message to our future as a nation.
"Each is demonstrating day in and day out an extraordinary, untiring personal commitment of truly amazing conviction," he said. "And they are thus giving the American public a rare opportunity to express their personal beliefs."
Mattingly continued: "At this point, each vote in the Presidential primary is not merely a show of increasingly unified opposition to our current Administration's failed policies -- each vote is a voice — a loud message to the nation, and to our elected officials of what we, as citizens, want for our country and for our children's children.
"I find things in each candidate with which I firmly agree, but I find most often that I am in agreement with Newt Gingrich," said Mattingly. "My heart and my head are telling me what Newt is saying to America is the right message. What Newt is committed to giving America is the right plan.
"What Newt will bring to the Presidency with his experience gained, lessons learned, leadership developed, wisdom culled will give America the best future," the Senator said.
Mattingly was the first Republican elected to the United States Senate from Georgia since Reconstruction when he defeated veteran Democrat Herman Talmadge in November 1980.
Gingrich said Mattingly is a "legend" in Georgia Republican politics and that his endorsement is personally important to him.
"Mack and I go back a long way," Newt said. "We worked diligently together to transform Georgia from a Blue state to a Red state. I'm proud to have him on my team as we work toward Super Tuesday and winning the nomination in Tampa this summer."
  