
    
  Group praises Paul's unwavering commitment to limited government, individual liberty, and free enterprise

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Michigan's Arab American Republican leadership ahead of tomorrow's primary. The 12-term Texas Congressman will receive the endorsement from Arab American community leaders representing Southeast Michigan, including Detroit, Dearborn, Southfield, Warren and Ann Arbor.
In making the endorsement public, representatives from the group said the following:
"This endorsement is about reclaiming our Republican Party — being part of a movement which is true to core Republican values and is inclusive of all groups. Most of the current GOP field has succeeded in alienating many who once would have supported them, and that, to a large extent, includes members of the Arab American community. Ron Paul is fighting for the soul of our party and we are standing with him," said Nasser Beydoun, a community organizer and former Executive Director of the Michigan American Arab Chamber of Commerce.
Dr. Yahya Basha M.D., founder of Michigan-based Basha Diagnostics said, "In the community's view, Ron Paul has remained the most principled candidate throughout the race. We know where he stands on the issues and we know he believes in what he says. His views on individual liberty, small government and free enterprise have never wavered. His campaign has engaged with us, showing that he values our participation in the process."
This endorsement follows an endorsement from the Arab American News, the country's largest Arab American Newspaper, last Friday. In response, Dr. Paul has released the following statement:
"I am honored and delighted to receive the endorsement of the leadership of Michigan's Arab American Republicans, as well as the editorial board of the Arab American News.
"I am a firm believer that freedom brings people together, which is why my standing up for individual freedom, constitutional government, and fiscal responsibility draws so much support from Americans from all walks of life. This latest news is yet another tremendous boost for our Michigan campaign."
  