
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Andeliz N. Castillo of New York, to be the Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank.
Andeliz N. Castillo currently serves as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Public Liaison and Intergovernmental Affairs in the Office of the Vice President. Before joining the Administration, Andeliz had a managing role in merging national non-profit organizations and was the Chief Operating Officer and Chief of Staff for a non-profit organization. Andeliz also spent six years on Capitol Hill in roles such as senior communications and policy advisor at the United States House of Representatives Committee on Foreign Affairs, outreach communications and coalitions staff member for a Congressional Republican leadership office (the House Republican Conference), and policy and personal assistant to a South Florida Congressman. During the 2008 presidential cycle, Andeliz led outreach communications efforts at the Republican National Committee. Andeliz earned a B.A. from Brown University.
Daniel Habib Jorjani of Kentucky, to be Solicitor of the Department of the Interior.
Daniel Habib Jorjani held several position within the Department of the Interior from 2001 to 2009, including Chief of Staff and Counselor to the Assistant Secretary for Policy, Management and Budget and Counselor to the Deputy Secretary. Since May 2017, Mr. Jorjani has served as principal deputy solicitor at the Interior and has managed more than 330 attorneys in the Department. He is also the Regulatory Policy Officer on the Interior's Regulatory Reform Task Force and a member of the Interior's Executive Resources Board. Mr. Jorjani received an undergraduate degree from Vanderbilt University, master's degree from Columbia University, and Juris Doctor degree from Cornell Law School. Mr. Jorjani is a member of the New York and District of Columbia bars. He is married to Aimee Jorjani and resides in Northern Virginia with their three children.
  