
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three people to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Dell L. Dailey, of South Dakota, to be the Coordinator for Counterterrorism with the Rank and Status of Ambassador at Large at the Department of State. Lieutenant General Dailey currently serves as Director of the Center for Special Operations at MacDill Air Force Base. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Commander of the 18th Airborne Corps of the United States Army. Earlier in his career, he served as an Infantryman, Army Aviator and Cavalry Troop Commander. Lieutenant General Dailey received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy at West Point and his master's degree from Shippensburg University.
The President intends to nominate Ford M. Fraker, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Mr. Fraker currently serves as Chairman of Trinity Group Limited and consultant to Intercontinental Real Estate Corporation. Prior to this, he served as Managing Director of MeesPierson Investment Finance (UK) Limited. Earlier in his career, he served as Head of Banking for Saudi International Bank. Mr. Fraker received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate W. Craig Vanderwagen, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at the Department of Health and Human Services. Dr. Vanderwagen currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response and Chief Preparedness Officer at the Department of Health and Human Services. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary for Preparedness at the Department of Health and Human Services. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Office of Clinical and Preventative Services and Acting Chief Medical Officer within the Indian Health Service. Dr. Vanderwagen received his bachelor's degree from Calvin College and Seminary and his MD from Michigan State University.
  