
    
February 14, 2016
1. Who won the debate? It was clear:

A CBS Overnight Poll: 32 Percent Thought Marco Won The Debate. 
Thirty-two percent of these debate watchers say Marco Rubio won the debate, beating out Donald Trump (24 percent) and John Kasich (19 percent), who are ranked second and third, respectively. Further down on the list are Ted Cruz (12 percent), Ben Carson (8 percent), and Jeb Bush (5 percent). Marco Rubio is the clear favorite among Republicans
2. Brett O'Donnell: Rubio had "an excellent night"

3. Chris Cillizza: Marco was better than Jeb

4. National Review: Marco 'delivered a solid showing' and 'spoke competently of the national-security challenges.'
If Trump's clash with Bush proved to be the pivotal moment of the evening, all eyes had been on Rubio as the night began. ... He delivered a solid showing in Greenville: He dumped the talking points for which Chris Christie had pilloried him and spoke competently of the national-security challenges the next president will face. ... Rubio also demonstrated in a testy exchange with rival Ted Cruz that he can throw a punch. ... That was likely true tonight, where Rubio's solid performance was overshadowed by Trump's antics, and where Trump's antics were likely enough to make voters forget about Rubio's big fumble. But all will have to do more — Trump to hurt himself, Rubio and Bush to help themselves — between now and next Saturday to appreciably change the dynamics of the race.
5. New York Post's John Podhoretz: Marco Was 'Sensational.' 
And Marco Rubio? He was sensational. Did what he had to do. Got off the mat and got himself back in the fight. Winner on points.
6. The Weekly Standard: 'Rubio's Stellar Performance.'
Rubio seemed to bounce back with strong, informed answers on national security and taxes...It's hard to say how Rubio's stellar performance will help him in South Carolina, which holds its primary this coming Saturday.
7. PJ Media: 'Basically, this was Marco's night.'
It remained for Rubio to make the strongest defense of Bush's brother against Trump's attacks, when the Florida senator said he thanked God that George W., not Al Gore, was in the White House on 9/11. The applause was resounding, as it was after Rubio's impassioned final speech. The camera at that point had moved over to Cruz, who clearly had the displeased expression of someone who just saw his victim get up off the mat. Basically, this was Marco's night.
8. Politico Insiders Agree: 'Rubio Won The Night.'
Meantime, a plurality of Republican insiders — 44 percent — said Marco Rubio won the night. Slightly more than one-third of Democrats agreed…'Rubio is back. Rubio is back. Rubio is back,' said a South Carolina Republican of Rubio, who last week was criticized for repeating the same lines. 'He dismantled Cruz without getting too entangled with Trump. If South Carolina voters were paying attention tonight, this could be a huge boost for him.
9. Tampa Bay Times: Marco had a 'strong debate performance. He won lines, seized opportunities.'
Marco Rubio, the youngest presidential candidate, invigorated his campaign Saturday night with a strong debate performance. He won lines, seized opportunities. Rubio was his usual debate self.
  