
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue. February II
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
The President met at the White House with:
—professional boxer Muhammad Ali, to discuss his meetings with African leaders concerning participation in the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow;
—Senator Jim Sasser of Tennessee.
In the evening the President attended a buffet dinner and participated in a briefing by administration officials on national defense and foreign policy issues, given for Members of Congress on the State Floor of the White House.
February 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Louis A. Lerner, U.S. Ambassador to Norway, and Mrs. Lerner;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
In a ceremony in the Cabinet Room, the President was presented with the Christian Service Award by the executive board of the Southern Baptist Radio and Television Commission.
The President participated in a briefing on the equal rights amendment given for community and civic leaders from Florida, Georgia, Illinois, and Missouri in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President transmitted to the Congress a report on Presidential Recommendations for Selective Service Reform and proposed legislation to allow the registration of both men and women.
February 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—a group of Hispanic ministers.
February 14
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Mr. Moore;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence;
—the executive committee of the National Black Caucus of State Legislators.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on administration programs and policies given for community and civic leaders from Connecticut, New Hampshire, and Vermont in the East Room at the White House.
The White House announced that Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi will pay a 4-day state visit to Washington February 19-22 at the invitation of President Carter. President Moi's visit will be the first visit by a Kenyan President to the United States. During the visit he will meet with President Carter, Secretary of State Vance. Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Zbigniew Brzezinski, and other high-ranking U.S. Government officials to discuss a wide range of international regional, and bilateral issues.
February 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—former Chancellor Willy Brandt of the Federal Republic of Germany and Sir Shridath Ramphal, Secretary-General of the Commonwealth;
—Mr. Moore;
—a group of magazine editors (transcript will .be printed next week);
—Robert B. Delano, president, and John C. Datt, secretary and administrator, American Farm Bureau Federation:
—James L. Bomar, Jr., president of Rotary International:
—Pilar Cartella De Rubin, an Hispanicartist;
—King Juan Carlos I and Queen Sophia of Spain.
  