
    [The President's remarks are joined in progress.]
Defense Budget
The President. ——I'm especially glad to have this chance to be here. And a lot has changed and a lot has happened since we met last year. I want to get a good briefing on the readiness issues and on the quality of life issues that are implicit in the request that we're making in the defense budget. We've got to maintain our preparedness; we've got to maintain our readiness. I also want to emphasize how important my supplemental recommendation is to the Congress. We need to get that approved as quickly as possible. I know it's important to all of you. And Secretary Perry and Deputy Secretary Deutch talk to me about it all the time. We're working hard on that supplemental, and we're going to do our best to get it passed.
Baseball Strike
Q. Mr. President, the baseball negotiators—changing the subject—[laughter]——
The President. National security. [Laughter]
Q. On a subject dear to many Americans, after 40 days they are starting to talk again today in Washington. And you have imposed this February 6th deadline for some progress. Is there anything you can do personally to get baseball off the—to get it going again?
The President. I am doing whatever I can do personally. But the less I say about it, the better. We're all working. This administration has worked hard. But I think Mr. Usery, our mediator, should be given a chance to work through this last process to try to come up with an agreement between the parties. If they don't, I've urged him to put his own suggestions on the table. We'll just keep working through this until we get to a—hopefully get to a successful conclusion.
Mexican Loan Guarantees
Q. Mr. President, what do you think about the international response to your Mexico decision so far?
The President. So far I'm encouraged. I think it was the right thing to do, and I'm encouraged. I hope we have another good day today. Yesterday was very encouraging, good for our country, good for our jobs, good for the stability of the region.
  