
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, U.S. Congressman Mike Ferguson (R-NJ) endorsed Governor Mitt Romney to be the next President of the United States.
"Throughout his time in Congress, Mike Ferguson has stood strong for the conservative principles that have guided our Republican party. He is also a leader in supporting the men and women of New Jersey's first responders. As a former educator, he understands how important it is that we strengthen the education system to prepare our children for the challenges of this global economy. It will be an honor to work with Mike as we head into the New Jersey primary," said Governor Romney.
Announcing his support today, Congressman Ferguson said, "Over the course of this campaign, I have been impressed by the depth of Governor Romney's vision for this country. He understands that only through conservative change can we hope to confront the many long-term challenges facing America today. I am confident that Mitt Romney is the right choice for Republicans and the right choice for New Jersey."
Background On U.S. Congressman Mike Ferguson:
Congressman Mike Ferguson Represents New Jersey's 7th Congressional District In The U.S. House Of Representatives. Congressman Ferguson was first elected to the Congress in 2000 and is currently serving his fourth term. In Congress, he is a leading advocate of reducing taxes and supporting our homeland security. As a former educator, Congressman Ferguson is a champion of strengthening education and making health care more affordable and accessible. He is the proud author of the Lifespan Respite Care Act which authorizes funds for states to train volunteers and provide services for families caring for adults and children with special needs at home. Congressman Ferguson serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Before his Congressional service, Congressman Ferguson was an educator. Congressman Ferguson and his wife, Maureen, have four young children.
  