
    Panetta Becomes Ninth Obama-Biden Cabinet Member to Endorse Joe Biden
Today, former Secretary of the Defense, Congressman, CIA Director, and White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Our nation stands at the most critical pivot point in recent history. Will we remain mired in the polarization and political dysfunction; or will we emerge from this moment of crisis stronger, more unified, and more committed to the value and ideals of the United States?
"This is the central question of our time – and the answer depends on who we elect to be our President in November.
"On Tuesday, when my fellow Californians and I go to the polls, I will be voting for Joe Biden.
"I have known Joe Biden since the mid-1970s when I was first elected to Congress and he was serving in the Senate. For more than four decades, I have worked with him and seen his principled leadership in action.
"When I was President Clinton's Chief of Staff, then-Senator Biden led the fight for civil rights, common sense gun safety, equality for women, and protection of the environment. When I was President Obama's CIA Director and Secretary of Defense, I saw then-Vice President Biden's immense experience and keen judgment in national security affairs. He was respected by our allies and feared by our adversaries. And, he cared deeply about our troops, intelligence professionals, diplomats, and their families. Both he and I had sons deploy to the warzones after 9/11. We shared the worry of the many families whose loved ones are deployed in harm's way.
"Joe Biden is unquestionably the most qualified individual to be President. He knows and understands the responsibilities of being President. He does not need on-the-job training. He has a proven record of fighting for working class Americans, pursuing equality for all, expanding health care accessibility, protecting our environment, and supporting strong American leadership in the world. At a time when we are facing serious threats abroad, he will rebuild our alliances, support not undermine military discipline, restore American credibility and deterrence, bolster our cyber defenses, invest in the readiness of our diplomats and our troops, listen to our intelligence professionals, and stand up to dictators like Putin and Kim Jong Un.
"Above all, Joe Biden will work to heal our nation from this era of polarization, bring us together as one America, unify our country so that we can work together to govern and solve the difficult problems we confront. We cannot afford four more years of hate and anger and gridlock. Joe's honesty, decency and respect for every human being is what this nation needs now more than ever.
"I urge all Californians to vote for Joe Biden on Tuesday."
Panetta is the 9th Obama-Biden Cabinet Secretary to endorse Biden. He served as a Democratic member of the U.S. House of Representatives representing the Central Coast of California, White House Budget Director and White House Chief of Staff under President Clinton, and CIA Director and Secretary of Defense under President Obama. Additionally, Panetta is the recipient of many awards including the National Defense Industrial Association's Dwight D. Eisenhower Award, the California Teachers Association's Friends of Education Award, the Judicial Council of California's Stanley Mosk Defender of Justice Award and many more.
Secretary Panetta's endorsement is indicative of the unwavering confidence the national security community and elected officials have in Joe Biden's step into the role of Commander-In-Chief and prioritize the United State's national security.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  