
    U. S. Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell today announced his support for Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole in his candidacy for President of the United States.
"Senator Dole's extensive record of solid leadership, his ability to work cooperatively with people with conflicting viewpoints, and his appreciation of western issues and values make him the most qualified candidate to represent Colorado and our nation as President," Campbell said.
"I am honored to accept the endorsement of a close friend and colleague like Senator Campbell," said Dole. "When Ben joined the Republican party last year, he showed how successful we have been in broadening the base of our party to include millions of new supporters. Working together, we will use the 1996 election to expand our party even further in making it the true majority party in America."
Campbell said also Senator Dole is the only Republican candidate capable of pulling together the widening coalition of voters necessary to win the Presidency in November.
Campbell said Senator Dole's extensive record of service to the nation -- first as a war hero and then as an elected representative for the past 36 years -- and his personal integrity make him the most qualified candidate for President.
"Senator Dole is honorable, sensible and reasonable, and although he rarely speaks of his own accomplishments, he is held in great esteem by millions of Americans," Campbell said. "Complementing Senator Dole's towering record of legislative accomplishments, is the fact that he has been the only candidate who has spoken out on the issues that deal specifically with both public lands and water in the west," Campbell said. "This coupled with his knowledge and involvement in international affairs provides Americans with the breadth of leadership skills I want in a President."
Campbell, soon to be Colorado's senior Senator, also praised Dole's sincerity. "The Bob Dole I know is the man who talks of his hometown neighbors who took up a collection to help pay his war- related medical bills. The Bob Dole I know is the man who, talks of the struggling family farmers he knew as a child and the talks of the small town business folks in his hometown of Russell, Kansas. The Bob Dole I know is am man who understands sacrifice, hard work and commitment."
  