
    
  Whatcom County-area State Representative cites Dr. Paul's "unflinching fidelity to the U.S. Constitution" as inspiration for endorsement

BELLEVUE, Washington — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Washington State Representative Jason Overstreet (R-Blaine). As a Representative of Washington State's 42nd Legislative District, Overstreet serves an area comprised of Birch Bay, Blaine, Deming, Everson, Ferndale, Lynden, Nooksack, Point Roberts, Sumas, and a portion of Bellingham.
In making his public endorsement, Rep. Overstreet issued the following statement:
"As an Army veteran, small business owner, firefighter, and Washington State Representative, it is my privilege to announce that Ron Paul's unflinching fidelity to the U.S. Constitution has earned him my respect and my endorsement. Ron Paul is the defining statesman of our day, willing to stand alone as an outspoken defender of life, liberty and property, time after time, shunning compromise in favor of adherence to the Constitution.
"Ron Paul has proven that he can be trusted, having one of the most constitutionally consistent voting records in Congress. He understands that freedom and prosperity are only possible when government respects the Constitution that binds it and the rule of law that anchors it. Now more than ever, America needs Ron Paul for President."
Currently in his first term, Rep. Overstreet is the Assistant Minority Whip of the House Republican Caucus and is a former Blaine City Councilmember. A small business owner, full-time firefighter, and US Army veteran, Rep. Overstreet resides in Blaine. He has been married to his wife Jessica for 16 years. He and his wife home educate their five children.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Washington State organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  