
    Mr. Prime Minister and Begum Bhutto, and our distinguished guests from Pakistan as wall as from the United States:
We are deeply grateful that all of you are here, and we are especially thankful that the distinguished guests have come to our great country.
We think this is a very special evening. We as Americans have the honor of welcoming a true friend of America, the head of state of Pakistan, to our Nation's Capital, Washington, D.C.
I am delighted to have had the opportunity this morning to meet with the Prime Minister. We had a fruitful, beneficial, and enjoyable meeting this morning, and we are delighted, Mr. Prime Minister, to have you and Begum Bhutto with us this evening.
We are also especially pleased and honored to have your two children--two of your four children--with us on this occasion. I think it is interesting, but also somewhat unique, that your children are going to school in our great country, and we are delighted to have them, and we hope that they have enjoyed themselves and are enjoying themselves. We are not only pleased but honored that they are with us in the United States for this experience.
It is, I think, particularly noteworthy, Mr. Prime Minister, that you and Begum Bhutto are here and that she has particularly joined you in this visit, as she has joined you on previous occasions, working for the best interests of your people in your country. And I compliment her as well as yourself for these efforts.
The world knows, Mr. Prime Minister, that the burdens of leadership fell on you at a time in the history of Pakistan which was one of the most critical and the most serious in the history of your country.
But with confidence and great determination, you have guided your nation through a period, an era of peace and reconciliation. Your accomplishments as well as your courage, I think, have received the highest praise, both within your country and without.
Our first official meeting represents another link in the chain of a much longer association between the leaders and the peoples of Pakistan and the United States. And we want to maintain and to strengthen that relationship and that friendship that has been most important between your country and ours.
The talks that we had this morning, I think, helped to strengthen and to broaden that relationship.
As we know, peace in the world depends upon peace in its various parts. Your leadership, Mr. Prime Minister, has enabled Pakistan to move forward with India toward achieving peace in that very important area of the world.
I am tremendously impressed by the efforts that you are promoting in economic and agricultural development for Pakistan despite the serious problems posed, as we all know, by the rapid rise of price levels for essential goods in your country.
And as you persevere, Mr. Prime Minister, persevere in your tasks, you may be sure that this Government regards the sovereignty and the territorial integrity of a strong, secure, and prosperous Pakistan as a fundamental element in maintaining regional and world peace.
So, if I might, Mr. Prime Minister, let me propose a toast to you, Prime Minister and Begum Bhutto, to the ideals and to the hopes they personify so very well, and to further strengthening of our relations between our two countries.
To Prime Minister and Begum Bhutto.
  