
    VOICES ACROSS AMERICA: The campaign announced that veteran journalist Carole Simpson will serve as moderator for Hillary's national town hall on Monday night at 9 p.m. EST. The three-time Emmy award winner will join Hillary at the anchor event in New York. Voters at events in Super Tuesday states will via satellite join the conversation and have their voices heard. Hallmark Channel will broadcast the town hall live.
ALABAMA: President Bill Clinton held "Solutions for America" rallies in Huntsville and Fairfield. Read more... A new Rasmussen poll has Hillary up by 5 points over Sen. Obama (46-41). Read more...U.S. Rep. Marion Barry stumped for Hillary in Gadsden. Read more... The campaign announced that Hillary raised more than $85,000 in the state in the fourth quarter, topping the Democratic field.
ARIZONA: Hillary held a "Solutions for America" rally in Tucson. Read more... U.S. Rep. Ed Pastor joined Latino community leaders for a phone bank in Phoenix.
ARKANSAS: Lt. Gov. Bill Halter endorsed Hillary. Read more.
CALIFORNIA: Hillary held a "Solutions for America" rally in Los Angeles... U.S. Rep. Ellen Tauscher attended a "Women for Hillary" event in San Francisco... The campaign announced that President Bill Clinton will visit Los Angeles on Sunday... Former California Secretary of State and Ambassador March Fong Eu endorsed Hillary... The campaign announced that Hillary raised more than $4.1 million in the fourth quarter, outpacing the Democratic and Republican fields.
COLORADO: Clinton campaign chair Terry McAuliffe met with community leaders in El Paso, attended a Democratic Party rally in Highlands Ranch and joined U.S. Rep. Diane DeGette for a roundtable with undecided voters in Denver. Read more... The campaign announced an African American Get Out the Caucus (GOTC) Committee... The campaigned held a Get Out to Caucus event in Grand Junction.
CONNECTICUT: Actor, film producer and director Ron Howard and his wife, Cheryl, joined Stamford Mayor Dan Malloy at the "Ready for Change, Ready to Knock" canvass kickoff in Stamford... State Comptroller Nancy Wyman kicked off a canvass in West Hartford... The campaign announced the Hartford location of the "Voices Across America" national town hall.
DELAWARE: Sen. Debbie Stabenow, U.S. Rep. Donna Christian-Christensen and former Maryland Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend spoke on Hillary's behalf in Wilmington, New Castle, Newark, and Dover as part of the campaign's "All Voices Count" women's tour. Read more.
GEORGIA: The campaign launched a new radio ad in which former Atlanta First Lady Valerie Jackson encouraged voters to support Hillary. Listen.
ILLINOIS: The campaign announced that Hillary's high school, Maine South in Park Ridge, will host a "Voices Across America" national town hall event.
MARYLAND: Prince George's County Executive Jack B. Johnson endorsed Hillary. Read more.
MASSACHUSETTS: Speaker Salvatore DiMasi and Senate President Therese Murray led bus caravans through Lowell, Worcester and Taunton. Read more.
MISSOURI: President Clinton held "Solutions for America" rallies in Columbia and Springfield. Read more... A new Rasmussen poll has Hillary up by 9 points over Sen. Obama (47-38). Read more...The campaign announced the Kansas City location of the "Voices Across America" national town hall... Missouri Veterans for Hillary visited a veterans home in Mt. Vernon and other veterans service organizations around the Kansas City area... The campaign announced that Hillary will visit St. Louis today.
NEW JERSEY: Sen. Robert Menendez and Reps. Frank Pallone, Bill Pascrell, Albio Sires, EMILY's List founder Ellen Malcolm, human rights activist Kerry Kennedy and New Hampshire Sen. President Sylvia Larsen led a get out the vote bus tour. The tour visited Jersey City, New Brunswick, Cherry Hill, Glassboro and Long Branch.
NEW MEXICO: Hillary held a "Solutions for America" rally in Albuquerque. Read more... Lt. Governor Diane Denish, State Auditor Hector Balderas, Dolores Huerta and former Secretary of Housing Henry Cisneros joined Hillary at the rally... Former Secretary of Housing Cisneros also held a dinner with undecided voters in Albuquerque.
NEW YORK: The campaign held 76 house parties, 31 phone banks, 19 ambassador meetings and 9 large gatherings of grassroots supporters, in addition to aggressive visibility, organizing and get out the vote efforts... The New York Daily News endorsed Hillary. "Clinton is at heart a worker in the trenches. She has an encyclopedic knowledge of the issues, and her success in the Senate on behalf of New Yorkers attests to both relentless attention to detail and skill at working the levers of power. Simply put, Clinton delivered, in no small measure by forming alliances with Republicans." Read more... Newsday endorsed Hillary. "Clinton has been an outstanding senator for this state and this Island. She's intelligent, hard-working, tough, passionate and has an enthusiasm for the important nuances of complex policy." Read more... A new Rasmussen poll has Hillary up by 18 points over Sen. Obama (52-34). Read more... A new WNBC/Marist poll has Hillary up by 16 points over Sen. Obama (54-38). Read more... Actress Fran Drescher attended a rally in Manhattan's Union Square and a phone bank on the Upper West Side. Read more... Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright greeted voters at Long Island train stations and attended rallies in Hempstead and White Plains... U.S. Rep. Mike McNulty attended an event for Hillary in Albany... U.S. Rep. Michael Arcuri attended an event for Hillary in Rochester... Sen. Charles Schumer and U.S. Reps. Nita Lowey, John Hall, and Eliot Engel attended an event for Hillary in White Plains... U.S. Reps. Steve Israel, Tim Bishop, and Carolyn McCarthy attended an event in Long Island... U.S. Reps. Jerry Nadler, Carolyn Maloney, and Nydia Velasquez attended events in Manhattan... U.S. Rep. Joe Crowley attended an event in Queens.
NORTH DAKOTA: Supporters phone banked and canvassed in Grand Forks and Fargo.
OKLAHOMA: A new Tulsa World/Sooner Poll has Hillary up by 24 points over Sen. Obama (41-27). Read more... The campaign announced the Tulsa location of the "Voices Across America" national town hall... Former Gov. David Walters endorsed Hillary.
PENNSYLVANIA: U.S. Rep. Paul E. Kanjorski endorsed Hillary.
TENNESSEE: A new Rasmussen poll has Hillary up by 14 points over Sen. Obama (49-35). Read more... A new WSMV-TV poll has Hillary up by 5 points over Sen. Obama (36-31). Read more (pdf)... The campaign announced that Hillary raised more than $84,000 in the state in the fourth quarter, topping the Democratic field.
UTAH: The campaign announced that Hillary raised nearly $257,000 in the state in the fourth quarter, topping the Democratic field.
VIRGINIA: The campaign announced that Hillary raised more than $3.1 million in the state in 2007, topping the Democratic field.
WASHINGTON: U.S. Sen. Maria Cantwell, former Gov. Gary Locke, U.S. Rep Jay Inslee, King County Executive Ron Sims and Snohomish County Executive Aaron Reardon discussed Hillary's clean energy plan with caucus goers in Everett, Seattle, and Tacoma.
  