
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 2
In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, from Camp David, MD. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in Iraq.
In the afternoon, the President attended a meeting in National Security Director Samuel Berger's office with Rev. Don Argue, president, National Association of Evangelicals; Archbishop Theodore McCarrick, Roman Catholic Archbishop of Newark; and Rabbi Arthur Schneier, president, Appeal of Conscience, to discuss their upcoming visit to China from February 9 to March 3 to observe the state of religious freedom in that country.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eligah Dane Clark to be Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The President announced his intention to appoint Carl S. Whillock and Dr. I. Miley Gonzalez as members of the Rural Telephone Bank Board.
February 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Los Alamos, NM, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Albuquerque, NM. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Romano Prodi of Italy to express condolences to the families of those killed in the U.S. aircraft accident in Italy.
February 4
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany to express condolences to the families of the German citizens killed in the U.S. aircraft accident in Italy.
In the afternoon, the President and Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom traveled to Silver Spring, MD. Later, they returned to Washington, DC.
The President and the First Lady announced that the first Millennium Evening at the White House will be held on February 11 in the East Room.
February 5
The President announced his intention to nominate Keith Kelly to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert A. Miller to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute.
February 6
In the evening, the President, Hillary Clinton, Prime Minister Blair, and Cherie Blair, went to Camp David, MD.
  