
    Memorandum for the United States Trade Representative
Subject: Designation of Officers of the Office of the United States Trade Representative to Act as the United States Trade Representative
By the authority vested in me as President under the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345, et seq., it is hereby ordered that:
Section 1. Order of Succession.
During any period when the United States Trade Representative (USTR) has died, resigned, or otherwise becomes unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of the United States Trade Representative, the following officers of the Office of the United States Trade Representative, in the order listed, shall perform the functions and duties of the USTR, until such time as the USTR is able to perform the functions and duties of that office;
(a) Deputy United States Trade Representatives (stationed in Washington, D.C.; in order of their length of service as a Deputy USTR);
(b) Deputy United States Trade Representative (stationed in Geneva);
(c) General Counsel;
(d) Chief Negotiator for Agriculture;
(e) Deputy General Counsel; and
(f) Deputy Chief of Mission (stationed in Geneva).
Sec. 2. Exceptions. (a)     No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as the USTR pursuant to this memorandum. (b)     No individual shall act as USTR unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998. (c)     Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this memorandum in designating an acting USTR.
Sec. 3. Judicial Review. This memorandum is intended to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 4. Publication. You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
George W. Bush
  