
    
HIBBING, Minn. – U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Friday contrasted his and Hillary Clinton's views on fracking and climate change. He also faulted Clinton for taking campaign cash "from those who would profit off the destruction of the planet."
"Just as I believe you can't take on Wall Street while taking their money, I don't believe you can take on climate change effectively while taking money from those who would profit off the destruction of the planet," Sanders said.
Meanwhile, Sanders' campaign launched a new television ad here in Minnesota and in Colorado about the senator's strong stance against fracking. To watch the ad, click here.
Clinton recently released a plan to double down on natural gas production, which would promote continued fracking and slow the nation's transition to renewable sources of energy.
In recent debates, Clinton has denied the influence of money in politics. She has claimed, for example, that it is possible to take on Wall Street while still taking their money. Sanders disagreed and pointed to her detour from the campaign trail in Iowa for a high-dollar fundraiser at a hedge fund, Franklin Square Capital. Franklin Square is a major investor in fracking, the destructive practice of extracting natural gas by pumping secret chemicals into the ground. Wall Street donors pumped $15 million in the last half of last year into her super PAC, Priorities USA.
Two weeks after the Clinton fundraiser, her campaign announced that she supports continued natural gas production, which is a product of fracking.
"I do not support fracking," Sanders said. "I don't need money from hedge fund managers and I don't want money from those who profit off of the destruction of our planet."
Clinton's support for fracking dates back to her tenure as secretary of state. She set up a wing at the State Department to promote fracking overseas. "Under her leadership, the State Department worked closely with energy companies to spread fracking around the globe – part of a broader push to fight climate change, boost global energy supply, and undercut the power of adversaries such as Russia that use their energy resources as a cudgel," Mother Jones reported. Sanders supports fracking bans like a law in his home state of Vermont. He also has introduced the most comprehensive climate plan of anyone running for president, including a moratorium on fossil fuels extraction on public lands. He's also proposed a plan to transition all fossil fuels workers into new clean energy jobs through a $41 billion investment to provide benefits, training and support for workers and communities. The plan is paid for by closing loopholes that allow corporations to hide money overseas and by ending subsidies to fossil fuel companies.
  