
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), in order to create an advisory committee on methods of mediating and on the voluntary adjustment of labor disputes, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the President's Advisory Committee on Mediation and Conciliation. The Committee shall be composed of not more than twelve members who shall be appointed or designated by the President from among persons with special knowledge and familiarity with labor relations problems. The Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service is hereby designated as Chairman of the Advisory Committee.
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Committee shall advise the President and the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service on methods of improving the efficiency of arbitration of disputes arising under collective bargaining agreements, and on other matters, not involving particular labor disputes, of general significance to strengthening and increasing the effectiveness of bilateral dispute resolution mechanisms under such agreements.
(b) In performance of its advisory responsibilities, the Committee shall report to the President and the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service from time to time as requested.
(c) The Committee will undertake a review of regulations promulgated by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service that affect established arbitration and mediation procedures, and offer their findings and recommendations in a report to the President and the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service within nine months of the Committee's establishment.
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Committee such information as it may require to carry out its functions.
(b) Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation for their work on the Committee. However, members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).
(c) The Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall provide the Committee with such administrative services, facilities, staff and other support as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the responsibilities of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Committee established by this Order, shall be performed by the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
(b) The Committee shall terminate on December 31, 1984, unless sooner extended.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
February 17, 1984.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:18 a.m., February 21, 1984]
  