
    MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Mr. President, in a few days you will be visiting Mexico. In view of developments in Mexico's oil production and the problem of illegal workers, how do you see relations between the two countries?
THE PRESIDENT. I think in the last 2 years, since I've been in office and since President Lopez Portillo has been President, the relations have improved considerably. For a number of decades, there have been strains between Mexico and the United States and a lack of adequate consultation and the sharing of mutual problems. I think President Lopez Portillo and I have both recognized that problem when we became Presidents, and we've made great strides to relieve those challenges.
In the field of trade, border problems, agriculture, fisheries, maritime problems, exchange of prisoners, the control of narcotics, the enforcement of customs laws, the holding down of smuggling, in many other hemispheric problems, the control of arms, the enhancement of peace, the control of nuclear weapons, we have seen the admirable leadership of President Lopez Portillo in working with us to reach agreement on how we can approach these problems as partners.
So, I think the situation is improving rapidly, and I will learn a great deal and my country will benefit very much from my coming visit with your people and your President.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Mr. President, President Lopez Portillo has said that Mexican oil production is adjusted to the needs of Mexico. Do you expect an increase of oil and gas production to meet the needs of the United States, or some kind of agreement on this issue?
THE PRESIDENT. I expect the rate of exploration and production of oil and gas in Mexico to be decided by the Mexican people only. This is not something that we should try to influence. This should be done with very careful attention to what's best for the Mexican people.
We have been very pleased to see the prospect of new prosperity and new growth in job opportunities and a better quality of life for the people of Mexico because of the new discoveries of this valuable energy source. And we want to be a good customer for the portion of oil and gas that Mexico decides to sell to us as a neighbor. But the price must be fair, and the control of production and distribution must be kept in the hands of the Mexican people.
So, we want to be good customers, and we feel that your people and the people of my country will benefit from these new energy discoveries.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Turning to the problem of illegal immigration, Mr. President, what do you see as a solution to this problem which our two countries share?
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I will have to enforce the laws of my country. And I've been very deeply impressed on my visits to Mexico with the desire of Mexican people to live in accordance with the law.
In some ways, the immigration laws that we now have in effect have not been workable, and I have submitted to the last Congress proposals for change in those immigration laws. The Congress did not act on my proposals. Before I decide whether or not to submit new laws to Congress or what form they should take, I want to consult very closely with President Lopez Portillo and other interested Mexican officials so that when we do change our law, it will be one that will be fair and workable and will protect the interests and the basic human rights of even those who have come to our country in the past in violation of our immigration laws.
We want to be fair to all those who've come here, whether they originally came within the bounds of the law or otherwise, and to make sure we have a law that's simple and workable and suitable both to the Mexican people and to the people of my country.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Mr. President, every United States President since Franklin Roosevelt, I think, has met with his Mexican President and hailed the visit as a breakthrough for both countries. But after the speeches are over, very little really happens. I don't know if you agree with this. Is your visit, Mr. President, merely ceremonial, or can you promise followup actions?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there will be followup actions. When President Lopez Portillo was inaugurated, even before I was President, my wife went to the ceremonies. When I was inaugurated, Mrs. Lopez Portillo came here to be an honored guest. When I decided who would be my first foreign visitor after I became President, my choice was President Lopez Portillo. And our Vice President has been to Mexico, and we've had constant consultations at the Cabinet level of our top Ministers. And, as I mentioned earlier in the interview, we've already concluded agreements relating to irrigation, agriculture, customs, the control of narcotics, fisheries, maritime law. We've worked out a treaty on exchange of prisoners, and we've laid a good basis for further achievements, both on my upcoming visit and also for the future.
So, the consultations have been very productive so far. I think they'll be much more productive in the future.
One of the things that we see is a rapid improvement in the job opportunities and quality of life of the people of Mexico and my country because of increased trade. Mexico is our most important trade partner in this hemisphere, in Latin America. And our trade level now is about $10 billion a year. We export about the same amount that we import from Mexico. It's an even and mutual benefit.
So, these are the kind of things that we see as great opportunities in the future, even for more rapid progress. We're very excited about this.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Mr. President, would you tell us, please, which is the main purpose of your visit to Mexico—oil, gas, illegals, or all together?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, all of our relationships with Mexico are very complex and complicated. There will be an agenda for which I'm preparing that consists of literally dozens of different subjects, and I think they are very closely interrelated. You can't isolate just one subject and say this is the most important thing.
We are very grateful for the friendship that exists between Mexico and the United States. I'm also very grateful and have admiration for your leaders and your people, because Mexico has in recent years become one of the most influential countries of the whole world in stabilizing affairs in this hemisphere, in providing a commitment that never changes for the protection of human rights, in promoting democratic principles in all the governments of the Western Hemisphere, in trying to hold down the spread of weapons and war, in trying to prevent nuclear explosives from spreading throughout the Southern Hemisphere.
We are very interested also in seeing the benefits that come to us and the entire world for Mexico's leadership among the nations that are rapidly developing, and as a regional leader, Mexico's good relationships with us are very valuable to the United States. And I think in a system of mutual respect and equality, partnership, friendship, we benefit greatly, as do the people of your country.
I might add that we now have 20 million American citizens of Mexican ancestry who live among us. And we derive great strength from this sharing of a common background. Our Nation is one of immigrants. And almost everyone who lives in our country, with very few exceptions, immigrated to our Nation. So, we value this strength and this natural tie of kinship and friendship very much.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Muchas gracias, Senor Presidente. Como va su espanol, your Spanish? [Thank you, Mr. President. How is your Spanish?]
THE PRESIDENT. No hay mucha oportunidad de practicar aqui en Washington. Serd un gran placer para mi estar en Mexico y un grande oportunidad de consultar su Presidente. Muchas gracias a ti, senor. [There is not much opportunity to practice here in Washington. It will be a great pleasure for me to be in Mexico and a great opportunity to consult with your President. Thank you, sir.]
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Muchas gracias, Senor Presidente.
  