
    

Get the Facts:

Nine Trump companies have tried to import at least 1,100 foreign workers since 2000.
"Trump owns companies that have sought to import at least 1,100 foreign workers on temporary visas since 2000, according to U.S. Department of Labor data reviewed by Reuters. Most of the applications were approved, the data show. Nine companies majority-owned by Trump have sought to bring in foreign waitresses, cooks, vineyard workers and other laborers on temporary work-visa programs administered by the Labor Department." (Reuters, 8/2/15)
"For at least 15 years, according to the Labor Department, Mr. Trump's properties have requested guest-worker visas, including at Mar-a-Lago…"
"For at least 15 years, according to the Labor Department, Mr. Trump's properties have requested guest-worker visas, including at Mar-a-Lago, the former estate of the cereal heiress Marjorie Merriweather Post, where the initiation fee alone is $100,000. Housekeepers from abroad ensure that the venue's eight seaside cabanas are spotless, the Dorian stone from Genoa shines and the lavish guest rooms and suites in the main house, an 89- year-old mansion in the Hispano-Moresque style, are fresh for visitors." (The New York Times, 2/25/16)
"The Trump companies have sought at least 850 H-2B visa workers." 
"The temporary work visa program through which Trump's companies have sought the greatest numbers of workers, H-2B, brings in mostly workers from Mexico. Mexicans made up more than 80 percent of the 104,993 admissions to the United States on H-2B visas in 2013. The Trump companies have sought at least 850 H-2B visa workers." (Reuters, 8/2/15)
Foreign workers include 250 foreign fashion models. 
"Two of his companies, Trump Model Management and Trump Management Group LLC, have sought visas for nearly 250 foreign fashion models, the records show." (Reuters, 8/2/15)
Trump sought guest workers at numerous locations. 
"He has also sought guest workers at Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach and Trump National golf club and spa in Jupiter, as well as at his vineyard in Virginia and golf clubs in New Jersey." (The New York Times, 2/25/16)
Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort "has sought the most foreign workers of the nine Trump businesses." 
"The Mar-a-Lago, a luxury resort in Palm Beach, Florida, has sought the most foreign workers of the nine Trump businesses: 787 workers since 2006, according to the data. This month, the resort filed paperwork seeking to bring in 70 foreign workers later this year on H-2B visas to serve as maids, cooks and wait staff, according to paperwork known as 'job orders' published on the Labor Department's web site." (Reuters, 8/2/15)
Since 2010, nearly 300 Americans have applied for jobs at Mar-a-Lago but only 17 have been hired as the club "sought to fill the jobs with hundreds of foreign guest workers from Romania and other countries." 
"Donald J. Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach describes itself as 'one of the most highly regarded private clubs in the world,' and it is not just the very-well-to-do who want to get in. Since 2010, nearly 300 United States residents have applied or been referred for jobs as waiters, waitresses, cooks and housekeepers there. But according to federal records, only 17 have been hired. In all but a handful of cases, Mar-a-Lago sought to fill the jobs with hundreds of foreign guest workers from Romania and other countries." (The New York Times, 2/25/16)
Every year, Trump's Mar-A-Largo Resort requests 70 to 90 visas to bring foreign workers into the country.
"A CBS4 News review of U.S. Labor Department records found that Trump businesses have requested hundreds of visas in recent years claiming they were unable to find Americans willing to do even the most basic tasks. And that is particularly true at Trump's famed Palm Beach estate called Mar-A-Lago. Every year since at least 2008, Mar-A-Lago has requested anywhere from 70 to 90 visas to bring foreign workers into the country as cooks, waiters and housekeepers. The starting pay is between $10 and $12 an hour. … Under the Freedom of Information Act, CBS4 News obtained records from the Labor Department detailing Mar-A-Lago's application to import foreign workers under the H2B Visa program." (CBS Miami, 9/22/15)
Local Palm Beach company Source says they know Floridians who would work at Trump's Mar-A-Lago if they had the opportunity.
"Tom Veenstra, senior director of support services at Career Source, said if Mar-A-Lago officials were interested in finding workers, all they had to do was contact him. 'We're here to find jobs for people in Palm Beach County,' Veenstra said. 'That's what we do. We do it for free.' Veenstra said he had no record of Mar-A-Lago's staff contacting Career Source for help. If they had he could have easily found them workers. 'We have many, many people, hundreds in our database for jobs just as these,' Veenstra said. 'And they would love to work there.'" (CBS Miami, 9/22/15)
Trump uses a recruiter in upstate New York with connections to Romania for foreign workers. 
"To find foreign workers for his resorts, golf clubs and vineyard, Mr. Trump uses a recruiter based in upstate New York, Peter Petrina. Mr. Petrina, who declined to comment, is of Romanian descent and has an office in Romania, which has served as a de facto labor pool for many European countries. Employers are obligated to pay for workers' transportation to the United States and any recruitment fees. The visas are valid for 10 months, although in some circumstances they can be extended to three years. Mr. Petrina recruits for other American employers, but highlights his connection to Mr. Trump in Romania, where newspaper articles say that he tries to recruit young people who take hospitality courses in college." (The New York Times, 2/25/16)
  