
    Today, three Republican leaders from Georgia – State Senator Chuck Hufstetler, State Representative Tom Taylor, and State Representative Wendell Willard–announced they have joined Governor John Kasich's presidential campaign as members of the Kasich for America leadership team.
Said Hufstetler, "I am proud and excited to support Gov. John Kasich. His proven leadership of balancing the budget, cutting taxes, and reining in government spending is exactly what our country needs. I look forward to working with the rest of the team to convey his message of conservative solutions to Georgia voters."
Chuck Hufstetler, an anesthetist, has served in the State Senate for Georgia's 52nd District since 2012. A strong fiscal conservative, he also served on the Floyd County Board of Commissioners from 1998-2004 and led the way in eliminating the county's debt for the first time in modern history.
Taylor said, "There is one clear choice in this election – and it is Gov. John Kasich. I am proud to stand behind his proven record and his efforts to expand opportunity for all Americans."

Tom Taylor, from Dunwoody, was elected to the Georgia House of Representatives in 2010. In 2011, he was awarded "Rookie Legislator of the Year" by the Georgia Chamber of Commerce for his pro-growth and conservative record. He served in the United States Navy for 21 years.
Willard, a Sandy Springs resident, has represented Georgia House District 51 since 2001 and served as chairman of the House Judiciary Committee since 2005. In addition to his role as a state legislator, he serves as the City Attorney for Sandy Springs.
Said Willard, "I hear everyday from folks in Cobb County that they are frustrated by gridlock in Washington. I trust Gov. Kasich as someone who is listening and ready to advance real, commonsense solutions to get our economy moving again. I look forward to spreading his message in Georgia."
Responding to these key endorsements, John Kasich said, "I am honored to be endorsed by these conservative leaders in the Georgia General Assembly. As our momentum grows, Senator Hufstetler, Representative Taylor, and Representative Willard will be an important asset to our team. I am thankful to have their support.

  