
    
  "Santorum touts his 'conservative record' all too often. It's time that his real record makes its way into the national conversation." — Jesse Benton



LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today the release of its latest television ad 'Fake' to debunk the oft-parroted myth that Dr. Paul's rival Rick Santorum is a fiscal conservative.
The energetic 30-second ad will begin running on broadcast and television in Michigan and is part of the Ron Paul campaign's major ad blitz set to hit next month's 'Super Tuesday' states to be announced Wednesday.
The upbeat 'Fake' begins with the central question of whether or not the former U.S. Senator from Pennsylvania is even remotely a fiscal conservative, and it pulls no punches when answering the question. (Hint: the answer is "no.")
'Fake' recites just a portion of Rick Santorum's decidedly un-conservative scorecard: He voted to raise the federal debt ceiling five times, he voted to double the size of the Department of Education through the costly and wildly unpopular No Child Left Behind initiative, and he voted for the behemoth Medicare Part D — the biggest such entitlement expansion since the 1960s. The ad also notes that the vest-wearing Santorum voted in favor of giving anti-American dictators in North Korea and Egypt billions of dollars in U.S. taxpayer-supplied foreign aid, and he even voted to give notorious abortion provider Planned Parenthood millions of dollars in funding.
"Our new ad 'Fake' contains just a snippet of evidence against Rick Santorum being a fiscal conservative, but because these examples are so damning it makes the case convincingly," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton. "Santorum touts his 'conservative record' all too often. It's time that his real record makes its way into the national conversation we're having about which Republican presidential candidate is the authentic, consistent conservative. That man is Ron Paul."
To view the television ad online, please click here.
  