
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, just days ahead of Alaska's Caucus, Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) announced her endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney for President of the United States. Senator Murkowski joins a strong Romney for President team that includes Lieutenant Governor Sean Parnell.
"Governor Romney is the proven executive that Alaskans and all Americans need in the White House. At this time of economic uncertainty, we need a leader who actually understands how the economy works and why jobs are created. That leader is Mitt Romney. Furthermore, he has promised to tackle some of our country's most long-standing challenges, including energy independence. Like most Alaskans, he also supports opening up ANWR," said Senator Murkowski. "On Tuesday, Republicans in Alaska face a critical decision, and the choice is Mitt Romney."
Announcing Senator Murkowski's support, Governor Romney said, "Senator Murkowski has been a strong voice in the United States Senate for confronting the long-term economic challenges confronting her state and our nation today. She understands the importance of making our country independent of foreign oil and recognizes we can do that by developing more sources of domestic energy. In the coming days and months, I look forward to working with her to build a stronger America."
Background On Senator Lisa Murkowski:
Senator Lisa Murkowski Is The First Alaska-Born Senator To Serve The State And Only The Sixth United States Senator From Alaska. Senator Murkowski is a third generation Alaskan. Since joining the Senate in 2002, she has made great strides on the issues confronting Alaskans. She has fought to improve the state of health care, energy, Veterans' affairs and infrastructure development. In the Senate, she has also worked to strengthen the economy and return jobs to Alaska. Her work to open ANWR and build a natural gas pipeline demonstrates a commitment to economic growth in Alaska and long-term energy stability for our nation. Prior to joining the Senate, she served as a Anchorage District Court attorney, and in 1998, she was elected to the Alaska State House of Representatives, eventually being named the House Majority Leader. Senator Murkowski is married with two sons.
  