
    We believe in freedom. We believe in choice. We believe in the highest standard of care in the world. --President Donald J. Trump
EXPANDING OPTIONS AND EMPOWERING PATIENTS: President Donald J. Trump is empowering patients and providing access to quality, affordable healthcare options.

While Congressional Democrats have proposed a radical government takeover of your healthcare, the President is empowering patients and expanding affordable options for all.

The Administration increased the availability of short-term, limited duration plans, providing options that can be up to 60 percent cheaper than Obamacare plans.
The Administration's expansion of Health Reimbursement Arrangements will give millions of Americans more options to select a health plan that meets their needs.
The President is working to expand Association Health Plans, which will make it easier for employers to join together and provide affordable coverage to their employees.


The Administration has taken action to improve transparency in healthcare prices, encourage competition, lower costs, and put patients in charge.
President Trump will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
The President has challenged Congress to pass legislation ending the outrageous practice of surprise medical billing.

DRIVING DOWN DRUG PRICES: President Trump is working to drive down prescription drug prices for all Americans.

President Trump has taken decisive action to lower drug prices for American patients, resulting in declines after years of rising prices.
President Trump is challenging Congressional Democrats to come to the table and help find a bipartisan solution to continue lowering drug prices for American patients.
The Trump Administration announced a plan to allow the safe and legal importation of drugs from Canada.
The Administration approved a record number of affordable generic drugs last year for the third consecutive year.

IMPROVING CARE FOR ALL: American patients deserve access to high quality and innovative care, and President Trump is working to make sure they have it. 

President Trump has taken action to help Americans struggling with addiction, increasing funding for opioid and pain research and expanding treatment resources.

Drug overdose deaths declined in 2018 for the first time in nearly 30 years.


President Trump launched a plan to end the HIV epidemic in America within 10 years.
President Trump has worked to increase Alzheimer's and child cancer research funding.
The President launched an initiative to improve treatment options for patients with kidney disease and expand access to lifesaving transplants.
The President has taken action to protect and improve Medicare for our seniors.

Medicare Advantage premiums have declined 28% under President Trump.


The President signed an Executive Order to help modernize influenza vaccines.
President Trump is making access to mental health treatment a priority of his Administration.
The President signed Right to Try legislation, giving terminally ill patients the chance to explore innovative treatment options.

  