
    President George W. Bush announced today his intention to nominate Richard N. Haass for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Director of Policy Planning at the Department of State; Ambassador Marc Grossman for the position of Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs; and Grant S. Green for the position of Under Secretary of State for Management.
Haass is currently the Vice President and Director of Foreign Policy Studies at the Brookings Institute, where he also holds the Sydney Stein, Jr., Chair in International Security. In the past he served as Director of National Security Programs and Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations as well as Special Assistant to President George H.W. Bush and Senior Director for Near East and South Asian Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council. He is the recipient of the President's Citizen's Medal in 1991 and is the author or editor of nine books on American foreign policy.
Haass is a native of Brooklyn, New York, and received his bachelor's degree from Oberlin College. A Rhodes Scholar, he earned both his master's degree and doctorate degree from Oxford University. He lives in the Washington, D.C. area with his wife and two children.
Ambassador Marc Grossman has been a career Foreign Service Officer since 1976, and is presently the Director General of the Foreign Service and Director of Human Resources at the Department of State. He served as Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs from 1997-2000 and as Ambassador to Turkey from 1994-1997. Ambassador Grossman has received a variety of awards of distinction during his service at the State Department. He is a native of Los Angeles, California, and received his B.A. from the University of California at Santa Barbara and an M.S. from the London School of Economics. He is married with one child.
Grant Green is currently the Chairman and President of GMD Solutions, Inc., a global marketing and consulting company. His prior government experience includes serving as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management and Personnel and as Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan for National Security Affairs and Executive Secretary of the National Security Council. He is a 22 year veteran of the U.S. Army and received his undergraduate degree from the University of Arkansas and his master's degree at George Washington University. He was awarded the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service. He was born in Seattle, Washington, and is married with three children.
  