
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Daniel W. Sutherland, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for an initial term of six years. Mr. Sutherland currently serves as an Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served in the Office of Civil Rights at the Department of Education. Earlier in his career, he served at the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice and on the Domestic Policy Council at the White House. Mr. Sutherland received his bachelor's degree from the University of Louisville and his JD from the University of Virginia School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Ronald Daniel Rotunda, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for an initial four-year term.
The President intends to nominate Francis X. Taylor, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for an initial two-year term.
The President intends to nominate Nanci E. Langley, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 11/22/12. Ms. Langley currently serves as Director of the Office of Public Affairs & Government Relations at the Postal Regulatory Commission. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Staff Director of the Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia on the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. Earlier in her career, she served as Senior Legislative Assistant in the Office of Senator Daniel Akaka. Ms. Langley received her bachelor's degree from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to nominate Paul A. Schneider, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security. Mr. Schneider currently serves as Acting Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as a Defense and Aerospace Consultant. Earlier in his career, he served as the Senior Acquisition Executive of the National Security Agency and as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development and Acquisition. Mr. Schneider received his bachelor's degree from the University of Massachusetts.
The President intends to nominate Sheila McNamara Greenwood, of Louisiana, to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations). Ms. Greenwood currently serves as Deputy Chief of Staff at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Prior to this, she served as Director of Legislative Affairs in the Office of the Federal Coordinator for Gulf Coast Rebuilding at the Department of Homeland Security. Earlier in her career, she served as the Senior Legislative Officer in the Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Labor. Ms. Greenwood received her bachelor's degree from the University of Southwestern Louisiana.
The President intends to nominate two individuals to be Members of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board:
Kenneth E. Carfine, of Maryland, (Federal Employee Representative) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 09/14/10; Edwin Eck, of Montana, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 09/14/08.
The President intends to appoint Joseph Torre, of New York, to be a Member of the President's Cancer Panel for a term expiring 02/21/11.
  