
    
  Physicians hailing from Delta, Ingham and Oakland counties share common profession with fellow Dr. Paul

ANN ARBOR, Michigan— The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today new members of its active "Doctors for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, this time highlighting medical professionals from Michigan.
Today's featured additions hail from Delta, Ingham, and Oakland counties, all Michigan.
Doctors are excited about Dr. Paul's candidacy in large part due to his firm stance on repealing Obamacare, restoring health freedom, and curtailing government intervention in healthcare. Seeking to restore the doctor-patient relationship as an alternative to the present patient-bureaucrat-doctor hindrance to healthcare delivery, Michigan doctors have stepped forward with the following endorsements.
For 22 years a practicing ophthalmologist, Dr. Carol Kolinsky has had her own practice since 1992 and employs two physicians, an optometrist, and 12 support staff.
"Ron Paul simply has the only real answer to our nation's problems. The solution isn't pretty but it must happen now while there is still time to regain our freedoms. Dr. Paul has the insight, the integrity and the stamina to put it all together," said Dr. Kolinsky, an Escanaba resident.
Dr. Matthew Thomson has been practicing podiatric medicine for three years and counting. He stated, "Dr. Paul is the only candidate who understands that government is responsible for the increase in healthcare costs and that Medicare and Obamacare will only serve to increase costs and decrease quality of care for all.
"Dr. Paul is the only candidate who is willing to make budget changes that will allow us to keep our promise to seniors and those 55 and older in providing Medicare and social security benefits, which they deserve," concluded Dr. Thomson.
An emergency medicine doctor in Farmington Hills, Dr. Christopher Kennedy makes his case for supporting Dr. Paul stating, "Without a leader who will bring fiscal responsibility and an understanding of our failed economic policies, we as physicians will not be able to provide quality care to our patients.  Furthermore, both Medicare and Medicaid are doomed to insolvency on our current pathway.  His principled beliefs regarding charity, personal responsibility, and liberty is key to a better future.  All the other options, both Republican and Democrat, are all establishment, big spending, technocrats who are bought and paid for by special interest groups and who do not see the immorality of spending our children and grandchildren's taxes now on our whims."
A 12-term Congressman from Texas, Ron Paul is referred to as "Dr. Paul" first from his service as a USAF flight surgeon during the Cold War era, and from his successful career as an OB/GYN having personally delivered more than 4,000 babies.
As a function of this release, the above-mentioned men and women are now national advisory board members of the "Doctors for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, in particular its Michigan steering committee.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the active "Doctors for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should complete the Michigan coalitions sign up form, and then visit the official national coalition web page by clicking here.
  