
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 12
In the morning, the President had breakfast with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan. Later in the morning, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister John Major of The United Kingdom.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Hot Springs, AR, where he remained overnight.
February 13
In the afternoon, the President spoke by telephone with Tommy Moe, Olympic gold medal skier.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
February 14
In the morning, the President participated in the American Heart Association Valentine's Day Heart Run in Yates Memorial Field House at Georgetown University.
In an afternoon ceremony at the White House, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Ana Christina Sol, El Salvador; Humayun Kabir, Bangladesh; Muhammed Abdul Ghaffar, Bahrain; Maleeha Lodhi, Pakistan; and Raymond Chretien, Canada.
February 15
In the morning, the President traveled to London, OH, where he toured the Defense Training Center at the Ohio Peace Officers Training Academy. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Valerie Lau to be Inspector General of the Treasury Department, and Elio E. Muller, Jr., to be alternate U.S. Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank. He also announced he has appointed Michelle Denise Jordan as Deputy Regional Administrator, Region V, at the Environmental Protection Agency.
The President announced that he has established Presidential Emergency Board No. 224, to investigate and make recommendations for settlement of the current dispute between the Long Island Rail Road and certain of its employees represented by the United Transportation Union. The board members are:
—Dana E. Eischen of Ithica, NY, Chair;
—Tia Schneider Denenberg of Red Hook, NY; and
—Irwin M. Lieberman of Stamford, CT.
February 16
In the late morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Edison, NJ. They returned to Washington, DC, in the early evening.
February 17
The President announced his intention to appoint 15 men and women to serve as members of the Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments, and that Ruth R. Faden will serve as Chair. The members are:
Ethicists
Ruth R. Faden
Ruth Macklin
Patricia A. King
Jay Katz
Historian
Susan E. Lederer
Attorney
Kenneth R. Feinberg
Epidemiologist
Duncan Thomas
Clinicians, Radiation Therapy/Nuclear Medicine
Eli J. Glatstein
Henry D. Royal
Mary Ann Stevenson
Clinician, Nonradiation/Public Health
Reed V. Tuckson
Military Medicine Specialist
Philip K. Russell
Radiation Biologist
Nancy L. Oleinick
General Scientist
Frank Press
Citizen Representative
Lois L. Norris
February 18
In the morning, the President had telephone conversations with African National Congress President Nelson Mandela on democratic reform in South Africa, and Prime Minister Tansu Ciller of Turkey on issues concerning Bosnia and Cyprus.
In the afternoon, the President had lunch with chief executive officers.
The President declared a major disaster exists in Mississippi and ordered Federal funds to be released to help communities in that State recover from a winter storm which struck on February 9.
The President named Charles C. Clarke as Regional Administrator with the Environmental Protection Agency for Region 10, representing Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.
  