
    IT IS a great privilege and pleasure for me to have the opportunity of participating in the swearing-in ceremony for Betty Murphy as Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board.
All of you, I am sure, are familiar with her outstanding record, fine educational background--with one exception, which I will comment on in a minute-a fine experience as a member of the press, and an excellent record as Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, and now an opportunity to serve in the most important responsibility as Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board.
I was looking over Betty Murphy's educational background, and I could not help but notice--we from Michigan notice those things--that she was a graduate of Ohio State University. To show my complete objectivity, she was recommended for appointment, to the Senate--and confirmation--despite that educational handicap. [Laughter] We have to have a lot of fun between Ohio State and, as Woody Hayes says, that school up north.
So, Betty, it is a great privilege and pleasure for me to participate.
I might add one thing. Where is Ann? Ann, I want to thank you for that nice letter you wrote me.
Ann wrote me a letter telling me how she conserved energy. She went to bed at 8 o'clock and turned out the lights. And what else did you tell me, that you got 100 on an arithmetic test? I never did that well.
Judge Green, if you are ready, we can proceed.
[At this point, U.S. District Court fudge June Green administered the oath of office.]
CHAIRMAN MURPHY. Mr. President and friends and members of the press:
I am really deeply honored at this opportunity, and I want you to know that
I appreciate it, and I will do my very best to be a good Chairman. THE PRESIDENT. We have no doubt about that.
CHAIRMAN MURPHY. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to say to all of Betty's friends, both in government and out, Betty was appointed not because she was a woman, but because she was, in my opinion, the most qualified and the most respected. So, we are honored to have her. We hope to have another outstanding woman in the Administration, and any help all of you can give in that regard will be appreciated.
CHAIRMAN MURPHY. I have already got them lined up.
THE PRESIDENT. Congratulations, Doctor.
  