
    We desire peace, cooperation, and mutual gain with all. But I will never fail to defend America's interests. --President Donald J. Trump

President Trump knows that the world needs a strong and respected America in order to achieve peace.
The President has made it a priority to carry out a historic rebuilding of our Nation's defense, securing nearly $2.2 trillion in funding during his first three years in office.

This includes $738 billion secured for fiscal year 2020 alone.


The President is supporting our troops, providing the largest military pay raise in a decade.
President Trump worked with Congress to establish the Space Force, the first new branch of the military since the 1940s.

COMBATING TERROR: President Trump has taken bold and decisive action to confront the threat of terrorism and protect American lives.

Under President Trump's leadership, the ISIS territorial caliphate was destroyed.
The President directed a daring nighttime operation that brought ISIS leader Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi to justice.
The President ordered a decisive strike against Qassem Soleimani – a terrorist responsible for the deaths and wounding of thousands of Americans.

STANDING UP FOR FREEDOM: President Trump has stood up for freedom around the world.

President Trump has stood with the Venezuelan people as they have faced horrific oppression and violence under the illegitimate Maduro dictatorship.

The Trump Administration has enacted crippling sanctions on Maduro, his Cuban sponsors, and his cronies, cutting off their financial resources.
President Trump responded to the Venezuelan people's fight for democracy and led an international coalition to recognize Juan Guaido as the legitimate interim president.


President Trump has spoken out in support of the proud Iranians raising their voices against oppression by the brutal regime.

President Trump has put in place a maximum pressure campaign of sanctions on the Iranian regime, which will stay in place until it changes its behavior.



PURSUING PEACE: President Trump is working to put a stop to the endless wars and make the world a more peaceful and prosperous place for all.

From the Korean Peninsula to the Middle East, and to the Balkans, the Trump Administration is pursuing the spread of peace.
Rather than recycling the failed strategies of the past, the President released a bold and ambitious vision for peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
In Afghanistan, the Trump Administration is engaged in peace talks to finally end America's longest war.
President Trump will not allow America to be dragged into another endless war, and remains determined to bring our troops home while keeping America safe.

  