
    The Clinton campaign announced today that it has the support of 25 superdelegates in Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. The list of supporters includes 21 Democratic National Committee (DNC) members, including Barbara Easterling of Virginia who pledged her support to Hillary today, as well as, Governor Martin O'Malley, U.S. Senator Barbara Mikulski, and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger.
"DNC members have an important role to play in this nominating process. The Democratic party's nomination process is strong because it takes into account the voices of the grassroots activists, the diversity of our party, and the view of elected officials and party leaders," said Easterling. "I am proud to endorse Hillary Clinton, because she has the experience to solve the problems our country faces. She will end the war in Iraq, provide health care for all Americans, fix our economy, and bring about the change we need."
"I am honored to have the support of Barbara and all the DNC members and elected officials who will have a voice at our national convention," said Clinton. "I am confident that we will have a great convention and that we will send a strong candidate into the general election campaign. I look forward to being that candidate and as President, will work with the people of Maryland, Virginia and Washington, DC to move our country forward."
A current list of superdelegates in Maryland, Virginia, and Washington, DC who are supporting Hillary is below:
Maryland:

Governor Martin O'Malley
U.S. Senator Barbara Mikulski
U.S. Representative Dutch Ruppersberger
Alvaro Cifuentes, DNC Member
Maria Cordone, DNC Member
Nancy Kopp, DNC Member, Maryland State Treasurer
Richard Michalski, DNC Member
Glenard Middleton, DNC Member
Carol Pensky, DNC Member
Michael Steed, DNC Member

Virginia:

Barbara Easterling, DNC Member
Terence McAuliffe, Distinguished Party Leader
Jennifer McClellan, DNC Member; Member, Virginia House of Delegates
Mame Reiley, DNC Member
Lionell Spruill Sr., DNC Member; Member, Virginia House of Delegates
Susan Swecker, DNC Member

Washington, DC

Marilyn Brown, DNC Member
Mary Eva Candon, DNC Member
Yolanda Caraway, DNC Member
Hartina Flournoy, DNC Member
Harold Ickes, DNC Member
Ben Johnson, DNC Member
Eric Kleinfeld, DNC Member
Minyon Moore, DNC Member
Elizabeth Smith, DNC Member

  