
    
Gabby Giffords and Mark Kelly on supporting each other, exploring space, and electing Hillary
Gabby Giffords and Mark Kelly know a little something about grit, courage, and hard work.
After surviving a near-fatal shooting while at an event in her district, former Congresswoman Giffords began the long road to recovery. With the support of her husband Mark Kelly, a former astronaut, getting better became her life's work.
And so did taking on one of the largest, best-funded special interests in Washington.
Gabby and Mark have made it their mission to stand up to the gun lobby and bring together Americans who support commonsense gun reforms. And right now, they're logging hours (and miles) on the campaign trail, helping to elect Hillary Clinton—the only candidate in this election who has the courage and commitment to confront the epidemic of gun violence in America and deliver real solutions.
Between stops, Gabby and Mark answered a few questions about standing up to the gun lobby, supporting each other, and what makes them hopeful.

Gabby, you've often said that you still have trouble speaking, and it can't be easy to be out on the campaign trail. Why was it so important to you to get out and talk to voters in person on Hillary's behalf?
GG: Like I said in Iowa with Hillary and Mark, speaking is hard for me. Getting on stage to give a speech is not nearly as easy as it used to be. I still do hours of speech therapy each week. And come January, I want to say these two words: "Madam President."
So it was important for me to talk to voters in person about why I'm with Hillary: Because she's fighting for our families and for safer communities, and she's the only candidate in this race with the toughness and the record to stand up to the gun lobby in The White House. I want to make my voice heard, and I'm going to keep talking to voters about why I'm with her.
You've spoken out about the importance of women's leadership. What do you admire most about Hillary as a leader?
GG: I admire that Hillary has always been the kind of leader who takes on the tough fights. I admire that, throughout her incredible career, she has always stood up for common sense and stood up to the gun lobby. While the other candidates for president seem downright terrified of the gun lobby, Hillary seems fearless.
As I like to say, strong women get things done. We need more women leaders in public service and at every level of elected office. I'm excited to see Hillary be the first woman in the White House. All of us need to work hard to make sure that happens!
Millions of Americans know firsthand that caregiving is emotionally and physically draining. What has it been like to watch Gabby go through this and be a source of support for her as she learned to walk and talk and become herself again?
MK: The way Gabby has approached her recovery has really showed me what toughness and courage is all about. As she'll tell you, her mantra has been "move ahead." I'm just so proud of her.
It has not been an easy road, but we are both very grateful to have a second chance at service and remain focused on the progress she's made and the goals she is working toward now.
Sometimes, when Gabby's getting ready to leave the house to go to a rehab appointment, she'll look at me on her way out the door, pump her fist, and say, "Fight, fight, fight!"
She inspires me every single day.

More than 33,000 Americans were killed by gun violence last year alone—and a lot of people are throwing up their hands at the idea that anything will be done. What can our next president do that will make a difference? What is it actually going to take to convince Congress that we need commonsense gun legislation? And what can the rest of us do?
GG & MK: We have a gun violence crisis that makes our country stand out in the worst of ways. And unfortunately, the gun lobby and the candidates it backs seem to want to protect this dangerous status quo.
We think our country has to do better—and we think we can. Our next president can continue to make the case for Congress to finally act to keep guns out of the wrong hands; they can stand up for common sense.
Unfortunately, Congress remains in the gun lobby's grip. So if Congress won't act to reduce gun violence, then we can work to have a different Congress.
That's where we can all play a role: we can decide we will only support candidates at every level of elected office - whether they are running for your state legislature, for governor, for Congress, or for the White House—who support commonsense ideas like background checks for all gun sales and have the toughness to stand up to the gun lobby. We can call our elected representatives. And we can work hard to help put a strong, pro-commonsense leader like Hillary in the White House.
Mark, as someone who comes from a STEM field—space exploration!—hearing some of the Republican candidates for president deny that climate change exists because they're "not a scientist" must drive you nuts. If you could give them a pre-game speech before the next debate, what would you tell them?
MK: I would ask all Americans to consider that you don't need to be a scientist to believe in science and accept the findings of the scientific community.
I would ask them to think about the Cold War, when the Soviet Union beat us to space. When the Soviets launched Sputnik into space—becoming the first nation on earth to send an object off of our planet—we didn't deny it had happened. We didn't choose to ignore what our scientists at NASA were saying—based on the evidence—had taken place: The Soviets had put a satellite into orbit. Instead, we invested in our space program, in science, and in discovery. And we became leaders in space exploration. It was a huge boon to our economy, to our global leadership, and to our national security.
When it comes to our changing climate, I would ask Americans to listen to our nation's military; to our top intelligence officials; to our business leaders; and to the majority of the world's scientific community.
And I would ask them to listen to our nation's astronauts, too. Because when you see our incredible planet from 250 miles up—as it sits there floating in the blackness of space, with this tiny sliver of an atmosphere protecting it—you have a pretty unique perspective on why we need to take care of it.
What makes you hopeful?
GG & MK: Here's what makes us hopeful and optimistic: The millions of Americans who are calling for commonsense change that makes our communities safer from gun violence.
The leaders in the states who are taking responsible to keep guns out of the wrong hands.
The voters in states like Washington who passed background checks at the ballot box.
Having a president in the White House who acted to keep guns out of the wrong hands since Congress wouldn't.
And knowing we have a candidate for president like Hillary, who has the toughness to take on the gun lobby.

  