
    
One downside of Marcomentum: It's getting harder to fit his crowds inside normal event spaces. 
So we had a uniquely Michigan venue for this rally near Grand Rapids: an auto parts plant, where more than 1,600 Michiganders packed in to see Marco.
There are more than 1,000 people here at the Marco Rubio event. pic.twitter.com/bLPnvn8Usq
— Emily Lawler (@emilyjanelawler) February 24, 2016
A substantial crowd at the Rubio rally in Grand Rapids. Much larger than his December visit. @MIRSnews pic.twitter.com/QOyGSgsoN4
— Simon Schuster (@Simon_Schuster) February 24, 2016
Long lines of voters showed up well ahead of time:
People lining up to see Marco Rubio at campaign event in Grand Rapids pic.twitter.com/BZSEtqnTNi
— Amy Hybels (@wwmtahybels) February 23, 2016
Quite a line to see @marcorubio in Grand Rapids MI ! Son-in-law and granddaughter are there Rubio pic.twitter.com/gCtbeh4CXK
— dixie dodd (@dixieldodd) February 24, 2016
A local TV station said it was the biggest crowd they'd seen in the primary so far:

Marco was introduced by one of his prominent local conservative supporters, Congressman Bill Huizenga:
Huizenga: Rubio shares our values. "The things that make west Michigan a great place to live and work & raise families — that's Marco Rubio"
— Chad Livengood (@ChadLivengood) February 24, 2016
And the crowd loved Marco's message:
Got my vote today in GR @marcorubio !! Unbelievable experience hearing you speak!! #TeamMarco pic.twitter.com/3jnndIzYTF
— Max Foster (@TheeFoster) February 24, 2016
VIDEO: Rubio doesn't just want to win Mich. primary. He wants to become first Republican since 1988 to win general. pic.twitter.com/qFa7nfEbta
— Chad Livengood (@ChadLivengood) February 24, 2016
The Detroit News noted that Marco's message was focused on uniting the Republican party and the country:
U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio pitched himself at a campaign rally Tuesday night in west Michigan as the presidential candidate who can unite the Republican Party and carry Michigan in the general election for the first time in a generation.
Rubio cautioned a crowd of nearly 2,000 gathered at a suburban Grand Rapids automotive supplier warehouse against casting a vote in Michigan's March 8 primary in anger — something GOP frontrunner Donald Trump has tapped into in early voting states with success.
"This election cannot be just about making a point. I know you're angry and frustrated. You should be," Rubio said at a rally in a Lacks Enterprises warehouse. "Today we are led by the most selfish leaders in both parties in the history of the United States."
The Detroit Free Press reported that some voters were especially impressed by Marco's personal integrity:
Chuck DeLeeuw and his wife, Gail, of Hudsonville, said they've drifted toward supporting the Florida senator in the last several weeks.
"I think he's a solid conservative guy on the social issues and he's got the experience," he said. "And I like his honesty more than what we're seeing in the other candidates. He's the one that we'd take the time and effort to come and see."
Meanwhile at least one young voter was, well, quite upset she didn't get to see Marco:
MARCO RUBIO IS IN GRAND RAPIDS AND NO ONE TOLD ME ARE YOU KIDDING ME
— Shan (@shan_cake) February 24, 2016
  