
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:) 
Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, within 90 days before the anniversary date of its declaration, the President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed Proclamation stating that the national emergency with respect to Cuba that was declared on March 1, 1996, in Proclamation 6867, as amended by Proclamation 7757 on February 26, 2004, and Proclamation 9398 on February 24, 2016, is to continue in effect beyond February 25, 2018, as modified by the enclosed Proclamation.
It continues to be the policy of the United States that a mass migration from Cuba would endanger the security of the United States by posing a disturbance or threatened disturbance to our international relations. The unauthorized entry of vessels subject to the jurisdiction of the United States into Cuban territorial waters is in violation of the law of the United States and is contrary to the policy of the United States. Further, the unauthorized entry of United States-registered vessels into Cuban territorial waters continues to be detrimental to our foreign policy and counter to the purpose of Executive Order 12807 of May 24, 1992, which is to ensure, among other things, safe, orderly, and legal migration. The possibility of large-scale unauthorized entries of United States-registered vessels would disturb the international relations of the United States by facilitating a possible mass migration of Cuban nationals. For these reasons, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the national emergency declared with respect to Cuba and the emergency authority relating to the regulation of the anchorage and movement of vessels set out in Proclamation 6867 as amended by Proclamations 7757 and 9398, and as further modified by the enclosed Proclamation.
Sincerely,
DONALD J. TRUMP
  