
    The following listing contains releases of the White House Press Office which are not included in this issue.
Released February 5, 1979
Announcement: designation of Vice President Walter F. Mondale to head the U.S. delegations to the inaugurations of the Presidents elect of Venezuela and Brazil
News conference: on the signing of the first Government contract containing the anti-inflation pay and price guidelines, between the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and Rockwell International Corp.'s Space Systems Group of Downey, California by James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director, and Lester A. Fettig, Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget; Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation; Alan M. Lovelace, Deputy Administrator of NASA; and Donald R. Beall, executive vice president of Rockwell International Corp.
Released February 6, 1979
Announcement: nomination of Robert M. Parker to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Texas
Announcement: nomination of Harold Barefoot Sanders, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas
CHECKLIST—Continued
Released February 6—Continued
Announcement: nomination of Gary L. Betz to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Florida.
List: attendees at the meeting between the President and Prime Minister Kriangsak Choreanan in the Cabinet Room
Released February 7, 1979
Announcement: visit of Crown Prince Fahd Bin Abd al-Aziz al-Sa'ud of Saudi Arabia to Washington, D.C.
Released February 8, 1979
News conference: on the proposed department of education—by Vice President Walter F. Mondale and James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget Fact sheet: proposed department of education Announcement: nomination of Martin F. Loughlin to be United States District Judge for the District of New Hampshire.
CHECKLIST—Continued
Released February 8, 1979—Continued
Announcement: nomination of David O. Belew, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas
News conference: on their meeting with the President to discuss the anti-competition policy and inflation program—by Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Esther Peterson, Special Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs, Michael Pertschuk, Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, and John H. Shenefield, Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division, Department of Justice
  