
    President Carter met this morning for an hour and 15 minutes in the Cabinet Room with President Daniel arap Moi of the Republic of Kenya. President Moi is in Washington on a 4-day state visit at the invitation of President Carter. In addition to their meeting this morning, the two leaders will meet again tonight at a state dinner in the White House.
The two Presidents reviewed the very close relations which exist between the United States and the Republic of Kenya. They discussed developments in east Africa and the importance of regional cooperation and understanding in that area. They also reviewed developments in southern Africa and agreed upon the importance of free elections and a peaceful settlement in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia.
The two Presidents discussed the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan and agreed on concerted action in not participating in the Olympic games in Moscow. They also discussed a range of issues concerning regional stability in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean areas, including the measures required to ensure mutual security in that region.
The two Presidents also discussed specific problems in the Middle East, during which President Carter expressed his gratitude for Kenya's support and President Moi's personal interest in efforts to secure the release of our diplomats being held hostage in Tehran.
Bilateral issues were also reviewed, including U.S. assistance programs in Kenya.
Attending the meeting with the two Presidents were the following:
U.S. Side
Warren Christopher, Acting Secretary of State
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Ambassador Wilbert LeMelle, U.S. Ambassador to Kenya
William Harrop, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Gordon Beyer, Director, East African
Affairs, Department of State
Gerald Funk, NSC staff member Kenyan Side
Charles Njonjo, Attorney General Robert J. Ouko, Minister for Foreign Affairs
Godfrey G. Kariuki, Minister of State, Office of the President
Nicholas K. Biwott, Minister of State, Office of the President
Zacharia T. Onyonka, Minister for Economic Planning and Development
Jeremiah G. Kiereini, Permanent Secretary, Office of the President Ambassador John P. Mbogua, Kenyan
Ambassador to the United States Philip Ndegwa, Economic Adviser, Office of the President
Simon Nyachae, Permanent Secretary, Office of the President
  