
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




February 21, 202316:48

FLOTUS travel pool #1 - departure for Africa and FLOTUS comments
Dr. Biden left the White House at 3:46 pm and arrived at JBA at 4:10 pm to head off on her six-day trip to Namibia and Kenya.
Naomi Biden is traveling with her.
FLOTUS came over to greet the pool on the tarmac and take a few questions. She said she was excited about her trip and has spoken to POTUS a few times since he went to Ukraine. She said he told her about the Ukraine trip right before he left.
FLOTUS: "I just want to say thanks for coming. It should be a really good trip."
On being the first WH official to go to Africa: "Well, it's exciting. I mean, I think the, you know, this whole trip will be exciting and we have a lot to accomplish."
She said she taught class that afternoon and had gotten back to WH about an hour before departure.
On speaking to POTUS since Ukraine: "I spoke to him early yesterday. And then I spoke to him today twice."
On what he said: "He told me that well, he was glad that he went."
More: "I haven't seen any of the press because I was in the classroom the whole time. But I'm gonna go upstairs. You know, watch some of it. But I heard the speech in Poland was amazing."
Asked if she had concerns about him going to Ukraine: "Yes! He told me like right before he left and I was like what? You're going where?"
Asked for more details. "He told me right before he left." Asked if it was on their dinner date: "Oh I don't remember."
Executive One Foxtrot is a blue and white 757 with the tail number 90004.
Per the East Wing: This will be Dr. Biden's sixth visit to Africa, first visit to Namibia, and third visit to Kenya.
Note: Pool has been warned cell service on the ground in Namibia and Kenya is practically nonexistent. Hotels will have Wi-Fi and that may be the best option for sending out pool reports.
Copooler Jada Yuan of the Washington Post and I will do our best to get pool reports out in a timely manner. We thank you in advance for your patience and understanding on this logistically challenging trip.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly. Next stop is a refuel one at Amilcar Cabral Intl. (GVAC) at Sal Island, Cabo Verde. Flight time to there is approximately six and a half hours.



February 22, 202305:16 CVT

FLOTUS travel pool report #2 - Refuel stop
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels up from JBA at 4:35 pm ET.
Plane landed at Amilcar Cabral Intl. (GVAC) at Sal Island, Cabo Verde, at 2:52 am local time for the refuel stop.  Cabo Verde is +4 eastern time.
Flight was bumpy at times but otherwise uneventful.
Several members of the staff, Secret Service and pool disembarked to enjoy a warm but windy Cabo Verde night. Airport was quiet given the early hour. No FLOTUS sightings but Naomi Biden disembarked.
At 3:54 am Executive One Foxtrot is refueled and preparing for take off.
Next stop is Hosea Kutako Intl. (YWH) Windhoek, Namibia. Flight time there is approximately seven hours and thirty minutes.
A reminder cell service is expected to be poor/non existent upon arrival in Namibia. Upon arrival, FLOTUS is heading straight to a series of events:
At the airport, Dr. Biden will be greeted by First Lady of the Republic of Namibia Monica Geingos.Then, the First Lady will join First Lady Geingos to visit Heroes' Acre, an official war memorial of the Republic of Namibia.Afterwards, the First Lady will meet with the President of the Republic of Namibia Hage Geingob and First Lady Geingos at the State House.
FLOTUS will then head to the RON where pool expects to have Wi-Fi.




  