
    Verona, PA - The Rick Santorum for President campaign is proud to announce that it has received the endorsement of Congressman Robert Aderholt of Alabama.
Congressman Aderholt said: "In Rick Santorum we have a leader who reveres America's Founding Principles because they are his foundation, a leader who understands the importance of manufacturing to economic growth because it is his history, and a leader with proven front-line success standing for freedom, for fiscal integrity and against Washington corruption. Rick Santorum has never just talked-the-talk, but he has walked-the-walk - inside and outside the halls of Congress. Rick Santorum has never just fought for the 1%, the 95% or the 99% of Americans, Rick Santorum has fought for a better future for all Americans. I am proud to endorse Rick Santorum for President."
Rick Santorum said: "I am thrilled to receive Congressman Aderholt's endorsement today. He has been a strong leader and defender of our nation from cyber-attacks and for our diplomatic ties with Europe. I am looking forward to working with the Congressman as the contest in Alabama draws near. I am confident that with his help, our message of traditional values, free-markets, and a strong national defense will propel our campaign to victory in the weeks ahead."
Congressman Aderholt serves on the House Cybersecurity Task Force. The task force, a new panel for the 112th Congress, is charged with examining current policies and laying the foundation to address the Nation's cybersecurity initiatives. He is also a member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (also known as the Helsinki Commission). Founded in 1976, the Helsinki Commission is comprised of 56 countries around the world that together monitors human rights in Europe and Central Asia.
Prior to his election to Congress, Aderholt served as an aide to Governor Fob James and as a Municipal Judge in Haleyville, Alabama. Educated through Alabama's public school system, Aderholt went on to graduate from Birmingham Southern College and from the Cumberland School of Law at Samford University. Congressman Aderholt and his wife, Caroline, are the proud parents of Mary Elliott and Robert Hayes.
  