
    John Bridgeland, Director of the USA Freedom Corps, today announced four individuals to serve in the USA Freedom Corps office at the White House.
Ronald Christie, to be Special Assistant to the President and Director of Policy Initiatives and Governmental Affairs for USA Freedom Corps. Christie has been Deputy Assistant to Vice President Cheney for Domestic Policy since January 2001. Prior to joining the Vice President's staff, Christie served as Counsel to U.S. Senator George Allen (R-VA) and as a senior advisor to former House Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich (R-OH). Christie has also been a commentator and guest host on several television news programs. A native of California, Christie received a bachelor's degree from Haverford College and a Juris Doctor from the George Washington University National Law Center.
Stephen Garrison, to be Special Assistant to the President and Director of Policy Development for USA Freedom Corps. Garrison has been Special Assistant to the Director of the Domestic Policy Council at the White House since 2001. Prior to that, Garrison served as a member of the policy offices of the Bush-Cheney 2000 campaign and Texas Governor George W. Bush. A Texas native, he received a bachelor's degree from Stanford University.
Britt C. Grant, to be Special Assistant to the Director. Grant has been Executive Assistant to the Director of the Domestic Policy Council at the White House since 2001. Prior to that, Grant was an aide to Congressman Nathan Deal (R-GA). A Georgia native, she received a bachelor's degree from Wake Forest University.
Lindsey Kozberg, to be Communications Director. Kozberg has been Director of Public Affairs for the U.S. Department of Education since 2001. Prior to joining the Department, Kozberg was a member of the Bush-Cheney 2000 campaign staff and an associate with the law firm of Latham & Watkins. Before beginning her legal practice, Kozberg served in the administration of California Governor Pete Wilson and as an associate with the public relations firm of Robinson, Lake, Lerer & Montgomery. A California native, she received a bachelor's degree from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University and a Juris Doctor from Stanford Law School.
Open immediately following President Bush's address on the State of the Union, the USA Freedom Corps office at the White House has been providing prospective volunteers with information about opportunities to participate in the variety of service programs. These include the Peace Corps, programs within the Corporation for National and Community Service such as AmeriCorps and SeniorCorps, and the newly formed Citizen Corps to engage Americans in homeland security efforts. Since the launch of the USA Freedom Corps, the web site www.usafreedomcorps.gov has been visited more than 5 million times in response to the President's call to service.
  