
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Todd M. Harper of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for the remainder of a six-year term expiring April 10, 2021.
Mr. Harper has specialized in financial services policy during his nearly 25 years of government service. From 2011 to 2017, he led the Office of Public and Congressional Affairs and served as the chief policy advisor to the Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration. Previously, as staff director for the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises in the U.S. House of Representatives, Mr. Harper contributed to the efforts after the financial crisis to enact the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. As legislative director to former Congressman Paul E. Kanjorski of Pennsylvania, he also worked on bipartisan legislation concerning credit union capital rules, terrorism risk insurance, auditing standards, and subprime mortgage lending. Mr. Harper earned an M.P.P. from Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government and a B.S. with high distinction in business analysis from Indiana University's Kelley School of Business.
Ian Paul Steff of Indiana, to be Assistant Secretary and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service, Department of Commerce.
Mr. Steff currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Manufacturing, a position he has held since June 2017. Previously, he served as the State of Indiana's first Chief Innovation Officer, where he led then-Governor Mike Pence's billion-dollar innovation and entrepreneurship initiative. Additionally, Mr. Steff was the Executive Vice President of the Indiana Economic Development Corporation and the State's senior advisor for advanced manufacturing. Prior to these roles, Mr. Steff served as Vice President of Global Policy and Technology Partnerships at the Semiconductor Industry Association and Executive Chairman of the United States Information Technology Office in Beijing. Mr. Steff was a member of the House Ways and Means trade staff under Chairman Bill Thomas and received his B.A. in International Studies from American University, magna cum laude. He completed graduate work at the National Defense University and received his M.A. in International Science and Technology Policy from the George Washington University.
  