
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate ten individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Peter E. Cianchette, of Maine, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Costa Rica. Mr. Cianchette currently serves as a Partner at CHK Capital Partners, LLC. Prior to this, he served as President of the Cianchette Group. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President at Pierce Atwood Consulting. Mr. Cianchette received his bachelor's degree from the University of Maine.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey Robert Brown, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund as well as a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, for a term of four years.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board:
Perri Klass, of New York, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 11/25/09;
Katherine Mitchell, of Alabama, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 11/25/10;
Eduardo J. Padron, of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 11/25/09;
Alexa E. Posny, of Kansas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 11/25/08;
Timothy Shanahan, of Illinois, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 11/25/10;
Richard Kenneth Wagner, of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 11/25/09.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service:
Hyepin Christine Im, of California, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 10/06/08 and an additional five-year term expiring 10/06/13;
Layshae Ward, of Minnesota, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 12/27/12.
  