
    It's good to see you all again. I hope everybody had as fun a time last night as Laura and I did. It was—I really enjoyed it, and thanks for coming.
When the history of this administration is written, it will be said the Nation's Governors had a faithful friend in the White House. I've sat where you're sitting, and I know what it's like to have a good idea and then to wait on the Federal Government to tell you whether you can try it or not.
So let me make this pledge to you all: I'm going to make respect for federalism a priority in this administration. Respect for federalism begins with an understanding of its philosophy. The Framers of the Constitution did not believe in an all-knowing, all-powerful Federal Government. They believed that our freedom is best preserved when power is dispersed. That is why they limited and enumerated the Federal Government's powers and reserved the remaining functions of government to the States.
And today I'm announcing a new federalism initiative. I will sign a directive creating an Interagency Working Group on Federalism. The Working Group will seek your opinions on the issues that Governors and other leaders in local and State government believe should be addressed. The Group will look for ways to speed up waivers and to streamline rigid rules and regulations. And it will be charged with drafting a new Executive order on federalism, which will require the departments and agencies to respect the rights of our States and territories.
We look forward to a close relationship. You've got strong advocates in my administration, starting with four former Governors, Ashcroft, Thompson, Whitman, and Bush. [Laughter] We'll also have an Intergovernmental Affairs Office run by Ruben Barrales of California, who will be responsive to your needs and your requests.
We've just lived through a decade of the most exciting, important things done by government have been done by Governors. In 7 years, you've reduced welfare rolls by more than half, improved millions of the lives of your fellow citizens by helping them find work. You brought new meaning to crime prevention programs. You pioneered education reforms, and many of you have shown how tax relief can reenergize State economies.
In Michigan and Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, for example, tax relief pumped adrenalin into troubled economies. I saw the same thing happen in Texas when I proposed, fought for, and signed meaningful tax relief.
More than half the States have reduced taxes in each and every one of the past 3 years. Governors deserve more credit than you get when it comes to the prosperity of our country. The surging growth we've seen in States that have reduced taxes gives an answer to the people who say we cannot afford tax cuts. You've shown we can't afford not to cut taxes.
I look forward to this discussion today to discuss how best to devolve authority back to the States. Real change comes from the bottom up, not the top down. The genius of the American system has been to let that change flow upward, from neighborhoods to cities to States and then to the Federal Government. We need to keep that path open, to give Government a human face and bring decisionmaking closer to the people. I am going to rely upon my friends, the Governors.
I look forward to being in constant contact with you. You see, you bring common sense to the political debate. You're dedicated servants. You respect the will of the people. Our country is better off for your service.
Governor Glendening.
  