
    Omaha World Herald: "In Forbes' campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, his ads have resembled those of so many visonless politicians who will say almost anything to get elected. Forbes has spent an estimated $ 10 million on advertising, about two- thirds of it negative." (1/2)
U.S. News & World Report: Forbes is running an "incessant barrage of negative commercials... Two top Forbes advisers, Carter Wrenn and Tom Ellis, ran Helms' early campaign, and Forbes is following the the same blueprint: Make few appearances, minimize missteps, and destroy your opponent with attack ads." (2/12)
Associated Press: "Consider this scoreboard: Forbes 516, Dole 71. The figures aren't from any poll or preference ballot at a GOP event. But they are troubling nonetheless, representing the number of Forbes and Dole ads that appeared the week before last on Boston television." (2/5)
San Diego Union-Tribune: Forbes' ads have been "ruthlessly critical of his opponents, especially Bob Dole. One attacked Dole for delaying a term-limits vote in the Senate, neglecting to mention that Dole did so at the behesst of term-limits supporters. A shameless cheap shot." (1/28)
Associated Press: "In Steve Forbes' latest TV ad, a whole crowd of regular New Hampshire citizens enthuse aver his proposed flat tax. But just how regular are they? The four men and two women appearing in 'man-on-the-street' interviews are actually all close supporters actively campaigning on Forbes' behalf." (1/17)
CNN's Inside Politics: "In person, Forbes is a sunny optimist, but on TV, his campaign is mostly negative attacks on Dole... Forbes' charge of deception? An exaggeration, to say the least... The experts say Forbes' ad is misleading when if implies the deficit wouldn't rise." (1/30)
Washington Post: Forbes' on Dole and pensions "is simply untrue." (1/18)
NBC News: "Many of Forbes' own ads take liberties with the truth... With ads like these, Forbes may find it tougher to persuade voters he's all that different from those career politicians he campaigns against." (1/30)
CNN's Inside Politics: "Dole's ad was true, fully documented. And Forbes' claim of distortion? Misleading, considering his own record." (2/1)
Houston Chronicle: "a barrage of negative ads from Steve Forbes..." (1/26)
Boston Globe: "some voters ought to have figured out that a stream of negative ads have been coming out of Forbes' camp, and they might judge him harshly for it." (1/26)
  