
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman:)
I am pleased to transmit this annual report on Science, Technology and American Diplomacy for fiscal year 1994, in accordance with Title V of the Foreign Relations Act of Fiscal Year 1979, as amended (Public Law 95-426; 22 U.S.C. 2656c(b)).
Prevention and resolution of conflicts that threaten U.S. interests continues to be a key goal of U.S. foreign policy. National and regional stability, broadly defined, are preconditions for the growth of democracies, economies, and markets. By supporting international science and technology collaborations, the United States has reaped significant economic benefits, promoted goodwill, and helped maintain the peace.
The 1994 Title V report describes the role of international science and technology cooperation in the implementation of U.S. policy. As in previous years, the report focuses on a few selected areas of science and technology cooperation of particular importance to the United States, in addition to the detailed country narratives.
The report reviews the steps U.S. agencies take to advance U.S. technology and competitiveness interests through international efforts. These fall into three broad categories: monitoring foreign science and technology developments; conducting strategic international collaborative initiatives and programs to take advantage of opportunities for mutual gain, sometimes done in conjunction with the private sector; and the elimination of international barriers that impede technology development or trade. International collaboration in science and technology is also critical to U.S. efforts to help address population stabilization and the improvement of women's health. The 1994 Title V report provides an in-depth description of efforts underway in U.S. agencies to address these broad themes.
We face the challenge of seeking greater world stability at a critical time in our history. Finding creative solutions to global problems that impact Americans can be accomplished, in part, through interactions with scientists around the globe. We must continue to ensure that our country maintains world leadership in science and technology, and that international cooperation continues to advance our broad policy interests.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  