
    With Governor Romney set to unveil a tax cut plan a full 9 months into his presidential bid (Note: Gingrich unveiled his plan the first week of his candidacy), Newt 2012 released the following 10 questions for the Governor:

As candidate for Governor of Massachusetts, you pledged not to raise taxes, but in office you raised taxes and fees in an amount over $700 million. Why should voters trust you as President to keep your pledge to cut taxes when as Governor you failed to keep your pledge not to raise taxes? (Background: Romney Broke His Pledge Not To Raise Taxes, Romney Broke His Pledge Not to Raise Gas Taxes)
  
You said earlier in the campaign that cutting taxes on top income earners was politically suicidal (we will "get our head handed to us politically"). Do you now believe that it is no longer suicidal politically to stand for broad based tax cuts? If yes, what caused you to change your mind about the politics of broad based tax relief? (Background: Audio of Tea Party Patriots Townhall 12/20/11)
  
Why this tax reform package now? Why not before the voting began in Iowa? Is this an admission that your campaign was failing to capture the imagination of conservatives and was in danger of standing for nothing more than your portfolio manager background and your self proclaimed skills as a business manager?
Do you think given your personal background as a tremendously wealthy individual that you could be effective in promoting tax reform and reduced tax rates for everyone? You seemed to suggest previously that you did not think so. Why the change now?
You support lowering the corporate tax rate, but at the same time you want to eliminate a variety of current corporate deductions and exemptions. Why? How will you decide which corporations have their deductions and exemptions eliminated? Will you have an overall net lowering of taxes on corporations as a result of your plan?
Why do you keep using the Occupy Wall Street rhetoric of the 1% versus the 99%? Do you think they have a good point?
Will your tax cut plan be revenue neutral? If so, what offsets will you propose to raise revenue to offset the revenue losses from the cuts?
Have you also changed your mind about a value added tax (VAT)? Or are you still considering a VAT to finance government spending and balance the budget?
Does your economic recovery plan include anything about monetary policy? Or are you happy with Ben Bernanke? Or do you think monetary policy is not important? If elected, would you reappoint Bernanke?
Will you support a Gold Commission to explore returning to a gold standard? Or do you think this is not important?

  