
    Aguilar named Congressional Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg's 2020 Presidential Campaign
SAN BERNARDINO, CA — U.S. Representative Pete Aguilar (CA-31) today endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg, touting his commitment to making climate change a national priority, his plan to implement common-sense gun safety laws, and his sensible approach to working across the aisle to get things done. Aguilar's endorsement is the latest example of the momentum Mike Bloomberg has in California, where the campaign has opened nearly two dozen offices, hired more than 300 staff, and last week surpassed more than 100 endorsements from elected officials. The Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign also announced that Aguilar will be a Congressional Co-Chair, where he will help us ensure Democrats win up and down the ballot across the country.
"Standing up against some of the biggest threats facing our community – like gun violence and climate change – is not about party politics. It's about putting partisanship aside and working together to find sensible solutions," said Congressman Pete Aguilar. "As a former mayor, I can't emphasize how important it is to have national leadership who understands local issues that matter most to a community like ours in San Bernardino County. That is why I'm proud to endorse Mike Bloomberg. Mike understands the issues that are facing our country – at both the national and local levels – and has committed to working across party lines to find common-sense solutions. Not only does he have a track record as a former mayor on gun safety and climate, but as president he is focused on making these issues national priorities. From working to end gun violence and fighting the effects of climate change, to standing up for Dreamers and supporting a fair immigration system, Mike's values line up with the values of my community."
"As mayor and as Congressman, Pete Aguilar has built a reputation as a bipartisan problem-solver – and he has done great work to support middle class families and create economic opportunity in the Inland Empire community where his family has lived for four generations," said Mike Bloomberg. "Voters in Rep. Aguilar's district are on the frontlines of big issues in this election – from fighting climate change, to tackling gun violence, to fixing our immigration system, to creating good jobs – and they're paying the price for President Trump's failure to lead. To make progress on these issues we have to bring people together and bridge political divides – that's what we are doing through our campaign, and that's what I'll do as president, and I'm honored to have Rep. Aguilar's support."
Pete Aguilar represents the 31st Congressional District of California. He was most recently re-elected in 2018 and serves on the House Appropriations Committee. In Congress, Aguilar holds the leadership positions of Whip of the New Democrat Coalition and Chief Deputy Whip in the House Democratic Caucus.
Aguilar is a voice for middle-class families throughout San Bernardino County and prioritizes legislation that will nurture a more fair economy, where everyone has the opportunity to succeed. He is committed to policies that create jobs, support our students, reform our broken immigration system, and safeguard vital programs for seniors and veterans. Aguilar previously served as the Mayor of Redlands, where he earned a reputation for his bipartisanship and steadfast commitment to making his community a better place to live, work, and raise a family.
  