
    GOVERNMENT WIDE REGULATORY REFORM: Today, President Donald J. Trump signed an Executive Order requiring every agency to establish a Regulatory Reform Task Force to eliminate red tape.

 Each Regulatory Reform Task Force will evaluate existing regulations and identify candidates for repeal or modification.
 Each agency's Task Force will focus on eliminating costly and unnecessary regulations.
 To hold the Task Forces accountable, agencies will measure and report progress in achieving the President's directives.

COSTLY REGULATIONS: Regulations have grown unchecked in past Administrations, imposing a steep cost on the American economy.

 The regulations from the last Administration cost American taxpayers $873 billion in total.
 The Obama Administration finalized more than 3,000 regulations. 

BUILDING ON PRESIDENTIAL ACTION: President Trump has been steadfast in his commitment to reducing the regulatory burden on everyday Americans, their pocketbooks, and their businesses.

 President Trump has required that for every new Federal regulation, two existing regulations be eliminated.
 President Trump signed an Executive Order instructing Federal agencies to minimize the burden of the Affordable Care Act on Americans while he works to repeal and replace it.
 President Trump signed legislation, House Joint Resolution 38, to prevent the burdensome "Stream Protection Rule" from causing further harm to the coal industry.
 President Trump signed legislation, House Joint Resolution 41, to eliminate a costly regulation that threatened to put American mining and energy companies and their employees at an unfair disadvantage.
 President Trump directed the Secretary of Commerce to develop a plan to streamline Federal permitting processes for domestic manufacturers.
 President Trump signed an Executive Order expediting the environmental review and approval processes for domestic infrastructure projects.
 President Trump directed the Secretary of the Treasury to conduct a full review of the burdensome regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act.
 President Trump ordered a re-examination of the Department of Labor's "fiduciary rule," to make certain that it does not harm Americans as they save for retirement.

  