
    41 elected officials, more than 500 teachers, 28 farmers, 58 veterans, and 112 community leaders throw their support behind Sen. Sanders
CALIFORNIA – On the heels of a new poll that shows Sen. Bernie Sanders taking a commanding lead in the California primary, 41 elected officials, more than 500 teachers, 28 farmers, 58 veterans, and more than 100 community leaders in the Golden State announced their support behind Sen. Sanders' candidacy for President of the United States, demonstrating the growing momentum of the Bernie 2020 campaign in California.
Today's endorsements are in addition to 126 earlier endorsements from elected leaders, more than 80 community leaders, more than 200 academics, the grassroots network Bay Area Rising, the entire City Council of Coachella, four major labor endorsements from National Nurses United, UPTE-CWA 9119,United Teachers Los Angeles, and UNITE HERE Local 11, and a statewide endorsement from the California Young Democrats.
"I've been involved in the Democratic Party and presidential campaigns for over 15 years — I believe strongly that Senator Sanders is the best candidate to go up against Trump, and to take on the most urgent, devastating challenge facing the district I represent and our entire country: economic inequality," said San Francisco County Supervisor Matt Haney. "I will be proud to cast my vote for him in the March primary."
"The Victor Valley needs change — new ideas, new leadership, new ways of living. Senator Bernie Sanders' commitment to new infrastructure in his Green New Deal plan, his commitment to cannabis legalization and a just and equitable industry, and the signature commitments the Medicare for All and free public higher education are the game changers that Adelanto and the Victor Valley need," said Adelanto City Councilmember Stevevonna Evans. "I'm proud to be one of the first elected officials in the High Desert to endorse Bernie, and I encourage my colleagues and neighbors to do the same."
"As a proud immigrant, long-time union leader, and advocate for women's rights, civil rights, and environmental justice, I have a moral responsibility to support the candidate whose values align with mine," said Ada Briceño, Co-President of Unite Here 11 and Chair of the Democratic Party of Orange County. "That candidate is Bernie Sanders. Bernie has stood with workers and unions for his entire political career — on the picket line and the floor of the Senate. He is the only candidate I trust to fight for us in the White House, and the only person I trust to ensure that workers' rights are prioritized."
"Ground Game LA has endorsed the only candidate for President who represents a chance to truly transform government and policy in this country, and that candidate is Sen. Bernie Sanders," said Treasurer and Co-Founder of Ground Game LA Daisy Vega. "Ground Game LA is committed to developing community leaders and building community power. Grassroots leaders from low-income communities worked together to imagine a world where we could have a Homes Guarantee, a Green New Deal, and Medicare for All. We have endorsed the one candidate who doesn't explain why our communities can't have what we need, but instead stands with us and will fight alongside us to bring true justice to our country."
The full slate of endorsements includes:

Luis A. Alejo, Monterey County Supervisor
Micah Ali, President, Compton Unified School Board
Austin Allison, Council Member, City of Eureka 
Martha Alvarado, Vista Unified School District Trustee 
Spencer Brandt, President, Isla Vista Community Service District
Fredi Castrejon, Former President, Bear Mt. Recreations and Parks District
Al Clark, Vice-Mayor, Carpinteria 
Alison Collins, San Francisco Board of Education Member 
Misty Evans, Morongo Basin Health Care District Director 
Stevevonna Evans, Adelanto City Councilmember 
Angela Fajardo, Lennox School District School Vice President
Dr. Angelov Farooq, Board of Education for Riverside Unified School District
Mario Fernandez, Eureka City Schools Board Trustee 
Noel Gallo, Oakland City Council Member 
Gregorio Gomez, Mayor, Farmersville 
Matt Haney, San Francisco Supervisor 
Sergio Hernandez, Jr., Lennox School District President
Jawane Hilton, Carson City Councilmember  
Hilary Hodge, Grass Valley City Councilmember
Christian Horvath, City of Redondo Beach Councilmember 
Danny Kelley, College of the Redwoods Vice Chair
Jusyln Manalo, Councilmember, Daly City 
Victoria Martinez, El Monte City Councilmember 
Walter Muneton, President, Garden Grove Unified School District Board of Education
Robert Ocampo, Salinas Union High School District Trustee 
Sandra Ocampo, Alisal Union School District Trustee
Bryan Osorio, Delano City Councilmember 
Jorge Pacheco, Jr., Vice President, Oak Grove School District Board of Education 
Karen Paz Dominguez, Auditor-Controller, County of Humboldt
Maria Poblet, Berkeley Rent Board Commissioner
Tami Ritter, Butte County Supervisor 
Dr. Maria Nieto Senour, President, San Diego Community College District Board of Trustees
Karen Sher, President, Oxnard Union High School District Board of Trustees
Adam Spickler, Cabrillo College Trustee
Nolan Sullivan, Vacaville Council Member 
Ali Taj, Mayor, Artesia
Eddie Tejada, City of Redlands Councilmember
Oscar Valladares, President, Rio Hondo College Board of Trustees 
Malia Vella, Alameda City Council Member
Aisha Wahab, Hayward City Council Member 
Allen Warren, Sacramento City Councilmember

The full list of community leader endorsements can be found here.The full list of farmer endorsers can be found here.The full list of veteran endorsements can be found here.The full list of teacher endorsements can be found here.
Organizations listed for identification purposes and do not imply institutional endorsement.
  