
    Today Ohio Governor John Kasich announced the Kasich for America Delaware Leadership Team, with former US Congressman, Republican National Committee Co-Chair and Reagan Advisor Tom Evans and Reagan White House Communications Director Frank Ursomarso serving as honorary chairs. Local businessman Michael Fleming will serve as executive chair.
Said Evans, "John Kasich has all the qualities and vision we need in the White House and unmatched experience in actually getting great things done for the American people. I worked closely with President Reagan and John has the same capacity to unite our party and compete in every state in November."

Evans served as RNC Co-Chair from 1971 to 1973 and represented Delaware in Congress from 1977 to 1983. A close advisor to President Reagan, Evans was chairman of the Reagan campaign's Congressional Steering Committee.
Said Ursomarso, "I am proud to endorse Gov. John Kasich for President and help spread his positive and optimistic message across Delaware. Like President Reagan, Gov. Kasich is a leader that we can trust to renew the American spirit and bring real solutions to Washington that will strengthen and grow our economy."

Frank Ursomarso, a resident of Wilmington, was appointed to serve as Director of the White House Office of Communications by President Reagan in 1981.
Said Fleming, "We have a strong team in Delaware that is energized and proud to stand behind Gov. John Kasich for President. He is a special, thoughtful and uniquely qualified candidate. His experience, judgment and pragmatic leadership are exactly what America needs in the White House."

Michael Fleming, a former senior aide to U.S. Senator Bill Roth, is a business executive and community leader in Wilmington.
Said Kasich, "I am grateful to have the support of so many conservative leaders in Delaware. Tom, Frank, Michael and the entire Delaware team will be a vital asset to our campaign as our momentum grows in the First State and throughout the east."

Kasich for America Delaware Leadership Team
Thomas B. Evans, Jr., former US Congressman and RNC Co-Chair
Frank Ursomarso, former Communications Director for President Reagan
Michael Fleming, State Chair Kasich for America
State House Minority Whip Deborah HudsonFormer State Rep. Tim BouldenNew Castle County Republican Committee Chairman Rick CarrollFormer State GOP Executive Director John FluhartyJoanne Butler, former staff member, House Ways and Means Committee
Ben du Pont, businessman, investor and son of former Gov. Pete du Pont
Cynthia Koenig, former staff member, House Budget Committee
Jim Ursomarso, businessman and former candidate for Lt. Governor
Stan Sykora, businessman and former chair Associated Building Contractors
John Moore, businessman and community leader
  