
    Thank you all. Welcome to the White House. Laura and I are glad you're here, and thanks for coming. I welcome members of my Cabinet. I particularly want to thank all the healers and compassionate folks who help with heart disease. The Vice President sends his best. [Laughter]
All of us here are committed to America's heart health. I don't know if our fellow citizens know this, but this is American Heart Month. And it's a good time to remember that an estimated 80 million people across the United States suffer from heart disease. The disease is the number-one killer of American men and women. Many women, however, do not even know they're at risk, and so they don't take simple steps that can protect their health.
And that's where the Heart Truth Campaign comes in. Over the last 5 years, I appreciate the fact that you all have spread the word, and you represent thousands across our country who are doing so as well. You've helped women reduce the factors for heart disease, and that's a noble calling, an important contribution to our country. Every February, you encourage women to wear the red dress, which I appreciate. And I do want to thank the fashion industry for stepping up and—[applause].
And the results are measurable. Women's awareness has been raised; women's lives have been saved. Earlier this month, I was in Kansas City, and I met a woman named Joyce Cullen. In 2003, Joyce saw coverage of Laura's visit to a Kansas City hospital. She just talked about the symptoms that— of heart disease in women. It was just a simple explanation of what people should be aware of. She woke up with those symptoms shortly after Laura's visit. She went to the hospital. Her life was saved, and she's now a part of Heart Truth. And that's the effort in which you're involved, simple acts that are spreading across the country and saving lives.
My job today is not only to welcome you and to thank you but to introduce the Heart Truth's national ambassador. Laura is committed to the Heart Truth Campaign. She's a great First Lady, and she's always dear to my heart—the First Lady.
  