
    
  "The other Republican candidates have no real ambition to cut spending or taxes." — Jim Tobin

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed yesterday by Tax Accountability of TAC, a Chicago-based national taxpayer watchdog organization. Tax Accountability is the political action arm of Taxpayers United of America (TUA). Founded in 1976, TUA is one of the largest taxpayer organizations in the nation.
The group's president Jim Tobin wrote a ringing endorsement of the 12-term Congressman from Texas, who is the only candidate forthright about the constitutional and philosophical antipathy toward using the police powers of government to take the fruits of one person's labor and distribute it to another as a condition of citizenship.
Tax Accountability Endorses Ron Paul For President
CHICAGO—Tax Accountability (TAC) president Jim Tobin announced today that the organization is formally endorsing U.S. House Representative Ron Paul (R-TX, Dist. 14) for President of the United States.
"There simply is no comparison between Ron Paul and the other Republican candidates," said Tobin. "Dr. Paul consistently has had the highest rating in Congress from the non-partisan National Taxpayers Union (NTU) in Washington, DC. He is the only true fiscal conservative. The other Republican candidates believe in big government,big spending, big crony-capitalism, and big wars."
"All the other Republican candidates are neoconservative warmongers. Paul would bring all our troops home, cut needless defense spending, and stop the country's march toward fascism. He would have our military protect this country, not intervene in the affairs of others."
"Ron Paul is sincere when he states he will literally cut federal spending by $1 trillion. The other Republican candidates have no real ambition to cut spending or taxes. They are enthusiastic supporters of what Pres. Eisenhower called the 'military-industrial complex.' The other candidates support U.S. foreign military adventures, and if any of them is elected, we will have at least one war occurring at any one time."
For the above item online in PDF format, please click here.
  