
    The nation's second Filipino-American to reach the rank of flag officer, General Taguba served his country with distinction for 34 years, retiring from the Army in 2007. The son of a Filipino-American who survived the 1942 Bataan Death March, General Taguba led the Army's investigation into prisoner abuse at Abu Ghraib in 2004. His findings came to be known as the "Taguba Report."
In announcing his endorsement today, General Taguba said, "Senator Clinton's unequivocal opposition to the use of torture under any circumstances, and her willingness to take a stand for what she believes in is exactly the sort of courage and moral strength that we need in our leaders. I know that, as President, Senator Clinton will hold America to the high moral standards that have made us a leader among nations."
Since retiring, General Taguba has been part of a distinguished group of flag officers that has met with presidential candidates of both parties to advance the moral and security imperative of renouncing torture. Senator Taguba is the second member of this group of flag officers to have endorsed Senator Clinton.
General Taguba is among 27 flag-rank military officers and more than 2000 veterans who have endorsed Senator Clinton to be our nation's next Commander-in-Chief.
"I am so honored to have the support of General Taguba," Senator Clinton said. "He has served his country with uncommon dignity and courage. He is a man of tremendous principle and integrity. His example reminds us that our nation and its President must strongly and unequivocally stand for the rule of law."
General Taguba held many leadership positions in the Army, including, Acting Director of the Army Staff, Headquarters; and Deputy Commanding General (Support), Third U.S. Army, U.S. Army Forces Central Command and Coalition Forces Land Component Command in Kuwait.
A profile of General Taguba in The New Yorker last year said of his role in the Abu Ghraib inquiry, "If there was a redeeming aspect to the affair it is was in the thoroughness and the passion of the Army's initial investigation."
Flag Officers Endorsing Hillary Clinton for President and Commander-in-Chief

General Wesley Clark
General John M. Shalikashvili
General Johnnie E. Wilson
Admiral William Owens
Lt. Gen. Joe Ballard
Lt. Gen. Robert Gard
Lt. Gen. Claudia J. Kennedy
Lt. Gen. Donald L. Kerrick
Lt. Gen. Frederick E. Vollrath
Vice Admiral Joseph A. Sestak
Major General Roger R. Blunt
Major General George A. Buskirk, Jr.
Major General Edward L. Correa, Jr.
Major General Paul D. Eaton
Major General Paul D. Monroe, Jr.
Major General Antonio M. Taguba
Rear Admiral Connie Mariano
Rear Admiral Alan M. Steinman
Rear Admiral David Stone
Brigadier General Michael Dunn
Brigadier General Belisario Flores
Brigadier General Evelyn "Pat" Foote
Brigadier General Keith H. Kerr
Brigadier General Virgil A. Richard
Brigadier General Preston Taylor
Brigadier General John M. Watkins, Jr.
Brigadier General Jack Yeager

  