
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and to appoint five individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Roland W. Bullen of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Co-operative Republic of Guyana. Mr. Bullen currently serves as Deputy Executive Director of the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this assignment, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Bridgetown, Barbados. Other overseas assignments include service as Administrative Counselor in Bogot and Administrative Officer in Santo Domingo, Monrovia and Belize City. He also served as General Services Officer in San Jose and Rotational Officer in Caracas. Mr. Bullen earned his bachelor's degree from San Diego State University and his master's degree from the United States International University.
The President intends to nominate Nicole R. Nason of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Transportation (Governmental Affairs). Ms. Nason currently serves as Assistant Commissioner of the Office of Congressional Affairs at the U.S. Customs Service. She previously served as Communications Director for Congressman Porter Goss, and as Government Affairs Counsel at Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. She is a graduate of American University and earned her law degree from Case Western Reserve University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Annette M. Sandberg of Washington, to be Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, at the U.S. Department of Transportation. Currently, Ms. Sandberg serves as Deputy Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. She previously served as Deputy Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. She is a graduate of Central Washington University, received her M.B.A. from City University and her law degree from the University of Puget Sound.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Mickey Leland National Urban Air Toxics Research Center:
Wilma Delaney of Virginia Mary Gade of Illinois Monica Samuels of Texas
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Visitors of the United States Naval Academy for a three-year term expiring December 30, 2005:
Tirso Del Junco of California General Charles Krulak of Delaware
  