
    The Clinton campaign today unveiled four new ads across Ohio and Texas.
The 60-second ad called "Resolved" is airing in both Ohio and Texas. Watch "Resolved" here.
"Deliver," a 30-second ad, is airing across Texas. Watch "Deliver" here.
"Proud" and "Level," both 30-second ads, are airing in Ohio. Watch "Proud" here and "Level" here.
See below for the full scripts of the ads.
1. "Resolved"
TV :60
Watch "Resolved" here.
Hillary Clinton: I was honored to be asked to speak at the opening of the Intrepid Center at Brooke Medical Center in San Antonio. And I remember sitting up there and watching them come in. Those who could walk were walking, those who had lost limbs were trying with great courage to get themselves in without the help of others.
You know, the hits I've taken in life are nothing compared to what goes on every single day in the lives of people across our country. And I resolved, at a very young age, that I'd been blessed, and that I was called by my faith and by my upbringing to do what I could to give others the same opportunities and blessings that I took for granted. That's what gets me up in the morning, that's what motivates me in this campaign.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
2. "Deliver"
TV :30
Watch "Deliver" here.
Announcer: In Texas, when there's work to be done, talk doesn't cut it. You got to roll up your sleeves, stand your ground and deliver.
That's what Hillary Clinton does. She's fought for and delivered coverage for uninsured children, healthcare and dignity for our veterans, and better schools and better teachers.
In Texas its better done than said. And when its all said and done, Hillary delivers.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
3. "Proud"
TV :30
Watch the "Proud" ad here.
John Glenn: Hillary and I both come from middle class families in the middle of America.
As long as Annie and I have known her, Hillary's fought for working people. She'll end 55 billion dollars in giveaways to corporate special interest and invest that money to create jobs in research and innovation to rebuild the middle class. And Hillary will fight to change trade deals like NAFTA. She's been doing that for years. I'll be proud to call Hillary my president.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
4. "Level"
TV :30
Watch "Level" here.
Announcer: She's fighting for America's middle class.
Hillary Clinton: It's time to level the playing field against the special interests.
Announcer: She'll end $55 billion dollars in giveaways to corporate special interests and invest it in middle class tax cuts and creating new jobs. She'll get tough on unfair trade deals and end tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas.
Hillary Clinton: Standing up for people who weren't getting a fair shake, that's been the purpose of my life. And it will be the purpose of my presidency.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
  