
    
Newt and Herman Cain drew overflow crowds yesterday at campaign stops in Forsyth, Gwinnett, and Cobb counties. In Forsyth, more than 500 packed in to the South Forsyth High School auditorium to hear about Newt's bold solutions for energy independence.
More than 400 people filled the South Forsyth High School auditorium, with at least another hundred turned away as the Forsyth County Republican Party held its mass precinct meeting.
"I didn't get inside," said Forsyth resident Barbara Carver. "But I got to shake his hand when he came out."
Gingrich spoke about various issues, focusing mostly on energy independence and religious freedom.
When he served as speaker, Gingrich said the price of gas was $1.13 a gallon. While he said he envisions that happening again, he offered a promise that under his presidency: "We can easily deliver gasoline at $2.50 a gallon."
The presidential hopeful said this can happen by relying on shale gas technology, which allows gasoline to be drawn from deep underground.
"If you actually go out and look for oil, there is enough oil in the United States that we would be independent of the Middle East," he said. "As president, I will liberate offshore development and I will liberate federal lands so that in fact we can become absolutely independent so that no future president will ever again bow to a Saudi king."
Also, Gingrich poked fun at President Barack Obama's subsidy for those purchasing electric cars, saying "you can't put a gun rack on them."
Forsyth resident Ben Bolton said Gingrich's ideas like energy independence garnered his support.
"I like his bold ideas ... I think that's something that this country needs right now," Bolton said. "I think he's definitely the most electable and the most experienced."

In Gwinnett, nearly 500 people heard Newt at Collins Hill High School talk about his plan to bring down gasoline prices by developing more American energy.
The former congressman, who used to represent the area, came to Gwinnett as part of a series of stops in Georgia.
"I need your help," Gingrich told a crowd of nearly 500 at Collins Hill High School. "I think we have a real chance. ... It all hinges on Georgia."
Gingrich spent much of his speech talking about bringing the cost of gasoline down by loosening regulations on drilling in America. New technology and a recently discovered supply of oil shale, he said, could flood demand and bring prices down to $2.50 per gallon.
"You cannot put a gun rack in a Volt," Gingrich said, saying regulations have infringed on people's freedom to choose.
Touting his experience as Speaker, when gas prices averaged $1.14 a gallon, he told the crowd, gathered after a GOP mass organizational meeting, he was the best candidate to take on incumbent Barack Obama in November.

In Cobb, Newt and Hermain Cain electrified an overflow crowd of over 400 people a the Atlanta Marriott with their bold solutions to get America back on track.
Saturday's rally was a festive affair, with "Newt 2012" campaign signs lining the roadway outside the hotel, while supporters inside handed out various campaign stickers, buttons and literature.
Longtime grassroots Republican activist Donna Rowe of east Cobb was among those in the crowd.
"Newt was our congressman, and he did exactly what he said he was going to do," Rowe said. "We were extremely proud when he became Speaker, and we are supporting him again. It may be 10, 15 years later but the troopers are ready to role."
Read more: The Marietta Daily Journal - Gingrich electrifies Cobb crowd
  ...
  Sweeney explained why he had endorsed Gingrich for president.
"I really think that Newt has the skill sets, the talent, the ability as well as the history of working with Congress to best represent this country as well as his security background, and I just like his stance on current issues," Sweeney said.
Read more: The Marietta Daily Journal - Gingrich electrifies Cobb crowd
  ...
  Barr said he wants Gingrich to become the next president because then the country would have a commander-in-chief who understands the country for the first time since Ronald Reagan as well as someone who has done positive things on the national level on behalf of the citizenry.
"He's going to beat Romney by doing exactly what he's doing here today," Barr said. "Talking with people. Exchanging ideas. Telling them actually substance as opposed to campaign sound bites."

Read more about the energized crowd at the Cobb County rally here. Watch video of Newt's rally in Peachtree City on Friday night here.
  