
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
John Cary Bittick, of Georgia, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice Willie Lee Richardson, Jr., retired.
Thomas T. Cullen, of Virginia, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia for the term of four years, vice John P. Fishwick Jr., resigned.
Theodore J. Garrish, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (International Affairs), vice Jonathan Elkind.
Timothy A. Garrison, of Missouri, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri for the term of four years, vice Angela Tammy Dickinson, resigned.
Steven L. Gladden, of North Carolina, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina for the term of four years, vice Willie Ransome Stafford III, term expired.
Nicola T. Hanna, of California, to be United States Attorney for the Central District of California for the term of four years, vice Eileen Maura Decker, resigned.
David C. Joseph, of Louisiana, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Louisiana for the term of four years, vice Stephanie A. Finley, resigned.
Amy Karpel, of Washington, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 16, 2020, vice F. Scott Kieff, resigned.
Paul R. Lawrence, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Benefits of the Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Allison A. Hickey, resigned.
David L. Lyons, of Georgia, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice Stephen James Smith, term expired.
Rodney D. Ostermiller, of Montana, to be United States Marshal for the District of Montana for the term of four years, vice Darrell James Bell, resigned.
Kenji M. Price, of Hawaii, to be United States Attorney for the District of Hawaii for the term of four years, vice Florence T. Nakakuni, retired.
Charles P. Verdon, of California, to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs, National Nuclear Security Administration, vice Donald L. Cook, resigned.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Robert M. Weaver, of Oklahoma, to be Director of the Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, for the term of four years, vice Yvette Roubideaux, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on October 24, 2017.
  