
    Today, Charleston Mayor John Tecklenburg released the following statement endorsing Joe Biden for President of the United States:
"Over the past year, I've had a chance to visit with several of the men and women currently running for president, and I can tell you that each is an impressive American with much to offer our country. But as this South Carolina primary comes to a close, I believe that one of these candidates truly stands out, as both an experienced national leader and a thoroughly decent human being — and that's former Vice President Joe Biden.
"For more than four decades, Joe Biden has provided strong, steady leadership on the greatest issues facing our country — from the economy and civil rights, to foreign policy and national defense, to climate change and health care and more. In fact, it's almost impossible to imagine a more capable, qualified candidate for our nation's highest office.
"Moreover, in recent days, as a member of our extended Tecklenburg family has been forced to cope with a significant health issue, we've gotten to see just a glimpse of the simple human decency that Joe Biden would bring to the White House. And to put it plainly, we've been deeply moved by the thought of what that kind of caring, compassionate leadership could mean for our country.
"And so today, I want to urge my fellow Charlestonians and South Carolinians to join me in voting for Joe Biden. He's the kind of leader who can bring our country together — and the kind of man we can all be proud to call our president."
Mayor Tecklenburg's endorsement follows the momentous announcement of House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn's support of Vice President Biden bringing the campaign's Palmetto State endorsements to more than 190, including the state's last two Democratic governors, Jim Hodges and Richard "Dick" Riley; state lawmakers, mayors, community activists, pastors and faith leaders, and local elected officials. Biden's diverse and broad coalition also consists of nearly 200 members of Educators for Biden and more than 100 members of Women for Biden from every region of the state.
Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  