
    NEW YORK — As the leader of a company with more than 20,000 employees, Mike Bloomberg believes that having women leaders is crucial to any organization's success. He has backed up that belief with his hiring and promotion practices, as well as his benefit policies. That's true at Bloomberg LP, at City Hall, his foundation and now at the campaign.
While virtually all of this has been reported over the past two decades, in any large organization, there are going to be complaints. Mike simply does not tolerate any kind of discrimination or harassment, and he's created cultures that are all about equality and inclusion. Anyone who works hard and performs well is going to be rewarded, regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation or anything else. Mike has always created work environments where women are on equal footing and can succeed professionally and personally.
Under Mike's leadership as mayor, murders from domestic violence fell 41%. Mike increased the number of certified MWBEs. He worked to increase access to reproductive healthcare. All while creating jobs, improving access to healthcare and fighting climate change. His record and his agenda for our country are also why he has earned the endorsements of women leaders across the country, including Governor Gina Raimondo; Congresswomen Haley Stevens, Lucy McBath, Stephanie Murphy and Mikie Sherrill, Mayors Breed, Bowser, Brown, and women who've long been activists on causes like reproductive rights like Jill Lafer.
As president, Mike will fix health care for the more than 10 million women and 4 million children who don't have health insurance in America by building on the Affordable Care Act and creating a public option. Mike will improve maternal health and protect reproductive rights by codifying Roe v. Wade, and he'll work to ensure paid family leave and affordable child care. Mike's jobs plan, the All-In Economy, will bring jobs and economic opportunity to women across America, ensuring entrepreneurs, especially women, minorities and veterans, receive fair access to the resources they need to succeed. Mike will reinvigorate the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice to fight discrimination, and he will work with Congress to impose limits on mandatory arbitration agreements so that employees have the power to take employers to court for harassment or discrimination of any kind.
  