
    In Case You Missed It: During last night's debate, Hillary "came across very credibly, very strongly as a fighter." ... "Clinton settled on an effective tone" and struck "a new strong note, saying she plans to get $55 billion back from special interest groups for the American middle class."
Previewing Today: Hillary attends an economic solutions summit in Zanesville and rallies in Saint Clairsville and Belpre, Ohio... President Bill Clinton holds multiple early vote events in both Houston and Austin, Texas... Chelsea meets with students at the University of Toledo and Tiffin University in Ohio.
New Ad: In Texas, the campaign launched a new television ad, "Level TX," statewide. Watch.
Active in the States: Today in Wyoming, the campaign opens offices in Casper and Cheyenne... In Rhode Island, women elected leaders hold a coffee for Hillary and kick-off "Women for Hillary." ... Yesterday in Vermont, the campaign opened an office in Rutland and announced its statewide steering committee.
Endorsement Watch: In Texas, two former Members of Congress, nine former State Senators, and a Democratic Party icon endorsed Hillary... In Ohio, two current State Representatives and a current City Councilman endorsed Hillary.
Save the Date: On Monday, March 3 at 6:30-7:30 p.m. CST, Hillary will host a '˜Texas-Sized' interactive town hall in Texas. The town hall will be broadcast live on Fox Sports Network Southwest and on the Internet at HillaryClinton.com.
Recapping Yesterday: In Lorain, Ohio, the "chance to see Hillary (was) an experience of a lifetime for many in the crowd."... "Her comments were frequently punctuated with applause and cheering (and) Clinton left to a standing ovation." ... "About 2,000 people gathered at dusk at Fort Worth's Marine Park" in Texas to hear President Bill Clinton's "upbeat messages, which focused on his wife's credentials and policy stances."
FactCheck: During the debate, Sen. Obama's record on the Iraq war and Hillary's record on trade continued to be misrepresented. Get the facts.
  