
    Marie Sophia Aguirre, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2003, vice Maria Elena Torano, term expired.
Marie Sophia Aguirre, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2006. (Reappointment)
Elizabeth F. Bagley, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2005, vice Lewis Manilow, resigned.
Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Arizona, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2003, vice Hank Brown, resigned.
Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Arizona, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2006. (Reappointment)
Ephraim Batambuze, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring February 9, 2008, vice Henry McKoy, term expired.
Charles William Evers III, of Florida, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2003, vice Charles H. Dolan, Jr., term expired.
Charles William Evers III, of Florida, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2006. (Reappointment)
James B. Foley, of New York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Haiti.
Harold C. Pachios, of Maine, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2005. (Reappointment)
Thomas Thomas Riley, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for the remainder of the term expiring September 22, 2005, vice Claude A. Allen.
McGregor William Scott, of California, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of California for the term of four years, vice Paul L. Seave, resigned.
Jay T. Snyder, of New York, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2004, vice Paula Dobriansky, term expired.
  