
    Committee Members Pledge To Mobilize Ohio LGBT Community for Hillary
COLUMBUS, OH- Ohio for Hillary today announced the formation of its statewide Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Steering Committee for Hillary which consists of dozens of LGBT leaders and allies throughout the Buckeye State. The steering committee will host a kick-off diner this evening Monday, February 25 in Columbus. Committee members will work through March 4 holding events across Ohio to mobilize the community and get out the vote for Hillary on Election Day.
The list of supporters reflects the diversity of the LGBT community which includes elected officials, community leaders, educators, healthcare professional, union members and business owners.
"The LGBT community needs and deserves a President who will fight for us," said Bo Shuff, National Clinton LGBT Steering Committee member. "Hillary Clinton has a proven track record of doing that. Whether it was working with LGBT groups to develop the smart strategy that defeated the Federal Marriage Amendment or authoring the Early Treatment for HIV Act, Hillary has fought for us and I'm proud to be fighting for her in Ohio."
"I am proud to stand with Hillary Clinton," said Mary Jo Hudson, Director of the Ohio Department of Insurance. Whether it's fighting to defeat the FMA or marching in our gay pride parades as First Lady and as US Senator, Hillary has stood with our community and fought for LGBT equality. I know Hillary will do the same thing as our President."
"I am honored to have the support of these distinguished leaders in the Ohio LGBT community," Clinton said. "Together, we can end the divisive politics of the current administration and renew the promise of fairness and equality for all Americans."
Hillary has been a longtime ally of the LGBT community. She fought against the Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA) both times and has worked on legislation that would promote equality for LGBT Americans.
As President, Hillary will work to make sure that gay and lesbian couples in committed relationships have the same legal rights and responsibilities as all Americans. She will also work to end discrimination in adoption laws, sign hate crimes legislation and ENDA into law, and put an end to the failed policy of Don't Ask, Don't Tell.
Ohio LGBT Steering Committee Members:

Sandy Anderson, Columbus
Karen Aronoff, Cincinnati
Rob Beattey, Columbus
Jeff Caywood, Cincinnati
Michael Chanak, Cincinnati
Michael Council Columbus
Chris Cozad, Columbus
John Cummings, Springboro
Jay Dascenzo, Columbus
Brigit Elizando, Lancaster
Brian Endicott, Columbus
Louis Escobar, Toledo
Rose Fini, Cleveland
Michael Fogle, Massilon
Don Geiner, Columbus
Randy Goodman, Avon Lake
Lynn Greer, Columbus
Sarah Hamilton, Columbus
Matt Hicks, Columbus
Ron Hirth, Cincinnati
Mary Jo Hudson, Columbus
Leslye Huff, Cleveland
Mollie Levin, Columbus
Jerry Mallicott, Springboro
Jaime Miracle, Columbus
Martha Pontoni, Cleveland
Greg Rivera, Cleveland
Cheryl Rose Mack, Cleveland
Karla Rothan, Columbus
Joe Santiago, Cleveland
Chris Seelbach, Cincinnati
Bo Shuff, Columbus
Jason Smith, Columbus
Marianne Steger, Columbus
Lynne Teismann, Cincinnati
Tim Walker, Cleveland
Kim Welter,Toledo
Lisa Zellner, Columbus

  