
    Q. What do you think of your victory?
Q. Is it big enough for you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was very pleased, of course. I think this return showed that the people of the country, at least the ones in New Hampshire, support the policies that we've espoused in international affairs, in our attempts to deal with the inflation issue, and in energy. I think their vote demands quick action on the energy legislation.
And I'm very grateful that, because I couldn't be up there and campaign personally, that the special need for volunteers and workers was realized in such a delightful way. So, I'm very deeply grateful to everybody who helped us there.
Q. Is Kennedy through now?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think that's a judgment for him to make. I would guess not.
Q. Mr. President, some analysts are saying that it was a very strong anti-Kennedy vote.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'd rather assume that it was a vote for me. Thank you very much.
Q. Mr. President, what about Massachusetts? Do you have any predictions about a week from today in Massachusetts?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't think anyone in my administration or my campaign organization would even think that we could defeat Senator Kennedy in his own State. I think that would be—
Q. You're talking about your policies, sir. Do you think you can go on winning if you can't get the inflation rates down?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think people realize that our country is strongly united, that we're doing the best we can, that we're making steady progress in international affairs and also making progress in dealing with the long-range and very difficult energy problems which lead directly to inflation. I hope that this will be a signal to the Congress to act without delay on the three major bills that have still been held up in conference committee and haven't yet been voted on in the House and Senate, that we introduced last July.
So, I think it's a very good demonstration of support for what we are trying to do—some successes, some unnecessary delays, but we're making progress.
Q. You know they approved the windfall profits—
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, in their conference committee. Now we'll see that the Senate and—
Q. All you have to do is get it through.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Senate and House will now vote on the conference report.
Q. Mr. President, could we ask Mrs. Carter how she feels, since she did so much campaigning up in New Hampshire and worked so hard?
MRS. CARTER. Well, I feel wonderful, and I just want to thank all of those people that I worked hard with and that worked for the President. It was great to be back with them, because I was with them so much in '75 and '76. And I just am thankful to them for their support.
Q. Why do you think Senator Kennedy can go on if he lost in Iowa and he lost in Maine and he lost in New Hampshire?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you'll have to ask Senator Kennedy about that. Thank you very much.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
  