
    
  Franklin County conservative says Paul "demonstrates he has America's interest at heart"

BELLEVUE, Washington — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Clint Didier, a former NFL Washington Redskins tight end, Eltopia-area farmer, and 2010 Tea Party-backed conservative Republican U.S. Senate candidate.
In making his public endorsement, Mr. Didier issued the following statement:
"I believe the next President of the United States needs to be a defender of America protecting and maintaining her sovereignty, one who understands the worldwide economic crisis we face and first and foremost demonstrates he has America's interest at heart. The next president must understand what constitutes a free market, be willing to stand tall against powerful lobbying interests, and have the courage to fight for a sound monetary policy, fiscal sanity, and individual liberty.
"As an American farmer yearning for strong constitutional leadership, I see Ron Paul as a loyal disciple of our founding fathers who gave us the opportunity to experience life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. He has displayed integrity and adherence to our Constitution for 30 years. I have found no other presidential candidate so disciplined."
Mr. Didier was born and raised on a farm in Eltopia in Franklin County, Washington. Raised with a strong work ethic he carried onto the football field, he joined the NFL to play for the Washington Redskins and Green Bay Packers. His football career brought him to the field of Super Bowl XVII and Super Bowl XXII. In Super Bowl XXII, he scored the final touchdown for the Redskins in the second quarter of their 35-point game, and was the leading receiver in Super Bowl XVIII.
Closing his career in professional football with two Super Bowl wins under his belt, he established a successful farm, and has given back to his community ever since as a football coach at Connell High School. He eventually made the decision in 2010 to run as a candidate for U.S. Senate, and still lives in "Hell to Pay" Eltopia with his wife of 30 years working the farm and helping his community.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Washington State organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  