
    LOS ANGELES — Today, former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg, lauding his track record as mayor of New York City, his efforts to unify the country, and calling him the only option to defeat President Donald Trump in the election. Villaraigosa served as the Mayor of Los Angeles for two terms from 2005 to 2013 and led the U.S. Conference of Mayors as President in 2011.
"Our country is facing challenging times without a true leader in the White House," said Former Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa. "Mike Bloomberg is the answer to solving the divisiveness Donald Trump has created, bridging the political divide in Washington, and helping to restore unity in this country once again. For as long as I have known Mike when we were both mayors, he has been a visionary. He has always put people over politics and been committed to creating policies that move all of us forward – and that is why I'm proud to stand with Mike."
Joining former Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter and former Miami Mayor Manny Diaz as National Political Co-Chairs, Villaraigosa will advise the campaign on policy development and strategy. Villaraigosa will also serve as a national surrogate on behalf of the campaign, encouraging others to support Mike, and traveling to field offices and events to share with voters why he believes Mike Bloomberg's track record and experience make him the most qualified candidate to become president.
"Antonio was a great mayor whose leadership made Los Angeles stronger, safer, and fairer. As mayors, we worked together on some of the most important fights of our time, including climate change, gun violence, and marriage equality," said Mike Bloomberg. "I'm honored to have his endorsement – and I'm looking forward to teaming up with him again as we work to win California, defeat Donald Trump, and unite and rebuild this country."
As Mayor of Los Angeles, Villaraigosa made major strides in transportation, crime reduction, infrastructure, energy and resource sustainability, right-sizing government, business development and education reform.
Prior to his election as Mayor, Villaraigosa was a member of the Los Angeles City Council from 2003 to 2005. Before this, he served in the California State Assembly as Democratic Whip, Majority Leader and Speaker of the Assembly. Villaraigosa was also a member of President Obama's Transition Economic Advisory Board, the 2012 Chairman of the Democratic National Convention and President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors.
  