
    ATLANTA — Speaker Newt Gingrich has unveiled his Faith Leaders Dream Team — rallying several fearless Christians including Don Wildmon, Tim and Beverly LaHaye, George Barna, JC Watts, Chuck Norris, Mat Staver and others as he takes on the the radical secularism of the Obama Administration.
The Gingrich Faith Leaders Coalition is Newt Gingrich's official advisory coalition on issues pertaining to life, marriage, and religious liberty.

Don Wildmon
"Newt Gingrich recognizes the threat to our country posed by judges and lawyers imposing values upon the country inconsistent with our religious heritage, and has proposed constitutional steps to bring the courts back in balance under the constitution. We need someone in the White House who can balance the budget and get the economy moving again. Newt has done it before and I believe he can do it again."
George Barna
"He is a man of great intellect and passion for America, and has the requisite wisdom and courage to guide this nation back to sanity and health. His policy prescriptions are well-conceived, practical, and reflect his deep understanding of government and our Constitution. There are no other candidates running for the presidency who possesses his unique mix of skills, knowledge, and experience - and the ability to win in November."
Beverly LaHaye
"I have worked along beside Speaker Gingrich and know he has a history of being a strong conservative. He supports the key issues and values that I consider most important. I believe he is most capable of defending these beliefs as he exposes the liberalism of this present president."
Tim LaHaye
"Newt Gingrich, a proven conservative who has the best chance of replacing the present occupant of the White House with a man with a proven record of appointing conservatives to office that can return this country to the constitutional principles that God has chosen to bless for over two hundred years"
Jim Garlow
"For me and the people of faith joining this coalition, this is not a political move; it is a spiritual one. Gingrich is the man who will best represent biblical principles and will be best equipped to defeat President Obama in November."
Congressman J.C. Watts
"When you consider where we are today, and you think about the good, old days of balanced budgets, entitlement reform, and paying down our National debt, getting tax relief; as a Republican majority, Newt Gingrich was the Speaker, we haven't seen things like that in the last thirteen years. I am looking for somebody that will be willing to do the heavy lifting to get us to where we all want to be as a nation, and I think Newt fits that profile."
Chuck Norris
"My wife, Gena, and I sincerely believe former Speaker Newt Gingrich is the answer and deserves our endorsement and vote...We believe Newt's experience, leadership, knowledge, wisdom, faith and even humility to learn from his failures (personal and public) can return America to her glory days. And he is the best man left on the battlefield who is able to outwit, outplay and outlast Obama and his campaign machine."
Mat Staver
"We need a strong leader with domestic, international, and political experience who can inspire a new conservative resurgence in the line of Ronald Reagan. Speaker Gingrich is the clear choice."
  