
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Deterring Illegal Immigration
It is a fundamental right and duty for a nation to protect the integrity of its borders and its laws. This Administration shall stand firm against illegal immigration and the continued abuse of our immigration laws. By closing the back door to illegal immigration, we will continue to open the front door to legal immigration.
My Administration has moved swiftly to reverse the course of a decade of failed immigration policies. Our initiatives have included increasing overall Border personnel by over 50 percent since 1993. We also are strengthening worksite enforcement and work authorization verification to deter employment of illegal aliens. Asylum rules have been reformed to end abuse by those falsely claiming asylum, while offering protection to those in genuine fear of persecution. We are cracking down on smugglers of illegal aliens and reforming criminal alien deportation for quicker removal. And we are the first Administration to obtain funding to reimburse States for a share of the costs of incarcerating criminal illegal aliens.
While we already are doing more to stem the flow of illegal immigration than has any previous Administration, more remains to be done. In conjunction with the Administration's unprecedented budget proposal to support immigration initiatives, this directive provides a blueprint of policies and priorities for this Administration's continuing work to curtail illegal immigration. With its focus on strong border deterrence backed up by effective worksite enforcement, removal of criminal and other deportable aliens and assistance to states, this program protects the security of our borders, our jobs and our communities for all Americans—citizens and legal immigrants alike.
Comprehensive Border Control Strategy
A. Deterring Illegal Immigration At Our Borders
I have directed the Attorney General to move expeditiously toward full implementation of our comprehensive border control strategy, including efforts at the southwest border. To support sustained long-term strengthening of our deterrence capacity, the Administration shall seek funding to add new Border Patrol agents to reach the goal of at least 7,000 agents protecting our borders by the year 2000.
Flexible Border Response Capacity
To further this strategy, the Department of Justice shall implement the capacity to respond to emerging situations anywhere along our national borders to deter buildups of illegal border crossers, smuggling operations, or other developing problems.
Strategic Use of High Technology
Through the strategic use of sensors, night scopes, helicopters, light planes, all-terrain vehicles, fingerprinting and automated recordkeeping, we have freed many Border Patrol agents from long hours of bureaucratic tasks and increased the effectiveness of these highly-trained personnel. Because these tools are essential for the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to do its job, I direct the Attorney General to accelerate to the greatest extent possible their utilization and enhancement to support implementation of our deterrence strategy.
Strong Enforcement Against Repeat Illegal Crossers
The Department of Justice shall assess the effectiveness of efforts underway to deter repeat illegal crossers, such as fingerprinting and dedicating prosecution resources to enforce the new prosecution authority provided by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994.
The Department of Justice shall determine whether accelerated expansion of these techniques to additional border sectors is warranted.
B. Deterring Alien Smuggling
This administration has had success deterring large ship-based smuggling directly to United States shores. In response, smugglers are testing new routes and tactics. Our goal: similar success in choking off these attempts by adjusting our anti-smuggling initiatives to anticipate shifting smuggling patterns.
To meet new and continuing challenges posed along transport routes and in foreign locations by smuggling organizations, we will augment diplomatic and enforcement resources at overseas locations to work with host governments, and increase related intelligence gathering efforts.
The Departments of State and Justice, in cooperation with other relevant agencies, will report to the National Security Council within 30 days on the structure of interagency coordination to achieve these objectives.
Congressional action will be important to provide U.S. law enforcement agencies with needed authority to deal with international smuggling operations. I will propose that the Congress pass legislation providing wiretap authority for investigation of alien smuggling cases and providing authorization to seize the assets of groups engaged in trafficking in human cargo.
In addition, I will propose legislation to give the Attorney General authority to implement procedures for expedited exclusion to deal with large flows of undocumented migrants, smuggling operations, and other extraordinary migration situations.
C. Visa Overstay Deterrence
Nearly half of this country's illegal immigrants come into the country legally and then stay after they are required by law to depart, often using fraudulent documentation. No Administration has ever made a serious effort to identify and deport these individuals. This Administration is committed to curtailing this form of illegal immigration.
Therefore, relevant departments and agencies are directed to review their policies and practices to identify necessary reforms to curtail visa overstayers and to enhance investigations and prosecution of those who fraudulently produce or misuse passports, visas, and other travel related documents. Recommendations for administrative initiatives and legislative reform shall be presented to the White House Interagency Working Group on Immigration by June 30, 1995.
Reducing the Magnet of Work Opportunities, Worksite Enforcement, and Deterrence
Border deterrence cannot succeed if the lure of jobs in the United States remains. Therefore, a second major component of the Administration's deterrence strategy is to toughen worksite enforcement and employer sanctions. Employers who hire illegal immigrants not only obtain unfair competitive advantage over law-abiding employers, their unlawful use of illegal immigrants suppresses wages and working conditions for our country's legal workers. Our strategy, which targets enforcement efforts at employers and industries that historically have relied upon employment of illegal immigrants, will not only strengthen deterrence of illegal immigration, but better protect American workers and businesses that do not hire illegal immigrants.
Central to this effort is an effective, nondiscriminatory means of verifying the employment authorization of all new employees. The Administration fully supports the recommendation of the Commission on Legal Immigration Reform to create pilot projects to test various techniques for improving workplace verification, including a computer database test to validate a new worker's social security number for work authorization purposes. The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and Social Security Administration are directed to establish, implement, monitor, and review the pilots and provide me with an interim report on the progress of this program by March 1, 1996.
In addition, the INS is directed to finalize the Administration's reduction of the number of authorized documents to support work verification for noncitizens. Concurrently, the Administration will seek further reduction legislatively in the number of documents that are acceptable for proving identity and work authorization. The Administration will improve the security of existing documents to be used for work authorization and seek increased penalties for immigration fraud, including fraudulent production and use of documents.
The Department of Labor shall intensify its investigations in industries with patterns of labor law violations that promote illegal immigration.
I also direct the Department of Labor, INS, and other relevant Federal agencies to expand their collaboration in cracking down on those who subvert fair competition by hiring illegal aliens. This may include increased Federal authority to confiscate assets that are the fruits of that unfair competition.
The White House Interagency Working Group on Immigration shall further examine the link between immigration and employment, including illegal immigration, and recommend to me other appropriate measures.
Detention and Removal of Deportable Illegal Aliens
The Administration's deterrence strategy includes strengthening the country's detention and deportation capability. No longer will criminals and other high risk deportable aliens be released back into communities because of a shortage of detention space and ineffective deportation procedures.
A. Comprehensive Deportation Process Reform
The Department of Justice, in consultation with other relevant agencies, shall develop a streamlined, fair, and effective procedure to expedite removal of deportable aliens. As necessary, additional legislative authority will be sought in this area. In addition, the Department of Justice shall increase its capacity to staff deportation and exclusion hearings to support these objectives.
B. National Detention and Removal Plan
To address the shortage of local detention space for illegal aliens, the Administration shall devise a National Detention, Transportation, and Removal Policy that will permit use of detention space across the United States and improve the ability to remove individuals with orders of deportation. The Department of Justice, in consultation with other agencies as appropriate and working under the auspices of the White House Interagency Working Group on Immigration, shall finalize this plan by April 30, 1995.
The Administration will seek support and funding from the Congress for this plan and for our efforts to double the removal of illegal aliens with final orders of deportation.
C. Identification and Removal of Criminal Aliens
The Institutional Hearing Program is successfully expediting deportation of incarcerated criminal aliens after they serve their sentences.
To further expedite removal of criminal aliens from this country and reduce costs to Federal and State governments, the Department of Justice is directed to develop an expanded program of verification of the immigration status of criminal aliens within our country's prisons. In developing this program, the viability of expanding the work of the Law Enforcement Support Center should be assessed and all necessary steps taken to increase coordination and cooperative efforts with State, and local law enforcement officers in identification of criminal aliens.
Targeted Deterrence Areas
Many of the Administration's illegal immigration enforcement initiatives are mutually reinforcing. For example, strong interior enforcement supports border control. While there have been efforts over the years at piecemeal cooperation, this Administration will examine, develop, and test a more comprehensive coordinated package of deterrence strategies in selected metropolitan areas by multiple Federal, State, and local agencies.
The White House Interagency Working Group on Immigration shall coordinate the development of this interagency and intergovernmental operation.
Verification of Eligibility for Benefits
The law denies most government benefits to illegal aliens. The government has a duty to assure that taxpayer-supported public assistance programs are not abused. As with work authorization, enforcement of eligibility requirements relies upon a credible system of verification. The INS, working with the White House Interagency Working Group on Immigration as appropriate, shall review means of improving the existing benefits verification program. In addition, we will seek new mechanisms—including increased penalties for false information used to qualify for benefits—to protect the integrity of public programs.
Anti-Discrimination
Our efforts to combat illegal immigration must not violate the privacy and civil rights of legal immigrants and U.S. citizens. Therefore, I direct the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and other relevant Administration officials to vigorously protect our citizens and legal immigrants from immigration-related instances of discrimination and harassment. All illegal immigration enforcement measures shall be taken with due regard for the basic human rights of individuals and in accordance with our obligations under applicable international agreements.
Assistance to States
States today face significant costs for services provided to illegal immigrants as a result of failed policies of the past. Deterring illegal immigration is the best long-term solution to protect States from growing costs for illegal immigration. This is the first Administration to address this primary responsibility squarely. We are targeting most of our Federal dollars to those initiatives that address the root causes that lead to increased burdens on States.
The Federal Government provides States with billions of dollars to provide for health care, education, and other services and benefits for immigrants. This Administration is proposing increases for immigration and immigration-related spending of 25 percent in 1996 compared to 1993 levels. In addition, this Administration is the first to obtain funding from the Congress to reimburse States for a share of the costs of incarcerated illegal aliens.
This Administration will continue to work with States to obtain more Federal help for certain State costs and will oppose inappropriate cost-shifting to the States.
International Cooperation
This Administration will continue to emphasize international cooperative efforts to address illegal immigration.
Pursuant to a Presidential Review Directive (PRD), the Department of State is now coordinating a study on United States policy toward international refugee and migration affairs. I hereby direct that, as part of that PRD process, this report to the National Security Council include the relationship of economic development and migration in the Western Hemisphere and, in particular, provide recommendations for further foreign economic policy measures to address causes of illegal immigration.
The Department of State shall coordinate an interagency effort to consider expanded arrangements with foreign governments for return of criminal and deportable aliens.
The Department of State also shall seek to negotiate readmission agreements for persons who could have sought asylum in the last country from which they arrived. Such agreements will take due regard of U.S. obligations under the Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees.
The Department of State further shall implement cooperative efforts with other nations receiving smuggled aliens or those used as transhipment points by smugglers. In particular, we will look to countries in our hemisphere to join us by denying their territory as bases for smuggling operations.
The Department of State shall initiate negotiations with foreign countries to secure authority for the United States Coast Guard to board source country vessels suspected of transporting smuggled aliens.
This directive shall be published in the Federal Register.
William J. Clinton
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:36 p.m., February 8, 1995]
  