
    Yesterday, the Biden Administration announced how it plans to distribute $5 billion to build electric vehicle charging stations, among states across the country. The Joint Office of Energy and Transportation is focused on making charging accessible – including in rural areas – and empowering domestic manufacturers and the private sector to aid in this effort. Environmental advocates, labor unions, and elected officials praised the announcement.
Environmental Organizations
Will Anderson, Deputy Legislative Director, Sierra Club: "We are pleased to see these critical funds going out the door to states to build electric vehicle chargers, an important investment to support our nation's transition to electric vehicles and prioritize domestic manufacturing. What's of utmost importance is how states develop their plans. They must make sure no community is left behind in the transition to clean transportation powered by renewable energy. In addition to fully funding the Biden administration's goal of 500,000 chargers across the nation, the passage of legislation investing in climate, jobs, and justice will ensure that communities have access to a range of critical clean transportation priorities, including consumer incentives that support unionized workforces and credits for used EVs, electric school buses, and more accessible and frequent public transit service." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Mustafa Santiago Ali, Vice President for Environmental Justice, National Wildlife Federation: "Cars and trucks are one of the most significant drivers of carbon emissions and harmful air pollution today. These investments, funded through the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, are an important step to supercharge our necessary transition to electric vehicles and away from vehicles whose emissions threaten public health and the environment. We will work with the Biden Administration to ensure these investments deliver for frontline and fenceline communities — and ensure electric vehicles are accessible and affordable for all." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Bluegreen Alliance: "This is a big deal. The new NEVI program makes exactly the kind of investments that prove we can have both good jobs and a clean environment when we center and uplift the workers who make the transition to cleaner transportation possible, and the communities most impacted by climate change and the poor transportation policies of the past. The BIL is already working to deliver for workers and communities around the country. The guidance's emphasis on domestically manufactured EV chargers, protection of and investment in the incumbent workforce, and equitable planning processes will help ensure we build up a strong domestic supply chain for EV charging infrastructure, that the jobs created by this effort will be good, union jobs, and that the benefits of the NEVI program—and America's broader transition to a clean transportation system—accrue to the communities where they are needed the most. EVs are here and they are the future—and EVs and the infrastructure needed for them should be built here in America. The deployment of these funds will lay the foundation for a national public EV charging network that is planned, designed, and implemented equitably." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Max Baumhefner, Senior Attorney, Natural Resources Defense Council: "This quick action demonstrates the priority the Biden administration is putting on building the vehicle charging infrastructure of the future. We have no time to lose, and the secretaries are making that clear in their actions today. It's now going to be up to states, localities and private businesses to move with the same sense of urgency, and get these charging stations built, particularly for the underserved and low-income communities that will most benefit from economic opportunity and cleaner air." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Environmental Defense Fund: "Investing in a new national network of electric vehicle charging stations means more jobs, cleaner air and a stronger economic future. Today's @WhiteHouse announcement is a demonstration that clean energy investments are delivering for America." [Tweet, 2/10/22]
Morgan Folger, Destination: Zero Carbon Director, Environment America: "With this money flowing to states, we can start to build for the electric vehicle revolution we know is coming. A more prolific charging network makes it easier for people to choose to drive an electric car and feel confident they have a place to power up along the way. The key to unlocking a more climate-friendly future featuring electric cars on every block is to make owning an EV more convenient and affordable. Restoring the electric vehicle tax credit is the next step Congress should take to ensure these cars are affordable, which will further allowing the EV market to continue to grow." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Advocacy Organizations
Mac Dressman, Transportation Associate, PIRG: "Building a national network of EV charging stations is just what the U.S. needs to make the transition to electric vehicles. It gives Americans the right infrastructure to reduce air pollution and tackle the climate crisis by making it easier to switch to zero-emission vehicles," said "Tragically, pollution from cars, trucks and other vehicles cuts short an estimated 58,000 lives every year. This step toward an all-electric, zero-emission future is essential to ensure cleaner air for all." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Building Back Together: "?@POTUS is charged up?His Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will create a national electric vehicle charging network that will save families money and help tackle the climate crisis -- made in America, creating thousands of good-paying union jobs." [Tweet, 2/10/22]
League of Conservation Voters: "BIG: @USDOT and @WhiteHouse just announced $5B for states to install EV charging stations where they are needed most. We're one step closer to an America where 100% of cars are zero-emission.  #CleanerCars" [Tweet, 2/10/22]
Business and Labor 
Lonnie Stephenson, President, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers: "The IBEW's 775,000 members have long called for a highly-skilled, highly trained workforce to be at the forefront of electric vehicle charging infrastructure installation and maintenance. We are pleased that the guidance issued today by the Department of Transportation sets the foundation for the development of national standards and recognizes the need for quality training by including the Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program (EVITP) within the guidance. Through these actions, DOT clearly demonstrates that it is prioritizing the safety of the traveling public and the creation of career pathways for working people. As we transition from fossil fuel-powered vehicles to electric vehicles, the integrity of the infrastructure that will power our future must be prioritized. With the right federal standards in place, our government can ensure that EV charging stations are installed to the high-quality standards the American public deserves the first time, sparing costly and time-consuming repairs down the road while creating good, union jobs. Today's guidance is a promising first step towards these goals. The IBEW looks forward to working with the Department of Transportation, Department of Energy, and other stakeholders to ensure an electric vehicle future that is both safe and a pipeline to good jobs." [Statement, 2/10/22]
John Bozzella, President and CEO, Alliance for Automotive Innovation: "The launch of the Joint Office of Energy and Transportation and the release of the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Guidance is an important step in releasing the $5 billion in federal funds to states for EV charging. This investment, made possible by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill, is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to jumpstart building a nationwide charging and refueling network for EVs. We will continue to work with the Administration, the new Joint Office, states, and other stakeholders so that the rollout of the national EV charging network is reliable, equitable, and meets the needs of current and future EV drivers." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Transportation Trades Department: "With the right federal standards in place, our government can ensure that EV charging stations are installed to the high-quality standards the American public deserves the first time, sparing costly and time-consuming repairs down the road while creating good, union jobs." [Tweet, 2/10/22]
Climate Power: "NEW: @SecretaryPete and @SecGranholm announce $5 billion EV investment with funds from @POTUS' Bipartisan Infrastructure Law  Now we need the Senate to finish the job by delivering the climate investments in Biden's Build Back Better agenda." [Tweet, 2/10/22]
Elected Officials 
Colorado Senator Hickenlooper: "Transitioning to electric vehicles is essential in our fight against climate change. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill is transforming the way we drive while creating jobs and cleaning our air." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Delaware Senator Carper: "What a beautiful day to celebrate our nation's EV future. ?It was wonderful joining @SecretaryPete, @SecGranholm, @ginamccarthy46, and @MitchLandrieu46 to announce details for a national charging network." [Tweet, 2/11/22]
Kentucky Governor Beshear and South Carolina Governor McMaster, National Governors' Association Economic Recovery and Revitalization Task Force Co-Chairs: "Governors are leading the way as states and territories adopt innovative strategies to support the Electric Vehicle industry and encourage greater EV adoption. The $5 billion in federal funding, provided by the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, for EV charging systems will accelerate fleet expansion in the public and private sectors and enhance infrastructure reliability for travel and commerce. EVs were front-and-center during NGA's Winter Meeting on January 29, when we were joined by representatives from General Motors, Toyota and the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, in which we led a discussion on how Governors can take advantage of the tremendous growth in this sector of the economy to spur job growth and innovation. Governors will work with the Administration to ensure that states and territories thoughtfully and expeditiously deploy these critical resources. While also ensuring that the funds meet the transportation needs of the 21st century." [Statement, 2/11/22]
Massachusetts Senator Markey: "This investment is a down payment for the coming electric vehicle revolution. We won't just be charging the next generation of vehicle transport in the United States, we will also be supercharging our economy. We can and must build on this momentum by passing the climate, clean energy, and equity policies included in the Build Back Better Act, which will accelerate the uptake of electric vehicles, provide health benefits, and support EV production in the United States." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Michigan Senator Peters: "There's no doubt that the future of the auto industry is electric – and the bipartisan infrastructure law will provide needed investments to build charging stations across our state. I'm proud to have helped pass this legislation into law to create good-paying jobs in Michigan, shore up domestic manufacturing, and tackle the climate crisis head on." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Michigan Senator Stabenow: "Electric vehicles are a key part of our clean energy future and the best way to stop paying high gas prices. But you can't drive one without access to convenient charging stations. This investment will help make sure we have public charging stations across Michigan so that it's easier for people to drive the electric vehicles being made here in Michigan." [Statement, 2/10/22]
New Mexico Senator Heinrich: "As a mechanical engineering student in college, I was part of a team that designed and raced a carbon fiber solar car called the Sun Tiger from Dallas all the way up to Minneapolis. It's exciting to see how EV technology has taken off since then—and created new careers. This historic investment to build out the first-ever nationwide charging network will accelerate the adoption of EVs to address the climate crisis, and help drivers save money. This new toolkit brings rural New Mexico communities to the table so that they too can reap the job and economic opportunities from the new EV charging network." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Oregon Senator Merkley: "Electric vehicles mean cleaner air, healthier kids, and a whole lot less carbon pollution driving climate chaos, and so this investment from the infrastructure bill is an important step for Oregon. More EV charging stations are critical to support faster adoption of electric cars and trucks. This is what it looks like when Congress and the President get together to create good jobs and a better future for Americans." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Oregon Senator Wyden: "Electric vehicles are an essential step on the road to a clean energy future that's a must to combat the climate crisis. I'm gratified the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is providing this federal investment in building a strong and dependable network of EV charging stations in Oregon. And I'll keep battling for similar investments that create a solid clean energy infrastructure for Oregonians." [Statement, 2/10/22]
Michigan Congresswoman Dingell: "Joined @SecretaryPete, @SecGranholm, @ginamccarthy46, @mitchlandrieu46, & others to highlight the $16M coming to MI to build out EV charging infrastructure. This strong federal funding will support the transition to cleaner transportation & create good-paying jobs for Americans." [Tweet, 2/11/22]
Michigan Congresswoman Lawrence: "Thanks to the leadership of President Biden and Congressional Democrats, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law continues to deliver for Michiganders. For too long, unreliable and inconsistent charging facilities have plagued Michigan's roads and highways, hampering drivers and our economy. These overdue investments will strengthen our state's critical infrastructure — paving the way for cleaner, easier driving, and supporting good-paying union jobs. I was proud to vote for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and I remain committed to working with our state and local leaders to ensure that these funds are swiftly deployed to where Michigan drivers need them most." [Statement, 2/11/22]
  