
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Jeffrey Robert Brown, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years, vice Thomas R. Saving.
Jeffrey Robert Brown, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years, vice Thomas R. Saving.
Hyepin Christine Im, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for the remainder of the term expiring October 6, 2008, vice Henry Lozano, resigned.
Hyepin Christine Im, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2013. (Reappointment)
Perri Klass, of New York, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2009, vice William T. Hiller, term expired.
Katherine Mitchell, of Alabama, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2010, vice Mark G. Yudof, resigned.
Eduardo J. Padron, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2009, vice Juan R. Olivarez, term expired.
Alexa E. Posny, of Kansas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2008, vice Carol C. Gambill, term expired.
Timothy Shanahan, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2010. (Reappointment)
Richard Kenneth Wagner, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2009. (Reappointment)
Layshae Ward, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring December 27, 2012, vice Mimi Mager, term expired.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Warren Bell, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2012, vice Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
Patricia Mathes, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2007, vice Mark G. Yudof, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
John L. Palmer, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
John L. Palmer, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
John L. Palmer, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
Thomas R. Saving, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
Thomas R. Saving, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
Thomas R. Saving, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
  