
    State Senator Van de Putte joins other Latino Elected Officials Backing Clinton
Citing her experience and commitment to universal health care, State Senator Leticia Van de Putte today endorsed Hillary Clinton for President.
"Hillary Clinton is the only presidential candidate, from both parties, left in this race that has a universal health care plan," said State Senator Van de Putte. "We need a president who'll deliver real solutions to the urgent challenges we face - even when the going gets tough. It will take someone with strength and experience to fight to provide quality, affordable health care for every man, woman and child in America. I know that Hillary will bring the voices and values of all Americans to the White House," added Van de Putte.
Texas Senator Leticia Van de Putte, a pharmacist for more than 28 years, represents a large portion of San Antonio. She has been elected four terms in the Texas Senate, following five terms as a state representative.
A former chair of the Texas Senate Hispanic Caucus, she currently chairs the Texas Senate Democratic Caucus. Senator Van de Putte is also a former president of the National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators.
Senator Van de Putte was elected as President of National Conference of State Legislators (NCSL) during the 2006 Annual Meeting in Nashville, and is the first Texan and the first Hispanic woman ever to chair the organization.
During the past two decades, Senator Van de Putte has been honored with numerous awards such as the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill (NAMI) Texas Legislative Champion Award, the United Way of San Antonio's Children's Championship Award, the League of United Latin American Citizens' Legislative Recognition Award, the Vietnam Veteran's Award, and the American Lung Association's Public Policy Award.
She currently chairs the Veteran Affairs and Military Installations Committee in the Texas Senate, and also is a member of the Senate committees on Education, Administration, and Business and Commerce.
  