
    The American-Australian alliance is rock solid and based on a common purpose: to promote peace and prosperity. Our friendship is underpinned by a deep alignment of interests and our societies' shared commitment to the values of freedom, democracy, and the rule of law. We recognize that it is more important than ever to defend our interests, values, and way of life.
We agree that the world in which we live is contested, and that it is more important than ever to defend our common values and way of life. We are committed to fostering an Indo-Pacific region where all countries abide by international law. Together, we intend to continue to protect the integrity of our institutions and to counter threats we face, whether they stem from terrorism, cyber activity, or transnational crime. And we remain united in our resolve to confront the most serious threat to peace in our region—the North Korean regime's illegal pursuit of nuclear weapons. Across the Indo-Pacific, our two nations are committed to deepening our engagement with our allies and all partners. We reaffirm our commitment to seek all opportunities to strengthen our alliance through practical initiatives that implement our shared objectives.
A free, open, and prosperous rules-based order in the Indo-Pacific region is in both our nations' enduring national interests. Our nations' strategies—embodied in the U.S. National Security Strategy and National Defense Strategy, and the Australian Foreign Policy White Paper and Defence White Paper—reflect our shared commitment to a region based on these convergent principles. The United States and Australia intend to continue to use diplomacy and assistance to support good governance and smart development decisions in the region. Our abiding belief in freedom, equality, mutual respect, and the rules-based order serves as the foundation of our two societies and a model that can benefit all nations and people.
Our economic cooperation spans every industry, creating jobs, providing investment opportunities, and raising living standards in both countries. Together we have tapped new sources of energy and provided hope in the battle against life-threatening diseases. The United States is Australia's largest single foreign investor, and the United States is Australia's largest destination for outward foreign direct investment—clear indicators of our close bilateral economic partnership. American companies in Australia and Australian companies in America employ hundreds of thousands of our citizens, creating employment and a high-level skills base in both countries.
We are cooperating to ensure that the international trading system is rooted in market-based principles, the rule of law, fair competition, private sector-led development, and good economic governance. Our governments are working together to make that system more resilient to growing challenges, and to ensure it continues to deliver prosperity and economic stability to the American and Australian peoples, the Indo-Pacific region, and the world.
There are no greater friends than the United States and Australia. For 100 years, since the Battle of Hamel, when American and Australian troops first fought side by side, our two nations have faced every challenge together. We look forward to working ever more closely together in these challenging times on the basis of trust, mutual respect, and mateship to shape a secure and prosperous century to come.
  