
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Stephanie Marie Rose and Michael P. Shea to serve on the United States District Court.
"These individuals have demonstrated the talent, expertise, and fair-mindedness Americans expect and deserve from their judicial system," said President Obama. "I am grateful for their willingness to serve and confident that they will apply the law with the utmost impartiality and integrity."
Stephanie Marie Rose: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Southern District of Iowa
Stephanie Marie Rose currently serves as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Iowa, a position she has held since 2009. Prior to her confirmation by the Senate, Rose spent over twelve years working in the same office as an Assistant United States Attorney, serving as Deputy Criminal Chief from 2008 to 2009. During her tenure in the United States Attorney's Office, she has investigated and prosecuted more than 800 federal criminal cases. She has also done pro bono work as a Court Appointed Special Advocate for abused and neglected children and as a volunteer lawyer representing domestic violence victims. Rose received her B.A. in 1994 and her J.D. in 1996, both from the University of Iowa.
Michael P. Shea: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut
Michael P. Shea has been a partner at the law firm of Day Pitney LLP in Hartford, Connecticut since 2003, where he has represented individuals, non-profits, and corporations in a broad range of civil and criminal cases. He currently serves as Chair of the firm's Appellate Practice Group and has argued nineteen civil and criminal appeals in both state and federal courts. Prior to joining Day Pitney as an associate in 1998, Shea worked as an associate at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton LLP in both its Washington, D.C. and Brussels offices. Shea began his legal career as a law clerk to the Honorable James Buckley of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit from 1993 to 1994. He received his J.D. in 1993 from Yale Law School and his B.A. summa cum laude in 1989 from Amherst College.
  