
    Carol D'Amico, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2010.
(Reappointment)
Perry R. Eaton, of Alaska, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2012, vice A. David Lester, term expired.
Ford M. Fraker, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
David C. Geary, of Missouri, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2010, vice Roberto Ibarra Lopez, term expired.
Eric Alan Hanushek, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2010.
(Reappointment)
Janis Herschkowitz, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of three years, vice Rafael Cuellar, term expired.
Marylyn Andrea Howe, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2008, vice Glenn Bernard Anderson, term expired.
Sonya Kelliher-Combs, of Alaska, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2008, vice Michael A. Naranjo, term expired.
Zalmay Khalilzad, of Maryland, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations.
Zalmay Khalilzad, of Maryland, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations.
Brenda L. Kingery, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2012, vice John Richard Grimes, resigned.
Julie E. Kitka, of Alaska, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2012, vice Katherine L. Archuleta, term expired.
Kristine Mary Miller, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2010, vice D. Bambi Kraus, term expired.
Lonnie C. Moore, of Kansas, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2008, vice Marco A. Rodriguez, term expired.
David George Nason, of Rhode Island, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of three years, vice Michael Scott, resigned.
Nguyen Van Hanh, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of three years, vice Alfred Plamann, term expired.
W. Craig Vanderwagen, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, Department of Health and Human Services.
(New Position)
Cynthia Allen Wainscott, of Georgia, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2008, vice Barbara Gillcrist, term expired.
Ellen C. Williams, of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2014. (Reappointment)
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Ellen C. Williams, of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2016 (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
  