
    To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 233 (e) (1) of the Social Security Act as amended by the Social Security Amendments of 1977 (P.L. 95-216; 42 U.S.C. 1305 note), I transmit herewith the Agreement between the United States of America and the Italian Republic on the Matter of Social Security, signed May 23, 1973, the Administrative Protocol for the Agreement, signed November 22, 1977 (together with a proces-verbal setting forth certain interpretative understandings) and an exchange of notes of January 17-20, 1978 clarifying the interpretation of Article 1, paragraph K, of the Agreement.
The Agreement fulfills a long-standing commitment made by the two Governments in the 1951 Supplementary Agreement to their 1948 Treaty of Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation. This totalization agreement would be the first such agreement undertaken by the United States, but is in the tradition of a number of earlier treaties between the United States and Italy. The first United States treaty to deal with any aspect of social security was concluded with Italy in 1913, and the 1948 treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation with Italy was the first of the post World War II era to contain broad social security provisions. This totalization agreement can be expected to be even more advantageous to Americans who have worked in Italy, either as U.S. citizens or before their immigration to this country, than any of the earlier treaties or agreements.
I also transmit for the information of the Congress a comprehensive report prepared by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare which explains the provisions of the Agreement and provides the actuarial data on the number of persons affected by the agreements and the effect on social security financing as required by the same provision of the Social Security Amendments of 1977.
The Department of State and the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare join in commending this Agreement, Protocol and Exchange of Notes.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
February 28, 1978.
  