
    Mike Bloomberg has led in moments of crisis, has the experience to handle the coronavirus outbreak
NEW YORK — Tomorrow night, Mike Bloomberg will deliver a three minute television address to the nation on the coronavirus which is threatening the population. In the unprecedented candidate address, Mike will outline the facts: coronavirus is spreading; the economy is plummeting; and America needs a leader with the experience to handle the crisis. The taped address entitled 'Leadership In Crisis' will air during commercial airtime on CBS and NBC at approximately 8:30 PM ET on Sunday night.
President Donald Trump is putting lives at risk by ignoring science and dismissing the spread of the virus as a "hoax". His actions are dangerous and his communication with the American people is dishonest. Mike is an experienced crisis manager who will restore stable leadership and trust in the White House.
"At times like this, it is the job of the President to reassure the public that he or she is taking all the steps necessary to protect the health and well-being of every citizen," says Mike Bloomberg. "The public wants to know their leader is trained, informed and respected. When a problem arises, they want someone in charge who can marshal facts and expertise to confront the problem." Full remarks are below.
President Trump's reckless cuts to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) funding and his senseless elimination of protective measures put in place following the pandemic Ebola virus outbreak have put Americans in danger, leaving the nation underprepared for the spread of coronavirus. If the government wants to keep Americans safe, the CDC and the National Institutes of Health must be given all of the resources necessary to do their job free of political interference.
As president, Mike will use his experience as a crisis manager to make decisions based on data, and then empower the doctors and scientists whose job it is to keep us safe.
Earlier today, Mike announced that he would invite back scientists forced out of the federal government during the Trump Administration. On Wednesday, even before President Trump had his press conference about COVID-19, Mike put forward a plan to prepare the country for public health crises. This plan will prepare hospitals for pandemics, fully fund federal government preparedness efforts, and invest in scientific research that enables resilience to emerging public health threats.
Mike Bloomberg's Address to the Nation: "Leadership in Crisis"REMARKS AS DELIVERED
Good evening. I know this has been a very worrisome week for many Americans.
The Coronavirus is spreading, and the economy is taking a hit. Markets have fallen because of uncertainty.
At times like this it is the job of the President to reassure the public that he or she is taking all the necessary steps to protect the health and well-being of every citizen.
The public wants to know their leader is trained, informed and respected. When a problem arises, they want someone in charge who can marshal facts and expertise to confront the problem.
They want him or her to prepare for events like these in advance with teams of experts.
Communications must be honest and transparent, so people can be confident that professionals are in charge. Trust is essential.
Government's resources must be focused and priorities clear and consistent.
Presidents have vast tools at their disposal — and they must be used effectively and decisively. This includes building strong, cooperative relationships with nations around the world to prevent and prepare for pandemics and other global emergencies that cross borders.
The Centers for Disease Control and the National Institutes of Health must be given all of the resources necessary to do their job free of political interference.
Decisions must be based on data and must empower the doctors and scientists whose job it is to keep us safe.
As the former mayor of New York City, I know it is critical that the federal government work in close partnership with state and local leaders who administer services and deploy first responders. That requires putting politics and partisanship aside.
I was first elected just weeks after the attack on 9/11 — a massive rebuilding, security and health challenge. In my 12 years in office I dealt with a hurricane, a blackout, attempted terror attacks, the West Nile virus and swine flu.
My method of leadership was to plan ahead before the problem arrived – we worked with hospitals and first responders to develop plans in advance, to improve communication and to invest in preparedness.
Through the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins, I understood the challenges hospitals and medical professionals face and we worked as a team to upgrade readiness.
Each crisis is different, but they all require steady leadership, team building and preparation.
As Americans we have faced many challenges before, and we have overcome them together by looking out for one another — and I am confident that is how we will get through this one as well.
I'm Mike Bloomberg and I approve this message.
  