
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




February 15, 202309:52

In-town pool report #1 - Lunch lid until 1pm
Good morning from Washington, D.C. I'll be your print pooler today.
The president is headed to Lanham, Maryland, later to deliver remarks on his plan to reduce the deficit. The White House has called a lunch lid until 1 p.m. Please feel free to reach out with any questions.
Here's a look at today's schedule.
EST
10:15 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE VICE PRESIDENT receive the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed PressOval Office
10:30 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
1:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House South GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool (Gather 1:10 PM – Palm Room Doors) 
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on the progress we are making building an economy from the bottom up and the middle out, and about his vision to grow the economy, lower costs, and reward work, not wealth – while reducing the deficitIBEW Local 26, Lanham, MarylandPooled for TV and Pre-Credentialed Media
3:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth Grounds In-Town Travel Pool



February 15, 202313:11

In-town pool report #2 - Awaiting departure
Pool has loaded into the vans on the South Lawn driveway as we wait for POTUS for the half-hour ride to the IBEW Local Union 26 in Lanham, Maryland.
The president's remarks (scheduled for 2:30 pm ET) will be livestreamed here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
One clarification on the schedule: there is no press briefing scheduled for today.



February 15, 202313:54

In-town pool report #3 - Rolling
POTUS stepped out of the Oval Office at 1:47 pm ET. He climbed into the Beast a minute later and the motorcade is now rolling at 1:49 pm ET.
Per WH: Traveling with the President via motorcade en route International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 26, Lanham, Maryland:Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of StaffCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMegan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterHerbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications



February 15, 202314:25

In-town pool report #4 - IBEW arrival
The motorcade arrived at 2:11pm ET after an uneventful ride.
Pool was escorted inside the IBEW Local Union 26 to a hall at the end of the building. The president's podium is set against a backdrop of stairs lined with local union members holding handmade signs that read "Let's go Joe!" and "IBEW + Biden – Perfect Union." Five American flags and three bunting flags were also displayed along the stairs. The crowd cheered as Gov. Wes Moore entered the hall.
The President is greeting with Local IBEW 26 members and participating in a photo line, per WH.
Participating in a photoline with the President at IBEW Local 26:Governor of Maryland Wes MooreSenator Ben Cardin (MD)Rep. Glenn Ivey (MD-04)Anne Healey, Maryland Delegate (District 22)Kenneth Cooper, International President, IBEWBrandon Travis Brown, Culpeper Town Councilman and IBEW Local 26 Apprentice
We're awaiting the remarks, which again will be livestreamed here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



February 15, 202314:34

In-town pool report #5 - Two-minute warning
Two minutes until POTUS speaks.
B. Travis Brown is speaking now.
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Per WH: 
In attendance for the President's remarks on his plan to reduce the deficit while investing in America, bringing down costs for families, and protecting and strengthening Social Security and Medicare:
Members of the local IBEW, other labor leaders, community members, and elected officials
Speaking Program:Brandon Travis Brown, Culpeper Town Councilman and IBEW Local 26 ApprenticeThe President



February 15, 202314:37

In-town pool report #6 - POTUS remarks
POTUS took the stage at 2:33 pm ET and began speaking after briefly turning to look at all the poster signs behind him.
I won't be sending quotes but will send any notable color from the room.



February 15, 202315:16

In-town pool report #7 - POTUS finishes remarks
POTUS finished speaking at 3:07 pm ET for a total of 34 minutes. He stepped off the stage and into the crowd to work the rope line for several minutes.
The crowd erupted into cheers several times throughout his speech as he touched on his economic plan, funding high-speed internet and electric vehicle charging stations through the bipartisan infrastructure law, bringing manufacturing back to the U.S. and lowering the cost of prescription drugs.
He repeated his promise to veto any legislation that cuts Social Security and Medicare. "That's the Republican dream. I'm their nightmare," he said.
Pool is moving back to the vans.



February 15, 202315:34

In-town pool report #8 - Rolling for the WH
The motorcade is rolling at 3:29pm ET.
Pool did not see POTUS join the motorcade before we moved.



February 15, 202315:54

In-town pool report #9 - WH arrival/lid
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 3:50pm ET.
The Beast stopped in front of the residence, but pool did not see POTUS exit.
We have a lid. Have a wonderful afternoon!




  