
    In the last week, President Trump's tax reform has continued to bring benefits to American workers, boosting paychecks and creating bonuses.
WASHINGTON EXAMINER: Anthem Offers $1,000 Bonuses Due to Tax Cut
"Insurance giant Anthem announced it would give $1,000 to the retirement accounts for more than 58,000 employees and recent retirees due to tax reform. The insurer said that overall it will contribute more than $58 million to employees' 401(k) programs and it is putting together a new investment program based on changes installed from the tax bill passed late last year."
CNBC: Lowe's Confirms Plans to Pay up to $1,000 Bonuses
"Lowe's confirmed Thursday it plans to pay out one-time bonuses and sweeten benefits, saying it expects the impact of new tax law to be positive for its business in 2018. The home improvement retailer is giving more than 260,000 hourly employees bonuses of up to $1,000 and will expand benefits packages — adding adoption assistance and paid parental leave — in the wake of new tax legislation, CNBC reported on Wednesday."
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS: Best Buy to Hand Out Bonuses to Workers
"Best Buy, the nation's largest consumer electronics retailer, says it will hand out bonuses to more than 100,000 employees, joining a growing list of U.S. companies sharing a portion of their windfall from the federal tax overhaul with employees. The Minneapolis-based chain on Friday said that this month it will pay one-time bonuses of $1,000 to full-time workers and $500 to part-time employees."
SIOUX CITY JOURNAL: Tyson to Pay Out $1,000 and $500 Bonuses to Employees
"Tyson Foods, Inc. has announced eligible employees will be receiving $1,000 and $500 bonuses as a result of recent changes to the tax code.... In a statement from president and CEO Tom Hayes, Tyson announced it will give its 100,000-plus worldwide employees (whose pay package doesn't include an annual bonus) a one-time bonus. Eligible full-time employees could receive a $1,000 bonus, while eligible part-time employees could receive $500."
THE HILL: Hostess Gives Employees $1,250, Free Snacks after GOP Tax Cuts
"Hostess Brands Inc. announced it will give workers one-time bonuses of $1,250 and one year of free snacks as a result of the new GOP tax legislation.... Workers will receive the monetary bonus in the form of $750 in cash and a $500 contribution to their 401k."
CNBC: CVS to Hike Wages, Introduce Paid Parental Leave With Windfall from New Tax Law
"CVS Health will increase employee pay and sweeten benefits to some employees using a portion of the company's windfall from the new tax law. CVS will boost starting pay for hourly employees to $11 per hour from $9 per hour, starting in April.... Full-time employees will qualify for as much as four weeks of paid parental leave, and worker health-care premiums will hold steady at current rates."
THE HILL: Chipotle Announces New Employee Bonuses, Citing Tax Cuts
"Chipotle employees will see one-time bonuses of between $250 and $1,000, as well as expanded training programs and parental leave, the company announced Wednesday.... Chipotle said Wednesday that tax savings from the new law prompted it to offer its roughly 71,000 hourly and salaried employees the bonuses and new benefits."
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS: Charter Ups Minimum Wage to $15 an Hour Citing Tax Law
"Charter Communications says it is setting its minimum wage across the board at $15 an hour, citing the impact on its business from the tax overhaul and the repeal of net-neutrality rules. That's more than double the national minimum wage of $7.25, although it varies by state."
THE BEAUMONT ENTERPRISE (BEAUMONT, TEXAS): SE Texas Company to Hand Out Bonuses Amid Tax Cuts
"Female-owned engineering company Leak Sealers says it's handing out bonuses to its 100 employees, joining major retailers like Lowe's and Walmart Inc. that are investing in workers after Congress approved a tax cut that will help businesses."
REUTERS: BP to Boost U.S. Investment After Tax Reform: CEO
"British oil and gas company BP (BP.L) will increase investment in the United States after the lowering of tax rates under President Donald Trump, Chief Executive Bob Dudley said on Tuesday."
FOX BUSINESS: Boeing Boosts Employee Match Program After GOP Tax Cuts
"U.S. airplane manufacturer Boeing (BA) announced Wednesday it will change its policies for volunteer and gift match programs, resulting from the tax reform package signed into law last December. The company announced $300 million in investments and earmarked $100 million toward corporate charitable investments after the legislation passed."
  