
    "America hopes for a future in which everyone can prosper, and every child can grow up free from violence, poverty, and fear." --President Donald J. Trump
SUPPORTING WORKING PARENTS: President Donald J. Trump has promoted policies that support and empower working parents.

President Trump has called for the creation of a plan for nationwide paid family leave so that every new parent has the chance to bond with his or her newborn child.

He is the first president to include a plan for nationwide paid family leave in his Budget.


The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed by the President included a new tax credit to businesses offering paid family leave to their employees.

Businesses can receive a tax credit of up to 25% for the wages paid to employees during their leave.
This tax credit marked an important step in promoting paid family leave nationwide.


Paid family leave is an investment in our future that will strengthen family bonds and improve the financial stability of American families.
The President will ask Congress to support school choice in order to support working parents.

PROTECTING OUR CHILDREN: President Trump is committed to protecting the precious gift of life. 

President Trump is calling on Congress to defend the dignity and life of every person and pass legislation to prohibit late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in the mother's womb.
Recently, our country has witnessed a chilling disregard for life as States have taken up legislation that would expand access to abortion up until just moments before birth.

In New York, lawmakers cheered as they passed legislation that would allow for third trimester abortions in specific cases.
In Virginia, the Governor stated he would support executing a baby after birth.


Since taking office, President Trump has followed through on his promise to protect life.

The President recently signed a letter to Congress making clear that he will veto any legislation that weakens protections of life.
President Trump reinstated and expanded the Mexico City Policy, preventing foreign aid from being used to support abortion.
The Administration issued a proposed regulation to ensure taxpayer dollars from the Title X family planning program are not awarded to abortion providers.



HELPING FAMILIES GET AHEAD: President Trump is working to help families get ahead and build a successful future for their loved ones. 

The President has enacted a pro-growth agenda that has spurred job creation and led to rising wages, helping families' bottom lines as they support their loved ones.
President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which provided tax cuts for many families and increased deductions that will help these families get ahead:

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act doubled the child tax credit from $1,000 to $2,000 and helped more families claim the credit.
Parents are now able to use 529 education savings plans to help pay for primary and secondary education for their children thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also drove businesses to provide millions of Americans with bonuses, wage increases, and increased benefits.



  