
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint twelve individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Robert Irwin Cusick, Jr., of Kentucky, to be Director of the Office of Government Ethics. Mr. Cusick is currently a Partner at Wyatt, Tarrant & Combs LLP. An attorney at the firm for over thirty years, he is Partner-in-Charge of Ethics Counseling. He also currently serves as Chairman of the Ethics Rule Drafting Committee for the Kentucky Bar Association. He has previously served as a Member of the Ethics Committee for the Kentucky Bar Association. Mr. Cusick received his bachelor's degree and his JD from the University of Louisville.
The President intends to nominate James Lambright, of Missouri, to be President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 20, 2009. Mr. Lambright currently serves as Acting President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Prior to this, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Earlier in his career, he served as Vice President for Private Equity at Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation. Mr. Lambright received his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his JD from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Jon T. Rymer, of Tennessee, to be Inspector General of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Mr. Rymer is currently on active duty in the United States Army. Mr. Rymer recently served as Director for KPMG LLP. Prior to this, he served as Executive Vice President for Bank America of Arkansas. Earlier in his career, he served as Executive Vice President for First American National Bank. Mr. Rymer received his bachelor's degree from the University of Tennessee and his master's degree from the University of Arkansas.
The President intends to nominate Dennis R. Spurgeon, of Florida, to be Assistant Secretary of Energy (Nuclear Energy). Mr. Spurgeon most recently served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for USEC, Inc. Prior to that, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Swift Group, LLC. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Operating Officer for UNC Resources. Mr. Spurgeon also served in the United States Navy and retired as a Captain. He received his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy and his master's degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science, for the remainder of three-year terms expiring December 31, 2008:


  Oliver K. Baker, of Virginia
  Sally K. Mason, of New Jersey
  Robert Y. Moore, of Pennsylvania
  Harvey S. Rosen, of New Jersey

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy:


  Samuel K. Lessey, Jr., of New Hampshire, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2008
John Stringer Rainey, of South Carolina, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2006
William H. Strong, of Illinois, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2008

The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Council on Service and Civic Participation, for two-year terms:
Raymond G. Chambers, of New Jersey Darrell Green, of Virginia Michelle Nunn, of Georgia Sara Evans Schelske, of Oregon Mark G. Yudof, of Texas
  