
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Walter Barrows, Member, Railroad Retirement Board
•      David Brewer, Member, Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute
President Obama said, "I am honored that these talented individuals have decided to join this Administration and serve our country. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:Walter A. Barrows, Nominee for Member, Railroad Retirement Board
Walter A. Barrows is Secretary-Treasurer of the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen (BRS). He was elected to this position in 1999 and reelected in 2002, 2006, and 2010. Mr. Barrows began his railroad career in 1974 with the Norfolk & Western Railroad and held numerous positions in the railroad's signal department. Within his local union, Locals 199 and 228, he served as Local Chairman, Local President, and Recording-Financial Secretary. Mr. Barrows also served the BRS as the General Chairman and General Secretary-Treasurer for the Norfolk Southern General Committee. Prior to being elected Secretary-Treasurer, he served as a Trustee on BRS' Grand Board of Trustees. Since 1999, Mr. Barrows has served as a labor member on the joint health care subcommittee to oversee the National Railroad Health and Welfare Plan. In the current round of national railroad bargaining, he chairs the health care committee for the six unions in the Rail Labor's Bargaining Coalition. In 2004, 2007, and 2010 he was elected as a labor trustee to oversee the National Railroad Retirement Investment Trust Fund.
David Brewer, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute
The Honorable David V. Brewer is currently the Chief Judge of the Oregon Court of Appeals. Judge Brewer was elected to the court in 1999 and has served as chief judge since 2004. Prior to joining the Court of Appeals, he served as a state court trial judge and presided over criminal and civil matters. Previously, Judge Brewer was a Partner at the law firm Lombard, Gardner, Honsowetz & Brewer. He is the immediate past President of the Council of Chief Judges of the State Courts of Appeals, where he serves on the Council's Executive Committee. In 2008, Judge Brewer received the National Center for State Court's Distinguished Service Award for his contributions to the development of performance measures for the nation's state appellate courts. He holds a B.A. in economics from California State University at Sonoma and a J.D. from the University of Oregon School of Law.
  