
    WASHINGTON, DC — Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate Cheryl Ann Krause to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
"Cheryl Ann Krause has displayed exceptional dedication to the legal profession through her work and I am honored to nominate her to serve the American people as a judge on the United States Court of Appeals," President Obama said. "She will be a diligent, judicious and esteemed addition to the Third Circuit bench."
Cheryl Ann Krause: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
Cheryl Ann Krause has been a partner in the Philadelphia office of Dechert LLP since 2006. She is also a lecturer in law at the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Krause was born in St. Louis, Missouri, and grew up outside Philadelphia. She received her B.A. summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania in 1989 and her J.D. with highest honors from Stanford Law School in 1993. After graduating from law school, Krause clerked for Judge Alex Kozinski of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit from 1993 to 1994, and then for Justice Anthony M. Kennedy of the Supreme Court of the United States from 1994 to 1995. From 1995 to 1996, Krause worked as a lecturer and visiting scholar at Stanford Law School, as well as a law clerk at Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP in San Francisco. Krause was an associate at Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP in New York City from 1996 to 1997, and then served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York from 1997 to 2002. Krause returned to Philadelphia in 2003, where she joined Hangley Aronchick Segal & Pudlin as a shareholder. In 2006, she became a partner at Dechert LLP, where she specializes in white-collar criminal defense and government investigations.
Since 2003, she has regularly taught courses at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, where she founded and leads an appellate litigation externship program. She also founded the Philadelphia Project in 2011, a partnership between Dechert LLP and the Public Interest Law Center of Philadelphia to improve the quality of education for children with disabilities. Since 2007, Krause has served as outside counsel for the City of Philadelphia's Board of Ethics and on the Board of Directors of the Committee of Seventy, a non-partisan civic organization focused on fair elections and government integrity.
  