
    Houston, TX - Today, former Texas Governor Mark White endorsed Barack Obama for President, citing his plan to provide universal healthcare coverage and ability to stand up to the special interests in Washington that have blocked so much progress in recent years. Governor White's endorsement is the first by a Texas governor in this election.
"I am proud to support a candidate who has inspired a nation and unprecedented number of Texans to get involved and mobilize for a new direction in America. Barack's vision is exactly what our nation needs right now. He offers America the opportunity to move beyond the divisive politics and moneyed special interests and start addressing the many great challenges we face as a nation," Governor White said.
Governor White announced his endorsement at a news conference at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Houston to highlight his belief that Obama would be able to unite America and pass universal health care legislation during his first term as President.
"Right now, Texas has the highest rate of uninsured in nation," said Gov. White. "We are in desperate need of a comprehensive solution that will provide access to quality and affordable health care. I believe that Barack's health care plan is the answer we've been looking for."
Governor White is recognized as a leader in education reform throughout the state of Texas and staunch advocate for indigent health care. White led efforts to expand South Texas Hospital to provide comprehensive health services in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, and establish the Task Force on Indigent Health Care.
"It's an honor to have Governor White's support." Senator Obama said. "From his leadership on education reform to health care, Governor White is a dedicated public servant who's made a real difference in the lives of ordinary Texans. He's fought throughout his career to ensure that Texas' future lives up to its proud history. And I look forward to working with him to bring about real change not just for Texans, but for all Americans."
  