
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 14
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Merida, Mexico, where they toured the Governor's Palace with President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico and his wife, Nilda.
February 15
In the morning, the President toured the grounds of the Hacienda Temozon with President Zedillo. In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
February 16
The President announced his intention to appoint Gregory L. Craig to the President's Export Council.
The White House announced that the President proposed $956 million in disaster assistance for Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, and other Caribbean nations struck by Hurricanes Mitch and Georges in the fall of 1998.
February 17
The President declared a major disaster in Wyoming and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm on October 5-9, 1998.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Tucson, AZ, and San Francisco and Los Angeles, CA, on February 25-March 2, and to Arkansas and Texas on March 12-14.
February 18
In the morning, the President traveled to Dover, NH, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President named Maurice Goldhaber and Michael E. Phelps as the winners of the Enrico Fermi Award, given for a lifetime of achievement in the field of nuclear energy.
February 19
In the evening, at a ceremony in the Roosevelt Room, the President granted a posthumous pardon to Lt. Henry O. Flipper, USA. Later the President attended a reception celebrating the 90th anniversary of the NAACP in the Great Hall at the National Museum of Women in the Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Valerie J. Bradley, Joyce A. Keller, John F. Kennedy, Jr., K. Charlie Lakin, T.J. Monroe, Elizabeth C. Pittinger, Michael L. Remus, Jacquelyn B. Victorian, Barbara Y. Wheeler, and Sheryl White-Scott as members of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation. Ms. Bradley will continue to serve as Chair.
  