
    
  "I can think of no person better suited than Ted Cruz to take the challenges of Obama's failures head on and restore constitutional government"

HOUSTON, Texas – Texas Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick penned an op-ed in The Dallas Morning News in support of Ted Cruz for President. See excerpts below and read the full op-ed here.
The Dallas Morning News
Why I support Ted Cruz for president
TX Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick
Right now we are seeing an assault on our freedoms and our security. On the one hand, the Obama administration has come after our Bill of Rights — from his administration's assault on religious liberty to its effort to strip Americans of their Second Amendment right to bear arms and the concerted effort to replace state and local control with federal bureaucratic overreach.
On the other hand, the Obama administration continues to compromise our safety by not only failing to secure the border but by creating policies that make the problem worse.
....
As lieutenant governor of Texas, I can think of no person better suited than Ted Cruz to take the challenges of Obama's failures head on and restore constitutional government.
Texas has led the way against President Obama's reckless amnesty, and no presidential candidate has fought harder to end Obama's illegal actions that Senator Cruz. Since the Gang of Eight fight, Ted Cruz has led Congress and millions of conservatives to stop the Obama-Schumer-Rubio amnesty deal.
....
Ted Cruz, along with Reps. Jeff Sessions, Steve King, and other strong House conservatives, successfully stopped the Gang of Eight bill. We need a president who will have the same resolve not simply to stop bad legislation but also to implement the right reforms. Ted Cruz has a detailed immigration plan to do just that. And he has the record and character demonstrating his political will to get the job done.
Republicans cannot elect a candidate who stood with Democrats for amnesty for those who have entered our country illegally. Sen. Marco Rubio's record on immigration matches the failed platform of the Democrats. He has said he will not rescind DACA, he has supported in-state tuition for illegal immigrants, and he double-downed on a flawed and dangerous approach to admitting refugees. He has refused to stand for the rule of law and American safety when the fight mattered most.
A broken immigration system is the greatest threat to our safety here at home. We cannot elect a candidate who has consistently sided with illegal aliens over the American people and has admittedly failed to foresee dangers of unvetted immigrants and refugees. This need must be addressed, not simply since the San Bernardino attack but dating back to Sept. 11, 2001.
Some have touted Donald Trump as the candidate who will be tough on immigration, but his record on that issue is inconsistent with his rhetoric. What's more, while Trump wants to build a wall, he's also said he would let lawbreakers come right back in through "touch-back" immigration — a proposal Democrats have favored.
There is not an iota of evidence that Trump would actually follow up and secure our border. We cannot take such a chance on our nation's future.
Ted Cruz has always put Americans' safety and freedom above political pressure. His entire career he has defended our Constitutional rights and protected Americans from a lawless government.
....
Ted Cruz had the clarity and courage to take on that case and others as he fought for our civil liberties and I have no doubt that same strength of character will guide his decisions from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
  