
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 28
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
January 29
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison; —Vice President Walter F. Mondale. The President, acting upon the recommendation of the Department of Justice, commuted the 7-year sentence of Patricia Campbell Hearst to a term of 2 years, 4 months, and 10 days, which will effect her immediate release on February 1, 1979, because of good time allowances earned.
January 30
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—A. Daniel O'Neal, Chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President presented the first annual Women's Caucus for Art awards for "Outstanding Achievement in the Visual Arts" to painters Isabel Bishop and Alice Neel and sculptors Louise Nevelson and Selma Burke. The fifth award recipient, painter Georgia O'Keeffe, was unable to attend the ceremony and was honored in absentia.
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of New Mexico as a result of flooding, beginning about December 19, 1978, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
January 31
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Marjorie Bell Chambers, Acting Chair of the National Advisory Committee for Women;
—Vice President Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative Jack Brooks of Texas;
—Vice President Mondale and Representative Al Ullman of Oregon. The President transmitted to the Congress the annual report of the Office of Alien Property, Department of Justice.
February 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Mrs. Carter and Gov. and Mrs. George Nigh of Oklahoma, for lunch;
—members of the Oklahoma State Legislature;
—Vice President Mondale and Senator Russell B. Long of Louisiana;
—Senator Richard Stone of Florida. The President transmitted to the Congress the budget of the District of Columbia for fiscal year 1980.
In the evening the President participated in a foreign affairs briefing for a group of Senators.
February 2
The President met at the White House with Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan.
Following the memorial service for former Vice President Rockefeller, in New York City, the President went to Camp David, Md., for the weekend.
  