
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Theodore William Kassinger, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce. Mr. Kassinger currently serves as General Counsel for the Department of Commerce. He previously served as a member of Vinson & Elkins, L.L.P., specializing in international trade and business. Prior to this position, Mr. Kassinger worked on the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance as International Trade Counsel. He earned his bachelor's degree and his Juris Doctors from the University of Georgia.
The President intends to nominate Michael Christian Polt, of Tennessee, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Serbia and Montenegro. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Polt currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Legislative Affairs. Previously, Mr. Polt served as the Deputy Chief of Mission in Germany and Switzerland. He earned his bachelor's degree from American International College and his master's degree from the University of Tennessee.
The President intends to nominate Neil McPhie, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board. Currently, Mr. McPhie serves as Vice Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board. Previously, he worked in Virginia's Attorney General's Office. Earlier in his career, Mr. McPhie served as Director of the Virginia Department of Employment Dispute Resolution. He earned his bachelor's degree from Howard University and his Juris Doctors from Georgetown University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation:
Rosalyn Queen Alonso, of West Virginia (Recommended by the Minority Leader of the Senate), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 19, 2009
Stephen J. Moses, of New Jersey (Recommended by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 2, 2008
Paul S. Polo Sr., of Connecticut, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 19, 2009
  