
    
  Romney Administration Behind Public Funding for New Planned Parenthood Offices That Offered Abortion, Morning After Pill,And Gay/Lesbian/Bi-Sexual Services

Verona, PA - Mitt Romney is talking a good pro-life game, but for over 55 years of his life, Romney was not just pro-choice, but a supporter and proponent of abortion in America.
Earlier today, ABC News put out a story with a picture of Mitt Romney attending a Planned Parenthood event.  I'm sure many people will be offended at this, but then you'd expect nothing less from Mitt Romney who already has a well-documented pro-choice record.  However, Gov. Romney didn't stop there.   His Economic Development Agency Administration approved a $5 million dollar tax-exempt bond for Planned Parenthood's new facility.
Months Before Leaving Office, Romney's Economic Development Agency Approved A Tax-Exempt Bond For Planned Parenthood
In 2006, Romney's Economic Development Agency Granted Approval For A Planned Parenthood Clinic In Worcester "That Will Provide Abortions." "Former governor Mitt Romney's economic development agency granted initial approval to a tax-exempt bond last year for a Planned Parenthood clinic in Worcester that will provide abortions, just two months before he left office and began highlighting his antiabortion position as a presidential candidate." (The Boston Globe, 12/29/07)
"The Nov. 8, 2006 Vote By MassDevelopment To Grant Initial Approval Of The $5 Million Tax-Exempt Bond Laid The Groundwork For Planned Parenthood To Begin Planning The Center And Prepare For The Loan Closing."(The Boston Globe, 12/29/07)
The Romney Administration-Approved Planned Parenthood Clinic Offers Women Abortion Services And The "Morning After Pill" In Its State-Of-The-Art 10,000 Square Foot Facility. "In addition to providing abortion services, the 10,000-square-foot Planned Parenthood clinic planned for Worcester will offer Plan B emergency contraception, also known as the 'morning after pill,' which also is opposed by antiabortion advocates." (The Boston Globe, 12/29/07)
During The Year Romney's Agency Approved The Abortion Group's Tax-Exempt Bond, The Center Had 11,000 Patient Visits. "Last year, the Planned Parenthood Central Massachusetts Health Center had more than 11,000 patient visits, with more than two-thirds of these visits for preventive health care, such as gynecological exams and contraception. Community demand for these services continues to grow, and this relocation project would help Planned Parenthood meet that demand." ([Worcester, MA] Telegram & Gazette, 2/7/07)
While Autonomous, The Authority That Approved The Planned Parenthood Deal Was Controlled By Romney Appointees, Including His Secretary Of Economic Development. "While Romney's campaign said the agency that authorized the deal, MassDevelopment, is an autonomous authority, it was controlled by Romney appointees. Several of its 11-member board were top officials in the Romney Administration, including Ranch Kimball, the chairman who was also Romney's secretary of economic development. Other members included another representative from Kimball's office and an official from the Executive Office of Administration and Finance." (The Boston Globe, 12/29/07)
It Was Believed The New Site Would Improve Access To Reproductive Health Services Through Development Of A Modern, Larger Facility" With Ample Parking. "The new site will allow Planned Parenthood to improve access to reproductive health services through development of a modern, larger facility in a more convenient location with additional parking capacity for patients and staff." ([Worcester, MA] Telegram & Gazette, 2/7/07)
ROMNEY AIDES DENIED THE GOVERNOR KNEW ABOUT THE DEAL
Romney Aides Denied The Governor Knew About The $5 Million Deal His State Agency Handed Planned Parenthood. "Asked about the $5 million financial deal yesterday, the Romney campaign said the former governor was not aware it was under consideration when Planned Parenthood won preliminary approval in November 2006." (The Boston Globe, 12/29/07)

Romney's Spokesman Eric Fehrnstrom: "He did not know about this loan. It was made by an agency that does not report to the governor. If it did, he would have told them not to do it." (The Boston Globe, 12/29/07)

A Tufts Professor Wondered How "Such A Politically Sensitive Financial Deal" Went Through The Process Of Romney's Economic Development Agency. "Jeffrey M. Berry, a political science professor at Tufts University, said he was surprised that Romney and his aides did not catch such a politically sensitive financial deal making its way through his economic development agency. ... 'It is unusual that his people at the agency did not find a reason not to fund Planned Parenthood,' Berry said." (The Boston Globe, 12/29/07)
THE PLEASANT STREET CLINIC THAT ROMNEY BUILT
http://www.plannedparenthood.org/health-center/centerDetails.asp?f=2660&a=90610&v=details#
Central Massachusetts Health Center - Worcester, MA
470 Pleasant Street Worcester, MA 01609
P: 800.258.4448 | F: 508.854.3310
Operated by: Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts
Services offered include: Abortion, Morning After Pill, & LGBT Services
  