
    The UN's 2001 debacle in Durban must not be allowed to repeat itself. No one will ever forget how the world's first Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance made a mockery of its own effort to banish the scourge of racism globally. I was appalled when a meeting designed to condemn racism became the forum for the distribution of anti-Semitic cartoons, leaflets and other demonstrations of naked hatred and bigotry against Jews.
As President I pledge to resolutely fight all efforts to inject anti-Semitism, hatred and discrimination onto the agenda of Durban II, scheduled for 2009, and I call on UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise Arbour and heads of state from around the world to lend full force of their offices to prevent that from happening. Particularly with Iran, now the global seat of anti-Semitic rhetoric, on the organizing committee, the need for vigilance and forceful action to redeem this conference is essential.
When I am President, the United States will lead a boycott of the conference should current efforts to rein in the forces of hatred fail. We must not accept, condone or participate in a conference that can be hijacked by an agenda of hatred, and we must work strenuously to ensure that our friends do not do so either. I applaud the strong redline laid down by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who announced that France would disengage from the Conference if the "excesses and abuses" from 2001 return to the agenda of Durban II.
Non-governmental Organizations also have a special responsibility to resist efforts to pollute the NGO forum at Durban II. To prevent a repeat of 2001, American philanthropic organizations must carefully review the objectives of the NGOs they sponsor for the conference, ensuring that none will come to Durban with pernicious agendas. Respected human rights organizations participating in Durban II should be prepared to swiftly and resolutely denounce any group that allows hatred to infect the proceedings.
The UN is an essential arena for political debate among nations, but we must not let it be misused as a forum for anti-Semitism or incitement against any group. The credibility of the UN and its core human rights machinery is at stake, and thus far the signs are pointing in the wrong direction. We must not repeat the tragedy of the first Durban conference, and now is the time to lay down clear markers against such an outcome.
  