
    Mitt Romney today announced the members of his Wyoming leadership team.
"I am humbled to have the support of so many great public servants in Wyoming," said Mitt Romney. "Under my economic plan, Wyoming will be able to develop its natural resources and be a leader in our country's economic comeback. I look forward to working with these leaders to help Wyoming reach its full potential."
State Chair Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis said, "Wyoming has faced first-hand the consequences of President Obama's big-government over-regulation that has hindered our state's economic development. Mitt Romney knows that the best thing Washington can do is to get out of the way of job creators. President Obama's approach to government has been to balloon government and put us on a path toward Greece. Mitt Romney will shrink government, put an end to burdensome regulations, and create an environment where small businesses can thrive. I urge fellow Wyoming voters to support Mitt Romney — our country can't afford four more years of failed leadership."
State Chair
Cynthia Lummis, United States Representative
State Co-Chairs:
Senator Jim Anderson, Wyoming Senate President
Senator Eli Bebout
Greg Schaefer, Wyoming Republican National Committeeman
State Steering Committee:
Senator Ray Peterson
Senator Ogden Driskill
Senator Stan Cooper
Senator Leland Christensen
Senator Wayne Johnson
Senator Dan Dockstader
Representative David Miller
Representative Robert McKim
Representative Tom Lockhart
Representative Michael Madden
Representative Ruth Ann Petroff
Representative Elaine Harvey
Representative Matt Greene
Bruce Brown, Former Crook County Republican Party Chair and WY Republican Party Vice Chair
Ron Micheli, Former Wyoming House Leader and Director of WY Department of Agriculture
Dr. Jason Whitman, WY Young Republicans Chair and YRNF National Policy Committee Chairman
Marilyn Taylor, Park County GOP Activist
Bill Cubin, Former Natrona County Republican Party Chair
Haley Davis, Campaign Manager For Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis
Clay Long, Laramie County Young Republicans Chair
Bill Novotny, Campaign Manager for Governor Matt Mead

  