
    
  Campaign to air 'Three of a Kind' in Washington and 'Plan' in Vermont in run-up to voting contests, all to support Ron Paul's delegate-win effort

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today details of its Super Tuesday and pre-Super Tuesday ad buy blueprint, an approach that will help the 12-term Congressman from Texas win the delegates required to secure the Republican nomination.
The advertising campaign's first leg involves airing the celebrated ads 'Three of a Kind' and 'Plan' in Washington and Vermont, respectively. The former ad will air in Washington beginning today for three days on the Fox News Channel in the final push for the Evergreen State's Saturday, March 3rd caucus. The latter ad will air beginning today in Vermont on The Fox News Channel and on targeted broadcast outlets, but it will air through Tuesday, March 6th — Super Tuesday — when the Green Mountain State holds its primary.
'Three of a Kind' at 60 seconds condemns the serial hypocrisy, counterfeit conservatism, and flip-flopping of Ron Paul's rivals Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum, and Mitt Romney respectively. The ad concludes with a reminder that Paul is the sole authentic conservative vying for the nomination, and reiterates elements of the congressman's path-breaking 'Plan to Restore America.'
The 30-second spot 'Plan' is lighter and centers squarely on Dr. Paul's same balanced budget proposal, one that gains high marks from many fiscal experts, analysts, and pundits.
"This first leg of our Super Tuesday and pre-Super Tuesday ad buy plan shows our commitment to Washington and Vermont, a dedication to these states and their voters that the other candidates have not shown," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"This airtime purchase and forthcoming buys elsewhere advance the delegate-attainment strategy that will help Ron Paul win the Republican nomination as we continue along this exhaustive 50-state campaign, a race we are prepared to stay in and win," added Mr. Benton.
Details on additional ad purchases in key voting states are forthcoming.
To view 'Three of a Kind,' please click here. To view 'Plan,' please click here.
  