
    Today, Portland City Councillors Spencer R. Thibodeau and Nicholas Mavodones announced their endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"At a time when our country is divided, we need a leader who can take charge on day one and begin the hard work of bringing us back together. Just as Governor Mills had to restore faith in our institutions after the devastating impact of Republican Gov. Paul LePage, we need a leader in the White House who can bring people together to restore faith in our institutions after this failed President. Joe Biden is the only candidate running for President who has enacted major legislative change -- from the Violence Against Women Act, to the Brady Bill to expand background checks, to the Affordable Care Act, and so many more critical pieces of legislation that have helped to move our country forward. I am excited to endorse Joe Biden and look forward to sharing his vision for our country with my fellow Mainers," said Spencer Thibodeau, Portland City Councillor.
"As a City Councilor at large, I know the importance of representing everyone, not just those who speak the loudest. Vice President Joe Biden is a leader who has proven through his lifetime of public service that regardless of your background, you deserve to live in a country where you can accomplish any dream you set out to achieve. Joe Biden is the only candidate that can beat Donald Trump and bring us toward an America that's more inclusive for everyone. I'm proud to support Joe because Joe supports the people of Portland," said Nick Mavodones, Portland City Councillor at large.
Spencer joins a wide and diverse coalition of New England leaders who have previously announced their support for Vice President Biden, including former Secretary of State John Kerry, Massachusetts Congressmen Seth Moulton and Stephen Lynch, former Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin, former New Hampshire Governor John Lynch, former New Hampshire Congresswoman Carol Shea Porter and more. Nationally, Biden for President has previously announced more than 1,400 endorsements from national, state, and local leaders, including current and former U.S. senators and representatives, governors, state elected officials, community leaders, and national security professionals.
  