
    Nielsen is the first Iowa elected official to endorse any candidate for President in 2020
Des Moines, IA -- This morning, Representative Amy Nielsen became the first Iowa elected official to endorse Cory Booker for President in 2020.
Representative Nielsen hails from North Liberty, Iowa, and is serving her second term in the Iowa House of Representatives. A staunch public education advocate and former mayor of North Liberty, Representative Nielsen is also the first Iowa elected official to endorse any candidate for President in 2020.
Representative Nielsen announced her endorsement in a video posted to Twitter this morning followed by an exclusive guest post on Iowa Starting Line.
IOWA STARTING LINE: America Needs A Leader Who Can Bring Us Together"We need a leader who will unite us instead of seeking opportunities to divide us. We need a leader who isn't afraid to tackle our nation's toughest problems by putting forward bold solutions.
I believe that leader is Cory Booker, which is why I'm excited to endorse Cory for President of the United States.
Iowans can trust Cory to have their backs. Throughout his career, he has taken on big challenges to lift up those most in need of help. He knows that we can't achieve the American Dream by going it alone."
WHAT THEY'RE SAYING
CEDAR RAPIDS GAZETTE: Rep. Amy Nielsen becomes first Iowa lawmaker to endorse 2020 hopeful"As a former mayor myself, I know the types of tough decisions that you must make when you are the city's chief executive officer and how that prepares you to tackle big things in the future," Nielsen said.
Booker is part of a growing field of candidates competing in Iowa's first-in-the-nation precinct caucuses scheduled for Feb. 3, 2020. Although the pace of the campaign has picked up rapidly over the last month, there have been few endorsements.
POLITICO: Iowa lawmaker becomes first to endorse BookerNielsen's nod comes as 2020 presidential candidates trek through Iowa this month to lay early groundwork in an already crowded primary field.
Earlier this month, Nielsen and Booker held a joint event in Cedar Rapids. Booker also attended a fundraiser for Nielsen at a local event last October after Booker headlined the state Democratic Party's Fall Gala. At the time, Booker traveled throughout the state plugging Democrats and raising money for the party in the midterm elections.
  