
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 7
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Amman, Jordan, to attend funeral services for King Hussein I.
En route aboard Air Force One, the President met with former Presidents Gerald R. Ford, Jimmy Carter, and George Bush, concerning the Middle East, Kosovo, Russia, and North Korea.
February 8
During the day, in Amman, the President met separately with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and President Ezer Weizman of Israel, President Boris Yeltsin of Russia, Prince Charles and Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom, President Jacques Chirac of France, Queen Beatrix and Prime Minister Wim Kok of The Netherlands, Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, President Suleyman Demirel of Turkey, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan, Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi of Japan, Crown Prince Saad al-Sabah of Kuwait, King Juan Carlos I of Spain, and President Hafiz al-Asad of Syria. The President also met briefly with leaders of Oman, Yemen, and Bahrain.
In the evening, the President met with King Abdullah II of Jordan. Later in the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
February 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Wintergreen, VA, where he addressed members of the House Democratic caucus. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint James V. Kimsey, William F. Murdy, and Jude W.P. Patin to the U.S. Military Academy Board of Visitors.
The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe freeze on December 20-28, 1998.
The White House announced that the President invited Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany for an informal visit to the White House on February 11.
February 10
In the afternoon, the President traveled to College Park, MD. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paula J. Dobriansky to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
February 11
In the afternoon, the President met with Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to appoint Rolland A. Schmitten to be U.S. Commissioner of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas.
The President announced the nomination of Leonard R. Page to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board.
  