
    Pool Reports by Aurélia End, Agence France-Presse



Sent:
Reports:




February 6, 202213:45

Travel pool report #1 - Rolling
Hello from Wilmington on a bright and chilly Sunday.
The motorcade started rolling at 1:43 PM.
We are headed to Delaware Air National Guard base where POTUS will lift off and fly back to the White House.
He has no other public events scheduled for today according to the WH guidance.



February 6, 202214:02

Travel pool report #2 - Departure
Motorcade reached DANG at 1:53 PM.
Your pooler could not see POTUS board his helicopter.
Marine One lifted off at 2:01 pm
Per the WH
Returning with the President and the First Lady to Washington, DC:Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsCurtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral AffairsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Handing off to the in-town pool now.
Have a nice day.




 
Pool Reports by Laura Figueroa Hernandez, Newsday



Sent:
Reports:




February 6, 202215:03

In-Town Pool Report 1 - Q's answered at arrival 
Happy Sunday from the South Lawn
Marine One landed at 2:51pm
POTUSand FLOTUS disembarked Marine One at 2:53pm
Stopped briefly to answer q's and entered WH a minute later
Asked if he was concerned about Russia and China getting closer
POTUS: "That's nothing new"
Marek from Polish Radio asked if POTUS would consider sending morw US troops to NATO countries if PUTIN doesnt deescalate.
POTUS: "Im not going to speculate"
NBC News' kelly o'donnell asked POTUS - what factors is Putin considering in making his decision
Potus: "Things he cannot get"



February 6, 202215:12

Pool Report 2 - Lid + additional comment 
Lid was called at 2:59pm
Some clearer transcription of POTUS' responses from first email.
Q on china and russia's relationship
"There's nothing new about that."
Q on Putin's decision making
"I think things he cannot get."
Not included in first report, Biden was asked "Any message to the troops and their families in Poland?"
POTUS stopped pumped his fist as in a sign of support, it appears he said something but it was inaudible to poolers even after multiple playbacks given helicopter noise and his distance from mics at that point.




  