
    
  African-American Pastor Says Cruz Will "Create Healthy Culture for Families" 

HOUSTON, Texas – Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Reverend Bill Owens. A veteran civil rights activist and leader in the black community for many years, Reverend Owens is founder and president of the Coalition of African American Pastors, a grassroots Christian movement supporting the role of religion in American public life, the lives of the unborn, and the sacred institution of marriage.
"No one has a stronger record on the defense of marriage, and no one has a better grasp of the challenges facing our families and the solutions we need than Senator Ted Cruz," Reverend Owens said. "As President, Ted will create a healthy culture for families, defend innocent life, and promote widely shared economic growth."
"For too long," he continued, "Democrats have taken the African American vote for granted, fostered racial division, poured salt on racial wounds, and promoted policies directly harmful to the entire black community and destructive to the African American family and its pathway to prosperity. Ted will reverse those destructive policies and create an environment where the black community can truly prosper through the enormous talents and skills of its people; instead of languishing behind on the handouts and false promises of liberalism."
"I am honored to have the support of Reverend Owens," said Cruz. "His eloquent and uncompromising defense of the family and of religion in public life is inspiring and will continue to be effective. We are excited to have him serve as a spokesperson to pastors and in the African-American community."
Reverend Owens is a minister of the Gospel who has also served as a teacher, executive, and entrepreneur. Along with his wife Dr. Deborah Owens, an expert in education reform, Reverend Owens travels extensively to advocate for faith, family, and education reform. His Healing America Tour draws on his experience in the civil rights movement to energize pro-family and pro-faith activists. Reverend Owens is an ordained elder in the Church of God in Christ, the largest predominately black denomination in the U.S.
Titles and affiliations are provided for identification purposes only.
  