
    Thomas S. Andrews will serve as Special Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs.
Robert B. Blair will serve as Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the Chief of Staff.
Monica J. Block will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of White House Management and Administration and Acting Director of the Office of Administration. Ms. Block previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Management and Administration.
Pat A. Cipollone will serve as Assistant to the President and Counsel to the President.
Catherine A. Cole will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Trade and Manufacturing Policy. Ms. Cole previously served as Associate Director in the Office of Trade and Manufacturing.
Hayley L. D'Antuono will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Director of Operations for the Office of the First Lady. Ms. D'Antuono previously served as Senior Operations Manager in the Office of the First Lady.
Emma K. Doyle will serve as Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy Chief of Staff.
John A. Eisenberg will serve as Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President for National Security Affairs and Legal Advisor to the National Security Council. Mr. Eisenberg previously served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President for National Security Affairs and Legal Advisor to the National Security Council.
Leslie A. Ford will serve as Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. Ms. Ford previously served as Associate Director in the Domestic Policy Council.
Andrew J. Galkowski will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Special Assistant to the Chief of Staff.
Joseph J. Grogan will serve as Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy.
Stephanie A. Grisham will serve as Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications for the First Lady. Ms. Grisham previously served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications for the First Lady.
Arthur Harding will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Director of Policy for the Office of the First Lady.
William B. Harrison will serve as Special Assistant to the President for Operations. Mr. Harrison previously served as Special Assistant to the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations.
Katherine A. Henning will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Director of Broadcast Media. Ms. Henning previously served as Director of Broadcast Media.
Benjamin R. Hobbs will serve as Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy.
Benjamin R. Howard will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs.
Brian T. Jack will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Political Affairs. Mr. Jack previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of Political Affairs.
Rear Admiral Ronny L. Jackson will serve as Assistant to the President and Chief Medical Advisor.
David M. Jones will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Associate Counsel to the President.
Rebekah G. Jurata will serve as Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.
Adam R. Kennedy will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Communications. Mr. Kennedy previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Director of Research and Content Development.
Nicholas F. Luna will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President for Operations and Personal Aide to the President. Mr. Luna previously served as Special Assistant to the President for Operations and Advance.
Meghan B. McCann will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Associate Director of Presidential Personnel. Ms. McCann previously served as Special Assistant in the Office of the Chief of Staff.
Molly A. Michael will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Oval Office Operations Coordinator. Ms. Michael previously served as Oval Office Operations Coordinator.
Caroline E. Moore will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of the Chief of Staff.
Robert A. Newson will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the White House Military Office.
Katlyn L. Parnitzke will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief Digital Officer. Ms. Parnitzke previously served as Deputy Chief Digital Officer.
Timothy A. Pataki will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison. Mr. Pataki previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison.
Patrick F. Philbin will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President.
Michael M. Purpura will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President.
James J. Redstone will serve as Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy.
Kelly Ann Shaw will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for International Trade, Investment, and Development.
Roger L. Stone will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of White House Information Technology.
Kathryn C. Todd will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President.
Susan C. Varga will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.
Madeleine E. Westerhout will serve as Special Assistant to the President and Director of Oval Office Operations. Ms. Westerhout previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Executive Assistant to the President.
  