
    The President today announced that he has asked the following persons to be members of the Committee on Selection of the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation:
IRVING S. SHAPIRO (Chairman)
CLARENCE M. KELLEY
SUSIE MARSHALL SHARP
MARY ELEANOR WALL
JOSEPH F. TIMILTY
CRUZ REYNOSO
TOM BRADLEY
CHARLES MORGAN, JR.
FREDERICK AUGUST OTTO SCHWARTZ
The Committee will meet with the President on Friday, February 18.
Irving S. Shapiro, 60, is chairman and chief executive officer of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., and was an attorney in the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice from 1943 to 1951.
A native of Minneapolis, Minn., he received his undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Minnesota. After serving in the Justice Department, he joined du Pont in 1951 as an attorney in the general legal division. He served as vice chairman of the board from 1970 to 1973, when he was made chairman and chief executive officer of the firm.
He is married to the former Charlotte Harsht. The couple has two children, Stuart Lane and Elizabeth Irene. They maintain their residence in Greenville, Del.
Clarence M. Kelley, 65, is currently the Director of the FBI.
As a former special agent for the FBI, he entered on duty in October 1940. He served as a special assistant in the Huntington, W. Va., and Pittsburgh offices; the FBI Training Center, Quantico, Va., as a firearms instructor; and in the Des Moines office.
He was on military leave from the FBI from 1942 to 1946, when he served in the U.S. Navy in the South Pacific.
He returned to the FBI and served as Assistant Special Agent in Charge in a number of offices throughout the country, and served as Special Agent in Charge of the Birmingham and Memphis offices until his retirement in 1961.
He served as chief of police in Kansas City, Mo., until he was named Director of the FBI on June 7, 1973.
Mr. Kelley received his undergraduate degree from the University of Kansas and received his law degree from the University of Missouri in Kansas City. He is married to the former Shirley Dyckes. He has children by a previous marriage, Kent and Mary Ruth.
Susie Marshall Sharp, 69, has served as an associate justice of the Supreme Court of North Carolina since 1962.
After she received her law degree from the University of North Carolina, she was in private practice in Reidsville, N.C., where she also was a city attorney from 1939 to 1949. She later served as a special judge for the Superior Court of North Carolina.
Mary Eleanor Wall, 47, has been a member of the DuPage (Illinois) County Board since 1974.
A native of Lakeland, Fla., Mrs. Wall was educated at Florida Southern College in Lakeland and Emory University in Atlanta. She served as Christian education director in churches in Lakeland, Fla., and Decatur, Ga. She also served as a local, State, and national officer for the American Association of University Women.
She is married to the Rev. James M. Wall, the editor of the Christian Century magazine. The couple has three sons, David, Robert, and Richard.
Joseph F. Timilty, 38, is a Massachusetts State senator from Boston and is currently serving on the Joint Committee on Urban Affairs.
He Was appointed teaching fellow at Harvard University's Kennedy Institute for Politics in 1972, and is now on the faculty of the Boston University urban affairs department, teaching a course on urban legislating and lobbying techniques.
He is married to the former Elaine Benson and has six children, Kelly, Kara, Joseph, Jr., Patrick, James, and Gregory.
Judge Cruz Reynoso, 45, is an associate justice for California's Third District Court of Appeals in Sacramento, Calif.
He was a professor of law at the University of New Mexico Law School for 4 years, and he served as deputy, and later director, of the California Rural Legal Assistance, Inc., for 4 years. He also served as Associate General Counsel for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in Washington, D.C.
A native of Brea, Calif., Judge Reynoso received his undergraduate degree from Pomona College and his law degree from the University of California at Berkeley. He also received a Ford Foundation student research grant at the National University of Mexico in Mexico City.
He is married to the former Jeannene Harness and has four children, Trina, Ranene, Len, and Rondall.
Tom Bradley, 59, has been mayor of Los Angeles, Calif., since 1973.
He was a member of the Los Angeles Police Department from 1940 until 1961, when he left to enter private law practice for 2 years. He was on the Los Angeles City Council for 2 years before being elected mayor.
A native of Calvert, Tex., he attended the University of California at Los Angeles and received his law degree from Southwestern University. He is married to the former Ethel Arnold and has two daughters, Lorraine and Phyllis.
Charles Morgan, Jr., 46, former head of the Washington legislative office of the American Civil Liberties Union, practices law in Washington, D.C.
A native of Birmingham, Ala., Mr. Morgan received his undergraduate and law degrees at the University of Alabama. He was in private practice in Birmingham from 1955 to 1963, when he was the principal attorney in Reynolds v. Simms, the one-person, one-vote legislative reapportionment case.
In 1963 Mr. Morgan joined the American Civil Liberties Union and founded the ACLU's southern regional office, which he directed until he went to Washington in 1972 to head the legislative office.
He is a visiting professor at New York Law School and is president of the Fund for Constitutional Government. He is married to the former Camille Walpole and has a son, Charles III.
Frederick August Otto Schwartz, 41, former chief counsel to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, is a partner in the New York law firm of Cravath, Swaine, and Moore.
A graduate of Harvard Law School, Mr. Schwartz was a law clerk for the late Judge J. Edward Lumbard, Chief Judge for the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
He also served as an assistant commissioner for law revision for the government of northern Nigeria and was a research associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He joined the present law firm in 1963 and became a full partner in 1969.
He is the grandson of F. A. O. Schwartz, the founder of the New York City toy store. He is married to the former Marian Ladd Latsley. The couple has three children, Frederick, Adair, and Eliza.
  