
    Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, distinguished friends:
Your Majesty, I am very happy--on behalf of the people of the United States--to welcome you once more to these shores. This is not your first visit, but this is the first time that I have had the pleasure as President to welcome you. I am very honored.
It has always seemed to me that our two countries have much in common. Our history and our cultures are very different. Yet in all matters that are vital to human dignity and to happiness, we speak with one voice.
Both nations are dedicated to the ideals of freedom--freedom for ourselves and freedom for all others. Both nations are devoted to orderly progress and to equal justice for all people.
Your nation was one of the very first to give formal recognition to our young country when our success was still in doubt, and there were many who hoped to see us fail.
In modern times the American people have followed with great interest your Majesty's own effort on behalf of the people of Morocco. We have watched intently your nation's struggle for progress in the decade since regaining your independence.
So we meet here today in the White House as friends. I hope that in all of our talks we will reaffirm our common desire to improve the lot of all men. Certainly I am pleased at the opportunity to discuss with you the great issues of our day.
The greatest of all such issues is the question of peace and of reconciliation among nations and peoples.
Not peace at any price; not peace where one nation dominates another; but peace where all nations accept the rule that their differences shall be settled by discussion and compromise, and not by force of arms.
And a peace where they turn from hostility to working together--working together on behalf of their own peoples and the other people of the world.
You in north Africa have a chance in the days and the years ahead to turn this corner. I understand that, despite other problems you may have, your economic ministers are meeting regularly to explore what you can do together to develop your nations. I know the path of regional cooperation is never an easy one; but I have seen with my own eyes in Asia how old quarrels and suspicions can subside and can give way to joint ventures-joint ventures to teach the young, to improve the people's health, to raise the standards of living for all. I know the same healing process is underway in this hemisphere.
In many parts of the world it is being demonstrated that it is by this route that nations--loyal to their culture and tradition-loyal to their own ambitions--yet can find a place of dignity and strength in the modern world.
We look forward with great pleasure to knowing Your Majesty better. May your visit be the symbol of our people's determination to walk together, to pursue together an entire world of peace and abundance.
  