
    
February 16, 2016
Team Marco rolled out a 28-member Arkansas leadership team today.
The announcement comes following a press conference held by Marco's Arkansas Leadership Team at the Arkansas State Capitol this afternoon, and previous endorsements from former U.S. Senator Tim Hutchinson, Arkansas Lt. Governor Tim Griffin and Congressmen Steve Womack and Rick Crawford.
Per @TBArkansas: "Rubio Supporters Announce Leadership Team" w/ 28 state legislators https://t.co/OaVt0kiUkn #arpx pic.twitter.com/4EYzRXAvpn
— Jeremy Adler (@JeremyAdler) February 16, 2016

Growing number of Arkansas legislators endorsing @marcorubio #arpx pic.twitter.com/0pj1I1o23Z
— Robert Coon (@robertwcoon) February 16, 2016

The Leadership Team includes former Huckabee supporters Charlene Fite, Laurie Rushing, Prissy Hickerson, Mickey Gates, and Karilyn Brown.
State Senator Bart Hester, Rubio's campaign chairman in Arkansas, highlighted the new endorsements.
I am thrilled that these conservative elected officials are joining with me to support the most electable conservative in this race: Marco Rubio.
Marco understands the struggles of working families because he's lived them, and we are proud to be working with him to help all people in Arkansas and across the nation achieve the American Dream.

House Majority Leader Ken Bragg, of Sheridan, noted that these leaders will be instrumental in helping Marco ahead of the March 1st primary.
I am happy to join my colleagues here today in supporting Marco Rubio's leadership team in Arkansas. In the coming days, we will take Marco's positive message of a New American Century to our constituents, neighbors and friends and let them know why Marco can beat Hillary Clinton in November and move America in a conservative direction.

Check out the full list of state legislators signing on to Team Marco:
Marco's Arkansas State Chairman:
State Senator Bart Hester
Marco's Arkansas Leadership Team:
Senate President Jonathan Dismang
Senate Majority Leader Jim Hendren
State Senator Missy Irvin
State Senator Greg Standridge
State Senator John Cooper
State Senator Jeremy Hutchinson
House Majority Leader Ken Bragg
House Majority Whip Jim Dotson
State Rep. Justin Boyd
State Rep. Charlie Collins
State Rep. Jana Della Rosa
State Rep. Lanny Fite
State Rep. Mark Lowery
State Rep. Laurie Rushing
State Rep. DeAnn Vaught
State Rep. Micah Neal
State Rep. Prissy Hickerson
State Rep. Ken Henderson
State Rep. Nate Bell
State Rep. Dan Douglas
State Rep. Mickey Gates
State Rep. Charlene Fite
State Rep. Karilyn Brown
State Rep. David Meeks
State Rep. Andy Davis
State Rep. Grant Hodges
State Rep. Gary Deffenbaugh
  