
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Throughout the history of the United States, the American people have always had the highest regard for practical invention and design. Today we still value the skillful use of tools and technology, as well as the application of innovative ideas. Both are vital to the success of business and industry, and both are vital to a strong economy.
This week, we recognize the importance of vocational and technical education in our Nation's public and private schools. If the United States is to remain a leader in the increasingly competitive global marketplace, it must not only be committed to excellence in the production of goods and services, but also be capable of achieving it. By preparing young men and women for work in highly specialized technical fields, vocational-technical education programs make an important contribution to our Nation's strength and productivity.
The students and teachers engaged in vocational-technical education know that it holds great rewards for individuals, as well as for the Nation. Through vocational-technical education, aspiring entrepreneurs gain the knowledge and skills they need to establish and maintain their own businesses. Many other students pursue exciting careers in health care, electronics, engineering, and other challenging fields.
Graduates of vocational-technical education programs can take great pride in knowing that they possess the kind of learning and expertise relied upon by millions of people every day. In short, vocational-technical education works -- and it works for all of us.
In acknowledgment of the great value of vocational and technical education, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 130, has designated the week of February 11 through February 17, 1990, as "Vocational-Technical Education Week" and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of February 11 through February 17, 1990, as Vocational-Technical Education Week. I invite all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities designed to highlight the benefits of quality vocational-technical education.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  