
    The President today declared a major disaster exists in the State of Ohio and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, flooding, and mudslides on December 22, 2004, through February 1, 2005.
The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in the counties of Athens, Belmont, Clark, Coshocton, Crawford, Delaware, Franklin, Henry, Jefferson, Logan, Morgan, Muskingum, Pickaway, Pike, Ross, Scioto, Warren, and Washington.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding also is available to State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe winter storms, flooding, and mudslides in the counties of Adams, Allen, Ashland, Athens, Auglaize, Belmont, Brown, Carroll, Champaign, Clermont, Columbiana, Coshocton, Crawford, Darke, Delaware, Fairfield, Fayette, Franklin, Guernsey, Hancock, Hardin, Harrison, Henry, Highland, Hocking, Holmes, Huron, Jefferson, Knox, Licking, Logan, Lorain, Marion, Medina, Meigs, Mercer, Monroe, Morgan, Morrow, Muskingum, Noble, Paulding, Perry, Pickaway, Pike, Richland, Ross, Scioto, Seneca, Shelby, Stark, Tuscarawas, Union, Van Wert, Washington, Wayne, and Wyandot.
Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures statewide.
Representing the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Michael D. Brown, Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, Department of Homeland Security, named Lee Champagne as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected area.
The Agency said that damage surveys are continuing in other areas, and additional counties may be designated for assistance after the assessments are completed.
The Agency said that residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by registering online at http://www.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. seven days a week until further notice.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: FEMA (202) 646-4600.
  