
    Reverend Gwendolyn Cook Webb endorses the candidate for president
(Birmingham, AL, February 2, 2020) — Citing presidential candidate Tom Steyer's long history of activism, Alabama civil rights icon, Reverend Gwendolyn Cook Webb joined a growing number of grassroots activists to endorse Steyer for president. Reverend Webb underscored that it was Tom's established track record of fighting for civil rights causes that was a key factor in earning her official support.
As a Civil Rights Foot Soldier, Reverend Gwendolyn Cook Webb was just a 14-year-old freshman cheerleader at Western-Olin High School (now Jackson Olin High School), when she was sprayed with fire hoses, attacked by police dogs, and jailed for seven days. She joined with thousands of children to take a stand and led the historic 1963 Birmingham Children's Marches. Cook's pioneering story continued as she later became the second-ever African-American female police officer hired by the Birmingham police department.
Her civil rights story was featured in the Academy Award-winning documentary Mighty Times: The Children March. She was also the subject of a feature documentary "In the Name of Love," which detailed her 1970's interracial marriage to another Birmingham police officer.
Tom recently visited a gathering of community stakeholders in Birmingham to discuss his stance on the livable wage disparity, health care access, environmental justice, and improving the quality of Alabama's education system. There he drew the attention of Rev. Webb, a well-known Birmingham activist.
Upon meeting Tom and his wife, Kat, Rev. Webb said, "I was just so proud to have met them and to become a part of what I knew would be a very historic event. It dawned on me, they're activists and that's what I am! This couple really puts their money where their mouth is and that's really what drew me to them. We have got to get Tom Steyer in there."
Rev. Webb's endorsement of Tom comes on the heels of the endorsement of Greenwood, SC City Councilwoman Edith Childs, the woman President Barack Obama credits for coining his legendary "Fired Up! Ready to Go!" campaign slogan. Childs endorsed Tom in a recently-released ad.
"I am humbled to have the endorsement of such an iconic figure in the civil rights movement," Steyer said. "When you think about the work Rev. Gwendolyn Cook Webb has done over the years, you realize that she is among those legends who've fought to keep the moral arc bent towards justice. America has a history of injustice and racism that has never been fully acknowledged. I will fight with the same tenacity as Reverend Cook Webb to ensure the racism that undercuts our governmental policies is eliminated."
Today's announcement continues Tom's momentum, coming after a new poll by the Charleston Post and Courier that shows Tom surging to second place amongst African Americans in South Carolina. Steyer placed third in the recent Morning Consult's early states and caucus tracker polls, and second place in a Fox News South Carolina poll.
  