
    AUSTIN, TX - Texans for Hillary today announced the endorsement of several Rio Grande Valley elected officials, a list of supporters that continues to grow. In a show of support, the Rio Grande Valley elected officials stood behind Hillary Wednesday at her South Texas Kick-off Event in McAllen.
"The people of the Rio Grande Valley know Hillary Clinton, view her as an adopted Texan, and have witnessed first-hand her commitment to improve their quality of life. They know that she is the best candidate to deliver solutions in the future, because she has been delivering needed change to their lives for over 30 years," Congressman Ruben Hinojosa said.
"Hillary will work to fix our economy, expand access to affordable health care, and protecting our nation's soldiers. We stand with Hillary because she has and will continue to stand with us. They know she did not have to discover South Texas on a map when it came time to run for President. I think South Texas will play a big part in helping her carry Texas on March 4th. "
Rio Grande Valley Elected Officials Endorsing Hillary:

U.S. Congressman Ruben Hinojosa
State Senator Juan "Chuy" Hinojosa
State Senator Eddie Lucio, Jr.
State Representative Juan Escobar
State Representative Veronica Gonzales
State Representative Ryan Guillen
State Representative Ismael "Kino" Flores
State Representative Armando Martinez
State Representative Rene Oliveira
State Representative Aaron Pena
County Judge J.D. Salinas of Hidalgo County
County Commissioner Oscar L. Garza of Hidalgo County
County Commissioner Joe M. Flores of Hidalgo County
County Commissioner Sylvia Handy of Hidalgo County
County Commissioner Hector "Tito" Palacios of Hidalgo County
County Judge Eloy Vera of Starr County
County Commissioner Jaime M. Alvarez of Starr County
County Commissioner Eloy Garza of Starr County
County Commissioner Abel Gonzalez of Starr County
County Commissioner Raul Pena of Starr County
County Commissioner Sally Arroyo of Cameron County
County Commissioner Sofia C. Benavides of Cameron County
County Commissioner Leo Garza of Cameron County
County Commissioner John Wood of Cameron County
County Commissioner Luis Arevalo of Brooks County
County Commissioner Tony Mata of Brooks County
County Judge Raul Ramirez of Brooks County
County Commissioner, Alejo C. Garcia of San Diego County
County Judge, Mike L. Fernandez of Val Verde County
County Commissioner Rogelio Musquiz of Val Verde County
County Judge Rosalva Guerra of Zapata County
Democratic County Chair Gilberto Hinojosa of Cameron County
Democratic County Chair Juan J. Maldonado of Hidalgo County
Democratic County Treasurer Jared Hockema of Cameron County
Sheriff Lupe Trevino of Hidalgo County
Sheriff Omar Lucio of Cameron County
District Attorney Rene Guerra of Hidalgo County
District Attorney Armando Villalobos of Cameron County
District Clerk Eloy Garcia of Starr County
District Clerk Laura Hinojosa of Hidalgo County
District Clerk Gilbert Lozano of Willacy County
District Clerk Laura Hinojosa of Hidalgo County
County Clerk Arturo Guajardo of Hidalgo County
County Clerk Joe Rivera of Cameron County
County Clerk Terry Flores of Willacy County
County Clerk Dennis Gonzalez of Starr County
Constable Frank Robles of Cameron County
Constable Robert Lopez of Cameron County
Constable Merced Burnis of Cameron County
Constable Cesar Rene Diaz of Cameron County
Constable Celestino Avila of Hidalgo County
County Hospital Board Member Audencio Pena of Starr County
County Attorney Victor Canales of Starr County
County Treasurer David Betancourt of Cameron County
County Tax Assessor Tony Yzaguire of Cameron County
County Auditor Corina Molina of Brooks County
County Tax Assessor Armando Barrera of Hidalgo County
County Treasurer Gilberto Vela of Brooks County
SDEC Veronica de la Fuente of Cameron County
Laguna Madre Water District Member Scott Friedman of Cameron County
Former County Judge Ramon Garcia of Hidalgo County
Former Democratic County Chair RD "Bobby' Guerra of Hidalgo County
Former County Commissioner Richard Valdez of Cameron County
Former Distict Judge Fernando Mancias of Hidalgo County
Former SDEC Remi Garza of Cameron County
Joe Hernandez of Cameron County
City of Alamo Mayor Rodolfo Villarreal of Hidalgo County
City of Brownsville, Commissioner Anthony Truiani of Cameron County
City of Combs Mayor Silver Garcia of Cameron County
City of Combs Olga Montes of Cameron County
City of Combs Carlos Moreno of Cameron County
City of Combs Marcos Sanchez of Cameron County
City of Edcouch Mayor Jose Guzman of Hidalgo County
City of Edinburg Mayor Pro Tem Alma A. Garza of Hidalgo County
City of Elsa Sejuvio Castillo of Hidalgo County
City of Falfurrias Alderman Carlos Villarreal of Brooks County
City of La Joya Mayor Billy Leo of Hidalgo County
City of La Joya Alderwoman Angie Garza of Hidalgo County
City of McAllen, Commissioner Jim Darling of Hidalgo County
City of McAllen Commissioner Aida Ramirez of Hidalgo County
City of Palmview Mayor Jorge G. Garcia of Hidalgo County
City of Pharr Mayor Leo Palacios of Hidalgo County
City of Raymondville Mary Gutierrez of Willacy County
City of Rio Hondo SB Rene Alfaro of Cameron County
City of Rio Hondo SB Manuel Flores of Cameron County
City of Roma Mayor Rogelio Ybarra of Starr County
City of San Benito Victor Garza of Cameron County
City of San Benito Mayor Pro Tem Celeste Sanchez of Cameron County
City of San Juan Mayor San Juanita Sanchez of Hidalgo County
City of South Padre Island Tara Rios-Ybarra of Cameron County
Sullivan City Commissioner Rosendo Benavides of Hidalgo County
City Commissiner Oscar L. Lujano of Starr County
Edcouch/Elsa ISD School board Juan J. Ibarra of Hidalgo County
McAllen ISD School Board Member Javier Farias of Hidalgo County
Mission ISD, School Board Member Noel Garza of Hidalgo County
Palmview ISD School Board Joel Garcia of Hidalgo County
Roma School Board Elisa Lujano of Starr County
Sharyland ISD School Board Member Paul Rodriguez of Hidalgo County
Sharyland ISD School Board Member Rolando Pena of Hidalgo County
South Texas ISD, School Board Maria G. Leal of Hidalgo County
South Texas College, Board of Trustees Manuel Benavides of Hidalgo
South Texas College Board of Trustees Irene Garcia of Hidalgo County
Mike Sandroussi of Hidalgo County
Joe Vega of Cameron County
Commander Feliz Rodriguez of Hidalgo County

  