
    
February 27, 2016By Delegate Tim Hugo, Chairman of Virginia House Majority Caucus
Our Navy has the smallest number of ships in active service since 1916. Unfortunately, as the world grows increasingly dangerous, statistics like these are becoming all too common for our military.
Unlike others running for President, Senator Marco Rubio has a proven record that demonstrates his passion for reversing this trend and rebuilding our military. Marco has supported the National Defense Authorization Act every year, while Ted Cruz has voted against it every time. Most recently, the NDAA authorized the building of the new Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carriers and Virginia-class nuclear submarines. Additionally, it authorized the overhaul and nuclear refueling of the USS George Washington aircraft carrier at Newport News shipyard in Virginia, a ship some had tried to decommission.
Despite the fact that these programs guarantee job security for thousands of Virginia families, Ted Cruz also voted against them all. These programs will ensure our men and women in uniform have the most advanced capabilities of any military in the world. We cannot afford a president that will actively pursue the dismantling of these weapons systems and the thousands of Virginia jobs and families they support.

The engineers, builders, and support staff at Newport News shipyard are the most skilled shipbuilders in the world. Their selfless dedication to their work embodies the working spirit that makes the United States the greatest country on Earth. Marco recognizes this and understands that long-term support of this shipyard is vital to keeping our underwater and surface warfare systems on the forefront of technological advancement.
Marco supports building the Ohio-class submarine replacement, expanding the Marine Corps' force projection by adding eight amphibious landing ships to the current strength of 30 and increasing our existing aircraft carrier force from 10 to 12.
Actions speak louder than words and Marco's actions tell us he is the only candidate who has and will maintain Virginia's defense industrial infrastructure and the thousands of jobs and families that help make it the most advanced in the world. This is why I am proud to support Marco Rubio for president.
  