
    "Moving forward as partners, we will achieve great prosperity and success for the American people and for the Vietnamese people." --President Donald J. Trump
BIG-TICKET PURCHASES: President Donald J. Trump is pleased that Vietnamese airlines have agreed to purchase new planes, engines, and services from American companies. 

President Donald J. Trump, alongside President Trong of Vietnam, participated in the signing of commercial trade deals between leading Vietnamese airlines and American companies.
These agreements reflect the deep economic partnership enjoyed by the United States and Vietnam.
These agreements are worth over $21 billion and include the following:

VietJet will buy 100 American-made Boeing 737-MAX jets and 215 General Electric-developed LEAP engines.
Bamboo Airways will purchase 10 Boeing 787-9 aircraft.
Vietnam Airlines pledges to acquire a minimum of $50 million in reservation systems and other services from Sabre Corporation.


These purchases will support more than 83,000 American jobs and improve safety and reliability for Vietnamese and international travelers.

STRENGTHENING TIES: President Trump is committed to deepening economic ties and advancing the partnership between the United States and Vietnam.

These deals are a reflection of the work President Trump has undertaken to strengthen the partnership between the United States and Vietnam.
In May 2017, President Trump and Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc pledged to enhance the comprehensive partnership between the United States and Vietnam.

Among other commitments, both sides pledged to promote and grow mutually beneficial economic ties between their two countries.


In November 2017, during President Trump's first historic visit, Vietnamese companies announced agreements to purchase $12 billion in American goods and services.
Vietnam also committed to eliminate trade barriers on United States agricultural exports, opening up new markets for American farmers.

EXPANDING ACCESS: President Trump is expanding markets for American goods and services abroad.

President Trump is taking bold actions to enforce free, fair, and reciprocal trade for the United States and to negotiate better deals for the American people.
The President negotiated the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement to improve market access for American firms and promote fair trade.
Thanks to the improved United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement, South Korea is significantly increasing access to its markets for United States auto exports.
President Trump is launching new trade negotiations with the European Union, United Kingdom, and Japan, working toward eliminating tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade.
President Trump's leadership has opened opportunities for American agricultural goods in Argentina, Brazil, Japan, South Korea, and other countries.

  