
    
  Largest-yet audience of election cycle for 12-term Texas Congressman and 'Champion of the Constitution'

ANN ARBOR, Michigan — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul shattered his already-impressive record of drawing supporters and undecided voters to his campaign events. Today, in a phenomenon unique to the Paul campaign, the 12-term Congressman from Texas drew an impressive 4,000 supporters to a youth rally held at Michigan State University.
Dr. Paul's East Lansing Rally took place at 4:00 p.m. EST in the Concert Auditorium of Michigan State University, located at 149 Auditorium Road, East Lansing, MI 48824. The rally, part of a campaign swing in Michigan, was conducted in cooperation with 'Youth for Ron Paul.'
Youth for Ron Paul (YFP), an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign, launched on Wednesday, September 7th and since its inception more than 37,000 people signed up to join the campaign and get involved, forming more than 571 chapters.
"More and more young people each day show their support for Ron Paul because he proposes real solutions to America's serious economic challenges. No other candidate can generate this level of enthusiasm among 18- to 29-year-olds, a key demographic for Republicans if they hope to beat President Obama. I join the 4,000 youth at MSU in saying I am excited for Election Day this November," said Edward King, National Youth Coordinator for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
In addition to a youth attendance, the rally was free and open to the East Lansing and at-large community.
To learn more and sign up for Youth for Ron Paul, please visit: www.youthforpaul.com and "like" the Facebook page found at: www.Facebook.com/youthforpaul.
Pictures of Ron Paul's record-breaking campaign rally at MSU follow.

Ron Paul approaches the podium and surveys the capacity crowd at MSU.
Seats were full resulting in a large number of attendees standing in the back and along the aisles.

Ron Paul speaks about restoring America's prosperity to a record 4,000 young supporters.
  