
    Following CNN Town Hall Nashua Alderman-at-Large Dave Tencza endorses Deval Patrick for President
NASHUA, NH — Today, Nashua Alderman-at-large Dave Tencza endorsed former Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick's candidacy for President. Tencza is serving his first term as Alderman-at-large and has been involved with Democratic politics in New Hampshire since 2010.
"Deval Patrick has defied the odds every step of the way, as the first person in his family to go to college, as a civil rights attorney, and as the second black governor to be elected in the history of the United States," said Alderman-at-large Dave Tencza. "Nashua residents should know that Deval Patrick is about more than just rhetoric, he has the strongest record of delivering results out of all the candidates in this race. Beyond defeating Donald Trump, we need someone to bring our country back together, and that's why I'm proud to be endorsing Deval Patrick for president."
"I am honored and excited to have the support of one of Nashua's most dedicated and active Democrats," said Governor Deval Patrick. "As an Alderman-at-Large, Dave has fought hard to make Nashua and New Hampshire a better place for working families to live. He has also has an impressive record as a Democratic leader in his community, helping to deliver city-wide majorities and restoring Democratic control the mayor's office. As a leader in his community in more ways than one, I am proud to receive his endorsement."
In addition to serving on the Board of Alderman, Tencza has also been the chair of the Nashua Democratic City from 2010 - 2015 and was elected again as chair of the committee in 2017. Any endorsement from Tencza is his personal choice and does not represent the position of the Nashua Democratic City Committee.
Governor Patrick just wrapped up a six-day New Hampshire bus tour with over 20 events in more than a dozen towns that included a meeting with the Nashua Democrats on Monday. Since announcing for president, Governor Patrick has spent more time and held more events in New Hampshire than any candidate in this race. He has also been endorsed by State Senator David Watters of Dover.
  