
    If You Watch One Thing Today: "Obama lifts quotes from Deval Patrick" ... "Loan crisis hits Obama" ... "Free speech: For the taking" ... "Obama: Borrowing lines not a big deal." Read more .
If You Read One Thing Today: "Party superdelegates deserve vote of confidence," Al Hunt's Bloomberg column. Read more .
Previewing Today: Hillary holds a "Solutions for America" economic roundtable in Parma and a "Solutions for America" rally in Youngstown, Ohio. Chelsea campaigns with Dane County Executive Kathleen Falk in Madison and tours the University of Wisconsin in Oshkosh, Wisconsin.
Endorsement Watch: In Texas, former Attorney General and Rep. Jim Mattox, former Rep. Jim Chapman and former State Sen. Gonzalo Barrientos endorsed Hillary.
Active in Rhode Island: Today, Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, Rep. Jim Langevin and Lt. Gov. Elizabeth Roberts open the campaign's headquarters in Providence. Yesterday, the campaign named state staff. On Sunday, more than sixty Latino leaders and community members joined Providence Mayor David Cicilline, State Sen. Juan Pichardo and Providence Councilman Leon Tejada to organize a statewide barnstorm.
Real Solutions: Following the largest beef recall in our nation's history, Hillary detailed a series of food safety proposals she would pursue as President. Read more .
Get Out the Vote: Hillary supporters hold visibility rallies in Madison and Wausau, Wisconsin. Volunteers phone bank in Green Bay, Waukesha, Oshkosh, Milwaukee and La Crosse.
Get Out the Caucus: Hillary supporters hold a visibility rally in Honolulu, Hawaii. Hillary interviews with local television stations and reminds people to caucus. Sen. Daniel Inouye returned to Hawaii to caucus. Yesterday, Sen. Inouye participated in a phone bank and convinced several people to support Hillary.
Recapping Yesterday: In De Pere, Wisconsin, "an enthusiastic crowd of students and residents chanted 'Hill-ary' before she took the stage." . In Wausau, "audience members applauded, cheered and whistled during Clinton's speech." According to attendee Rebecca Young of Rib Mountain, Hillary is "even more powerful and inspiring in person than she is on TV." . In Madison, "more than 5,000" turned out to hear Hillary. "Her supporters were boisterous and upbeat."
  