
    
  Party officials at many levels back Paul—the latest hailing from Pierce, Stevens and Thurston counties

BELLEVUE, Washington — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by several more GOP leaders of county party organizations, adding to an already-formidable list of Washington State endorsements the 12-term Congressman from Texas has received.
Today's additions hail from Pierce, Stevens, and Thurston counties, geographic dispersion that strengthens the Ron Paul campaign grip on each corner of the Evergreen State.
The first endorsement comes from GOP State Committeeman Ezekiel Lyen of Thurston County, which is the home of Washington's capital city of Olympia. Mr. Lyen stated, "I support Dr. Paul because I think he is the only candidate that has a solution to our current economic problems. It is impossible to balance our budget spending a trillion dollars a year on involvements overseas. Our country spends almost as much as the rest of the world combined on the military."
After earning his degrees in Civil Engineering and Engineering Management, Mr. Lyen was a civil engineer from 1974 until 2007 when he transitioned into math and science teaching. A resident of Thurston County for 34 years and counting, he has been active in his party a long time, having attended his first Thurston County Convention 32 years ago.
A general contracting small business owner for six years and former campaign manager, Mike Munch of Stevens County also currently holds the position of Treasurer for his county Republican Party. In endorsing, Mr. Munch said, "I endorse Ron Paul and have done so for many years. He is the only Republican candidate that has never had to retract his positions or votes, which tells me he is who he says he is. Dr. Paul has been a true fiscal conservative since he entered public service. Ron Paul knows the Constitution and does not just pay it lip service. Every time he votes he checks what the Constitution says before he decides."
Endorsing Ron Paul as his choice to make President Obama a one-term President, Sergeant-at-Arms for the Pierce County Republican Party Mark Stewart put forth the following statement:
"Ron Paul has been promoting freedom and self-responsibility as the answers to America's challenges for decades now, and has had the courage to stand by that message even when it seemed the unpopular thing to do. While Congress was passing unconstitutional legislation and running up more and more debt he was there voting no, at times doing so alone.
"There are so many reasons to support Ron Paul. He correctly predicted the housing bubble. He wants to spend our money protecting our borders, not the borders of Iraq or Afghanistan. He wants sound money and to protect those people who have become most dependent on the government for assistance. Only Ron Paul wants to bring our troops home, victorious, to their families.
"In short — unlike other candidates — Ron Paul wants to spread freedom and honesty, not gifts and regulations. That puts me soundly in Ron Paul's camp."
Mr. Stewart is a committed, proud father and a truck driver by trade, serving in his capacity in the Pierce County Republican Party since 2009.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Washington State organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  