
    The President intends to nominate Jeremy H.G. Ibrahim of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the remainder of a three-year term expiring September 30, 2002, and an additional three-year term expiring September 30, 2005. He is currently an attorney with the Law Office of Jeremy Ibrahim, having previously worked as General Counsel for the African American Law Enforcement Community Center in Philadelphia. Ibrahim was appointed Commissioner of the Commission on Human Relations for the City of Philadelphia in 1996 and served until 2000. From 1988 to 1991, he was an Assistant District Attorney. He has a BA from Fordham University and a JD from the Columbus School of Law at the Catholic University of America.
The President intends to nominate David B. Rivkin, Jr. to be a Member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the remainder of a three-year term expiring September 30, 2004. He is currently a partner with Baker and Hostetler in Washington, having previously been a partner with Hunton and Williams from March 1993 to December 1999. From January 1992 to January 1993, he was Special Assistant to the Vice President and Associate Executive Director for the Council of Competitiveness. Mr. Rivkin has also served as Associate General Counsel for the Department of Energy, Deputy Director for the Office of Policy Development for the Department of Justice, and was a Legal Advisor to the White House Counsel. He has a BSFS degree from the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, an MA degree from Georgetown University, and a JD from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals as Members of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 03, 2006:


  Maribeth McGinley of California
  David Gelernter of Connecticut
  Deedie Potter Rose of Texas
  Don V. Cogman of Connecticut
  Katharine DeWitt of Ohio
  Teresa Lozano Long of Texas

  