
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Judge Elissa F. Cadish, Judge Paul William Grimm and Judge Mark E. Walker to serve on the United States District Court.
"Throughout their careers, these nominees have displayed unwavering commitment to justice and integrity," said President Obama. "Their records of public service are distinguished and impressive and I am confident that they will serve the American people well from the United States District Court bench. I am honored to nominate them today."
Judge Elissa F. Cadish: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Nevada
Judge Elissa F. Cadish has been a district court judge on the Eighth Judicial District Court of Nevada, based in Las Vegas, since 2007. Previously, she spent twelve years at the law firm of Hale Lane Peek Dennison & Howard, beginning as an associate in 1995 and becoming a shareholder in 2000. From 1991 to 1995, Judge Cadish worked as an associate at the law firm of Jolley Urga Wirth & Woodbury. She began her legal career as a law clerk to the Honorable Philip M. Pro of the United States District Court for the District of Nevada. Judge Cadish received her J.D. in 1989 from the University of Virginia School of Law and her B.A. magna cum laude in 1986 from the University of Pennsylvania.
Judge Paul William Grimm: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Maryland 
Judge Paul William Grimm has been a United States Magistrate Judge for the District of Maryland since 1997 and has served as the Chief United States Magistrate Judge since 2006. Previously, Judge Grimm spent approximately thirteen years in private practice handling primarily commercial litigation. During this time, Judge Grimm also served as Commissioner for the Maryland Home Improvement Commission. From 1981 to 1984, Judge Grimm served as Chief of Litigation and Administration for the Maryland Department of Licensing and Regulation. He is also a former Assistant State's Attorney for Baltimore County, having served in that position from 1980 to 1981. Judge Grimm began his career as a member of the Judge Advocate General's Corps with the United States Army, later serving for more than twenty years in the same position with the Army Reserve. He received his J.D. magna cum laude in 1976 from the University of New Mexico School of Law and his B.A. summa cum laude in 1973 from the University of California at Davis.
Judge Mark E. Walker: Nominee for the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida
Judge Mark E. Walker has been a Florida Circuit Judge in Tallahassee since 2009. Previously, he spent ten years in private practice, specializing in civil litigation and criminal defense. From 1997 to 1999, Judge Walker served as an Assistant Public Defender for Florida's Second Judicial Circuit. Judge Walker began his legal career with three clerkships. From 1996 to 1997, he clerked for the Honorable Robert L. Hinkle of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida; from 1994 to 1996, he clerked for the Honorable Stephen H. Grimes of the Florida Supreme Court; and from 1993 to 1994, he clerked for the Honorable Emmett Ripley Cox of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Judge Walker received his J.D. with high honors in 1992 from the University of Florida and his B.A. in 1989 from the University of Florida, graduating first in his class.
  