
    
  Businesses hail from Washington, Red Lake, and Hennepin Counties

MINNETONKA, Minnesota— The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign announced today new members of its active "Small Businesses for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition. Today's additions hail from Washington, Red Lake, and Hennepin counties, all Minnesota, and pledge to spread the word about Dr. Paul among their respective communities.
Tom Dippel, a resident of Cottage Grove, has operated his business for over two years. Dippel's business, Minnesota Dental Lab, has not been immune to the current economy. He states, "Business growth has been slow because much of our business is cosmetic dentistry and implant dentistry. Both have a more significant out of pocket expense, and since the economy is bad, people have less disposable income to put towards these things."
Mr. Dippel says he supports Dr. Paul because Paul backs "less regulations and excellent economics that will restore competitiveness and growth to our country."
He adds, "Lastly, and possibly most importantly, I trust him to do what he says he will do."
Jess Determan operates a second generation family business based in Brooks of Red Lake County. Field Drainage, Inc. has been operated for over 31 years. In regard to the current state of the economy, Determan states "We actually have a hard time finding help. Unemployment benefits are one of our biggest competitions for employees. I have actually heard prospective employees say 'I can make just about as much money by not working.'"
Mr. Determan was direct in his support of Dr. Paul, saying "As our debt continues to grow, I know that productive Americans are going to have to pay that debt down. Ron Paul is the only candidate in either party that will stop the out-of-control spending so that we can start paying down the debt responsibly. We cannot afford anybody else. We're broke."
Nick Leyendecker, a resident of Maple Grove, runs a real estate business of the same name, Nick Leyendecker Group, Inc. Leyendecker has been in business for 10 years and declares "obviously the real estate industry is at the forefront of the catastrophic damaged caused by government involvement in the free markets."
Leyendecker adds "We have fared well through this crisis but we have had to completely reinvent our business model.
"I am concerned that government policies are going to continue to postpone the natural correction of the free market and increase the ultimate damage. I believe we need to restore free markets and allow the liquidation of the debt before the real estate market will ever return to stability."
Additionally, as a business owner, Leyendecker says he supports Ron Paul because "Free Markets work. Sound money works, and bailouts don't work."
As a function of this announcement, the above-mentioned persons are all members of the "Business Owners for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, in particular the Minnesota steering committee.
As a basic first step, those wanting to join the active "Small Businesses for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official web page by clicking here. Prospective members should also send an email to hq.coalitions@ronpaul2012.com, writing the coalition name in the subject line.
  