
    Pool Reports by Laura Figueroa, Newsday 



Sent:
Reports:




February 26, 202110:05

In Town Pool Report 1 - Departure (No Questions) 
Good Morning from the South Lawn,
POTUS & FLOTUS, holding hands, walked out of WH at 10:01am.
They did not stop to answer shouted questions...waved in direction of pool as they walked to Marine One.
Marine 1 wheels up at 10:05am



February 26, 2021
[APP Note: Report #2 is either missing or does not exist.]


February 26, 202112:41

Pool Report 3 -- AF1 Gaggle Part 1
The AF1 Gaggle w/ Press Sec Jen Psaki and Deputy National Security Adviser Dr. Elizabeth SHerwood-Randall kicked off just before 12:27p.m.
Sherwood- Randall said as of "yesterday afternoon" federal govt has awarded over $9 million assistance to Texans.
"Although we're encouraged by the progress that has been made, and we're seeing the numbers come down dramatically right now in terms of who needs to still go and boil water in Texas, we will continue to look for ways to help through this next phase of recovery."
"The president has made it clear that there is no such thing as a red state or blue county, there are just Americans in our country."
q: What incentives are you talking about to help Texas harden its grid?
Sherwood-Randall notes Texas chose to function with an "autonomous grid" adds"The question now going forward is whether the state of Texas decides that it wants to move in the direction of bringing more resilinences on it's on its's own system.
q: what does Texas need most now?
Sherwood-Randall : "Helping individuals who don't have insurance for example to recover from the impacts of these storms...I think that's the most immediate thing."
whether energy grid issue will come up when Biden speaks with Gov. AbbottToday is mostly going to be focused on hearing from the emergency responders..in the FEMA operation center about what worked to take lessons" for future responses."
On high energy bills in wake of storms:"The prices have come way down...there isn't a federal authority to regulate that." Says there is "some capacity" for federal government to help "especially in rural areas"
more TK from Psaki....



February 26, 202113:03

In-Town Pool Report 4 - Psaki AF1 Gaggle 
Psaki fielded questions on AF1 starting at 12:41pm. stopped taking questions just after 1pm.
Quick responses below, will aim to send out more complete quotes shortly...
q: Did POTUS bring up Jamal Khashoggi killing in his talk with Saudi King
"I don't have more to read out from the call" then adds "broadly" POTUS and officials "at every level" have publicly raised concerns about human rights abuses
q: on minimum wage
"There is work ahead..."
"We have not reviewed" and do not have a conclusion on Sanders' proposal
"We are looking for the best ways to increase the minimum wage."
q: What message sent to Iran w/ bombing in Syria
Says POTUS sending an "unambiguous message" that "he's going to act to protect Americans."
q: what's POTUS' redline
"Ive been doing this long enough not to set new red lines"
q: on when to expect sanctions on Russia
"Weeks not months. its an ongoing process"
q: on whether Neera Tanden met with sens. Murkowski, Sinema.
"I dont have any updates on her specific engagements"
q: On whether Biden will speak if recovery bill passes.
"We take nothing for granted," said "knock on wood" if it passes he'll likely speak.
q: on facilities for migrant children
"i would describe it as a shelter...i would describe it as a place where kids wi
q: is WH aware of threats for POTUS' first joint session address
"I would send you to Secret Service" for follow up. Says WH has already indicated he wont deliver Address until relief package is passed
q: Was Ted Cruz invited by WH to POTUS' Tx visit.
"there was neither an invitation" or request from Cruz.
q: asked more about Syria strike —Psaki said she didn't have details to report back of which lawmakers were notified



February 26, 202113:26

Pool Report 5 - More complete quotes from Dr. Sherwood-Randall
More from Deputy National Security Adviser Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall.
She started off the gaggle with the following remarks...as always, please double check against official transcript....
***
"We look forward to meeting with Governor Abbott and other state and local leaders to learn more about the recovery situation on the ground, and what more we can do to help."
"As you know, the President directed us to rapidly mobilize as many federal resources as possible to assist Texas' recovery efforts, along with recovery efforts in the other states that were affected by the severe winter storm improperly."
Said emergency and disaster declarations in Texas, Kansas, Oklahoma and Louisiana "have allowed FEMA and others to serve more than 2 million meals and nearly 2 million gallons of water over 60 generators and more than 100,000 gallons of fuel and lots and lots of blankets to Texans. these numbers keep changing as we do more, but the bottom line is, we're very focused on meeting immediate needs as well as providing direct individual financial assistance to uninsured families to help them recover from the death threats effects of extreme weather."
"As of yesterday afternoon FEMA had already awarded over $9 million in individual assistance grants to Texans. More broadly, we brought the full range of federal resources to bear in a whole of government effort, involving the Department of Defense, the Agriculture Department Health and Human Services Department. Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy. All of these agencies and others have been working hard to provide Texans with the resources they need. For example on the Department of Energy they issued the most expansive emergency order in the history of the agency, which permitted excess electricity generators to exceed the missions limitations on a temporary basis, and thereby restoring power as quickly as possible to those who have lost it due to the challenges presented to the energy supply chain and generation capabilities in Texas."
"As we continue to learn more in the coming days and weeks, one thing we know for sure is we cannot treat what happened in Texas, and in the whole region of the south as an isolated event. the impacts reflect our shared vulnerabilities through extreme weather events and other threats, and the need for collective action to modernize our critical infrastructure across the country so that we can meet the full spectrum of challenges that we will face in the future, going forward with a very close collaboration among the federal government, states, communities, and importantly private sector, to incentivize the kinds of actions that need to be taken to build the kind of resilient infrastructure that we can truly depend on"
She thanked energy and water plant workers, road workers, National Guardsmen and "everyone who stepped forward to help. And those who make truly valiant efforts to deliver essential to those in the incredibly difficult circumstances."



February 26, 202113:45

In-Town Pool Report 6: Psaki- Khashoggi Questions 
More complete quotes from Press Secretary when asked about POTUS' call with Saudi king/ Khashoggi killing:
Asked if POTUS raised Khashoggi to Saudi King during call, Press Sec stated:
"I don't have more to read out from the call, I can tell you broadly that the President raises...as does every official at every level, concerns we have about human rights abuses and steps that we expect the government and officials in the country to take moving forward, and certainly that was a part of the conversation."
Asked if there are possible sanctions administration is weighing over Khashoggi's killing:
Psaki: "Let me first say that we've been clear at every level that our intention is to recalibrate the relationship and this will be a different relationship with the Saudi government. At the same time, we of course we want to end the war in Yemen, we want to ensure that humanitarian crisis is addressed and the president and every member of our team is not going to hold back in voicing concern, and taking action as needed...I will say again that we expect the report, we are going to abide by our legal obligation to have that report released through our intelligence community. Once that report is released, I would expect, you know any actions would be announced after that report so stay tuned."
Asked if POTUS had concerns about MBS being in line to succeed King Salman. Psaki:
"This is for the, the government of Saudi Arabia to determine the path forward on their future leadership. I will say that the President has been clear, and we've been clear by our actions that we're going to recalibrate the relationship, including ensuring that engagement happens counterpart to counterpart."
* as always please double check against official transcript



February 26, 202114:14

In-Town Pool Report 7 - Syria quotes from Psaki 
More complete quotes from Press Sec Jen Psaki when asked about Syria >>>
On Syria strike:
"The president is sending an unambiguous message that he's going to act to protect Americans, and when threats are posed, he has the right to take an action at the time, and in the manner of his choosing. He also is going to take those actions in a manner that's deliberative, and that has the objective of de escalating activity in both Syria and Iraq.
On how Syrian strike influences reopening talks with Iran"So the status of that at this point in time, remains that the United States is open to having these diplomatic conversations ...right now the Europeans have issued an invitation. And we're waiting to hear back."
Asked about the legal authority for Syria strike:
"As a matter of domestic law, the president took this action pursuant to his article two authority to defend U.S. personnel, the targets were chosen to...correspond to the recent attacks on facilities, and to deter the risk of additional attacks over the coming weeks. As a matter of international law, United States acted pursuant to it's right to self defense as reflected in Article 50-1 of the UN Charter. the strikes were both necessary to address the threat and proportionate to the prior attacks.
Said national security team conducted a legal "review" in advance.
Asked about Biden's redline:
"I've been doing this long enough not to set new red lines on behalf of the President of the United States and commander in chief, but what I can reiterate for you is that this...It included consultation with coalition partners. And again, it sends an unambiguous message about the President's commitment to protecting American and coalition personnel."
Asked about what went into POTUS' decision making:
"I will say that it was important to the president to ensure that there was a proper Intel assessment and to take the time to do that and ensure there was work done to identify the right targets. And that's why it's been a couple of days since the initial attack, but in terms of additional color I would send you to the Department of Defense or the State Department."
Does POTUS think Assad should go?
Said POTUS has "long said" that "there needs to be a diplomatic solution."
*as usual please double check against official transcript when it's released



February 26, 202114:33

In-Town Pool Report 8 - More Psaki quotes on Domestic issues 
Asked about Biden's role as "consoler-in chief" on Texas trip: 
Psaki said last Friday in call w/ Acting FEMA administrator Biden asked when it was appropriate to visit Texas because "he likes to see the details and likes to see things in person, and he wants to see how the public is engaging and have those conversations and that's important to him, as in terms of his governing style. It's important to him to hear directly from people on what their needs are."
Has parliamentarian ruling caused Biden to 'rethink' views on fillibuster? 
"the President continues to believe that a package that will bring necessary relief to the American people, that will get shots in the arms of Americans, that will reopen schools, that will get direct checks to people, that is supported by 70% or more of the American public, including the majority of Republicans, should garner Republican support, and we're still working for them."
On describing facilities housing migrant youth: 
"I would describe it as a shelter. I would describe it as a place where we keep kids who are under the age of 18, and taking a treacherous journey into this country, safe.
Says it's a place "where they can get access to education, mental health services, health services. There are no good choices here. The only other options are to send kids back, which is what the prior administration did...So this is the best choice we found we had to open the facility because of the impact of COVID."
*as usual please check against official transcript



February 26, 202120:11

Pool Report 9 - In-Town Photo/Travel Lid 
Good Evening from the WH,
Press Office issued a bad weather call, so no Marine One arrival.
In-Town Travel/Photo Lid called at 8:07pm
Good night and enjoy your weekend,Laura




  