
    MINNEAPOLIS, MN — With primary day less than a week away, Amy for America announced that it is launching TV ads in Super Tuesday states, including Minnesota.
The $4.2 million ad buy across Super Tuesday states comes roughly a week before March 3. The campaign now has staff on the ground in every Super Tuesday state, including Minnesota.
"Decency" can be viewed here:
"Decency" Transcript:
KLOBUCHAR: I'm Amy Klobuchar and I approve this message.
NARRATOR: One hundred days. One hundred ways to restore decency, opportunity and hope.
KLOBUCHAR: My entire 100-day plan for America won't fit in a TV ad, but let's give it a go! Rejoin the climate agreement. Lower prescription drug costs. Address mental health and addiction. Fire Betsy DeVos. Expand VA benefits. Protect voting rights. Expand job training.
NARRATOR: As President, she'll work to reset our democracy on day one.
KLOBUCHAR: Protect our country from cyber attacks. Antitrust enforcement. Affordable housing
'Complete' can be viewed here:
'Complete' Transcript:
KLOBUCHAR: There is a complete lack of empathy in this guy in the White House right now. And I will bring that to you. If you have trouble stretching your paycheck to pay for that rent, I know you and I will fight for you. If you have trouble deciding if you're going to pay for your child care or your long term care, I know you and I will fight for you. I would love your vote, and I would love the vote of America. Thank you. I'm Amy Klobuchar and I approve this message.
'Moment' can be viewed here:
'Moment' Transcript:
KLOBUCHAR: If we don't stop Donald Trump this time, shame on us. Americans deserve a President who has their back, who isn't afraid to take on powerful forces, who has a record of bringing people together, and most importantly who gets things done. I know what it takes to win in the midwest. It's not flyover country to me, it's home. I'm Amy Klobuchar. I approve this message because we need a President who can win for all of us.
'What It Takes' can be viewed here:
'What It Takes' Transcript:
KLOBUCHAR: He'll do everything he can to hold on to power, but I'll take the fight to Donald Trump. I've won in rural, urban, and suburban areas everytime. Even districts Donald Trump won. Whether it's passing 100 laws or standing up to partisan Supreme Court nominees. I've always known that you do a job no matter how hard it is, because it's the work that needs to get done. Our job now is to elect someone who will fix the mess that Donald Trump created and take on the challenges facing America. Like the high costs of prescription drugs, rebuilding our infrastructure, and tackling climate change. If you feel stuck in the middle of the extremes in our politics and you're tired of the noise and the nonsense, you've got a home with me. I'm Amy Klobuchar. I don't want to be the President for half of America, I want to be the President for all of America. That's why I approve this message.
  