
    
February 25, 2016
Today, Team Marco announced the Minnesota Legislative Leadership Team.
Following a rally in Minneapolis on Tuesday with more than 1,500 supporters, momentum for Marco continues to build heading into Minnesota's March 1 caucuses.
Today's legislative leadership team joins Congressman Erik Paulsen, Congressman John Kline, former Governor Tim Pawlenty and former Senator Norm Coleman, in supporting Marco.
Jeff Johnson, Marco's Minnesota state chairman, had this to say:
Following Marco's enthusiastic rally here on Tuesday, I'm so proud that these legislators from across our state are joining me in supporting the Rubio campaign. Marco continues to earn support because he offers a positive vision for America's future that will strengthen our country and expand opportunities for future generations. Now is the time for conservatives to unify behind Marco because any vote not for him is a vote for Donald Trump, which our party cannot afford.

Senate Minority Leader David Hann says it's all about electing a conservative:
I am proud to announce my support for Marco Rubio and honored that I can do it alongside so many of my colleagues. We are going to be caucusing for Marco on March 1st because he is the one candidate that can beat the Democrats this fall and bring back strong conservative principles to the White House.

Jeremy Adler, Marco's regional spokesman, highlighted the Marcomomentum:
Our momentum in Minnesota has been sky high since the rally on Tuesday and getting the support of these key leaders only adds to it. We are so happy to have earned their support and look forward to them spreading the word to their constituents, neighbors and friends about why they need to caucus for Marco on Tuesday.

Welcome this tremendous group of conservative legislators to Team Marco!
MINNESOTA STATE LEGISLATORS SUPPORTING MARCO:
Senate Minority Leader David Hann
House Majority Leader Joyce Peppin
Sen. Gary Dahms
Sen. Scott Newman
Sen. Eric Pratt
Sen. Julie Rosen
Sen. David Senjem
Sen. Bill Weber
House Speaker Pro Tempore Tim O'Driscoll
Rep. Tony Albright
Rep. Sarah Anderson
Rep. Peggy Bennett
Rep. Drew Christensen
Rep. Brian Daniels
Rep. Jon Koznick
Rep. Bob Loonan
Rep. Denny McNamara
Rep. Roz Peterson
Rep. Duane Quam
Rep. Linda Runbeck
Rep. Tim Sanders
Rep. Dennis Smith
Rep. Mark Uglem
Rep. Dean Urdahl
  