
    The President announced today his intention to nominate Raymond J. Waldmann to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce (International Economic Policy).
Since 1979 Mr. Waldmann was counsel with the firm of Schiff Hardin & Waite of Washington and Chicago. He specialized in international investment, corporate, transportation, communications, and technology law.
Previously he was president of Transnational Investments, Ltd., a Washington research and publishing firm. He was an executive consultant with Harbridge House, a management consulting group.
Mr. Waldmann was Special Counsel to the President for review of the intelligence community and a consultant on special foreign policy issues. In 1973-75 he was Deputy Assistant Secretary for Transportation and Telecommunications, coordinating U.S. policy in international aviation, shipping, and communications. He was chairman of the U.S. delegation to many negotiations and U.N. conferences, and chairman of first Intelsat Assembly. Mr. Waldmann was on the Domestic Council at the White House in 1970-73. He was staff assistant to the President for policy planning, with special responsibility for budgetary and economic issues. In 1967-70 he was a consultant on economic issues and regional development with Arthur D. Little, Ltd., of London. He was with Arthur D. Little, Inc., in Cambridge, Mass., in 1964-67, as a management consultant.
In 1962-64 he prepared presentations and edited technical reports on guidance and navigation systems for Moon landing flights for the NASA Apollo Project at M.I.T.
Mr. Waldmann is chairman, Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., American Bar Association; consultant to ABA Project on Law and Intelligence; editor, ABA Intelligence Law Newsletter; ABA Committee on Relations between the Executive and Legislative Branches; D.C. Bar Association International Division Steering Committee.
Mr. Waldmann was graduated from M.I.T. (S.B., 1960, '61) and Harvard (J.D., 1964). He resides in Bethesda, Md. Mr. Waldmann was born in Walton, N.Y., on November 28, 1938.
  