
    Following a meeting yesterday with President Biden and Vice President Harris, the National Governors Association Chair and Vice Chair issued a statement commending the Biden Administration for their commitment to providing direct relief to state and local governments.
"Governors from across the country and the political spectrum have said for months that flexible and direct aid to state and local governments is essential for our continued front-line response to the COVID-19 crisis and our national economic recovery. During our Oval Office meeting today with President Biden, Vice President Harris, and a bipartisan group of Governors and mayors from across the country, the President and his team made clear that they recognize and appreciate how critical this targeted relief is for our ability to recover from this pandemic."
The National Governors Association leadership join more than 400 more bipartisan mayors across the nation and 63% of small business owners in calling on the government to get relief and support to the families, communities, and businesses that have been hit hardest by the pandemic, and revive economic growth.
President Biden and Vice President Harris understand the importance of delivering recovery to the people who have faced this crisis on the front lines since day one. That is why they proposed a rescue plan that would deliver the tools and guidance necessary to finish the job of getting $2,000 checks out to Americans, get more vaccines in arms, get economic relief to families facing eviction or food insecurity, and help reopen schools safely.
Full statement below:
Press Release: National Governors Association Chair Andrew M. Cuomo And Vice Chair Asa Hutchinson Statement On Meeting With President Joe Biden And Vice President Kamala Harris
New York Governor and National Governors Association Chairman Andrew M. Cuomo and Arkansas Governor and NGA Vice Chairman Asa Hutchinson issued the following statement after meeting with President Biden and Vice President Harris earlier today:
"Governors from across the country and the political spectrum have said for months that flexible and direct aid to state and local governments is essential for our continued front-line response to the COVID-19 crisis and our national economic recovery. During our Oval Office meeting today with President Biden, Vice President Harris, and a bipartisan group of governors and mayors from across the country, the President and his team made clear that they recognize and appreciate how critical this targeted relief is for our ability to recover from this pandemic.
"We thank President Biden, Vice President Harris, and their team for a productive meeting and their support, and call on Congress to ensure sufficient state and local aid is included in the final relief package. The finish line of this pandemic is in sight, and this support will give states and territories the resources we need to reach it, while continuing to provide the essential services our constituents rely on."
  