
    
On the heels of Newt's commanding CNN debate performance, large and enthusiastic crowds greeted Newt at rallies yesterday in Washington State. In Kennewick, over 600 people came out to the Red Lion Columbia Center to hear Newt's bold solutions.
In particular, Gingrich criticized Obama on energy and foreign policy, saying Obama and his administration are afraid to face the problems posed by radical Muslim groups.
"If they took it seriously, they would have to do something," he said. "They want to manage the decay and hope nothing happens while they're in office."
He told the crowd if elected president, he would sign executive orders on the first day to repeal many of Obama's policies, including elimination of the "White House czars."
He said he would open up the controversial Keystone pipeline. Gingrich also declared that no U.S. tax money would pay for abortions overseas and would move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem "to show support for Israel's right to exist."
"My goal is by the time Barack Obama lands in Chicago, I would like to have repealed about 40 percent of his government (on) the opening day," Gingrich said.
On energy policy, Gingrich said he would focus on developing domestic energy sources to break America's dependence on foreign sources, including opening up oil drilling offshore and on federal lands to drive gas prices down to a benchmark of $2.50 per gallon.

In Spokane, Newt wowed the crowd of over 500 people at the Bing Crosby Theater with his bold solutions to get America back on track.
One man standing near the back refused an offer of a seat. "I'm too excited to sit," he said.
The stage was set: three American flags, three Washington state flags and a podium. The opening act was decent, but the headliner really got the crowd worked up. Afterward came the euphoria that follows a great performance.
"This guy is just remarkable!" one fan enthused to another.
"He is!" answered his compatriot. "Remarkable!"
  ...
  Her husband, Dennis Swartout, elaborated: "Newt is a tough guy. I think there are some tough things that need to be done. ... He's no angel, but that's not what we need in Washington, D.C."
Colleen Ancel stood holding a Newt sign at the corner of Sprague Avenue and Lincoln Street.
"It's wonderful to be able to see him in person and shake his hand," she said. "We've been Newt supporters for years and years, since the Contract with America."
  ...
  People held their phones aloft, trying for pictures. They cheered and cheered. Afterward, they crowded forward to shake the hand of the man they'd come to see, to get a picture, to enter his presence.
"Anybody that listens to reason — he is just the most articulate speaker!" exclaimed one fan.
"He's amazing," agreed a companion. "He really is amazing."

Read more about the Spokane rally here.
  