
    New spots, "Greenwood" and "Justice", highlight Mike's Greenwood Initiative plan to promote economic justice for Black America and his commitment to prioritizing criminal justice reform
NEW YORK — Mike Bloomberg 2020 today released two powerful new TV ads showing Mike's commitment to the Black community and his dedication to building a better future for Black America as president. The TV ads will run nationwide on cable and locally in 28 states, including in every Super Tuesday state.
These new ads follow "Cheryl," a TV ad that shows how Mike Bloomberg has helped Black-owned businesses thrive and "Geoffrey Canada" a 30-second ad that highlights Mike's record of investing in children and education. Just last week, Mike Bloomberg launched Mike for Black America in Houston, a national movement to engage Black Americans on key issues, with Mayor Sylvester Turner, who endorsed Mike for president.
'Justice' focuses on Mike's commitment to improving juvenile justice and his experience leading on this issue during his time as mayor of New York City. The ad features Abdul, a community organizer who got involved with The Young Men's Initiative following his own release from prison and works to help keep young people out of the criminal justice system.
Launched under Mike's leadership, The Young Men's Initiative was the nation's boldest and most comprehensive effort to tackle the broad disparities slowing the advancement of Black and Latino young men. As president, Mike will work to expand programs like My Brother's Keeper, a program started under President Barack Obama to close the opportunity gaps faced by young men of color that was largely modeled after The Young Men's Initiative.
'Greenwood' emphasizes Mike's plan to deliver economic justice and create generational wealth for Black Americans by addressing systematic bias and making strategic investments in communities and businesses. In doing so, Mike aims to triple the wealth of the median Black household and increase upward mobility in their communities.
"For hundreds of years, America systematically stole Black lives, Black freedom, and Black labor, and I know my story would have turned out very differently if I had been Black," Mike says in the ad. "The wealth gap is inextricably linked to the racial inequalities of the past, and I'm determined to make breaking that link a centerpiece of my presidency."
How Mike will get it done:Create 100,000 new Black-owned small businessesCreate 1 million new Black homeownersInvest $70 billion in our 100 most disadvantaged neighborhoodsReinvigorate efforts to defend civil rightsCollect better data on hiring, pay, procurement, and lending
Mike is a strong believer in criminal justice reform and racial equality. He believes we need to end mass incarceration, and during his tenure as mayor he reduced incarceration by 40% and juvenile confinement by more than 60%. Mike also worked to overhaul a school system that had been neglecting and underfunding schools in Black and Latino communities for too long.
  