
    "This week, President Obama will release a budget that won't take any meaningful steps toward solving our entitlement crisis. The President has failed to offer a single serious idea to save Social Security and is the only president in modern history to cut Medicare benefits for seniors. I believe we can save Social Security and Medicare with a few commonsense reforms, and — unlike President Obama — I'm not afraid to put them on the table." —Mitt Romney
Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI): "This Is Getting Us Toward A Prosperity Agenda That Will Allow The Private Sector To Grow." (Jennifer Rubin, "Paul Ryan Has Nothing But Praise For Romney Plan," Washington Post, 11/4/11)


    Ryan: "Look At What He Put Out! This Is A Great Development." (Jennifer Rubin, "Paul Ryan Has Nothing But Praise For Romney Plan," Washington Post, 11/4/11)
  



    Ryan, On Romney's Medicare Plan: "[It's] Perfectly In Keeping With Serious Reform." "I asked him about Romney's decision to offer traditional Medicare as one option in the premium support plan. ... Ryan deemed this approach as 'perfectly in keeping with serious reform.'" (Jennifer Rubin, "Paul Ryan Has Nothing But Praise For Romney Plan," Washington Post, 11/4/11)
  

National Review: Romney's "Bold And Specific" Endorsement Of Entitlement Reform "Deserves Praise." "That makes his endorsement of bold and specific proposals for entitlement reform in a speech at Americans for Prosperity last week all the more noteworthy. ... All of this — as well as his promises to block-grant Medicaid to the states and institute real cuts in discretionary spending — deserves praise." (Editorial, "Romney: Right On Medicare," National Review, 11/8/11)


    National Review Headline: "Romney: Right On Medicare" (National Review, 11/8/11)
  

Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ): "Mitt Romney Has The Conservative Solutions That Can Be Implemented On His First Day As President To Cut Federal Spending And End Washington's Spending Addiction." (Romney For President, Press Release, 11/4/11)
Columnist Charles Krauthammer: "[Romney's] Entitlement Reform, For Example, Is More Courageous Than That Of Any Candidate, Including Barack Obama." (Charles Krauthammer, Op-Ed, "Buckle Down: Mitt Vs. Newt?" Chicago Tribune, 12/5/11)
Brookings Institution "Conservative Budget Specialist" Ron Haskins: Romney's Plan Is A "Great First Step." "A conservative budget specialist and Brookings Institution senior fellow, Ron Haskins, called Romney's plan a 'great first step.'" (Donovan Slack, "Romney Proposes Wide Cuts To Budget," Boston Globe, 11/4/11)
The Washington Post's Jennifer Rubin: "[Romney's] Gone Bold." (Jennifer Rubin, "Romney: Bold On Spending Cuts And Entitlement Reform," Washington Post, 11/4/11)


    Rubin: "I'm Tempted To Say That Mitt Romney Has Found His Inner Paul Ryan." (Jennifer Rubin, "Romney: Bold On Spending Cuts And Entitlement Reform," Washington Post, 11/4/11)
  



    Rubin: "Romney Here Did The Smart Political Thing ... And The Responsible Thing." (Jennifer Rubin, "Paul Ryan Has Nothing But Praise For Romney Plan," Washington Post, 11/4/11)
  

National Review's Yuval Levin: "I Have To Say That I Was Very Impressed With What [Romney] Had To Say In Today's Speech On Spending, And Especially With What He Had To Say About Medicare Reform." (Yuval Levin, "Romney On Entitlements," National Review, 11/4/11)
  