
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 18
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
February 19
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Arlington, VA. They returned to Camp David, MD, in the afternoon.
February 20
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, and later attended the Georgetown-Villanova basketball game at the USAir Arena in Landover, MD.
February 21
The White House announced that the President named William E. Curry, Jr., as Counselor to the President.
February 23
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Ottawa, Canada.
In the late afternoon, the President had meetings with Preston Manning, leader of the Reform Party, and Lucien Bouchard, leader of Bloc Quebecois, at the U.S. Ambassador's residence.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton went to the Museum of Civilizatione where they were given a tour of the History Hall.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ken Grotewiel as Presiding Officer and Commissioner and Max Holloway as Alternate Commissioner of the Kansas-Oklahoma Arkansas River Compact Commission.
February 24
In the morning, the President attended a breakfast with U.S.-Canada business leaders at the National Gallery of Canada. Following the breakfast, he went to Parliament where he met with Prime Minister Jean Chretien.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a lunch at the Canal Ritz. Following the lunch, they returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edmundo A. Gonzales as Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate John D. Kemp to the National Council on Disability.
The President announced his appointment of former Senator Dennis DeConcini to the board of directors of the Federal Home Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac.)
The President announced his intention to appoint Deborah Kastrin as a member of the Advisory Council of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jamie S. Gorelick, Matt L. Rodriguez, and Robert T. Scully to be members of the National Commission to Support Law Enforcement.
  