
    Mayor David Cicilline, State Senator Juan Pichardo and Councilman Leon Tejada emphasize Hillary Clinton's experience and dedication to issues affecting the Latino community
Providence, RI: More than sixty Rhode Island Latino leaders and community members joined Mayor David Cicilline, Sen. Juan Pichardo and Providence Councilman Leon Tejada yesterday to organize a statewide barnstorm for Hillary Clinton. The energy-filled meeting at Ada's Creations on Broad Street on the city's south side, organized by local activists Emelda Benitez and Marilyn Cepeda, drew Clinton supporters from across the state who pledged to work over the next two weeks to turn out the Latino vote.
"Latino families are concerned about our economy and the well-being of their families. Hillary Clinton has a plan to put our economy back on track, improve access to quality education for our nation's children and to support comprehensive immigration reform. She is the best choice for Rhode Island and our nation," said Mayor David Cicilline.
Senator Juan Pichardo said: "Hillary Clinton has the qualifications and know-how to get things done in Washington and has proven her ability to build consensus among both parties. I will be working together with the community to help ensure Rhode Island Latinos make our voices heard on March 4."
Sabina Matos of Providence believes Hillary Clinton has the ability to start moving the country in a positive direction the day she takes office. "Like many Rhode Islanders, I believe Hillary Clinton has the strength and qualifications to lead our nation. She also has the only health care plan that will cover every American – an important issue for Latino families."
Latino community members attending the meeting will be working with hundreds of other supporters to speak to community members, canvas the state and bring Hilary supporters to the polls on primary day.
Any supporters interested in working with the campaign can call (401)751-Hill (4455) or visit the website at http://www.hillaryclinton.com/hq/rhodeisland.
  