
    "It's 3AM and your children are safe and asleep. Who do you want answering the phone?"
AUSTIN, TX - The Hillary Clinton campaign unveiled a new national security ad that asks voters who they want answering the phone at the White House during a crisis. The 30-second spot called "Children" will begin airing in Texas starting this Friday. The ad points to Hillary Clinton's strength and experience to be president at this time and the clear positive choice she represents.
"One of the most important duties of the President is ensuring the safety of the American people," said retired General Wesley Clark. "Inevitably, another national security crisis will occur. And when it does, voters shouldn't have to wonder whether their President will be ready. As President, Hillary will be ready to act swiftly and decisively."
"The stakes for our nation have never been higher," said Retired General John Watkins. "As someone who has met with world leaders and is a leader on national security in the US Senate, I am confident that Hillary Clinton is ready to serve as our nation's Commander in Chief on day one. She would come to the job more prepared than most of our recent Presidents and certainly with better judgment."
"America faces a number of daunting challenges. I am confident that Hillary Clinton will meet these challenges and that she has the experience and judgment necessary to be Commander-in-Chief today," said former Secretary of the Navy John Dalton. "As President, I am also confident that she will re-establish our moral authority and our leadership throughout the world."
The ad begins airing on the same day that Clinton is scheduled to hold a campaign rally with veterans and flag officers in Waco.
[Click here] to view the ad
The script for "Children" follows:
It's 3am and your children are safe and asleep
But there's a phone in the White House and it's ringing
Something's happening in the world
Your vote will decide who answers that call.
Whether it's someone who already knows the world's leaders, knows the military - someone tested and ready to lead in a dangerous world
It's 3am and your children are safe and asleep
Who do you want answering the phone?
  