
    Today Pennsylvania State Senator John R. Gordner, State Representative Gary Day and State Representative Fred Keller announced their support for Gov. John Kasich's presidential campaign as members of the Kasich for America leadership team.
Said Gordner, "From his historic role as a budget-balancer in Congress to his accomplishments cutting taxes and creating jobs in Ohio, John Kasich has a proven ability to make government work for the people. That is exactly the kind of leadership we need in the White House and why I am proud to support his campaign for President."
Gordner, a lifelong resident of Columbia County, has represented the 27th Senate District in the central Susquehanna Valley since 2003, having previously served for 11 years as a member of the Pennsylvania House. He is presently Majority Whip of the State Senate.
Day, voicing his high regard for the Kasich record, said, "John Kasich has demonstrated time and again his ability to bring about real and effective change. He knows how to balance budgets and keep a tight rein on government spending. I appreciate his optimistic, commonsense approach, and I'm looking forward to help him bring that message to Pennsylvania voters."
Day, a resident of Lehigh County, has represented Pennsylvania's 187th Legislative District, including portions of Lehigh and Berks counties, since 2009.
Said Keller, "I entered office with the conviction that growing the economy and creating job opportunities is a great moral calling. In John Kasich I see a leader who shares this conviction and has spent his career fighting to lift people by balancing budgets, cutting taxes and regulations and spurring job creation. Now more than ever, America needs a strong fiscal conservative who can turn the economy around and help people reach their God-given potential."
A resident of Kreamer, Keller was first elected to serve Pennsylvania's 85th Legislative District in 2010. He has also worked 25 years at Conestoga Wood Specialties Corp., where he managed a 235,00-square-foot manufacturing facility.
Responding to these key endorsements, Kasich said, "This is exciting news, bringing three strong additions to our team in Pennsylvania. John Gordner, Gary Day and Fred Keller are all influential, well-respected voices in the state legislature and the Pennsylvania Republican Party. It's an honor to have them by my side as we take our message to Keystone State voters."
  