
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 10
In the morning, the President traveled to Cedar Rapids, IA, and then to Iowa City. In the afternoon, he traveled to Cedar Rapids and then to Clear Lake, where he toured a grain elevator at the Farmers' Co-op Society.
In the evening, the President traveled from Mason City to Des Moines.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Idaho and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning February 6 and continuing.
February 11
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
February 12
In the afternoon, the President met with the Central and East European Coalition in the Roosevelt Room. He later attended a meeting between Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble and National Security Adviser Anthony Lake in the National Security Adviser's office.
The President announced his intention to appoint Mark S. Gaede as the Department of Agriculture representative to the Geologic Mapping Advisory Committee.
The President announced the appointment of Daniel K. Tarullo as Deputy Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.
February 13
The White House announced that the President has invited Amir Jabir al-Ahmad al-Jabir Al Sabah of Kuwait to the White House for a working visit on February 28.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by ice jams and flooding, beginning January 19.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mary D. Greene to the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alberta Seybolt George and David A. Ucko to the National Museum Services Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Norman Brownstein to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Kailash Mathur to the National Nutrition Monitoring Advisory Council.
February 14
In the morning, the President traveled to Portland, OR, and then to Woodland, WA, where he toured flood-damaged areas via helicopter, motorcade, and on foot. In the afternoon, the President returned to Portland after touring flood-damaged areas by helicopter, and then traveled to Boise, ID. In the evening, he traveled to Newark, NJ.
The President announced that the White House Leadership Conference on Youth Drug Use and Violence will be held March 7 at Eleanor Roosevelt High School in Greenbelt, MD.
February 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Union City, NJ. In the afternoon, he traveled to New York City and in the evening, to East Rutherford, NJ.
The White House announced that the President has invited Greek Prime Minister Konstandinos Simitis to Washington for a working visit on April 9.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Thomas F. Eagleton, Gen. Lew Allen, Jr., Sidney D. Drell, Zoe Baird, and Lois D. Rice to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Henry E. McKoy as a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mark E. Emblidge to the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board.
February 16
In the morning, the President traveled from Newark, NJ, to Scranton and Wilkes-Barre, PA, where he toured flood-damaged areas. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert Krueger as Ambassador to Botswana.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Donald J. Pease as a member of the Amtrak Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to appoint Arthur Q. Davis to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
  