
    If You Watch One Thing Today: Katie Couric interviews Hillary on "60 Minutes" at 7 p.m. EST/PST and 6 p.m. CST/MST.
$10 Million: Since the polls closed on Super Tuesday, more than 100,000 donors have contributed $10 million online. The campaign's initial goal was $3 million in 3 days.
In Case You Missed It: Hillary accepted an invitation to debate in Wisconsin before the state's February 19th primary. Sen. Obama has refused to debate in the next two weeks.
Today on the Trail: Hillary holds "Solutions for America" town halls in Manassas and Roanoke, Virginia and Bowie, Maryland... President Bill Clinton attends church services in Washington, D.C. and Bowie, Maryland and holds "Solutions for America" events in Catonsville, Dundalk and Silver Spring, Maryland... Chelsea attends church services in Washington, D.C., meets with students at the University of Maryland in College Park and tours Belvedere Square Market in Baltimore, Maryland.
Newspaper Endorsements: In Easton, Maryland, The Star Democrat endorsed Hillary. "Sen. Clinton's longer experience in politics has prepared her to solve the problems our nation and the world face today."... In Manassas, Virginia, El Comercio endorsed Hillary. "We have no doubt that, once [Hillary] becomes president, she will work tirelessly in favor of the economic, social and cultural rights of our [Latino] community, as she has been doing for quite some time."
Today in the States: In Virginia, Hillary supporters canvass in Arlington, Baileys Crossroad, Alexandria and Falls Church... In Maryland, Gov. Martin O'Malley encourages more than 1,000 attendees at the Montgomery County Central Committee Brunch to vote for Hillary... In Ohio, Hillary supporters phone bank in Cleveland. The campaign also kicks off its organizing efforts in Lima.
Yesterday on the Trail: In Maine, "more than 2,000 people showed up to hear Clinton speak" in Orono and "the University of Maine's gymnasium was jam-packed" in Lewiston... In Virginia, "hours before [President Clinton's] appearance, a thick line of supporters stretched around [the] High School in Chesapeake, snaking for hundreds of yards. Even though the event was first announced Friday, about 1,200 Democratic loyalists packed into the school gymnasium cheering and chanting."
Yesterday in the States: In Maine, Lewiston Mayor Larry Gilbert endorsed Hillary... In Virginia, Delegate Bud Phillips endorsed Hillary... In Wisconsin, volunteers held "Bring Your Own Phone" parties and conducted visibility statewide... In Ohio, the campaign kicked off its Cincinnati organizing efforts with volunteer meetings. Dozens of Hillary supporters attended.
  