
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 17
In the morning, the President traveled to Portsmouth and Rochester, NH. In the afternoon, he traveled to Keene and Manchester. In the evening, the President traveled to Nashua and then returned to Washington, DC.
February 20
In the evening, the President met with NATO Secretary General Javier Solana in the Oval Office. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Clinton/Gore campaign workers in New Hampshire to thank them for their work in the State primary.
February 21
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia.
In the afternoon, the President attended the 50th birthday celebration of Associated Press reporter Terry Hunt in the White House Briefing Room.
February 22
The President announced his intention to nominate John E. Pepper as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
The President announced his intention to appoint James A. Unruh as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
February 23
In the morning, the President traveled to Long Beach, CA, where he met with the Long Beach Naval Shipyard Reuse Group at the McDonnell Douglas plant. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Santa Monica. In the evening, he met with Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan at the Sheraton Miramar Hotel.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a winter storm February 2-9.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm, ice, and flooding February 1-12.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Montana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and ice jams beginning February 4 and continuing.
The President announced that he concurred with Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt's decision to appoint John Garamendi to serve as Special Representative for the Guam Commonwealth Negotiations.
  