
    If You Watch One Thing Today: In the final moments of last night's debate, Hillary demonstrated her strength, life experience and compassion. Watch.
One-on-One: Hillary's closing remarks received a "standing ovation." Her "last statement was the most effective moment she's had on television since the New Hampshire primary." Hillary sounded "calm, in charge, deliberate," "made an effective argument against John McCain" and had "very good moments on health care and the economy."
Previewing Today: Hillary appeared on NBC's "Today Show," ABC's "Good Morning America" and CBS's "Early Show." Hillary attends early vote events in Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas and holds a town hall in Columbus and a rally in Toledo, Ohio... President Bill Clinton thanks volunteers in Corpus Christi, Texas.
Endorsement Watch: In Texas, former Reps. Chris Bell and Bob Gammage endorsed Hillary... In Ohio, State Sen. Teresa Fedor and former Cleveland Mayor Jane Campbell endorsed Hillary... In Rhode Island, the Providence Democratic City Committee's Executive Committee and Ward chairpeople endorsed Hillary.
Active in Vermont: Today, the campaign opens an office and holds a phone bank in South Burlington... Yesterday, Hillary supporters gathered for a debate watch party at the University of Vermont in Burlington... Earlier this week, the campaign announced that former Gov. Madeleine Kunin and House of Representatives Speaker Gaye Symington will co-chair state efforts.
Recapping Yesterday: In Laredo, Texas, Hillary spoke to an "enthusiastic crowd" and "earned loud applause in calling for a comprehensive solution to... the immigration problem." One woman waited five hours at the rally site to present a rosary to Hillary... In Odessa, "they came early and stayed late to hear former President Bill Clinton." In San Angelo, his "event attracted people of every race, gender, and creed." When President Clinton recounted his wife's accomplishments, "each accomplishment garner(ed) a louder cheer."
FactCheck: Last night, Sen. Obama flip-flopped on normalizing trade relations with Cuba while his campaign distorted Hillary's record on comprehensive immigration reform. Get the facts here and here.
In Case You Missed It: "Obama once visited '60s '˜terrorists'." Read more.
  