
    Pool Reports by Zolan Kanno-Youngs, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




February 4, 202310:09

Travel Pool Report #1 rolling to DANG
Good morning. Hope you're all well.
The pool joined POTUS's motorcade at the screening area near his Wilmington residence at 10:05 AM. We're rolling to DANG.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff
Here's the rest of the president's schedule today, according to the WH:
Update:
On Saturday, the President will travel to Syracuse, New York to visit a local stop. The departure from Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, Delaware will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The arrival to Hancock Field Air National Guard Base, Syracuse, New York will be covered by the out-of-town pool. This stop will be closed press and the out-of-town pool will accompany.
Later, the President will travel to Camp David, where he will remain over the weekend. The departure from Hancock Field Air National Guard Base, Syracuse, New York will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The arrival at and departure from Hagerstown Regional Airport, Hagerstown, Maryland will be covered by the out-of-town pool
Saturday, February 4, 2023
EST
8:15 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
9:55 AM THE PRESIDENT departs New Castle, Delaware en route Syracuse, New YorkDelaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, DelawareOut-of-Town Pool
10:50 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Syracuse, New YorkHancock Field Air National Guard Base, Syracuse, New YorkOut-of-Town Pool 
11:30 AM THE PRESIDENT visits a local stopSyracuse, New YorkClosed Press
1:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Syracuse, New York en route Hagerstown, MarylandHancock Field Air National Guard Base, Syracuse, New YorkOut-of-Town Pool 
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Hagerstown, MarylandHagerstown Regional Airport, Hagerstown, MarylandOut-of-Town Pool 
2:40 PM THE PRESIDENT departs en route Camp DavidHagerstown Regional Airport, Hagerstown, MarylandOut-of-Town Pool



February 4, 202310:18

Travel pool report #2 AF1
POTUS exited the beast and boarded AF1 at 10:15.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Syracuse, New York:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff



February 4, 202311:34

Travel Pool Report #3 Syracuse arrival
AF1 landed at Hancock Field Air National Guard Base at 11:14 AM. POTUS, along with his son Hunter Biden, exited the plane at 11:26 am. He chatted briefly with his greeters.
Just before entering the Beast, he answered a shouted appeal for a "comment on China."
"We're gonna take care of it," he said before entering the vehicle. We're rolling at 11:30 am.
It's 7 degrees in Syracuse. Real feel of -3 degrees.



February 4, 202312:03

Travel Pool Report #4 drop off
The motorcade dropped off POTUS at a private residence near the Fairmount community of Syracuse at 11:58 am before the pool broke off to hold at a nearby Starbucks.
From the White House: This morning, President Biden and his son Hunter are visiting with family members following the passing of his brother-in-law, Michael Hunter.
https://www.legacy.com/us/obituaries/auburnpub/name/michael-hunter-obituary?id=39408168



February 4, 202313:49

Travel Pool #5 rolling to Hancock National Guard Base
Pool joined POTUS's motorcade at the private residence near the Fairmount community at 1:42 PM. We're rolling to Hancock Field Air National Guard Base.
Some added context on POTUS's comment on China earlier: another reporter specifically said "balloon" in their shouted question.



February 4, 202314:10

Travel Pool Report #6 Hancock Arrival/ AF1 board
We arrived at Hancock Field Air National Guard Base at 2:05. POTUS exited The Beast. Pool shouted are you going to shoot down the balloon? Biden smiled and gave a thumbs up to reporters. Pool also asked Did you issue a directive to shoot down the balloon? And what message this sends to China.



February 4, 202315:26

Travel pool report #7 Hagerstown arrival BIDEN Comments
AF1 landed at Hagerstown Regional Airport at 3:06 PM. Biden stepped off at 3:15 PM and spoke to reporters. Sending in two parts for speed.
"On Wednesday when I was briefed on the balloon, I ordered the Pentagon to shoot it down on Wednesday as soon as possible."
He said they didn't want to do damage to anyone on the ground. "They decided that the best time to do that was when it got over water [inaudible] within 12 mile limit."
"They successfully took it down and I want to compliment our aviators that did it," Biden said.
More to come.



February 4, 202315:40

Travel pool report #8 Biden remarks part 2
Part 2 on Biden remarks
Your pooler asked POTUS to elaborate on his decision and the recommendation from his national security officials.
"I told them to shoot it down," Biden said, referring to his directive to national security officials.
Q: On Wednesday?
POTUS: "On Wednesday."
A: But the recommendation to them was to wait—
POTUS: "They said to me let's wait to the safest place to do it."
Multiple reporters asked what message this sends to China. POTUS looked at one of those reporters who asked but ignored him and walked to the Beast.



February 4, 202316:01

Travel Pool report # 9 LID
Pool dropped off POTUS near Camp David around 3:58 PM. And we have a LID.
Thanks for sticking with me. Have a great weekend.




  