
    The President today announced his intention to nominate Dr. Beryl W. Sprinkel to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. Upon his appointment the President intends to designate him Chairman of the Council. He will be economic adviser to the President. Dr. Sprinkel will succeed Dr. Martin Feldstein, who returned to his tenured position at Harvard University.
Since March 1981 Dr. Sprinkel has been serving as Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs. Previously he was executive vice president and economist at Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago, IL, where he worked for 28 years. He was director of Harris Economics, an economic and financial forecasting service published by the bank; a member of Time magazine's board of economists; chairman of the economic advisory committee of the American Bankers Association; and member of the board of directors of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. He also served as a consultant to various government agencies and congressional committees.
Before joining Harris Trust and Savings, he taught economics and finance at the University of Chicago (1949-1952) and at the University of Missouri School of Business and Public Administration (1948-1949). He is the author of two books, and coauthor of a third, on the effects of monetary policy on financial markets and the economy and has written numerous articles.
Dr. Sprinkel received his B.S. degree in public administration from the University of Missouri in 1947, M.B.A. degree from the University of Chicago in 1948, and Ph.D. in economics and finance from the University of Chicago in 1952. He was a founding member of the Shadow Open Market Committee. He holds a chartered financial analyst degree from the Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts, an honorary doctor of humane letters degree from DePaul University, and an honorary doctor of laws degree from St. Michael's College.
He was born November 20, 1923, on a farm near Richmond, MO. He is married to the former Barbara Angus. They have four children and reside in McLean, VA.
  