
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Seth Daniel Appleton, of Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Katherine M. O'Regan.
Alan E. Cobb, of Kansas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring November 22, 2023, vice William Shaw McDermott, term expired.
Charles E. Cook III, of Maryland, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Homeland Security, vice Charles H. Fulghum.
William R. Evanina, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center. (New Position)
Joseph Ryan Gruters, of Florida, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years, vice Albert DiClemente, term expired.
Kelly Higashi, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice Thomas J. Motley, retired.
Patrick Hovakimian, of California, to be a Member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for a term expiring September 30, 2020, vice Anuj Chang Desai, term expired.
Kirsten Dawn Madison, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs), vice William R. Brownfield, retired.
Shana Frost Matini, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice Zoe Bush, retired.
Eliot Pedrosa, of Florida, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, vice Jan E. Boyer, resigned.
John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2021, vice Michael McWherter, term expired.
John E. Whitley, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Robert M. Speer.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Kathleen Troia McFarland, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Singapore, which was sent to the Senate on January 8, 2018.
Kathleen Hartnett White, of Texas, to be a Member of the Council on Environmental Quality, vice Nancy Helen Sutley, which was sent to the Senate on January 8, 2018.
  