
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
David W. Dugan of Illinois, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois.
David Dugan currently serves as a Circuit Judge for the 3rd Judicial Circuit, Madison County, Illinois. Prior to taking the bench in 2017, Judge Dugan was in private practice for more than 30 years, where his practice focused on personal injury and commercial litigation in both State and Federal Courts. Judge Dugan previously served as an Assistant States Attorney for Madison County, Illinois. Judge Dugan earned his B.A. from Eastern Illinois University and his J.D. from Valparaiso University School of Law.
Iain D. Johnston of Illinois, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
Iain Johnston currently serves as a United States Magistrate Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Before taking the bench in 2013, Judge Johnston was a unit supervisor for the Office of the Illinois Attorney General and in private practice at Altheimer & Gray, Holland & Knight LLP, and Johnston Greene LLC. Judge Johnston also serves as an adjunct professor at UIC John Marshall Law School. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Johnston served as a law clerk to Judge Philip Godfrey Reinhard of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Judge Johnston earned his B.S., cum laude, from Rockford College and his J.D., cum laude, from UIC John Marshall Law School.
Franklin U. Valderrama of Illinois, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. 
Franklin Valderrama currently serves as an Associate Judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County. Judge Valderrama serves on the Illinois Supreme Court Rule Committee and the Supreme Court Committee on Illinois Evidence. Before taking the bench in 2007, Judge Valderrama was a partner at Sanchez, Daniels & Hoffman LLP, where his practice focused on trial litigation. Judge Valderrama has also served as an adjunct professor at UIC John Marshall Law School where he taught Pre-Trial Civil Litigation. Judge Valderrama earned his B.A. from the University of Illinois at Chicago, and his J.D. from The DePaul University College of Law.
Christy Criswell Wiegand of Pennsylvania, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
Christy Wiegand is an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Western District of Pennsylvania, where she prosecutes a variety of crimes, including large-scale drug trafficking, child exploitation, illegal firearms, and fraud. Previously, Ms. Wiegand served as the Deputy Chief of the Civil Division of the United States Attorney's Office. Before joining the United States Attorney's Office in 2004, Ms. Wiegand served as a law clerk to Judge D. Brooks Smith of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Wiegand was in private practice at Arnold & Porter LLP, in Washington, D.C., where her practice focused on antitrust matters. Ms. Wiegand earned her undergraduate degree, cum laude, from Princeton University, and her J.D., cum laude, from Cornell Law School, where she served as an Articles Editor on the Cornell Law Review.
  