
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, presidential candidate Ted Cruz announced the South Carolina leadership team for his "Pro-Lifers for Cruz" coalition.
"I am honored to have these leaders in the pro-life movement join our cause. This is one of the most important issues of our time as we have lost more than 55 million lives to abortion," Cruz said. "As we push forward in this election cycle, let us not forget what is most important — our God-given right to life. Thank you to the men and women on this leadership team who are on the front lines of the battle to protect the sanctity of life in the Palmetto State."

The national coalition has a total of 19,360 members and is chaired by Tony Perkins, President of Family Research Council. Co-Chairs include former Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli; Carol Everett, Founder and President of The Heidi Group and former abortion clinic owner; Jewels Green, former abortion clinic worker; Rebecca Hagelin, bestselling author and pro-life speaker; abortion survivor Gianna Jessen; Jason Jones, award winning filmmaker and pro-life activist; South Carolina Representative Wendy Nanney; Troy Newman, President of Operation Rescue; Iowa Right to Life Board Member Loras Schulte; and Dave Sterrett, pro-life activist and author.
Sign up for Pro-Lifers for Cruz at www.prolifeforcruz.org.
The South Carolina coalition leadership team is comprised of coalition National Co-Chair South Carolina representative Wendy Nanney and state leaders South Carolina Representative Gary Smith, pro-life activist Rebecca Ewing, Pastor Mike Gonzalez, South Carolina Senator Lee Bright, and Steven Long.
South Carolina Representative Wendy Nanney, National Co-Chair
Wendy Nanney is a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives. First elected to the state house in 2008, Nanney worked for passage of a 24-hour abortion bill that requires women seeking abortion to wait 24 hours after they have arrived at the clinic. In 2014 Nanney sponsored the "Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act" which would prohibit abortions on unborn babies after 20 weeks gestation. Her work for the unborn in South Carolina is tireless and honorable and is seen every day in the South Carolina House of Representatives.
South Carolina Representative Garry Smith, State Leader
Representative Garry Smith has represented District 27 in the South Carolina House of Representatives since 2003. He is the Chairman of the House Operations and Management Committee. Smith was named the 2003 South Carolina Businessman of the Year. He is managing partner of Nin Tai Enterprises and Vice President of Burkhold Smith Planning & Management.
Rebecca Ewing, State Leader
Holding a Bachelor's degree in Music/Speech Education, Rebecca Grace Ewing graduated with her Master's degree from Bob Jones University in English Education. After teaching at a private Christian high school in North Carolina, she has been active in the pro-life movement while working with a web development company in Greenville, SC.
Pastor Mike Gonzalez, State Leader
Mike Gonzalez is the Senior Pastor at Columbia World Outreach Church in Columbia, SC. Columbia World Outreach is a non-denominational, multicultural church started by Mike and and his wife Dawn 18 years ago. Mike has been in ministry for 27 years and has traveled to six different nations around the world during the last eight years to train pastors and leaders as well as preach the gospel in large crusades. Mike also serves as the executive director of the South Carolina Pastors Alliance. Mike is originally from Cuba and is the youngest son of pastors and missionaries. Mike is currently serving as the evangelical chairman in South Carolina for the Cruz for President campaign.
South Carolina Senator Lee Bright, State Leader
Senator Lee Bright has been a member of the South Carolina Senate representing District 12 since 2008. A member of Roebuck Baptist Church, Senator Bright has served as a board member of the Palmetto Family Council, as a member of the Attorney General's Commission on the Family, on the board of visitors for the Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary, and on the Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission.
Steven Long, State Leader
Steven Long is running to represent District 37 in the South Carolina House of Representatives. After working in the industrial hazardous materials industry to pay for college, Steven became an insurance agent, and he currently works for the Bright Agency in Spartanburg. Steven is a member of Boiling Springs First Baptist Church, the Gideons International, and other community organizations.
  