
    President Biden continues to deliver for American workers, bolstering manufacturing, creating jobs and moving us closer to a clean energy economy. Today, following announcements in past weeks by Ford, GM, and Intel, President Biden cheered Tritium, an Australian electric vehicle charger manufacturing company, for its recent decision to build a facility in Lebanon, Tennessee. Tritium's CEO, who joined the president at the event, identified the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law as driving the company's U.S. expansion. The facility will create 500 jobs, produce up to 30,000 electric vehicle chargers per year, and will play an important role in ensuring the future of electric vehicle infrastructure is Made in America.
See below for excerpts from the coverage.
CNN: Biden touts Australian company's new electric vehicle charging plant in Tennessee[Kate Sullivan and Maegan Vazquez, 2/8/22]
The President argues future electric cars will be more climate-friendly and affordable for American families, and he wants half the vehicles sold in the US to be electric or plug-in hybrids by 2030. His administration has outlined a plan to use $7.5 billion from the bipartisan infrastructure law to build 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations across the country. There are currently fewer than 47,000.
Reuters: Biden touts 'American manufacturing comeback,' announces Tennessee charger plant[Jarrett Renshaw and Nandita Bose, 2/8/22]
Biden touted "an American manufacturing comeback." Tritium's chargers will "use American parts, American iron, American steel," and will be installed by union workers, Biden said. He said the federal government's fleet of 600,000 vehicles will "end up being electric vehicles."
Wall Street Journal: Australian Company to Build EV Charging-Station Factory in Tennessee[Timothy Puko, 2/8/22]
In announcing the Tennessee factory, Tritium cited last year's infrastructure bill as key support for its U.S. expansion … "Tritium's investment in a U.S.-based, cutting-edge facility for manufacturing is part of our strong push toward global growth," Ms. Hunter said in a statement, adding that the company plans "to double or even triple our charger production capacity to further our product distribution throughout the United States."
Bloomberg: Biden Says New U.S. EV Charger Plant to Create 'Ripple Effect'[Justin Sink and Jordan Fabian, 2/8/22]
President Joe Biden said that Australian electric vehicle charging company Tritium DCFC Ltd. will build a U.S. manufacturing facility in Tennessee and that the plant would set off a "ripple effect" that benefits workers and the planet as a whole. The facility in Lebanon, east of Nashville, is expected to produce as many as 30,000 electric-vehicle chargers annually and create 500 jobs, the White House said.
Washington Post: Biden highlights decision of Australian vehicle charging company to build plant in Tenn.[John Wagner, 2/8/22]
At Tuesday's event, Biden touted Tritium's announcement as "more than just great news for Tennessee," saying it would "ripple thousands of miles in every direction" as his administration moves forward with plans to facilitate a nationwide network of charging stations.
FOX Business: Biden highlights 500 new jobs at Tennessee charger manufacturing facility[Brooke Singman, 2/8/22]
"America is building convenient, reliable, equitable national public charging networks," Biden said. "So wherever you live, charging an electric vehicle will be quick and easy, and the foundation will help American automakers set the pace for electric vehicles, which means even more good paying jobs, producing batteries, materials and parts … When the federal government spends taxpayers['] dollars, we're going to buy American."
Nashville Tennessean: Lebanon in center of Biden's EV goals with announcement of manufacturing facility and 500 jobs[Andy Humbles, 2/8/22]
"I think it addresses a concern of electric vehicle industry where you can actually fast charge a vehicle in 15 or 20 minutes," [Joint Economic & Community Development Board of Wilson County Director G.C.] Hixson said. "It's a major growth industry, a real opportunity." "These are types of businesses and jobs we've been looking to recruit for a long time," [Lebanon Mayor Rick] Bell said. "This is first step in what will be many more businesses like this coming to Lebanon."
WZTV (FOX Nashville): Tritium to bring 500 jobs to Wilson County[Brittany Coggins, 2/8/22]
The CEO of Tritium, Jane Hunter, said that the company is happy to invest in Tennessee. "We are thrilled to work with the U.S. Federal government and the State of Tennessee on this initiative. With the help of the hard-working residents of Tennessee, we expect to double or even triple our charger production capacity to further our product distribution throughout the United States."
  