
    Pool Reports by Steven Nelson, New York Post 



Sent:
Reports:




February 27, 202110:54

Pool Report 1/Gather for event 
The in-town pool is gathered for President Biden's 11 a.m. remarks on the American Rescue Plan Act in the Roosevelt Room.



February 27, 202111:03

Pool Report 2/Event over 
President Biden began speaking at 10:59 and ended his remarks two minutes later.
He said that he just spoke with Speaker Pelosi about House passage of the American Rescue Plan Act, and he called on the Senate to pass the bill.
He did not answer a twice shouted question about whether he will punish the Saudi crown prince.



February 27, 202111:15

Pool Report 3/Biden quotes 
Here are President Biden's just-completed remarks from the Roosevelt Room:
"Good morning, folks. For a few weeks now, an overwhelming percentage of American public has made it clear that they support my American Rescue Plan. And the House of Representatives took the first step toward making it a reality."
"And I want to thank — and I called her just a few moments ago — Nancy Pelosi for her extraordinary, Speaker Pelosi, for her extraordinary leadership, and all those who supported our plan."
"And with their vote, we're one step closer to vaccinating the nation. We're one step closer to putting $1,400 in the pockets of Americans. We are one step closer to extending unemployment benefits for millions of Americans who are shortly going to lose them."
"We are one step closer to helping millions of Americans feed their families and keep a roof over their head. We're one step closer to getting our kids safely back in school. And we're one step closer to getting state and local governments the money they need to prevent massive layoffs for essential workers."
"Now the bill moves to the United States Senate, where I hope it will receive quick action. I have — we have no time to waste. If we act now decisively, quickly and boldly, we can finally get ahead of this virus. We can finally get our economy moving again. And the people of this country have suffered far too much for too long. We need to relieve that suffering. The American Rescue Plan does just that. It relieves the suffering, and it's time to act."
President Biden took no questions. In addition to being asked if he will punish the Saudi crown prince for allegedly ordering the operation that resulted in Jamal Khashoggi's death, he was asked if he was disappointed that no Republicans voted for the bill.



February 27, 202111:57

Pool Report 4/Lunch lid 
There's a lunch lid until 1:20.



February 27, 202115:07

Pool Report 5/Departure and Q 
President Biden emerged from the White House residence at 2:58.
He answered a single question about whether he will punish the Saudi crown prince following the Khashoggi report.
Biden answered, "There will be an announcement on Monday as to what we are going to be doing with Saudi Arabia generally."
The first lady followed him to Marine One, which lifted off at 3:03.



February 27, 202115:18

Pool Report 6/Lid 
We have an in-town lid.




  