
    HOUSTON, Texas – Yesterday, Presidential candidate Ted Cruz held a Liberty Leaders for Cruz rally with special guests Glenn Beck and National Chair Bob Barr in addition to announcing a Liberty Leaders South Carolina team. Liberty Leaders for Cruz consists of 34,488 members nationwide.
"The liberty movement is growing as thousands across the country join forces within our campaign," Cruz said. "Under Bob Barr's leadership, Liberty Leaders for Cruz has grown to tens of thousands of members. I am excited to see our South Carolina Liberty Leaders team expand as we push forward and work to be very competitive in South Carolina!"
As announced previously, former U.S. Congressman Bob Barr chairs Liberty Leaders for Cruz. The South Carolina Liberty Leaders for Cruz leadership team is comprised of Senator Lee Bright, Steven Long, Josiah Magnuson, and Sheriff Ray Nash.
Senator Lee Bright endorsed and worked to get Ron Paul elected in 2012 and is a Cruz for President South Carolina Co-Chair. Senator Bright has been a member of the South Carolina Senate representing District 12 since 2008. He has been a relentless advocate for conservative causes on issues ranging from pro-business to pro-life. A member of Roebuck Baptist Church, Senator Bright has served as a board member of the Palmetto Family Council, as a member of the Attorney General's Commission on the Family, on the board of visitors for the Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary, and on the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission.
Steven Long is running to represent District 37 in the South Carolina House of Representatives. He was raised in Boiling Springs and graduated from Boiling Springs High School, Spartanburg Community College, and USC Upstate. While in high school, Steven earned the Eagle Scout award and founded the Spartanburg Teenage Republicans. Steven is an insurance agent and currently works for the Bright Agency in Spartanburg. He is a member of Boiling Springs First Baptist Church and the Gideons International, as well as other community organizations.
Josiah Magnuson is Director for Americans for Constitutional Government. ACG is a non-partisan civic study and action organization located in Greenville, SC. Josiah also founded Young Christian Leaders Alliance when he was fifteen.
Sheriff Ray Nash has had a career in law enforcement that spans over 32 years. He started in high school and went on to become one of the nation's youngest police chiefs at age 23. He was sheriff in Dorchester County from 1996 until 2008. After retiring, he served in Afghanistan as a Professional Mentor to the Afghan National Police and as a Police Advisor for the US Department of State working out of the Embassy in Kabul. He has provided consulting services and leadership training to law enforcement agencies all over the U.S. and internationally. He is active in his church and community in Summerville.
Cruz's former colleague at the Federal Trade Commission, Theodore A. Gebhard, wrote in the American Thinker that, "economic libertarians and others who place a high value on property rights, the right to earn a living, and the right to open a business will find no better friend than Texas senator Ted Cruz."
  