
    (SAN FRANCISCO, February 2, 2020) — Today, the Tom Steyer 2020 campaign announced that it has voluntarily recognized the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 2325 as the exclusive bargaining representative for its campaign staff.
"This is a great step for our employees and our campaign leadership is looking forward to working with IBEW Local 2325," Steyer Campaign Manager Heather Hargreaves said. "Tom's strongest partner has always been organized labor, and we look forward to partnering with IBEW as they represent our campaign staff. Tom has long been a steadfast partner of unions throughout his career, including in 2016 founding 'For Our Future' a partnership with national labor groups to mobilize voters in key states. Unionization is an excellent example of democracy at work and we look forward to working together."
Tom Steyer 2020 is built around Tom's principles of equity, valuing staff, and ensuring everyone can afford to work on the campaign. The campaign has said from the beginning that it will voluntarily recognize the first labor union that demonstrates majority support. Recognizing IBEW Local 2325 makes good on that commitment.
The announcement came after a majority of Tom Steyer 2020 field staff agreed to be represented by IBEW Local 2325. An independent review confirmed that a majority of were cards signed by Steyer campaign field staff.
"IBEW Local 2325 is proud and excited to represent the Tom Steyer 2020 campaign workers," Business Manager Dave Keating said. "Tom's commitment to working families is a key part of his campaign and the partnership with the IBEW is proof of that. We look forward to productive and positive dialogue with the campaign leadership, to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement (CBA). Our expectations are that our upcoming negotiations will ensure that the hard-working Steyer 2020 campaign staff and our newest members of IBEW Local 2325, will have a CBA that reflects organized labors values that all campaign workers deserve."
  