
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House)
(Rep. Pryce (R) OH and 12 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly supports House passage of H.R. 4, which will build on the success of the 1996 welfare reform bill in moving our Nation's most vulnerable families from dependence on welfare to the dignity of work and independence. The Administration is committed to working with Congress to strengthen foundations for our children and to support programs that will empower persons who have not been able to work, for any number of reasons, to achieve self-sufficiency. The Senate should also consider and pass welfare reform legislation consistent with the President's proposal. The Administration is committed to working with both the House and the Senate to ensure the legislation moves quickly through the process and is consistent with the President's Budget.
This legislation will help us move forward in meeting our goals for increased success for America's neediest families while maintaining fiscal discipline. The bill would reauthorize the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, including the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) block grant program that provides funding to States for aid to low-income families with children. The Administration is pleased that H.R. 4 incorporates many of the components of the President's proposals to: (1) maximize self-sufficiency through work, job training, and education; (2) promote child well-being and healthy marriages; (3) encourage abstinence and prevent teen pregnancy; (4) enhance child support enforcement; (5) improve TANF program performance by States; and (6) facilitate the integration of public assistance and training programs through broadened waiver authority to States.
Pay-As-You-Go-Scoring
The Budget Enforcement Act's pay-as-you-go requirements and discretionary spending caps expired on September 30, 2002. The Administration supports the extension of these budget enforcement mechanisms in a manner that ensures fiscal discipline and is consistent with the President's budget.
  