
    Minneapolis, MN -- Today, the Amy for America presidential campaign announced several key hires, including her Campaign Manager, Deputy Campaign Manager, Iowa State Director and several top advisors that will lead the campaign's work in building a grassroots operation focused on connecting with voters across the country.
Justin Buoen, Campaign Manager - Justin Buoen is a longtime advisor to Senator Klobuchar, first working for her 2006 U.S. Senate campaign and then managing her reelection in 2012. Buoen is one of the top Democratic operatives in the midwest, who has led Klobuchar and Minnesota Democrats to major, historic victories. Buoen worked on two presidential campaigns, including U.S. Senator John Edwards' 2008 campaign and U.S. Senator John Kerry's race in 2004. And as a political consultant, he has worked for a number of high-profile Democrats.
Julia Kennedy, Deputy Campaign Manager - Julia Kennedy is coming off a major victory in Wisconsin, where she steered U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin to an 11-point win, a notable margin after Donald Trump won Wisconsin in 2016. Kennedy is also an alum of the DSCC and DCCC and has worked on campaigns in her native state of Ohio, as well as Maryland, Florida, Indiana, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina.
Lauren Dillon, Iowa State Director - Lauren Dillon, a proud Iowan, joins the Klobuchar campaign after spending nearly a decade at the DNC, including five years as Research Director, and most recently served as a Deputy Director of the DSCC during the 2018 campaign cycle. Dillon worked on two presidential campaigns, including President Barack Obama's re-elect in 2012 and Secretary Clinton's general election campaign in 2016. She's also a veteran of the Culver-Judge Administration. Dillon is from Brooklyn, Iowa and proud graduate of Drake University.
Michael Schultz, National Finance Director - Michael Schultz is a veteran Democratic political operative with nearly ten years of experience working on campaigns, including work in New Hampshire, Maryland, Delaware, Minnesota, California, Arizona, Utah, New Mexicoand Colorado. Most recently, he served as National Finance Director for Senator Ben Cardin, as well as several other congressional candidates. In 2016, Schultz served as Hillary Clinton's Maryland and Delaware Finance Director.
Rosa Po, Policy Director - Rosa Po joins Amy for America after serving as Senator Klobuchar's Deputy Chief of Staff for two years. Po was Regional Policy Director and Senior Researcher for Hillary Clinton's 2016 and 2008 presidential campaigns, Research and Policy Director for Senator Boxer's 2010 campaign, and Policy Advisor at the Department of Health and Human Services during the Obama Administration. She holds a B.A. and M.A. from Yale and a J.D. from Yale Law School.
Nathan Nye, Digital Director - Nathan Nye joins Amy for America after a major win in Wisconsin with U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin, where he led the campaign's record-breaking online fundraising and digital efforts. Prior to the Baldwin campaign, Nye helped run the digital program in New Hampshire in 2016 for U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan.
Carlie Waibel, National Press Secretary - Carlie Waibel returns to Minnesota after spending several campaign cycles in Florida, most recently serving assenior spokesperson for Mayor Andrew Gillum's gubernatorial campaign. Waibel also served as communications director for U.S. Senator Bill Nelson, as well as communications advisor to Secretary Clinton's campaign in Florida and deputy communications director in 2014 for Charlie Crist's gubernatorial campaign.
Elise Convy, Deputy National Finance Director - Elise Convy has managed Senator Klobuchar's fundraising efforts for the past four years and most recently served as Finance Director during the 2018 election. Convy has also served as a fundraising consultant for Democratic candidates and state parties around the country.
Sam Clark, Special Advisor - Sam Clark joins the Klobuchar campaign after serving as the St. Paul City Attorney. Clark also previously worked for Senator Klobuchar as her State Director and as General Counsel in the U.S. Senate. He graduated from Harvard University and Yale Law School.
Jeff Blodgett, Special Advisor - Jeff Blodgett is one of the country's top political strategists and will help advise the campaign on political strategy. Blodgett got his start in politics working for the late Senator Paul Wellstone. Blodgett oversaw both of President Barack Obama's decisive victories in Minnesota, after founding and running Wellstone Action, an organization focused on political and grassroots organizing training.
Brigit Helgen, Senior Advisor - Brigit Helgen is a longtime advisor to Senator Klobuchar, most recently serving as her Chief of Staff. She previously worked in the Obama Administration as the Deputy Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Congressional Affairs and has worked on numerous political campaigns across the country.
Tina Stoll, National Finance Consultant - Tina Stoll was a member of Senator Klobuchar's first Senate campaign in 2006 and has worked on each of Senator Klobuchar's re-election campaigns. Tina is the owner of her own consulting firm and brings with her a team of experienced campaign finance consultants who have worked on various campaigns throughout the country.
  