
    Pool Reports by Eli Stokols, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




February 20, 202210:56 CET

VP pool report #1 - gathered for VP gaggle
Munich
The pool has gathered, been swept and is now awaiting VPOTUS in a meeting room at the RON that has been set up for a gaggle. We're told it will be starting in roughly 10 minutes.
The gaggle was not listed on the official schedule. Pool will effort to send top-lines and then a transcript and/or audio file ASAP, although it's unclear how much time we will have before we are off to the airport.
Initially, we were told this would be a full press conference but the VP's office informed the pool Saturday night that it was being scaled down to a less formal gaggle. Pool pushed for a more formal, expanded presser, to no avail.
There are four flags (two US, two German) in front of a blue drape backdrop but no lectern or mic stand.



February 20, 202211:43 CET

VP pool report #2 - quotes from 16-minute gaggle w VP
VPOTUS entered the room at 11:18 a.m. CEST and stepped in front of the assembled pool. She left at 11:34 after taking questions from six reporters.
Here is a rundown of the Q&A below (please check quotes against transcript). Will send otter audio file in subsequent email.
She started with brief comments, calling it a "very decisive moment on one of the bases for the Munich Security Conference…European security."
"It productive trip in terms of the extensive bilateral meetings that we had."
"This alliance is strong…founded in shared principles that are very much at play right now…
"At stake is the NATO alliance."
Questions:
Q: Any new aid for Ukraine?
VP: "What I made clear in our meeting, is that, again, this is a dynamic situation. And depending on what happens in the coming days, we will reevaluate the need that Ukraine has and our ability to support and we have been doing that through the course of these many months."
Q: Why aren't you imposing sanctions on Russia now, especially if you think Putin has changed his mind?
VP: "The purpose of the sanctions has always been, and continues to be deterrence."
"I strongly believe and remember also that the sanctions are a product not only of our perspective as the United States, but a shared perspective among our allies, and the Allied relationship is such that we have agreed that the deterrence effect of these sanctions is still a meaningful one. Especially because remember all so we still sincerely hope that there is a diplomatic path out of this moment."
Q: What is US endgame? How do we get out of this?
VP: "We don't consider ourselves to be entangled."
"But we're very clear of our principles and our purpose, which is to be aligned with our allies understanding that I mean, listen, guys we're talking about the potential for war in Europe."
…
"It's been over 70 years, that through the 70 years as I mentioned yesterday, there has been peace and security. We are talking about the real possibility of war in Europe.
"So our position is for us very clear, which is as a leader, which we have been bringing together the Allies working together around our collective and unified position that we would all not just prefer we desire we believe it is in the best interest of all that there is a diplomatic end to this moment."
Q: what should Americans be prepared for if war breaks out in Europe?
VP: "As the President talked about his feet we are aware that again, when America stands for principles, and all of the things that we hold dear, it requires sometimes for for us to put ourselves out there in a way that maybe we will incur some cost and in this situation, that may relate to energy costs, for example, but we are taking very specific and appropriate I believe steps to mitigate what that cost might be if it happens."
Q on Zelensky's comments about Ukraine's NATO membership:
"I'm not going to second guess president Zelensky's desires for his own country but I will say this, let us recognize the position he's in. His country is virtually surrounded by Russian troops. This is my belief, based on just my own assessment of speculation: he came here make a very clear point that he does not stand alone."
Q: how can sanctions be tough if SWIFT is not part of it from the start?
VP: "We're gonna take this one moment at a time in terms of what might need to happen in the future in terms of escalation. But right now, we've made our position clear."
Q: Does US have intelligence that Putin has decided to invade?
"as the President has said, we believe that Putin has made his decision. Period."
Q: PM of Italy has expressed reservations about sanctioning Russia's energy sector because of effects on Europe. Reaction?
VP: "This is an alliance of nations that each have their priorities and their their individual concerns about how anything we do going forward will impact their specific country, their economies and their security. So again, I would not deny Italy from having its perspective or its list of concerns. We all do, actually, that has been part of this process. And so Italy is very much at the table in terms of these conversations about how we can do this in a way that achieves its intended purpose, which back to the earlier point is about deterring Russia from invading a sovereign nation. And we all understanding looting every country in Europe, what war in Europe looks like and what it can mean for the citizens of each of those countries."



February 20, 202211:49 CET

VP pool report #3 - gaggle audio, pool holding
Gaggle audio file here:
https://otter.ai/u/PPRspzug2l3VU3tC4-1wJ6dww00
Correction: Harris took questions from seven reporters, not six as I wrote in the last note.
Including follow-ups, she took 10 questions in total.
Pool is holding at the RON. On our way out of the gaggle room, we passed a long line of several dozen embassy staffers lined up outside the door and up the stairs. So it appears there is a closed press meet and greet with them before we head to the airport.



February 20, 202212:33 CET

VP pool report #4 - motorcade rolling 
Munich
Motorcade is rolling at 12:31 p.m. CEST from the RON to MUC for VPOTUS' departure from Germany.
Drive is roughly 15 minutes.
On background from a WH Official
Before departure of the RON the Vice President met with officials and family members from the U.S. Consulate General Bavaria and the U.S. Embassy in Berlin.
Upon arrival to Munich International Airport, Vice President Harris will be greeted by Mr. Timothy Liston, U.S. Consul General in Munich.



February 20, 202213:05 CET

VP pool report #5 - MUC, boarding AF2 
Munich
Motorcade arrived at MUC at 12:55 p.m. and VPOTUS' SUV stopped on the tarmac beside AF2's stairs. She waited until pool was in place beneath the wing and then, at 1:01 , got out of her SUV wearing a black trenchcoat. She chatted briefly with the two greeters, waved to the pool and walked up the main stairs, waving again at the top. She boarded at 1:02.
We are boarding now and will be wheels up for JBA shortly.



February 20, 202213:20 CET

VP pool report #6 - departing MUC 
VPOTUS just chatted OTR with the press aboard AF2 prior to takeoff for about 10 minutes.
Per a OVP official, she will be participating in the NSC meeting from the flight.
We're taxiing now and about to be wheels up. Flight time back to JBA is 10 hours.



February 20, 202217:29 EST

VP pool report #7 - JBA return 
AF2 was wheels up from MUC at 1:23 p.m. CEST (DC +6), and wheels down at JBA at 5:23 p.m. EST — total flying time: 10 hours on the dot.
The flight was uneventful. We are still taxiing; VPOTUS will be deplaning shortly.




  