
    In recent weeks I have been following closely developments in the coal strike. Earlier this week it appeared that the impasse might be over when the bargainers reached a tentative agreement on a new contract.
Recent events, however, have slowed and, perhaps, threatened ratification of that contract. At the same time, the situation in some areas of the country has become a matter of increasing concern.
Voluntary power cutbacks have become widespread in the east-central region, centering in Ohio, and several utilities have ordered mandatory cutbacks to industrial customers. More such cutbacks will follow even if the strike is settled soon, and employment impacts will be felt shortly.
In view of the uncertainties of the current situation, I have instructed members of my Cabinet to accelerate planning and preparation for any contingencies that may arise from continuation of the strike.
—I have asked the Secretary of Labor, working in close cooperation with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, to continue efforts to facilitate the collective bargaining process.
—I have asked the Secretary of Energy (1) to identify and plan for possible movements of coal to points of critical shortage, and (2) to continue his efforts to ensure maximum possible electric power transfer into the affected region from other electric utility systems not affected by the coal strike.
—I have asked the Administrator of General Services to ensure that all Federal facilities in the affected region reduce their power consumption to minimum necessary levels, effective immediately.
—I have instructed the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to provide expedited review of any requests for temporary relaxation of the Clean Air Act regulations that may be needed.
—I have instructed the Attorney General, working in close cooperation with the Governors of the affected States, to review and plan for any Federal measures that may be needed to ensure continued peace and lawfulness in the areas most affected by the strike.
—In addition, I have requested formation of a Federal/State task force, with headquarters in Canton, Ohio, to coordinate efforts to ensure that employment and human need consequences of power cutbacks are minimized, and that power brought into the affected region is shared equitably. This task force, to be composed of Governors, representatives of Federal agencies, State public utility commissions, private and public utilities and industrial users, will be established immediately and will convene initial meetings within the next few days.
I continue to believe that the solution to the strike must be worked out in free collective bargaining by the parties. I hope that all those involved in the strike will abide by the law and act responsibly in all respects. I urge all parties to respect the principles of fairness and cooperation during the days ahead.
Those in areas most affected by the strike have already made great sacrifices. Before the strike is over, and for several weeks thereafter until the normal flow of coal is restored, even greater hardship will occur. I urge all those in areas threatened by power cutbacks to conserve energy, so that these sacrifices are shared equally and so that no one will suffer unfairly or unnecessarily.
  