
    A top White House official today praised candidate Steve Forbes, saying that "he talks a lot like Bill Clinton." "For once, I agree with the White House," said Dole for President Campaign Manager Scott Reed. "Steve Forbes does sound a lot like Bill Clinton. They're anxious to run against Forbes in 1996 because they know he would ensure a Clinton reelection. Does anyone think the White House would praise Forbes if they seriously believed he could beat Bill Clinton?"
    BILL CLINTON AND STEVE FORBES: SOUNDING A LOT ALIKE
BILL CLINTON                          STEVE FORBES
Promotes risky economic plan       Promotes risky economic plan that
that would not balance             add $ 186 would billion a year to
the budget                         the deficit
Advocates big government           Doubled size of government agency
                                    he was in charge of -- from $ 108
                                    billion to $ 21 8 billion a year
Trouble telling the truth          Trouble telling the truth about
                                    his government mismanagement,
                                    negative ads, economic plan., etc.
Opposed to Contract with America   Opposed to Contract with America's
                                    child tax credit
Opposed to Balanced Budget         Opposed to Balanced Budget
Amendment                          Amendment
Opposes GOP pro-life position      Opposes GOP pro-life position
Wanted to nationalize the          Supported Kennedy's
health care system                 plan to nationalize health care
                                    system
Talks like a conservative,         Talks like a conservative, acts
acts like a liberal                like a liberal
According to the Associated Press, "presidential spokesman Mike McCurry went out of his way today to say nice things about Forbes -- as if to give him a boost over Dole, who's considered the stronger general election challenger. 'He (Forbes) comes closest to being someone who's got a clear vision and he comes closest to the president in talking about the things that we can do to pull this country together and have an optimistic view of the future,' McCurry said. 'He talks about opportunity, economic growth, personal responsibility. In short, he talks a lot like Bill Clinton."'
  