
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. McMorris Rodgers, R-WA, and 86 cosponsors)
The Administration supports H.R. 772, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2017, which seeks to provide clarity and flexibility to businesses working to comply with menu labeling regulations.
The Administration is committed to providing Americans with access to important nutritional information to increase transparency and aid in decision making. The regulations required by Obamacare and finalized in December 2014 present some implementation challenges to our Nation's businesses, which can threaten economic growth and local job creation. H.R. 772 would roll back yet another overreaching Obamacare regulation and offer a smarter, more targeted approach to ensuring that consumers have access to nutritional information.
Obamacare regulations represent an approach that fails to fully account for customers' preferences in ordering food and deprives businesses of the flexibility and protection they need to meet the needs of their customers. H.R. 772 limits liability in a way that would protect American businesses against unfair lawsuits. Further, it would modernize menu labeling by allowing businesses to provide information in the most useful way to customers, recognizing that Americans order food in the 21st century by phone, online, using mobile apps, and in person. In addition, by minimizing time-consuming paperwork requirements and providing sufficient opportunity to correct violations, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2017 will save American businesses from Obamacare's heavy-handed statutory framework.
Businesses have to begin complying with the menu labeling requirement on May 7, 2018—only three months away—at a time when significant questions remain and businesses are facing the burden of implementation. The Administration strongly supports providing relief and protection to America's restaurants, grocery stores, convenience stores, and other food sellers.
If H.R. 772 were presented to the President in its current form, his advisors would recommend that he sign the bill into law.
  