
    Two Ads Highlight Need for Real Solutions for America's Challenges
The same day it announced she will visit the Ocean State on February 24, the Clinton Campaign today launched two 30-second ads in Rhode Island touting Hillary's ability to tackle the economic challenges facing America and record of real results.
The first spot, entitled "Warned," makes clear that when Hillary is President, she will enact an economic plan to freeze foreclosures, provide immediate tax rebates for the middle class and create new jobs to stimulate the local economy.
In "Lifetime," Hillary Clinton speaks to her 35-year record of delivering real change on issues of importance to America's working families as a public servant, activist, and Senator. The ad highlights Hillary's approach of results over rhetoric, and her promise to work hard every day towards solutions to our nation's most pressing problems.
Watch the "Warned" ad here.
Watch the "Lifetime" ad here.
Following are the scripts for the ad.
"Warned"
TV :30
Announcer: Our economy is in real trouble.
And while George Bush helps his friends, the middle class gets slammed.
Hillary Clinton warned Bush last March to act or homes would be foreclosed.
Bush did nothing, and two million homes may be lost.
We need a proven leader. Hillary's emergency economic plan: freeze foreclosures, provide immediate tax rebates for the middle class, create millions of new jobs.
We need more than talk- We need solutions.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
"Lifetime "
TV :30
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approve this message.
What I try to do everyday is figure out how to help somebody.
You know you can't always pass the laws you want to pass right away.
You can't snap your fingers and get people to cooperate.
You have to work on that every minute of every day.
But you can try to help somebody every single day.
And I've tried to do that...as a public servant, as an activist, and now as a senator.
And that's what I will do as president.
  