
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Burn injury is a serious problem in the United States. Each year, some two million people suffer from burn injuries. Approximately 70,000 of these Americans must be hospitalized for some period of time, and more than 12,000 burn victims die each year as a result of their injuries. Tragically, children, elderly men and women, and persons with disabilities are those most likely to become the victims of serious burns.
All Americans can make their homes, cars, and workplaces safer by learning more about the causes of burn injuries and how to prevent them. One of the most important steps we can take is installing -- and carefully maintaining -- smoke detectors in our homes and places of business. Developing good safety habits is also critical. For example, both children and adults should take time to learn about the safe use of stoves, heaters, and electrical power. Adults should be sure to know the proper way to store and handle flammable materials, and every American should learn what to do in the event of fire, including the "Stop, drop, and roll" maneuver that can help prevent serious burn injuries. Those families that have not yet done so should make plans for escaping a house fire -- and every American family should review and practice the plan it has.
In recent years, scientific research has yielded major advances in the prevention and treatment of burn injuries. The development of new technology and materials has helped bring about the production of safer fabrics and improved fire detection equipment. Improved medical techniques are helping to reduce the time burn victims must spend in the hospital. They are also saving lives. Today greater assistance is available to those suffering from the psychological and emotional impact of burn injuries.
Across the country, dedicated health care professionals, firefighters, and educators are working tirelessly to prevent burn injuries and to care for those who fall victim to them. In recognition of their efforts and in order to promote public awareness of the need to prevent burn injuries, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 217, has designated the weeks beginning February 4, 1990, and February 3, 1991, as "National Burn Awareness Week."
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the weeks of February 4 through February 10, 1990, and February 3 through February 9, 1991, as National Burn Awareness Week. I call upon all Government agencies, health care organizations, public safety organizations, and the people of the United States to observe these weeks with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  