
    Terrence W. Boyle, of North Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice J. Dickson Phillips, Jr., retired.
Janice R. Brown, of California, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Stephen F. Williams, retired.
Richard A. Griffin, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Damon J. Keith, retired.
Thomas B. Griffith, of Utah, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Patricia M. Wald, retired.
William James Haynes II, of Virginia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice H. Emory Widener, Jr., retired.
Brett M. Kavanaugh, of Maryland, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Laurence H. Silberman, retired.
David W. McKeague, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Richard F. Suhrheinrich, retired.
William Gerry Myers III, of Idaho, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Thomas G. Nelson, retired.
Susan Bieke Neilson, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Cornelia G. Kennedy, retired.
Priscilla Richman Owen, of Texas, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice William L. Garwood, retired.
William H. Pryor, Jr., of Alabama, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Emmett Ripley Cox, retired.
Henry W. Saad, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice James L. Ryan, retired.
Robert J. Conrad, Jr., of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, vice a new position created by Public Law 107273, approved November 2, 2002.
Sean F. Cox, of Michigan, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Lawrence P. Zatkoff, retired.
Paul A. Crotty, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Harold Baer, Jr., retired.
James C. Dever III, of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina, vice W. Earl Britt, retired.
Thomas L. Ludington, of Michigan, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Paul V. Gadola, retired.
Daniel P. Ryan, of Michigan, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Patrick J. Duggan, retired.
J. Michael Seabright, of Hawaii, to be United States District Judge for the District of Hawaii, vice Alan C. Kay, retired.
Peter G. Sheridan, of New Jersey, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Stephen M. Orlofsky, resigned.
Jennifer M. Anderson, of the District of Columbia, to be Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice Steffen W. Graae, retired.
Laura A. Cordero, of the District of Columbia, to be Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice Shellie F. Bowers, retired.
A. Nol Anketell Kramer, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of fifteen years, vice John M. Steadman, retired.
Juliet JoAnn McKenna, of the District of Columbia, to be Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice Nan R. Shuker, retired.
Gretchen C.F. Shappert, of North Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina, for the term of four years, vice Robert J. Conrad, Jr., resigned.
Earl C. Aguigui, of Guam, to be United States Marshal for the District of Guam and concurrently United States Marshal for the District of the Northern Mariana Islands for the term of four years, vice Joaquin L.G. Salas, term expired.
  