
    Pool Reports by Shirish Date, HuffPost



Sent:
Reports:




February 4, 202011:05 

WH Pool Report 1
Good dreary, drizzly morning from the White House.
The president is scheduled to travel up the street to the Capitol this evening to deliver his third State of the Union address.
There is nothing else on his public schedule.
As always, various administration people may or may not come to the outdoor press briefing area on the driveway, close but oh so far from the James Brady Briefing Room, at various times. Come hang out if you care to listen to them.



February 4, 202012:29 

WH Pool Report 2 -- lunch lid
The press office has declared a lunch lid until 1400.
Bon appetit.



February 4, 202017:08 

WH Pool Report 3 -- dinner lid
The press office just declared a dinner lid until 1900.
Enjoy!



February 4, 202020:15 

WH Pool Report 4 — speech excerpts
Per the WH:
Excerpts from President Donald J. Trump's State of the Union Address (as prepared for delivery)…Three years ago, we launched the Great American Comeback. Tonight, I stand before you to share the incredible results.…In just three short years, we have shattered the mentality of American Decline and we have rejected the downsizing of America's destiny. We are moving forward at a pace that was unimaginable just a short time ago, and we are never going back!…The vision I will lay out this evening demonstrates how we are building the world's most prosperous and inclusive society – one where every citizen can join in America's unparalleled success, and where every community can take part in America's extraordinary rise.…>From the instant I took office, I moved rapidly to revive the U.S. economy —slashing a record number of job killing-regulations, enacting historic and record-setting tax cuts, and fighting for FAIR and RECIPROCAL trade agreements.…In 8 years under the last administration, over 300,000 working-age people DROPPED OUT of the workforce. In just three years of my Administration, 3.5 MILLION working-age people have JOINED the workforce.…Thanks to our bold regulatory reduction campaign, the United States has become the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world, by far. .…We are restoring our nation's Manufacturing Might, even though predictions were that this could never be done. After losing 60,000 factories under the PREVIOUS two administrations, America has now GAINED 12,000 NEW factories under my Administration.…Many politicians came and went, pledging to change or replace NAFTA – only to do absolutely nothing. But unlike so many who came before me, I KEEP MY PROMISES. Six days ago, I replaced NAFTA and signed the brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law.…Days ago, we signed the groundbreaking new agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, bring billions of dollars into our treasury, and open vast new markets for products made and grown right here in the USA.…To safeguard American Liberty, we have invested a record-breaking $2.2 trillion dollars in the United States Military. […] We created a new branch of the United States Armed Forces, the Space Force.…The next step forward in building an inclusive society is making sure that every young American gets a GREAT Education and the opportunity to achieve the American Dream. […] NO PARENT should be forced to send their child to a failing government school.…A good life for American families also requires the most affordable, innovative, and high-quality healthcare system on earth. […] We will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.…We will never let socialism destroy American healthcare!…I was recently proud to sign the law providing new parents in the federal workforce paid family leave, serving as a model for the rest of the country.…The United States of America should be a Sanctuary for Law-Abiding Americans – Not Criminal Aliens!…My Administration has undertaken an unprecedented effort to secure the Southern Border of the United States.…My administration is also strongly defending our national security.
…As we defend American lives, we are working to END America's wars in the Middle East.…Our ancestors built the most exceptional Republic ever to exist in all of human history— and we are making it greater than ever before!



February 4, 202020:24 

WH Pool Report 5 - pool in motorcade
The pool was assembled at 2015 and then led into the press vans at the rear of the motorcade waiting on the South Lawn driveway.
Your pooler is not likely to see the president as we leave, as his limo is toward the front, directly in front of the South Portico. However, still photographers are to have access to his exit from the building.



February 4, 202020:37 

WH Pool Report 6 – motorcade underway
The presidential motorcade is underway at 2037 toward the Capitol.
As anticipated, your pooler could not did not see the president enter his car, although photographers were permitted to record this.



February 4, 202020:55 

WH Pool Report 7 – arrival at Capitol
The motorcade traveled, south, then east along a closed-off, rain-dampened, very round-about route involving I-395 through a very light drizzle on this warm night. The press vans came to stop at 2045.
The president was not visible by the time we arrived on the east of the House side of the Capitol.
We were led into a hallway graced by the statute of Father Damien.
NB: Pool is not and will not be in the House chamber this evening. Therefore, if you need color from inside, please consult your reporters inside the room. Or watch TV very carefully. Or both.



February 4, 202021:07 

WH Pool Report 8 – President Starts Speech
The president began his remarks at 2106, as per the television that we in the pool are watching.



February 4, 202021:14 

WH Pool Report 8a -- designated surivor
Per the WH -- the designated survivor for this gathering is Interior Secretary David Bernhardt.



February 4, 202022:28 

WH Pool Report 9 – President is done
The president finished his speech at 2225, as per the television we have been watching. The speech was 1 hr 18 minutes long.
Pool was hustled out and back into the press vans, where we await the drive back to the White House.



February 4, 202022:33 

WH Pool Report 10 – Motorcade moving
The motorcade was rolling at 2231 back toward the White House.
Pool is assuming the president is riding in the limo at the front but has not seen him, well, at all.



February 4, 202022:39 

WH Pool Report 11 - Return to the WH 
The motorcade was back on the South Lawn driveway at 2239, following a more conventional route down Independence Avenue and across the Mall on 15th.
By the time we unloaded from the press vans, the president had already entered the building.



February 4, 202022:49 

WH Pool Report 12 – Lid
The press office declared a lid at 2249
Your pooler hopes you have enjoyed these missives and wishes you a pleasant remainder of your post SOTU night.




  