
    Pool Reports by Cleve Wootson, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




February 21, 202311:33 CET

POTUS Pool report No. 1 — Checking in
Hi all,
I'm your pooler today for POTUS's events in Poland.
Two events on the schedule: POTUS participates in a bilateral meeting with Polish President Andrzej Duda at the presidential palace at 1:30 PM. And POTUS delivers remarks at the Castle Gardens at 5:30 PM.
Reminder: Poland is six hours ahead of Washington, D.C. time.
Feel free to ping with questions/concerns.



February 21, 202313:07 CET

Pool report 2 — rolling to presidential palace
POTUS and motorcade left RON at 1:03 pm en route to the presidential palace.
A protest was taking place outside the RON, which included a sign that said "Mr. Biden send F-16 to Ukraine." A woman screamed into a microphone: "Mr. Biden we know you are here and we know you hear us." Later, she chanted "F-16/for Ukraine." Could not distinguish other chants.



February 21, 202313:26 CET

Pool report 3 — arrival
POTUS arrived at the presidential palace at 1:11 pm after an uneventful ride. Almost entire route was filled with onlookers cordoned off by blue ropes, many recording with their phones in the blustery and rainy weather.
A phalanx of members of the Polish military, wearing various shades of blue and white, stood at attention. Polish and America flags hang from the building. It is cold, blustery and
The Beast rolled into the courtyard at 1:14 pm and POTUS stepped out, where we was greeted by President Duda and went down a line of officials and dignitaries , exchanging pleasantries and shaking hands. (I am a seeking names.)
Afterward a band played the US National anthem. POTUS and Duda stood side by side, POTUS with his hand over his heart. Then the Polish National anthem played. Biden and Duda then went to inspect the troops. At one point POTUS realized he had stepped off the red carpet and jogged back onto it.
Then the military members paraded out of the court yard. After POTUS and Duda walked into the palace.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route the Presidential Palace, Warsaw, Poland:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol, U.S. Department of StateCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAmanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for EuropeAdrienne Watson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Press & National Security Council SpokespersonCharlie Fromstein, National Security Council Director for Visits & Diplomatic AffairsMelissa Hanlon, National Security Council Director for Western European AffairsAdi Muzurovic, National Security Council Director for Balkans and Central EuropeAriana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor



February 21, 202314:40 CET

Pool report 4 — bilat
At 2:17 pm, after a meeting between the two leaders, pool was led upstairs into a room where the expanded bilateral meeting will take place.
Please check quotes against the transcript.
According to the live translation, Duda thanked Biden for visiting Kyiv calling it a "very strategic" move that "boosted the morale" of the Ukrainians. Putin, he said, 'doomed millions of people who had to flee from their country.' POTUS's visit was a 'sign that the free world had not forgotten them.' He also said he and the Polish people believe 'America is able to ensure the global order.' He also said POTUS's visit is a 'visible sign that Poland is safe and secure,' in spite of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
POTUS talked about his visit last year. 'The United States needs Poland and NATO as much as Poland and NATO need the United States.' Also 'I would argue a year later that NATO is stronger than it's ever been.' Thanked Duda for 'how Poland has supported Ukraine … it was just incredible how you have welcomed them.' Said there are plans to build nuclear power plants in Poland to bolster energy security 'for years to come.' Said he is 'confident we can meet the challenges we face '
Neither president responded to shouted questions, including one from the US press inquiring about reactions to Vladimir Putin's speech.
Pool was escorted out at 2:34 pm
Details from the White House:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with President Andrzej Duda of Poland to discuss our bilateral cooperation as well as our collective efforts to support Ukraine and bolster NATO's deterrence.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Mark Brzezinski, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of PolandT.H. Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of StaffT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilMr. John Kirby, Coordinator for Strategic Communications, National Security CouncilMs. Melissa Hanlon, Director for Western European Affairs, National Security CouncilMr. Adi Muzurovic, Director for Balkans and Central Europe, National Security Council
Poland ManifestH.E. Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of PolandH.E. Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Republic of PolandMr. Zbigniew Rau, Minister of Foreign AffairsMrs. Grazyna Ignaczak-Bandych, Chief of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of PolandMr. Marcin Przydacz, Head of the International Policy BureauMr. Jacek Siewiera, Head of the National Security BureauH.E. Marek Magierowski, Ambassador of the Republic of Poland to the United StatesMrs. Anna Pachla, Deputy Director of the International Policy Bureau



February 21, 2023
[APP Note: Report #5 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


February 21, 202317:13 CET

Pool report 6 — heading to Castle Gardens for speech
POTUS departed RON for Castle Gardens at 5:11 pm
Biden is expected to speak at 5:30 pm.
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks ahead of the one year anniversary of Russia's brutal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, which will address how the United States has rallied the world to support the people of Ukraine as they defend their freedom and democracy, and how we will continue to stand with the people of Ukraine for as long as it takes:
Polish citizens, Ukrainian refugees, embassy staff and children, elected officials of Poland, government and military leaders, and White House staff
Pre-ProgramMark Brzezinski, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of PolandH.E. Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland
Speaking ProgramThe President



February 21, 202317:30 CET

Pool report 7 — arrival at Castle Gardens
POTUS arrived at Castle Gardens at 5:21 pm. Speeches have already begun.



February 21, 202317:41 CET

Pool report 8 — Biden begins speaking color, details
Biden took the stage at 5:39 pm
Don't have an exact crowd count, but there are perhaps thousands of people in the audience, many waving Polish flags. Flags of other NATO nations are planted along walkways and attached to railings. And there are billboards with the American, Polish and Ukrainian flags.
Everyone is bundled up in winter clothes. It's 44 degrees but no longer rainy.



February 21, 202318:13 CET

Pool report 9 — speech ends.
POTUS's speech ended at 6:00 pm.



February 21, 202318:49 CET

Pool report 10 — leaving Castle Gardens
Motorcade departed at 6:45 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS enter the Beast. White House has not said what he was doing between the end of the speech and departure. (I've asked. Will update if they answer.)
Before departing, POTUS posed for photos with children waving Ukrainian flags, then greeted several sections of the crowd. He gave one final wave and disappeared from pool's view.
According to the Warsaw Mayor's office (via White House) there were 30,000 people in attendance. Pooler cannot independently verify that number.



February 21, 202318:56 CET

Pool report 11 — return to RON and lid
POTUS returned to RON at 6:53 pm
Ride was uneventful. There are still plenty of Polish people lining the route, including parts where street lamps and trees are adorned with string lights.
The "F-16 / to Ukraine" protesters have returned to the front.
White House called a lid at 6:53.




 
Pool Reports below by Marek Walkuski, Polskie Radio 



Sent:
Reports:




February 21, 202311:05 CET

Foreign pool report #1 - schedule / Background
Dzień dobry z Warszawy / Good morning from Warsaw.
I will be your foreign pooler during President Joe Biden's second visit to Poland. The first one took place March 25–26, 2022, a month after the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. During the previous visit POTUS met with soldiers of the 82nd Airborne Division stationed Rzeszów, held bilateral talks with President Duda, visited a refugee registration point at the National Stadium and gave a major speech at the Royal Castle.
Last night POTUS concluded the unannounced part of his trip marking the first anniversary of the War in Ukraine. Today he will meet with President Andrzej Duda at the Presidential Palace at 1:00 PM and deliver remarks at Kubicki Arcades at 5:30 PM.
The Chancellery of the President of Poland published the following program of the visit:
Tuesday, February 21, 2023 12.50 PM - Official welcome ceremony of the President of the United States of America by the President of the Republic of Poland (Courtyard of the Presidential Palace).13.00 PM - Bilateral meeting between the President of the Republic of Poland and the President of the United States of America (Lech Kaczyński White Hall)13.35 PM - Plenary talks of the delegations chaired by the President of the Republic of Poland and the President of the United States of America (Column Hall)
Wednesday, February 22, 202314:10 PM - Welcome by the President of the Republic of Poland, the President of Romania and the President of the Slovak Republic (Great Hall)14:35 PM - Family Photo (Ensemble Hall)14.40 PM - Plenary of the B9 Presidents' Summit (Column Hall)
Note: President Biden's speech at the Kubicki Arcade's of the Royal Castle and the meeting with the Embassy staff are organized by the U.S. Embassy in Warsaw.
Highly anticipated visit:A visit of a U.S. President has always been among the most important political events in Poland. This one is especially significant because of the war in neighboring Ukraine. Since NBC first reported on a possible Biden's trip to Europe and few days later the President himself confirmed to your pooler that he would go to Poland, local media every day publish news stories and commentaries about POTUS's "historic visit". Widely reported was John Kirby's statement that Joe Biden wanted to thank President Duda and the Polish people for being "a strident ally, a tremendous supporter of Ukraine and a generous host not only to American troops, but also to millions of Ukrainian refugees". Ahead of POTUS's visit Polish media outlets published articles about life at the White House, presidential limousine and his airplane, as well as about his personal life and passions, including his love for biking. All major lelevision news networks carried live the Air Force One departure from Rzeszów, arrival in Warsaw, and POTUS's motorcade ride to the hotel.
Poland: Pro-American, Biden friendly country:Poland has always been among the most pro-American countries in the world. The favorability of the United States increased further after the Russia's invasion of Ukraine. In the Pew Research Center poll from the spring of 2022, 91 percent of Poles expressed favorable view of the U.S., compared to 65-75 percent in the previous years. About two thirds of Poles now consider the United States a reliable ally and only one eight have the opposite view, per Social Changes Research Bureau. In comparison, only 2 percent of Poles hold positive view of Russia and 94 percent see Russia as a major threat.
President Joe Biden is highly regarded in Poland. In the Pew poll, 82 percent of Poles expressed confidence in POTUS to do the right thing regarding world affairs. In another survey conducted by CBOS in July 2022 Joe Biden was ranked the second most trusted world leader (74 percent), only behind Zelenskyy (86 percent), and ahead of Boris Johnson (55 percent).



February 21, 202312:38 CET

Foreign pool report #2 - Bilat with Duda / bakground
The pool loaded in the vans and we are waiting for POTUS. He will soon meet with Polish President Andrzej Duda.
After the official welcome ceremony at the courtyard of the Presidential Palace, POTUS will take part in a bilateral meeting with Duda at the Lech Kaczynski White Room. The U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and the head of the Poland's International Policy Bureau Marcin Przydacz are expected to join. This meeting will be followed by an expanded bilat at the Column Hall.
Announcing POTUS's visit to Warsaw the White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said that President Biden wants to discuss with Polish President bilateral cooperation as well as collective efforts to support Ukraine and bolster NATO's deterrence.
Andrzej Duda said that Biden's visit to Warsaw has a political and symbolic significance. "The very presence of the U.S. President on Polish soil, here in Warsaw, is a very clear sign of the U.S. security guarantees for Poland" – said Duda. Polish President is expected to talk with POTUS about support for Ukraine, military cooperation with the U.S. and the upcoming NATO summit in Vilnius.
Poland's Support for Ukraine:Poland is a leading contributor of military assistance to Ukraine. Since the beginning of the war, Poland has transferred weapons, ammunition, and other equipment worth more than $2 billion. This aid has included more than 230 tanks, surface-to-air missile systems, self-propelled artillery and multiple rocket launchers. Poland plays crucial role as a logistical hub for international aid for Ukraine. After the war started millions of Ukrainians crossed the border with Poland and 1,5 million refugees registered with the government gaining access to free childcare, education and health services.
U.S. military presence in Poland:Currently, approximately 10,000 U.S. personnel are on rotation in Poland. The United States leads the enhanced Forward Presence (eFP) Battle Group in Poland and deploys a rotational Armored Brigade Combat Team under Operation Atlantic Resolve. The United States is building an Aegis Ashore facility in Poland as a contribution to NATO Ballistic Missile Defense. The base was supposed to be completed in 2018 but it's construction suffered several delays. Government in Warsaw advocates for further increase in the U.S. military presence in Poland.
Andrzej Duda bio:50-years old Andrzej Duda is the President of Poland since 2015 (reelected in 2020). He is a member of the governing Law and Justice Party and is known for his support of conservative social policies, including opposition to same-sex marriage and abortion. He is an advocate for a strong national security and defense, calling for increase in military spending and close ties with the United States. Duda enjoyed close relationship with former President Donald Trump. They met several times and Trump invited him to the White House in the middle of Duda's campaign for reelection. Since the start of the war in Ukraine, despite ideological and political differences, Duda build solid ties with Biden. They spoke briefly on the sidelines the NATO Summit in Brussels and held a bilateral meeting in Poland in March 2022, during the first POTUS's visit to Poland . Duda and Biden also spoke several times over the phone.
Andrzej Duda is married to Agata Kornhauser-Duda, a linguist and teacher. They have one daughter. Duda is an avid skier and cites skiing as one of his favorite pastimes.



February 21, 202313:37 CET

Foreign pool note #3 - welcome ceremony
After a short ride through downtown Warsaw the motorcade arrived at the Presidential Palace at 1:08 PM.
The official welcome ceremony included the military parade, U.S. and Poland's National anthems and the introduction of the delegations.
Among the greeters from Polish side were:
President Andrzej Duda
Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki
Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau
The chief of the National Security Council Jacek Siewiera,
International Policy Bureau Chief Marcin Przydacz.
The ongoing bilat between two Presidents will be followed by an expanded meeting.



February 21, 202315:11 CET

Foreign pool report #4 - President Duda's remarks at the expanded bilateral
The Polish and the US pools entered the Green Column Hall at 2:15. Both delegations sat at the long table with Polish and American flags in the background.
Sitting in the middle, in front of POTUS, President Duda spoke first. He thanked POTUS for this trip to Kyiv calling it an "extraordinary gesture".
Duda reminded that the first Russian attack on Ukraine happened in 2014 and last year Moscow started a full scale invasion. "Russia decided to attack Ukraine on a full scale, causing a tragedy and a catastrophe for millions of the inhabitants of Ukraine and causing huge crisis, both a crisis of security and economic crisis all over the world and also a humanitarian crisis. And thus, she dumped millions of people to tragic fate, those people had to flee from their country, from bombs from murderers from rapes from murderers from horrible, brutal and busy treatment" – said Duda
Polish President said he was delighted that Joe Biden will give his speech marking the first anniversary of the war in Ukraine on Warsaw. He also said that Joe Biden's presence in Warsaw sends an important signal about U.S. commitment to Poland's security. "We are grateful that this visit takes place in our country"- said Duda. "It's also important message to the world that Poland is secure" – he added.
The Polish President also said that he considers POTUS's visit to Poland as a sign of appreciation for Poland's role in helping Ukraine in terms of military and economic assistance as well as for welcoming Ukrainian refugees.
The pool was escorted out at 3:35 PM
From the White House:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with President Andrzej Duda of Poland to discuss our bilateral cooperation as well as our collective efforts to support Ukraine and bolster NATO's deterrence.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Mark Brzezinski, Ambassador of the United States to the Republic of PolandT.H. Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of StaffT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilMr. John Kirby, Coordinator for Strategic Communications, National Security CouncilMs. Melissa Hanlon, Director for Western European Affairs, National Security CouncilMr. Adi Muzurovic, Director for Balkans and Central Europe, National Security Council
Poland ManifestH.E. Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of PolandH.E. Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Republic of PolandMr. Zbigniew Rau, Minister of Foreign AffairsMrs. Grazyna Ignaczak-Bandych, Chief of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of PolandMr. Marcin Przydacz, Head of the International Policy BureauMr. Jacek Siewiera, Head of the National Security BureauH.E. Marek Magierowski, Ambassador of the Republic of Poland to the United StatesMrs. Anna Pachla, Deputy Director of the International Policy Bureau



February 21, 202316:47 CET

Foreign pool report #5 - background on POTUS's speech
The pool is holding in vans, waiting to join POTUS's motorcade on his way to the Warsaw Old Town.
President Biden's remarks at the Kubicki Arkades is a widely anticipated event in Poland. The speech will be carried live by all major TV networks. The U.S. Embassy in Warsaw invited not only government officials and leaders of all political parties, but also the general public. "I cordially invite you to the speech of President Joe Biden in Warsaw! This is a unique opportunity to see the President of the United States live" – wrote the U.S. Ambassador Mark Brzezinski. Those who were interested in attending the event were required to register on the Embassy's website. Thousands of people are expected. Those who won't be able to enter the gated area will have the opportunity to watch the speech on the large outdoor screens.
The Venue:The Kubicki Arcades are part of the Royal Castle complex, where President Joe Biden delivered his remarks in March 2022. The arcades were built in the early XIX century by architect Jakub Kubicki. The structure played a significant role during the Warsaw Uprising of 1944, provided shelter and hiding places for the resistance fighters, who used the passageways to move between buildings and avoid detection by the German forces. The arcades were one of the very few parts of the Royal Castle to survive the World War II. In 1995-2009, the arcades underwent major renovation, regaining their previous splendor. Ambassador Mark Brzezinski pointed to the symbolism of the venue. "Kubicki Arcades are in the Old Town. The Old Town, like all of Warsaw, was tragically destroyed during World War II, and rebuilt from the ashes. This symbolism of rebuilding from ashes has a profound meaning, given what we want to do, what we will do with Ukraine," - Brzezinski explained.



February 21, 202318:33 CET

Foreign pool report #6 - the speech
When the pool arrived at the Kubicki Arcades, President of Poland Andrzej Duda was ending his remarks. He praised Ukrainians and the Poles who are helping Ukraine. Duda expressed his hope that Russia gets crushed in Ukraine.
After a short break POTUS begun speaking to the thousands of Poles who gathered in the Royal Castle Gardens, as well as Ukrainian refugees living in Warsaw. Some of them waved small Ukrainian flags. To the right of the podium large American, Polish and Ukrainian flags were placed.
While the pool was escorted out of the venue, your pooler observed POTUS approach the audience, pumping his fists and saying "Stat strong!" to the cheers of the crowd.
Quoting the Warsaw Mayor's Office the White House said that 30, 000 people attended the event. Your pooler cannot independently verify the number.




  