
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Tosiwo Nakayama, President, and Bethuel Henry,, Speaker of the Congress, Federated States of Micronesia, and Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii.
February 19
The President met at the White House with Dr. Brzezinski.
In the evening the President attended a buffet dinner and participated in a briefing by administration officials on national defense and foreign policy issues, given for Members of the House of Representatives on the State Floor of the White House.
February 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Representative Thomas J. Downey of New York;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
The White House announced that the President has declared a major disaster for the State of Arizona as a result of severe storms and flooding beginning on or about February 13, which caused extensive property damage.
February 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of Energy Charles W. Duncan, Jr., Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, Under Secretary of Labor John N. Gentry, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Robert Carswell, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, R. Robert Russell, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., Assistant to the President, and Mr. Schultze;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas;
—Representative Herbert E. Harris II of Virginia;
—Col. Lawrence R. O'Grady, national president, and J. Milnor Roberts, executive director, Reserve Officers Association;
—Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President.
February 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—officers of the Public Employees Federation of New York.
The White House announced that the President has declared a major disaster for the State of California as a result of severe storms, mudslides, and flooding beginning on or about January 8, which caused extensive property damage.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  