
    If You Watch One Thing Today: Tonight from 7-7:30 p.m. EST, Hillary will appear live on TV on ABC7 and News Channel 8 in the Washington, DC metropolitan area. Voters nationwide can see Hillary live on Politico.com. The appearance was initially intended to be a debate sponsored by The Politico and ABC7, but Sen. Obama refused to debate Hillary.
In Case You Missed It: "The next president will face a mountain of challenges...The 44th president should have a strong resume of government experience... The major-party candidates should be those who require the least on-the-job training. Of the contenders remaining in Democratic race, the most experienced [is] Hillary," wrote the Columbus Dispatch editorial board. Read more.
Today on the Trail: Hillary attends a "Coffee and Conversation" with supporters in Washington, D.C., tours the GM Allison Transmission Plant in White Marsh, Maryland and delivers a guest lecture at Dr. Larry Sabato's class at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville... President Bill Clinton holds "Solutions for America" events in Fredericksburg, Roanoke and Fairfax, Virginia... Chelsea attends "Our Voice, Our Future" events at the University of Wisconsin in Milwaukee, near Marquette University and at the University of Wisconsin in Madison.
Today in the States: In Wisconsin, Lt. Gov. Barbara Lawton and Rep. Tammy Baldwin conduct a conference call to discuss Sen. Obama's refusal to debate in Wisconsin... In Ohio, the campaign holds early voting events at county boards of election across the State. Gov. Ted Strickland headlines the Columbus event and Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones headlines the Cleveland event.
Yesterday on the Trail: "Fans packed the overflowing gymnasium and gave Clinton a rousing welcome," in Manassas, Virginia... "Thousands of enthusiastic supporters" greeted Hillary in Bowie, Maryland, "a larger crowd than was expected. Those who didn't make it into the gym crowded hallways and the school lobby, craning their necks for a glimpse of the candidate."... President Bill Clinton attended church services in Washington, D.C. and Bowie, Maryland and held "Solutions for America" events in Catonsville, Dundalk and Silver Spring, Maryland... Chelsea attended church services in Washington, D.C., met with students at the University of Maryland in College Park and toured Belvedere Square Market in Baltimore, Maryland. "The crowd erupted in cheers and applause when [Chelsea] mentioned affordable higher education" in College Park.
Yesterday in the States: In Texas, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, Harris County Commissioner Sylvia Garcia and other local supporters held a rally for Hillary in Houston... In Maryland, Dr. Susan Wood, former Assistant Commissioner for Women's Health at the Food and Drug Administration, held a "Women for Hillary" gathering and kicked off a canvass in Silver Spring... In Virginia, Democratic National Committee Member and automatic delegate Barbara Easterling pledged to support Hillary.
  