
    
  Influential California Pastor Supports Cruz

HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Pastor Jack Hibbs. Pastor Hibbs is the founder and Senior Pastor of Calvary Chapel Chino Hills in southern California, a church of approximately 9,000 attendees.
"Ted Cruz has a fan base in southern California – we are impressed by his courage, his common sense, and his consistent leadership." Pastor Hibbs said. "The promise of America has been under attack in our state: I and many other people of faith are joining Ted Cruz to oppose the Washington values that are bankrupting our nation and blighting our children's future. America can do better, and people of faith in California are not afraid to lead the way."
Hibbs founded Calvary Chapel as a home fellowship church plant from Calvary Chapel Costa Mesa in 1990. Today, the church ministers to thousands each week. Pastor Hibbs' teachings are heard on many international radio stations throughout Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Australia, and the Hawaiian Islands. He is known for his passionate expositional teachings and maintains an active speaking schedule. He serves on several national executive boards, including the board of the Family Research Council, a nationwide advocacy group defending America's faith, family, and freedom. Pastor Jack and his wife Lisa have been married for over thirty years and live in southern California with their family.
Calvary Chapel Chino Hills is being represented by Alliance Defending Freedom in a lawsuit against California's Department of Managed Healthcare because the department has forced all employers, including churches, to pay for elective abortions. Hibbs has appeared on Fox News and testified before the California Senate Health Committee about this issue. Pastor Jack was also a proponent of California's Personal Privacy Protection Act, an initiative that would require persons to use restrooms, showers, and locker rooms according to their natural born gender in California government buildings, including public schools.
"I am honored to have the support of Pastor Hibbs," said Cruz. "His voice of encouragement and the gospel message he proclaims have impacted thousands of lives all over the world. Pastor Hibbs is passionate about faith and practical Christian living. Meanwhile, religious liberty, private property, and individual liberty have taken a serious blow in the Golden State, but help is on the way."
*Titles and affiliations are provided for identification purposes only.
  