
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and section 202A of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act (Act) (Public Law 116-113), it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment of Interagency Committee. The Interagency Committee on Trade in Automotive Goods (Committee) is hereby established to provide advice, as appropriate, on the implementation, enforcement, and modification of provisions of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (Agreement) that relate to automotive goods, including the automotive rules of origin and the alternative staging regime that are part of such rules. The Committee shall also review the operation of the Agreement with respect to trade in automotive goods, including the economic effects of the automotive rules of origin on the United States economy, workers, and consumers, and the impact of new technology on such rules.
Sec. 2. Membership. The Committee shall be composed of the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the United States Trade Representative (USTR), the Chairman of the United States International Trade Commission, and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security. Members of the Committee may designate an officer of the United States within their respective executive department, agency, or component to serve as their representative on the Committee. The USTR shall serve as Chair of the Committee. The USTR may invite representatives from other executive departments or agencies, as the USTR determines are necessary, to participate as members or observers, and shall include the Secretary of the Treasury as a member of the Committee. Each executive department, agency, and component represented on the Committee shall ensure that the necessary staff are available to assist in performing the responsibilities of the Committee.
Sec. 3. Committee Decision-making. The Committee shall endeavor to make any recommendation on an action or determination under section 202A of the Act by consensus, which shall be deemed to exist where no Committee member objects to the proposed action or determination. If the Committee is unable to reach a consensus on a proposed action or determination, the Committee may decide the matter by majority vote of its members if the Chair determines that allotting further time will unduly delay implementation of provisions of the Agreement that relate to automotive goods. The Chair, in addition to voting, may also break any tie vote.
Sec. 4. Implementing Measures. The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Labor, and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, are directed to issue, in consultation with the USTR (and with each other, as directed in the Act), such regulations and other measures as are necessary or appropriate to implement section 202A of the Act.
Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expenses incurred in connection with the Committee's functions described in section 202A of the Act.
(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
DONALD J. TRUMP
The White House,
February 28, 2020.
  