
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

More than 100 years ago, the first university department of physical education for women was established at Oberlin College. It was not until 1972, however, that Federal law required colleges receiving government funds to provide equitable athletic programs for women. Since then, more and more women have begun to participate in organized sports -- not only at the collegiate level but at every competitive level.
During the past decade alone, the number of women taking part in intercollegiate sports has increased by nearly 50 percent to 158,000 -- or 30 percent of the total number of college students in sports. Girls' participation in public high school sports programs more than doubled during this time.
Both individual and team sports help young women to develop their leadership and communication skills, as well as their athletic talents. And participation in sports helps promote good health. Indeed, today many female athletes -- who have reached great heights through their determination and self-discipline -- serve as outstanding role models for both boys and girls.
Americans are proud of their countrywomen who have earned international acclaim as world-class athletes, and I am pleased that eight members of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports are women. These achievements underscore the commitment to excellence and the capacity to excel demonstrated by female athletes throughout the United States.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 30, has designated February 7, 1991, as "National Women and Girls in Sports Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim February 7, 1991, as National Women and Girls in Sports Day. I urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereeunto set my hand this seventh day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  