
    By the President of the United States of AmericaA Proclamation
Whereas the area in the State of Arizona established as the Montezuma Castle National Monument by Proclamation of December 8, 1906, has situated thereon prehistoric ruins and ancient cliff dwellings which are of great interest to the public; and
Whereas it appears that there are certain government-owned lands reserved by Proclamation of September 29, 1919, as a part of Coconino National Forest, adjacent to the boundaries of the said monument, which are required for  the proper care, management, and protection of the said prehistoric ruins and ancient cliff dwellings:
Now, Therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 1 of the act of June 4, 1897, ch. 2, 30 Stat. 11, 36 (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 473), and section 2 of the act of June 8, 1906, ch. 3060, 34 Stat. 225 (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 431), do proclaim that, subject to all valid existing rights, the following-described lands in Arizona are hereby excluded from the Coconino National Forest and reserved from all forms of appropriation under the public-land laws and added to and made a part of the Montezuma Castle National Monument:
GILA AND SALT RIVER MERIDIAN
T. 14 N., R. 5 E.,
sec. 8, S½SE¼, S½NW¼SE¼, SE¼SW¼, S½NE¼SW¼;
sec. 16, E½NW¼, SE¼SW¼NW¼, N½ SW¼NW¼;
sec. 17, N½SE¼NE¼, N½SW¼NE¼, SW¼SW¼NE¼, SE¼NW¼, containing 360 acres.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of this monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.
The Director of the National Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management, and control of this monument as provided in the act of Congress entitled "An Act To establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes", approved August 23, 1916 (ch. 408, 39 Stat. 535, U.S.C., title 16, secs. 1 and 2), and acts supplementary thereto or amendatory thereof: Provided, That the administration of the monument shall be subject to the withdrawal for the Salt River Irrigation project, Arizona.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 23d day of February in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-seven and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-first.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:CORDELL HULLSecretary of State.
  