
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act ("FACA"), as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Each executive department and agency shall terminate not less than one-third of the advisory committees subject to FACA (and not required by statute) that are sponsored by the department or agency by no later than the end of fiscal year 1993.
Sec. 2. Within 90 days, the head of each executive department and agency shall submit to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, for each advisory committee subject to FACA sponsored by that department or agency: (a) a detailed justification for the continued existence, or a brief description in support of the termination, of any advisory committee not required by statute; and (b) a detailed recommendation for submission to the Congress to continue or to terminate any advisory committee required by statute. The Administrator of General Services shall prepare such justifications and recommendations for each advisory committee subject to FACA and not sponsored by a department or agency.
Sec. 3. Effective immediately, executive departments and agencies shall not create or sponsor a new advisory committee subject to FACA unless the committee is required by statute or the agency head (a) finds that compelling considerations necessitate creation of such a committee, and (b) receives the approval of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Such approval shall be granted only sparingly and only if compelled by considerations of national security, health or safety, or similar national interests. These requirements shall apply in addition to the notice and other approval requirements of FACA.
Sec. 4. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall issue detailed instructions regarding the implementation of this order, including exemptions necessary for the delivery of essential services and compliance with applicable law.
Sec. 5. All independent regulatory commissions and agencies are requested to comply with the provisions of this order.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 10, 1993.
  