
    LITTLE ROCK, AR – Dallas Cowboy Legend Cliff Harris endorsed former Arkansas Governor and Republican Presidential candidate Mike Huckabee, it was announced today.
Huckabee said: "I am truly excited to have Cliff Harris on my team and appreciate his support. It means a lot to have the greatest athlete in the history of my alma mater wearing my jersey."
Harris, who played in five Super Bowls and six Pro Bowls, said: "Mike Huckabee is a true conservative champion. I hope voters all across Texas will join me in rallying behind Mike on March 4th."
"Many told me I would never play in the NFL, let alone win a Super Bowl ring or two. Similar cynics may say the same thing about my friend, and fellow Ouachita alum Mike Huckabee, becoming President. Let me remind everyone: in America, anything is possible as long as you work hard and stand for the right things. The key to success is to always keep going and never quit. That is exactly what Mike Huckabee has done his entire life," said Harris.
Huckabee said: "As a lifelong Cowboys fan, I am truly proud to have the support of one of the all time greats – and I remind Texas voters, if you don't vote for me on March 4th, Cliff Harris will show you why his teammates called him Captain Crash."
The greatest football player in Ouachita Baptist history, Harris walked onto the Dallas Cowboys, undrafted, and triumphed against the odds and became one of the all-time greats. Harris is a two-time Super Bowl Champion, played in a total of five Super Bowls and six Pro-Bowls as a member of the Dallas Cowboys. He was named to the NFL's "All Decade Team" for the 1970s, Sports Illustrated's "Dream Team," the Dallas Cowboys Ring of Honor," and has been a finalist for the NFL Hall of Fame. He is also the author of "Tales from the Dallas Cowboys."
While playing for the Dallas Cowboys, Harris earned the nickname "Captain Crash" for his intensity on the field. Former Arizona Cardinals General Manager and NFL Hall of Famer Larry Wilson stated that Harris "changed the way the position is played. Other teams now model their Free Safeties after how Harris played."
  