
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 8
The President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC, from Camp David, MD.
February 9
The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah K. Kilmer to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Commerce.
The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and flooding beginning February 2.
February 10
In the morning, the President traveled to Wintergreen, VA, to address the House Democratic caucus retreat in the Commonwealth Ballroom at the Mountain Inn. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced the nomination of Christy Carpenter to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
February 11
The President announced his intention to nominate James E. Hall to be Chair of the National Transportation Safety Board.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Ghana, Uganda, South Africa, Botswana, and Senegal on March 22-April 2.
February 12
The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, high winds, tornadoes, and flooding on February 2-4.
February 13
In the morning, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA, and in the evening, he traveled to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Neal F. Lane to be Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rita T. Colwell to be Director of the National Science Foundation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Seth D. Harris to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division at the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Raymond L. Bramucci to be Assistant Secretary for the Employment and Training Administration at the Department of Labor.
The President declared a major disaster in Delaware and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, high winds, and flooding on January 28-February 6.
  