
    Today President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate a fourth wave of United States Marshal nominees. The United States Marshal performs essential functions of protecting the Federal judiciary by apprehending fugitives, transporting prisoners, and protecting witnesses. These candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve their respective jurisdictions:
If confirmed, John Cary Bittick of Georgia will serve as the United States Marshal for the Middle District of Georgia. Mr. Bittick is currently the sheriff of Monroe County, Georgia, a position he has held for 35 years. He began his law enforcement career with the Monroe County Sheriff's Office in 1972, serving as a radio operator and deputy before being elected sheriff in 1983. Additionally, Mr. Bittick served as president of the Georgia Sheriff's Association from 1999 to 2000 and president of the National Sheriff's Association from 2001 to 2002. He holds a Bachelor of Arts in criminal justice from Mercer University and is a graduate of the 130th Session of the FBI National Academy.
If confirmed, Steven L. Gladden will serve as the United Stated Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina. Mr. Gladden is currently the Economic Crimes Advisor (Intermittent) in the Office of Technical Assistance at the United States Department of the Treasury. Prior to that position, Mr. Gladden served for 26 years with the United States Marshals Service, holding several leadership roles, including Assistant Chief Inspector in the Asset Forfeiture Division, International Training Unit. Mr. Gladden earned his B.A. from the Carolina School of Broadcasting.
If confirmed, David L. Lyons of Georgia will serve as the United States Marshal for the Southern District of Georgia. Mr. Lyons recently retired as Chief of Police for the Garden City, Georgia Police Department, a position he held for more than 15 years. Prior to joining the Garden City Police Department, Mr. Lyons served as Chief of Police in Zebulon, Georgia from 2000 to 2002, Deputy Director of the Lamar County Emergency Management Agency from 1997 to 2000, and Chief of Police in Woodstock, Georgia from 1997 to 1999. Mr. Lyons also served as a Commissioned Officer in the U.S. Army for 17 years and was enlisted in the U.S. Navy from 1964 to 1967. He holds a Juris Doctor from the Woodrow Wilson College of Law, a Master of Arts in Business Management from Central Michigan University, and a Bachelor of Science in Human Services from the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.
If confirmed, Rodney D. Ostermiller of Montana will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of Montana. Mr. Ostermiller currently serves as the Acting U.S. Marshal for the District of Montana. He began his law enforcement career with the United States Marshals Service in 1991 as a Special Deputy U.S. Marshal in the District of Montana. Mr. Ostermiller went on to serve as a Supervisory Deputy U.S. Marshal in the Northern District of Iowa before returning to the District of Montana in 2002. Mr. Ostermiller was promoted to Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal for the District in 2004, and he served in that capacity for almost 14 years before assuming the role of Acting U.S. Marshal. Mr. Ostermiller holds a Bachelor of Science in social & criminal justice from Montana State University, an Executive Master of Public Administration from Golden Gate University, and a Master of Business Administration from Champlain College.
  