
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Advisory Committee on Mediation and Conciliation. These are all new positions.
Norman L. Benjamin is vice president, human resources, for Lockheed Corp. in Burbank CA. He is married, has four children, and resides in Calabasas, CA. He was born April 27, 1928, in Salt Lake City, UT.
Owen Bieber is president of the International Union of United Auto Workers in Detroit, MI. He is married, has five children, and resides in Southfield, MI. He was born December 28, 1929, in North Dorr, MI.
Merlin P. Breaux is vice president, industrial relations, for Gulf Oil Co. in Houston, TX. He is married, has five children, and resides in Sour Lake, TX. He was born January 15, 1932, in Edgerly, LA.
Fred A. Hardin is chairman of the Railway Labor Executives Association and international president of the United Transportation Union in Cleveland, OH. He is married, has three children, and resides in Hilton Head Island, SC. He was born February 21, 1918, in Greenville, SC.
John T. Joyce is president of the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftsmen in Washington, DC. He is married and resides in Washington, DC. He was born December 6, 1935, in Chicago, IL.
Peter J. Pestillo is vice president, labor relations, for Ford Motor Co. in Dearborn, MI. He is married, has three children, and resides in Grosse Pointe Farms, MI. He was born March 22, 1938, in Bristol, CT.
J.A. Sage is vice president of Southern Pacific Transportation Co. in San Francisco, CA. He is married, has three children, and resides in Tiburon, CA. He was born January 9, 1935, in North Bay, Ontario.
John J. Sweeney is president of the Service Employees International Union in Washington, DC. He is married, has two children, and resides in Bethesda, MD. He was born May 5, 1934, in New York, NY.
David L. Trezise is vice president for industrial relations of Westinghouse Electric Corp. in Pittsburgh, PA. He is married, has five children, and resides in Pittsburgh, PA. He was born October 17, 1926, in Wakefield, MI.
Raymond Earl Williams is corporate vice president, labor relations, at American Telephone & Telegraph Co. in New York, NY. He is married, has four children, and resides in Madison, NJ. He was born June 21, 1927, in Utica, NY.
William H. Wynn is international president of the United Food Workers & Commercial Workers International Union in Washington, DC. He is married, has two children, and resides in Alexandria, VA. He was born July 17, 1931, in South Bend, IN.
  