
    Weekend of Action comes as Bloomberg's campaign operation is expanding to include 125 offices around the country
NEW YORK — Mike Bloomberg 2020 will host more than 1,200 events across the country over Saturday, February 8 and Sunday, February 9, as part of a nationwide "Weekend of Action." With events in more than 30 states – including all Super Tuesday states – the Weekend of Action will be a nationwide show of support for Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg and his vision for the country.
The events will include office openings, roundtables, house parties, volunteer trainings, canvasses, and phone banks. Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign surrogates and supporters will engage with voters to discuss Mike's record of taking on tough fights and winning and why he is the strongest candidate to defeat Donald Trump in November.
"While the other Democratic campaigns are busy relocating to New Hampshire and arguing about the Iowa results, we're running a national campaign and taking the fight directly to Donald Trump in the states that will actually decide this election," said Mike Bloomberg. "To win in November, Democrats need to build a broad, diverse coalition of voters all across the country. That's exactly what we're doing — and that's what will be on display this weekend."
"While we still await the results of the Iowa Caucus, Mike isn't focusing on just a couple of states, he's focused on beating Donald Trump in November," said Mike Bloomberg 2020 States Director Dan Kanninen. "That's why Mike is making investments across the country and campaigning coast to coast, and this weekend you'll see that in action."
Mike will spend the weekend campaigning in Super Tuesday states including Alabama, with additional details to be announced.
To date, the Bloomberg campaign has hired more than 2,100 staff who are reaching out to voters in 40 states and territories, including all Super Tuesday states. The campaign will have 125 offices as of this weekend, and field staff will soon reach more than 2,000. Since launching his campaign, Mike has visited every Super Tuesday state at least once, and is engaging in a full fledged effort to retake key battlegrounds, expand the map, and win in November.
For more information on the Weekend of Action events, click here.
  