
    President George W. Bush announced today his intention to nominate three individuals, designate three individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate S. Ward Casscells, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs). Dr. Casscells currently serves as a Professor of Medicine and Public Health at the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston. Prior to this, he served as the John Edward Tyson Distinguished Professor of Medicine and Chief of Cardiology at the University of Texas at Houston and Memorial Hermann Hospital. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Investigator at the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Casscells received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his MD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Claude M. Kicklighter, of Georgia, to be Inspector General of the Department of Defense. Mr. Kicklighter currently serves as Director of the Iraq-Afghanistan Transition Planning Group. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served as Special Advisor for Stabilization and Security Operations in Iraq and Afghanistan at the Department of State. Mr. Kicklighter received his bachelor's degree from Mercer University and his master's degree from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate William Charles Ostendorff, of Virginia, to be Principal Deputy Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration. Mr. Ostendorff currently serves as Counsel of the House Armed Services Committee. Prior to this, he served as a Research Staff Member at the Institute for Defense Analyses. Earlier in his career, he served as Commanding Officer of the USS NORFOLK and of Submarine Squadron Six. Mr. Ostendorff received his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy, his JD from the University of Texas, and his LLM from Georgetown University.
The President intends to designate Dennis R. Spurgeon, of Florida, to be Acting Under Secretary of Energy.
The President intends to designate Thomas J. Barrett, of Alaska, to be Acting Deputy Secretary of Transportation.
The President intends to designate Kimberly A. Owens, of Arizona, to be Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
The President intends to appoint James H. Herring, of Mississippi, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation (Recommended by the Speaker of the House of Representatives), for a six year term expiring October 2, 2012.
  