
    Today three Republican leaders from Virginia – former Virginia Delegate Tom Rust, former Fairfax County Supervisor Michael Frey and King William County School Board Member Steven M. Tupponce– announced they have joined Governor John Kasich's presidential campaign as members of the Kasich for America leadership team.
Rust said, "I am proud to place my enthusiastic support behind Gov. John Kasich, who has the ability to make government work for the people. He has spent his career solving problems using strong conservative principles, which is exactly the kind of leadership America needs in the White House. I look forward to helping him spread that message."
Tom Rust, a member of the Virginia House of Delegates representing the 86th District from 2002 until his retirement in 2015, previously served as mayor of Herndon for 19 years (1976-84 and 1990-2001). A civil engineer by profession, he is presently vice chairman of a leading engineering consulting firm and remains active in a number of community-service roles.
Michael Frey, a resident of Centreville, served on the Board of Supervisors in Virginia's most populous county from 1990 until his retirement in 2015. He continues his long record of community leadership, which has included service on numerous public-policy boards and civic organizations in Fairfax County and statewide.
Frey said, "John Kasich's record as a budget hawk in Congress and a problem-solving governor who turned Ohio around has convinced me that he's the one candidate who can bring about effective change in Washington. I believe the Kasich record and his positive, optimistic campaign will resonate well with the voters of Virginia."
Said Tupponce, "There's no other candidate I trust more than John Kasich to lead our country to better days. He has a clear vision of how to solve our greatest challenges, starting with letting the states call the shots on education, healthcare and other issues that require an innovative, not a one size-fits-all, approach."
Tupponce has served on the King William County School Board for 12 years. He also works as a manager for Southern States Cooperative, where he is responsible for the delivery of infrastructure services like telecommunications and compliance.
Responding to these key endorsements, John Kasich said, "To have three such veteran and highly-regarded public servants on our team is a tremendous boost for our campaign. I am grateful to Tom Rust, Michael Frey and Steven Tupponce for their generous support, and I look forward to having them on board as we take our message to the voters of Virginia."
Kasich for America Virginia Leadership Team
Former Congressman Tom Davis (Honorary State Chair)
Senator Emmett Hanger (Co-Chair)
Delegate Glenn Davis (Co-Chair)
Delegate Chris Peace (Co-Chair)
Delegate Ron Villaneuva (Co-Chair)
Former Senator Jeannemarie Davis
Former Delegate Tom Rust
King William County School Board Member Steven M. Tupponce
Fairfax County Supervisor John Cook
Former Fairfax County Supervisor Michael Frey
Prince William County Supervisor Marty Nohe
Vienna Town Councilman Pasha Majdi
Virginia Beach Vice Mayor Louis Jones
Virginia Beach City Councillor Rosemary Wilson
Virginia Beach City Councillor James Wood
General Robert "Tip" Osterthaler (USAF-ret.)
  