
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Karol V. Mason – Assistant Attorney General for Justice Programs, Department of Justice
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Catherine A. Allen – Member, Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these talented and dedicated individuals have agreed to take on these important roles and devote their talents to serving the American people. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
Karol V. Mason, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for Justice Programs, Department of Justice
Karol V. Mason is a partner at the law firm of Alston & Bird, LLP. Previously, from 2009 to 2012, she served as Deputy Associate Attorney General at the U.S. Department of Justice. Ms. Mason practiced at Alston & Bird, LLP from 1983 to 2009, becoming a partner in 1990. From 1982 to 1983, she served as a judicial law clerk for Judge John F. Grady of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. She was a recipient of the U.S. Attorney General's Distinguished Service Award in 2011 and the University of North Carolina General Alumni Association's Distinguished Service Medal in 2010. Ms. Mason received an A.B. in Mathematics from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Catherine A. Allen, Appointee for Member, Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust
Catherine A. Allen is Chairman and CEO of the Santa Fe Group, a strategic consulting company she founded in 1996. From 1997 to 2007, Ms. Allen served as the founding CEO of BITS, a consortium of the CEOs and CIOs of the 100 largest companies in the financial services industry. From 1989 to 1996, she worked at Citigroup, first as Vice President of Marketing and Planning for the Enhanced Telephone, and then, beginning in 1992, as Vice President of Business Development and Alliances. From 1974 to 1985, Ms. Allen held teaching positions at Mount Vernon College, the George Washington University, and American University. Ms. Allen currently serves as Chair of the National Foundation for Credit Counseling. She is a member of the Boards of Directors of the New Mexico Museum Foundation, the Los Alamos National Laboratory Foundation, New Mexico Appleseed, and the Lensic Center for Performing Arts. She received an honorary doctorate from the University of Missouri and the Lifetime Achievement Award in 2007 from U.S. Banker Magazine, now known as the American Banker Magazine. Ms. Allen received a B.S. from the University of Missouri and an M.S. from the University of Maryland.
  