
    
"I am scared of what a Republican president will mean for my family."
Dear Hillary,
My name is Kevin, and I'm a 26-year-old man living in the suburbs of Atlanta. I work for a non-profit, I pay a mortgage, and I work hard to make ends meet. These are just some of the identities I hold.
I'm also a gay man. I have a husband, Robbin, who is a middle school teacher. We got married in 2014 in New York. When we got back home to Atlanta, we were married in our hearts but unfortunately not in our home state. In 2015 we had to file our state taxes as single, unmarried individuals. We were obviously thrilled with the Supreme Court Obergefell decision in June 2015 because it meant we were officially married at home and everywhere else in the country. However, it was discouraging to see elected leaders all over the country, some even in our own state, vow to work to reverse the outcomes of the decision.
Two months ago (in December 2015), we adopted a baby boy who we named Grey. He is 7 weeks old now. We're so thrilled and excited to be parents; our hearts are so full of love for this child. We felt so relieved that the Obergefell decision paved the way to allow us to adopt as a couple. Previously, we would have had to adopt Grey as single parents and go through the process of adoption twice.
I want you to know that I support you because you have supported me in some of the most delicate and pivotal moments in my life. I remember that day in December of 2011, watching you with tears in my eyes as you said, "Gay rights are human rights, and human rights are gay rights." I remember vividly that day in 2013, just six months before Robbin and I got engaged, when you released a video in which you said "LGBT Americans are our colleagues, our teachers, our soldiers, our friends, our loved ones, and they are full and equal citizens," and that they deserve all rights—including marriage. And in October of 2015, the month that Robbin and I would be matched with our soon-to-be born son, you said to the world that "Being a good parent has nothing to do with your sexual orientation or your gender identity."
Robbin and I are trying to live the American dream in which we work hard and provide a life that allows our child to succeed and have it better than we did. I know that you understand the depth of love one can feel for their child, and I know that you will appreciate my urgency in feeling like that dream is in danger. Of course, I am a supporter of your campaign for more than just your social policies. However, my family and I have a personal stake in this election that goes beyond just political beliefs and lies at the very core of our identity. I support you because you are the only person running who I trust to keep our family from danger. You are the only person running who has declared that our family is real, valid and deserving. A Republican alternative to you will not look at our family and see all of that. I'm frankly scared of Grey turning on the TV and seeing a Republican president who is outspoken about his belief that gay couples shouldn't be allowed to marry, or that gay parents are not adequate to provide all the opportunities that a heterosexual couple can provide. I am scared of what a Republican president will mean for my family.
For someone that I've never met, you're one of the few people whom I feel has truly supported me. My family and I will do all that we can to get you to the White House in 2016. Attached is a photo of our family and a picture of Grey. Just like us, he has his own Hillary apparel and wants you to know that he's your biggest littlest fan.
Sincerely,
Kevin, Robbin, and Grey

  