
    Austin, TX - This week, the Obama Campaign began airing two new radio ads across Texas. The ads highlight Barack Obama's diverse coalition of support and commitment to addressing the tough challenges everyday Americans face.
"The choice in this election is not between religions or genders. It's not about rich versus poor; young versus old; black versus white," Senator Obama says in the ad. "It's about the past versus the future."
See below for scripts of both ads along with links for audio.
Script: Click here to listen 
I am Barack Obama and I approve this message.
After four great contests in every corner of this country, we have the most votes, the most delegates, and the most diverse coalition of Americans we've seen in a long, long time.
They are young and old; rich and poor. They are black and white; Latino and Asian & Native American. They are Democrats and Independents; and yes some Republicans. And we've got young people across this country.
The choice in this election is not between religions or genders. It's not about rich versus poor; young versus old; black versus white.
It's about the past versus the future.
Tag (TEXAS): Vote early February 19th thru the 29th
Text TX to 62262
Go to Texas.barackobama.com
Polls open Tuesday March 4th 7am to 7pm
Paid for by Obama for America.
Script: Click here to listen 
I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message.
Forty years ago, Dr. King challenged America to act on what he called the "fierce urgency of now"
And I feel that same urgency today. The urgency of single moms like my own who struggled to make a living and do right by her kids.
I feel an urgency to close the education gap that sends so many of our children to failing schools, robbing them of their potential.
And I feel an urgency to offer our kids love and guidance and the positive role models that too many lack today.
I feel an urgency to fix a healthcare system that shuts out 47 million who don't have health insurance.
I know we can meet these challenges. If you feel that same urgency for fairness, for justice, for change, join us.
Tag (TEXAS): Vote early February 19th thru the 29th
Text TX to 62262
Go to Texas.barackobama.com
Polls open Tuesday March 4th 7am to 7pm
Paid for by Obama for America
  