
    Note: "Ohio Gov. John Kasich is best suited, by temperament, knowledge and experience, to carry the Republican standard. There's a reason seven of the eight New Hampshire newspapers endorsed him. He answers questions with facts and past accomplishments, not bluster. He can get things done."
The Concord Monitor
Tuesday's vote will mark the 100th anniversary of the New Hampshire presidential primary, which did not achieve its first-in-the-nation status until 1952. The election goes a long way toward deciding who the next president of the world's most powerful nation will be. But this time, also at stake are the future of the fragmented Republican Party and, perhaps, the fate of the primary itself. Your participation is crucial.
So far, this election has been like no other, a test of whether, with anger loosed upon the nation, the center can hold. Or will the state, with its vote, send forth candidates from each extreme – candidates who probably could not win if nominated or may not be able to govern if elected.
Iowa is even less like the sum of America than New Hampshire, and its odd and only somewhat democratic caucus process is a poor measure of prospective presidents.
On Monday, its Republican voters chose Sen. Ted Cruz, the most hated man in Congress, as its nominee. Not one of Cruz's Senate colleagues support him. He is a mean-spirited conservative zealot who has earned the enmity of fellow Republicans like Sen. John McCain, twice the winner of New Hampshire's primary. Cruz is uncompromising and so intractable that, against the wishes of his party, he caused the government to shut down for 16 days in order to make a personal statement about his loathing for the Affordable Care Act. His argument on the Senate floor famously mocked that chamber by including a reading of Dr. Seuss's Green Eggs and Ham.
Democrats chose former senator and secretary of state Hillary Clinton, but only narrowly over Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who would represent the left wing of his party were he really a Democrat.
The self-described democratic socialist has spent most of his Senate career as an independent whose proposals for radical change earned more smiles than votes. As we said in an earlier editorial, we largely agree with Sanders's pursuit of greater economic equality and universal health care, but he would fare no better in achieving them as president than he has as a senator.
It's time for New Hampshire voters to put the path to the presidency back on course.
Ohio Gov. John Kasich is best suited, by temperament, knowledge and experience, to carry the Republican standard. There's a reason seven of the eight New Hampshire newspapers endorsed him. He answers questions with facts and past accomplishments, not bluster. He can get things done.
Read the full story here.
  