
    Below are excerpts of Hillary Clinton's prepared remarks she will deliver in Youngstown, Ohio tonight. In her remarks, Hillary will preview a major address she will deliver tomorrow morning at Hunter College in New York focused on the choice Americans face in this election.

  Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton
  Speech Excerpts
  Rally in Youngstown, OH
  February 19, 2008

...Tonight, I want to talk about the choice you have in this election – and why that choice matters....
...This election is not about me or my opponent. It's about you. Your lives, your dreams, your future.
Right now, too many people are struggling. Working the day shift, the night shift, trying to get by without health care, just one paycheck away from losing their homes. They cannot afford four more years of a president who just doesn't see or hear them.
They need a president ready on day one to be commander in chief. Ready to manage our economy. And ready to beat the Republicans this November.
I will be that president.
This is the choice we face:
One of us is ready to be commander in chief in a dangerous world...
...One of us has a plan to provide health care for every single American – no one left out....
...Finally, one of us has faced serious Republican opposition in the past. And one of us is ready to do it again. The contrast between me and our likely opponent couldn't be more stark. John McCain is willing to continue the war in Iraq for 100 years – I will start bringing troops home in 60 days. He admits he doesn't understand the economy -- I have a plan to turn our economy around and create five million new jobs. He wants eight years more of the same – I'll deliver 21st century solutions to move this country forward again.
Both Senator Obama and I would make history. But only one of us is ready on day one to be commander in chief, ready to manage our economy, and ready to defeat the Republicans. Only one of us has spent 35 years being a doer, a fighter and a champion for those who need a voice. That is what I would bring to the White House. That is the choice in this election.
...It's about picking a president who relies not just on words – but on work, hard work, to get America back to work. Someone who's not just in the speeches business – but will get America back in the solutions business...
  