
    Hello, everybody! It is great to see all of you here on a phone bank. And I just want to first of all say Rahm Emanuel and Will Burns—where did Will go? Where is Will? Will, come on over here.
The reason I want to say something about Will is because it wasn't that long ago when Will was doing what you all are doing. He didn't have a fancy suit and pinstripes. [Laughter] And our office was a little smaller than this, and things were a little more raggedy and less organized. But when you see somebody who worked with you as a young person and then coming up and doing great things now as an alderman, we could not be prouder. And I would expect that he's going to do fine in my ward, because he's my own—and I hope my trees are being trimmed. [Laughter] Although, not right now, I guess. It's a little cold.
But the main reason I'm here is just to say thank you to all of you who are helping out Rahm. Rahm Emanuel is somebody who cares deeply about this city. He cares deeply about the children of this city. He's been willing to make some really hard decisions on behalf of those children and on behalf of our future. Everybody knows that he is passionate and he is tough and he is dogged in making sure that the city of Chicago is not just the coldest city—[laughter]—but also the greatest city.
And you look at what's been accomplished in education, what's been accomplished in terms of the infrastructure, bringing jobs back to this city, I have confidence as a voter, and as a resident of Chicago, that he's going to continue to do a great job.
But the only way that happens is if people get out there and vote. So all of you are critical to the process. Those of us standing here, we benefit from your willingness to be involved and participate in this great civic exercise we call democracy. And you're doing it on behalf of not only a great mayor, but also a great friend of mine. I couldn't be prouder. I'm glad he's my mayor, and I'm glad he's going to be my mayor for another 4 years.
Keep on making calls! Don't stop! Don't stop!
  