
    Houston, TX – Today, the Warren for President campaign announced that Lina Hidalgo, the first woman and first Latina to be elected Harris County Judge, has endorsed Elizabeth Warren. Judge Hidalgo is the chief executive of Harris County, a county home to nearly 5 million people, and a rising star in Texas politics.
"I'm incredibly grateful to have the support of Judge Hidalgo, who has been a forceful and persistent champion for Harris County by working to ensure that the government is transparent, accessible, and accountable to every single resident," said Warren. "We're in this fight together to create big, structural change -- and that means building a movement that makes our government work for everyone, in Harris County, across Texas, and throughout our country."
"Whether it's combating climate change or increasing opportunities for minorities in small business, Elizabeth has a plan for that. But my support for her is not because of her plans, it's because of who she is. The Elizabeth Warren you speak with one-on-one is the same Elizabeth you see on the stump. She's a genuine person who will tell you exactly what she believes and where she stands," said Hidalgo. "Her strong moral compass is unwavering, and her decisions are made based on facts, not political winds. She and I are aligned in our progressive values and I firmly believe she is the best person to serve as President of the United States."
Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo is the head of Harris County's governing body and Director of the Harris County's Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Management. She oversees a budget of approximately $5 billion that funds services and institutions for the third-largest county in the nation and largest county in Texas. Judge Hidalgo will serve as a lead Texas surrogate for Senator Warren.
Since announcing her presidential campaign, Elizabeth Warren has visited Austin, Dallas, and Houston. Elizabeth received her undergraduate degree from the University of Houston, where she also got her first job as a law professor, and taught at UT-Austin Law School. She grew up next door in Oklahoma and lived in Texas for over ten years.
  