
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of additional West Michigan leaders.
"I'm pleased to have so much support throughout Michigan," said Mitt Romney. "The endorsements of these leaders show that my message of more jobs, smaller government and less debt is resonating with the American people. In the months to come, these conservatives will be crucial in helping me spread my message to Michigan voters."
Announcing his support, Kent County Commissioner Harold Voorhees said, "Michigan voters are looking for a conservative leader who can create jobs, balance the budget, and repeal Obamacare. I believe that Mitt Romney is the candidate to do just that. America cannot take another four years of Barack Obama's failed policies and broken promises. Mitt Romney has the proven experience and bold vision to get our nation back on track. I urge fellow conservatives to join me in voting for Mitt Romney."
West Michigan Leaders Supporting Mitt Romney:
Kent County Commissioner Harold Voorhees
President of Serve-U-Sweets Inc., a local cookie and snack food distributor, Harold Voorhees began elected service in 1987 when elected to the Wyoming City Council. In 1989 Harold was elected Mayor of Wyoming, a Grand Rapids suburb of 63,000 residents, and reelected mayor in 1991. In 1992 Harold was elected to represent the City of Wyoming and a portion of the City of Grand Rapids in the Michigan House of Representatives.  He attends Resurrection Life Church and is public relations director for Citizens for Traditional Values.
Barry County Prosecutor Tom Evans
Tom Evans has served as the Barry County Office of Prosecuting Attorney since 2006.  Evans is on the Board of Directors for the Prosecuting Attorneys Association of Michigan.  He served as Hastings High School Youth in Government mock judiciary coach and is past president of the Middleville Lions.
State Representative Peter MacGregor
State Representative from the 73rd District. MacGregor is a former small-business owner and also served as Cannon Township supervisor, as a trustee and as a Cannon Township planning commissioner.  MacGregor helped found the Volley for Mitchell Charity 4-on-4 volleyball tournament to raise funds for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy research and continues to serve as one of its three co-directors.
Anthony Dugal, Southwest Michigan Tea Party Patriots
Anthony Dugal is a member of the Southwest Michigan Tea Party Patriots and owner of Anthony Dugal Photography in Kalamazoo.
Dave Healy, Texas Township Supervisor Kalamazoo
Dave Healy was the CFO at Schupan & Sons, Inc. for 15 years. He has served as a Board member of Boy Scouts of America for 18 years.
  