
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual and appoint 27 individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate James B. Foley of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Haiti. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he currently serves as the Deputy Chief of Mission in Geneva, Switzerland where he manages a staff of 240. Previously, Mr. Foley served as Deputy Spokesman of the Department of State and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director of the Private Office of the NATO Secretary General in Brussels, Belgium, and in Manila as a consular officer and political officer. His public service over the years has earned him the State Department Superior Honors Award. He is a graduate of the State University of New York and was awarded an M.A.L.D. degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Members of the President's Export Council:
J.W. Marriott, Jr. of Maryland, and upon appointment designate
Chairman James C. Morgan of California, and upon appointment designate
Vice Chairman Paul Hsu of Florida
John Lopez of Oklahoma Beatriz Manetta of New Jersey
Michael Sacco of Missouri
C. Michael Armstrong of New Jersey
Glen A. Barton of Illinois
Riley P. Bechtel of California
S. Jackson Faris of Tennessee
Henry M. Paulson, Jr. of Illinois
Warren R. Staley of Minnesota
Solomon Dennis Trujillo of California
Michael L. Eskew of Georgia
James Brian Ferguson of Tennessee
Lee R. Raymond of Texas
Philip Condit of Illinois
Michael S. Dell of Texas
Arnold W. Donald of Missouri
Raymond V. Gilmartin of New Jersey
Christopher T. Jenny of Massachusetts
C. Michael Kojaian of Michigan
Celilia Ochoa Levine of Texas
John A. Luke, Jr. of Connecticut
Harold B. Smith of Illinois
John F. Smith of Michigan
Sidney Taurel of Indiana
  