
    To the Senate of the United States:
I submit herewith, for Senate advice and consent to ratification, the Agreement between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency ("Agency") for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America, with attached Protocol, approved by the Board of Governors of the Agency on September 17, 1976. This Agreement provides for application of Agency safeguards to nuclear facilities in the United States, other than those having direct national security significance. The Agreement will enter into force when the United States notifies the Agency that its constitutional and statutory requirements for entry into force have been met.
The United States, as a nuclear weapons state party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons ("NPT"), is not obligated to accept Agency safeguards on its peaceful nuclear activities. On December 2, 1967, President Johnson offered to place United States nuclear facilities, except those with direct national security significance, under Agency safeguards in an effort to demonstrate that the application of those safeguards would not work to any nation's commercial disadvantage. Specifically, President Johnson stated:
"... I want to make it clear to the world that we in the United States are not asking any country to accept safeguards that we are unwilling to accept ourselves.
So I am, today, announcing that when such safeguards are applied under the treaty, the United States will permit the International Atomic Energy Agency to apply its safeguards to all nuclear activities in the United States—excluding only those with direct national security significance.
Under this offer the Agency will be able to inspect a broad range of U.S. nuclear activities, both governmental and private, including the fuel in nuclear power reactors owned by utilities for generating electricity, and the fabrication, and chemical reprocessing of such fuel . . ."
Over the next ten years, both Presidents Nixon and Ford reaffirmed that offer.
I also transmit, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Department of State concerning the Agreement.
Universal participation in the NPT is a central goal of our non-proliferation policy. The entry into force of this Agreement would encourage that participation, and would fulfill our long-standing commitment to accept safeguards. I urge the Senate to act favorably on this Agreement at an early date and give its advice and consent to ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
February 9, 1978.
  