
    To the Congress of the United States:
This report on the progress toward a solution to the Cyprus dispute is the first of a series that I will submit pursuant to Public Law 94-104. Through these reports and continuing close consultations with the Congress, I will keep the American people fully informed of developments in the negotiations.
Helping to promote an equitable and lasting solution to the problems of Cyprus is a high priority for my Administration. The work has already begun. At my request, former Defense Secretary Clark M. Clifford will leave on February 15 for a special mission to Greece, Turkey and Cyprus, as my personal emissary. Through consultations in Greece and Turkey, he will seek to improve our bilateral relations with these valued NATO allies. With regard to Cyprus, I have asked for his personal assessment of the situation on the island, prospects for early movement toward a negotiated settlement, and how we might be of assistance in this process. Mr. Clifford will consult with the Congress before he departs and again--with other senior officials--after his return, in an effort to produce policies which are effective and which have the broad support of the American people.
We intend to stay in close touch with our other European friends. Vice President Mondale raised the subject during his recent trip and received welcome indications that member states of the European Community continue to share our interest in doing what is possible to encourage a negotiated solution.
We will also continue to maintain close contact with the United Nations in its efforts to promote a peaceful solution. Secretary General Waldheim has worked tirelessly to this end since the summer of 1974. He will soon visit Nicosia for discussions with Cypriot leaders. We hope that through his continued efforts the talks between the two communities might resume in the near future.
Recent positive developments offer some prospect of further progress. One such event was the meeting last month between President Makarios and Turkish Cypriot community leader Denktash, the first meeting between the two in thirteen years. I can assure the Congress that the United States will do all it can to build on these positive developments and advance the cause of a negotiated settlement for Cyprus.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
February 11, 1977.
  