
    Pool Reports by Daniel Strauss, The New Republic 



Sent:
Reports:




February 24, 202215:18

VP supplemental pool report #1 
At 3:07 pm ET pool gathered for Vice President Harris to swear in former Senator Joe Donnelly to be ambassador to the Holy See and Scott Nathan to be chief executive officer of the United States International Development Finance Corporation.
Donnelly's swearing-in came first.
The White House sends along the following background. Per a White House official:
Ambassador Joe Donnelly is being ceremoniously sworn in as Ambassador to The Holy See.His wife, Jill Donnelly, will hold the family Bible during his oath.
Ambassador Joe Donnelly is joined by family and friends below.
Jill Donnelly, wifeJoan Donnelly, stepmotherJoe Donnelly, Jr., sonJesseca Jones Donnelly, daughter in lawRavay Smith, friend



February 24, 202215:33

VP supplemental pool report #2 
At 3:30 the Vice President came out alongside Donnelly and family. They went through the swearing-in quickly. The Vice President then said "congratulations to the whole family" and took a picture with the whole family. They all left at 3:32 pm.



February 24, 202215:45

VP supplemental pool report #3 
The White House passes along the following background on Scott Nathan ahead of his swearing in:
Mr. Scott Nathan is being ceremoniously sworn in as Chief Executive Officer to the U.S. International Development Finance CorporationHis wife, Laura DeBonis, will hold the Hebrew Bible during his oath.
Mr.Scott is joined by family below.
Laura DeBonis, wifeAsher Nathan, sonLeah Nathan, daughterStuart Nathan, fatherJo Ann Nathan, motherRobert Nathan, brother



February 24, 202215:58

VP supplemental pool report #4
At 3:45 pm the VP came out alongside Scott Nathan and his family. The Vice President ran through the swearing-in swiftly and then said "congratulations, congratulations to the whole family. Let's take a photo."
They took a photo.
Note the Second Gentleman was present behind the press pool for this swearing-in.
The Vice President then gave a statement on Ukraine. She said "we know and believe that this is a war of choice. It is unprovoked. It is unwarranted and it is unjustified. The President made clear from the beginning if Russia were to take aggressive action against Ukraine out response would be swift and certain and that is in fact what has occurred. Today the President outlined the sanctions that are going to have a direct impact on Russia's economy both in terms of sanctions and in terms of sanctions and export controls, the effect will be immediate on Russian and we will continue as we have from the very beginning to work with our allies and our partners around the world. We are unified in our position on this and in our reaction to this unjustified, unprovoked attacks on a sovereign nation. Thank you."
She did not respond to questions from the reporters present.




  