
    Both Nevada State Controller Ron Knecht and former Nevada Treasurer Bob Seale announced today that they have endorsed Gov. John Kasich for President and joined Kasich for America's Nevada Leadership Team.
Said Knecht, "I know firsthand what it takes to balance a budget and keep a small business going. In order to create jobs and drive growth, Americans need a leader who will work with them, not against them, by lowering taxes, cutting regulations and removing other major barriers to success. Gov. John Kasich has left his mark on Washington and on Ohio as a budget balancer and a friend to job creators. With our primary election around the corner, I'm proud to support the most qualified, most presidential candidate in the race."
Knecht, who became Controller in 2015, is an entrepreneur and longtime public servant with over four decades of experience in economics, law, public policy analysis and engineering.
Said Seale, "Now more than ever, America needs a principled conservative with the ability to produce results. No one fits that bill more than Gov. John Kasich. He has a record of balancing budgets in Washington and Ohio, cutting taxes and regulations and spurring job creation, and he has a detailed plan to make the same commonsense reforms as president. I'm looking forward to working with the rest of the team to share his ideas with Nevada voters."
Seale was the first CPA in the state's history to be elected Nevada Treasurer, an office he held from 1990 to 1998 before serving in the Nevada legislature.
Said Kasich, "It's an honor to receive the endorsement of two of Nevada's most dedicated public servants. Ron Knecht and Bob Seale bring a wealth of experience and expertise to our campaign operation that will help our team expand and reach more voters prior to the primary election."
Kasich for America Nevada Leadership Team
Former Clark County Chairman David McKeon
Former Clark County Chairman David Gibbs
Nevada State Controller Ron Knecht
Former Nevada Treasurer Bob Seale
Michael Brown
Patrick McNaught
Mike Dayton
Brian McAllen
Lisa Marie Johnson
  