
    NEW YORK — In response to the repeated attacks by Bernie Sanders, his spokespeople and supporters, today Mike Bloomberg 2020 responded against baseless charges espoused online, in print, and on TV.
"It's a shameful turn of events to see Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump deploy the very same attacks and tactics against Mike, but the reason is clear. At this point, the primary is Bernie's to lose, and ours to win. Bernie knows this. Trump knows this. That's why they are united in the campaign against Mike," said Mike Bloomberg 2020 Campaign Manager Kevin Sheekey.
"Mike is in this race to defeat Donald Trump, and he's the Democratic candidate who can get that done. This campaign will not sit idly by and allow these false attacks to stand without response," Sheekey said.
The latest example comes today, with the Sanders campaign circulating a video of Mike's comments — also shared by Donald Trump Jr. — that is taken completely out of context; the video cuts off Mike's first sentence where he is referring to agrarian society that lasted 3,000 years, not farmers today. In just the past three months, Mike has traveled to 26 states. During that time, he has met with farmers and heard directly about the struggles they face. The Bernie Sanders campaign is choosing to push out falsehoods and sow divisions within the Democratic party.
In just the past week, Bernie Sanders' National Press Secretary Briahna Joy Gray, Senior Advisor David Sirota, and National Campaign Co-Chair Nina Turner have referred to Mike as a "racist" and an "oligarch," implied Donald Trump is better than a fellow Democatic candidate for president, and called Bloomberg supporters "enablers."
Some examples of these attacks are here:

"If you wouldn't even condone a tweet criticizing a racist authoritarian like Bloomberg, you are a fence sitting enabler of the worst variety and have no business holding yourself holding yourself out as a Democrat — much less a progressive." [Twitter, @briebriejoy, 2/16/20]
"Oligarch of the Month: Michael Bloomberg." [Twitter, @ninaturner, 2/3/20]
"Moreover, we have no reason to believe Bloomberg's newfound political commitments. He has demonstrated a willingness to change his stripes with the political winds, and because (sic) he's self funded, is literally accountable to no one. The danger he presents can not be overstated." [Twitter, @briebriejoy, 2/13/20]
"Trump will say he has a better record on criminal justice than Bloomberg. And he may be right." [Twitter, @briebriejoy, 2/16/20]
"I'm told Mike Bloomberg isn't an "oligarch" — he's just a billionaire who buys elections and is a "part-time resident" of a foreign tax haven." [Twitter, @davidsirota, 2/5/20]
"I may not have a PhD (yet!) but I DO have the good sense of knowing what makes for Oligarchy. Anyone caping for a BILLIONAIRE (with a media company) able to buy endless ads & influence party rules halfway through is PRECISELY a perpetuator of the corrupt system — ie an Oligarch!" [Twitter, @ninaturner, 2/3/20]

These attacks are unacceptable. All Democrats should focus on the critical task of choosing a candidate that can compete against Donald Trump and win. In the face of the most consequential election of our lifetimes, it is unfortunate that we are even talking about such slanderous attacks from other Democrats.
Mike Bloomberg and his campaign are hyperfocused on beating Donald Trump in November, and will continue to engage voters and supports across the country to do just that.
  