
    "Rick Santorum is trying to label himself a conservative, but his record tells a different story. When it comes to Big Labor, Santorum has been about as conservative as Barack Obama. Labor bosses want to force every worker to pay dues and join a union to hold a job. As a U.S. Senator, Santorum supported their agenda. He even filibustered right to work legislation that would have given every American a chance to hold a job without joining a union. That's not conservatism - it's the liberal program of Big Labor." —Greg Hartmann, Hamilton County Commissioner
Ohio Voters Strongly Support Efforts To Pass A Right-To-Work Law In Their State:
A Recent Ohio Poll Showed State Voters Strongly In Favor Of A Right-To-Work Law. "By a 54-to-40 percent margin, voters surveyed for a Quinnipiac University poll said they would support a 'right-to-work' law that has been proposed by Ohio Tea Party activists. Right-to-work laws forbid workers from being compelled to join labor unions as a condition of their employment." (Reginald Fields, "Strong Support For 'Right-To-Work' Law In Ohio Despite Recent Repeal Of SB 5: Poll," The Plain Dealer, 2/14/12)
Ohio Republicans Overwhelmingly Favor A Right-To-Work Law With 77 Percent In Favor And A Majority Of Independent Voters Also Favor The Law. "However, support for a 'right-to-work' law was strong among Republicans with 77 percent in favor, while 55 percent of independent voters supported a law and 61 percent of Democrats opposed it, according to the poll results." (Kim Palmer, "Ohio Voters Open To "Right-To-Work" Law: Poll," Reuters, 2/14/12)
While In Congress, Santorum Repeatedly Sided With Big Labor Against Laws Like Right To Work:
In 1996, Santorum Joined A Minority Of Senate Republicans In Opposing The Right-To-Work Act. "A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act and the Railway Labor Act to repeal those provisions of Federal law that require employees to pay union dues or fees as a condition of employment, and for other purposes." (S. 1788, Vote #188: Cloture Motion Rejected 31-68, 7/10/96; Santorum Voted Nay)
In 1996, Santorum Was One Of 14 Senate Republicans Voting To Affirm That The Davis-Bacon Act Should Not Be Repealed. "To protect the incomes of construction workers and their families and to express the sense of the Senate that the Davis-Bacon Act should not be repealed." (S.Amdt. 4031 to S.Amdt. 4000 to S.Con.Res. 57, Vote #134: Motion To Table Failed 40-60: R 39-14; D 1-46, 5/22/96; Santorum Voted Nay)


    The Heritage Foundation: Davis-Bacon Artificially Inflates The Cost Of Construction Projects, Adds Billions To The Deficit Each Year, And Should Be Repealed. "The Davis—Bacon Act (DBA) requires the government to pay construction wages that average 22 percent above market rates. This shields unions from competition on federal construction projects. It will also add $10.9 billion to the deficit in 2011. Given that the federal government is already running historic and unsustainable deficits, federal policy should not unnecessarily inflate the cost of federal construction projects. Congress should repeal the DBA." (James Sherk, "Repealing the Davis-Bacon Act Would Save Taxpayers $10.9 Billion," The Heritage Foundation, 2/4/11)
  

Santorum Was One Of Only 17 House Republicans Voting To Prevent Employers From Being Able To Hire Permanent Replacements For Striking Workers. Santorum, along with a small minority of Republicans in the House of Representatives, voted for the Cesar Chavez Workplace Fairness Act, which would have prohibited employers from hiring permanent replacements when employees go on strike. (H.R. 5, Vote #224: Passed 239-190: R 17-157; D 221-33; I 1-0, 6/15/93; Santorum Voted Yea)


    Among The Bill's Co-Sponsors Were Reps. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Dick Gephardt (D-MO), Charles Schumer (D-NY), And Bernie Sanders (I-VT). (Library of Congress Website, http://thomas.loc.gov, 1/4/12)
  

  