
    NEW YORK — Last night, the Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign office in Chicago, Illinois was vandalized and defaced with the word "oligarch." This is the latest in a pattern of attacks of vandalism at Mike Bloomberg 2020 offices across the United States.
Today, Campaign Manager Kevin Sheekey issued the following statement in response to these repeated incidents of vandalism:
"Yet again, one of our campaign offices has been vandalized with derogatory language — using the word 'oligarch' — in an act of hate. We cannot, and will not, tolerate these acts. While we do not know who is directly responsible, we do know Senator Bernie Sanders and his campaign have repeatedly invoked this language, and the word "oligarch" specifically when discussing Mike Bloomberg and his campaign.
"Sen. Sanders' refusal to denounce these illegal acts is a sign of his inability to lead, and his willingness to condone and promote Trump-like rhetoric has no place in our politics. Fortunately, no one has been injured. But this needs to end before someone gets hurt.
"No one should have to live in fear of coming to work, and Sen. Sanders must call on his supporters — including his campaign staff — to elevate the discourse in this campaign and end their spread of hateful rhetoric."

Vandalism at the Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign office in Chicago, Illinois (Image from the Chicago Sun Times)
Multiple instances of vandalism have taken place at Mike Bloomberg 2020 offices over the past several weeks that involved language that mirrors attacks that Sen. Sanders' supporters and staff has used online and in interviews:

In Salt Lake City, Utah, windows were smashed on 2/22
In Knoxville, Tennessee, the office was vandalized with the word "oligarch" on 2/21
Our Flint, MI office was defaced with a sign saying "Eat the Rich" on 2/16
In Toledo, Ohio, the office was vandalized with the word "oligarch" on 2/13
Our Youngstown, Ohio, office was vandalized and defaced with the word "oligarch" on 2/14
Our Ann Arbor, MI office was vandalized with writing on the windows saying "Corporate Pig" on 2/13

Sen. Sanders' campaign and supporters repeatedly use this language:

Sen. Sanders at a recent rally: "We are a democracy, not an oligarchy. You're not going to buy this election." [CNN]
Sen. Sanders during the Nevada debate: "Real change never takes place from the top on down, never takes place from an oligarchy controlled by billionaires." [NBC News]
Sanders campaign national press secretary Briahna Joy Gray: "Like I said: Bloomberg is an oligarch." [@BrieBrieJoy, 2/19/20 // "Bloomberg is an oligarch. #whichsideareyouon?" [@BrieBrieJoy, 2/9/19]
Sanders campaign Senior Advisor David Sirota: "If you are somehow offended by the word "oligarch," you must not be paying attention. There's no pretense at all here — the billionaire is just brazenly trying to buy the Democratic primary." [@DavidSirota, 2/4/20]
Sanders campaign National Co-Chair Nina Turner: Washington Post: Sanders surrogate called Bloomberg an oligarch. The words sparked a debate over money in politics. 

  