
    On the Air: The campaign began airing six television ads. "Obligation" is running in Wisconsin and "Falling Through" is airing in Ohio. "Lifetime," "Obligation," and "Dignity" are running in Texas, as is "Nuestra Amiga," a Spanish language ad. Watch.
If You Read One Thing Today: "Momentum has been an illusory concept in the Democratic race," writes the Washington Post's Dan Balz. "Obama had it after Iowa and then saw Clinton rise up and stop him in New Hampshire. Until [Ohio, Texas and Pennsylvania] are heard from, this will remain a volatile race." Read more.
In Case You Missed It: Hillary accepted an invitation to debate Sen. Obama in Wisconsin, but Sen. Obama refuses to debate Hillary in Wisconsin.
Previewing Today: Hillary kicks off her South Texas campaign in McAllen and holds "Solutions for America" rallies Robstown and San Antonio, Texas. Chelsea holds "Our Voice, Our Future" events at Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio Wesleyan University in Delaware and Sinclair Community College in Dayton, Ohio.
Making News: NAACP chairman Julian Bond told "the Democratic National Committee that refusing to seat delegates from Florida and Michigan would disenfranchise both states' minority communities." Read more.
On Tap: President Bill Clinton will campaign in Wisconsin tomorrow, visiting Milwaukee, Madison and La Crosse. Hillary will campaign in Wisconsin Saturday evening through Tuesday morning.
Recapping Yesterday: In the largely Latino community of El Paso, 12,000 "shouting," "energetic" people greeted Hillary, who "came in like a rock star, with music blaring in a blackened basketball coliseum lit by a thousand cellphones." . Former Texas Rep. Charlie Stenholm endorsed Hillary.
The Hillary I Know: In Wisconsin, Chelsea made five stops in the past two days. Chelsea met with students near Marquette University and at University of Wisconsin campuses in Milwaukee, Madison, Eau Claire and La Crosse. In Madison, Chelsea spoke to a "packed room of mostly students. amid an atmosphere at times resembling a rock concert. The overflow crowd. was filled with people shoving forward, jockeying for a better position."
Facts are Facts: According to the Cleveland Plain Dealer, the "key difference" between Hillary's health care plan and Sen. Obama's health care plan is that "his plan would not be universal because it does not mandate that everyone enrolls."
  