
    To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, I transmit herewith the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between the United States of America and Spain, signed at Madrid on January 24, 1976, together with seven Supplementary Agreements and eight related exchanges of notes. For the information of the Senate, I transmit also the report of the Department of State with respect to the Treaty.
I believe this Treaty will promote United States interests and objectives relating to Spain and western security. With the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, the Treaty would serve to provide a firm basis for a new stage in United States-Spanish relations, reflecting United States support for and encouragement of the important evolution which has begun in Spain and to which the Spanish Government renewed its commitment in connection with the signing of the Treaty. The Treaty reflects the mutual conviction of Spain and the United States that the proper course of this evolution should include, as major objectives, the integration of Spain into the institutions of Europe and the North Atlantic defense system and should include a broadly based cooperative relationship with the United States in all areas of mutual interest. The Treaty should contribute positively to the achievement of these goals.
In the area of western security, the agreement provides for a continuation of the important contribution made by Spain through facilities and related military rights accorded United States forces on Spanish territory. The agreement reflects a careful balancing of Spanish concerns with the changing requirements of United States military deployment. As a new development of the United States-Spanish defense relationship, the Treaty establishes mechanisms and guidelines, such as those reflected in the provisions dealing with military planning and coordination, to help develop an active Spanish contribution to western security, a contribution which complements and is coordinated with existing arrangements. The Treaty does not expand the existing United States defense commitment in the North Atlantic Treaty area nor does it create an additional bilateral one. Finally, the Treaty pledges military assistance to the Spanish armed forces in their program of upgrading and modernization. The major portion of that assistance is in the form of loan repayment guarantees. The actual cost to the United States taxpayer is expected to be far lower than the figures listed in the agreement.
I recommend that the Senate give prompt consideration to the Treaty and
consent to its ratification.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
February 18, 1976.
NOTE.: The treaty and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive E (94th Cong. 2d sess.).
  