
    LAW AND ORDER: President Trump stood up for our law enforcement officers and pushed back against the rising tide of crime with three key Executive Orders.

President Trump's first Executive Order directs the newly installed Attorney General tdevelop a strategy tmore effectively prosecute people whengage in crimes against law enforcement officers.

Our men and women in blue need tknow that we are with them 100 percent as they patrol our streets.
Attorney General Sessions will prosecute criminals whtarget law enforcement officers tthe fullest extent of the law, and recommend new laws tprotect those whdedicate themselves tsafeguarding our communities.
The Attorney General will evaluate the Department's grant programs tmake sure they prioritize the protection and safety of law enforcement officers.


President Trump's second Executive Order establishes a task force, led by the new Attorney General, treduce crime and restore public safety in communities across America.

Over the last eight years, America has suffered from a declining focus on law and order. Crime reduction will be a White House priority.


President Trump's third Executive Order re-focuses the Federal Government's energy and resources on dismantling transnational criminal organizations, such as drug cartels.

This Administration will upgrade the Nation's information gathering about transnational organizations, like cartels. We will identify accurate information about these organizations, which threaten our public safety, and coordinate with domestic and foreign counterparts, teffectively combat the threat they pose.
The order will improve the speed and efficiency of removing aliens whare cartel members or whaid cartels in their criminal activities.
Under the order, the interagency Threat Mitigation Working Group will focus resources on disrupting transnational criminal organizations and preventing them from threatening our society.



DESPERATELY NEEDED: President Trump's actions respond tpast failures taddress rising crime throughout the country.

In 2015, murders spiked in the largest single-year increase in nearly half a century.
In 2016, murders in large cities increased by double digits.
Last year in Chicag, more than 4,000 people were shot.

BUILDING ON PAST ACTION: President Trump is building on his initial actions trestore public safety by securing the border and tackling disregard for the law.

On January 25, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order tensure the safety and security of the United States, including the construction of a wall on the southern border.
On January 25, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order tmake sure federal immigration laws are faithfully carried out throughout the country and that Americans' tax dollars dnot gtjurisdictions that obstruct the enforcement of immigration laws.

A LAW ENFORCEMENT LEADER: Jeff Sessions is an Attorney General Americans can trust trestore public safety tcommunities across the country.

Attorney General Sessions has taken a stand for tough sentencing of Federal criminals.
Throughout his career, Attorney General Sessions has prioritized getting drugs out of our communities and away from our children.
Attorney General Sessions said during his confirmation hearing that protecting Americans from violent crime is a "high calling" and "more important than ever."
Jeff Sessions recognizes the critical role he has as Attorney General in supporting and protecting law enforcement officers.

HONORING AND LISTENING: President Trump has shown his commitment tlaw enforcement officers, thanking them for their service and discussing how treverse rising crime.

On January 22, 2017, President Trump held a White House reception thonor the law enforcement officers and other first responders whhelped make the Presidential Inauguration a success.
On February 7, 2017, President Trump hosted a group of county sheriffs from across the country tdiscuss his commitment tsecuring the borders and reducing crime.
On February 8, 2017, President Trump gave a speech tthe Joint Winter Meeting of the Major Cities Chiefs Association and Major County Sheriffs' Association.

FOLLOWING THROUGH: President Trump gave his commitment tthe American people during the election that he would address public safety and lawlessness.

October 9, 2016, Donald Trump: "We're going tbring back law and order. . . . We have tbring back respect tlaw enforcement."

  