
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)
(Sen. Feingold (D) WI and two others)
The Administration strongly opposes S. 2634. By purporting to require Executive branch officials to produce a report that reflects a legislatively determined strategy, S. 2634 improperly may inhibit the President's constitutional authority as Commander in Chief to plan and direct military operations. The reporting mandate imposes constraints that may conflict with the considered judgment of our military commanders and risks, if complied with in the field, hindering the flexibility of our commanders. In addition, the bill infringes on the President's authority under Article II, section 3 of the Constitution to determine the timing and content of all legislative measures he recommends to Congress. Furthermore, the bill also attempts to impermissibly limit the President's constitutional authority to withhold information, the disclosure of which could impair foreign relations, national security, or the deliberative processes of the Executive. Finally, the bill ignores the present statutory framework to keep Congress fully informed while protecting classified information. For these reasons, if S. 2634 were presented to the President, his senior advisors would recommend that he veto the bill.
While the Administration strongly opposes S. 2634 as drafted, it supports the bill's goals and intent, with regard to updating and informing Congress and the American people on the strategy to combat terrorism. In September 2006, the Administration released the President's updated National Strategy for Combating Terrorism, which outlined, among other things, the strategic vision for the War on Terror. This document provided a clear and straightforward statement and explanation of the President's strategy. In June, 2006, the President approved the National Implementation Plan (NIP), a classified comprehensive plan for carrying out our strategy to combat terrorism, utilizing all elements of national power. The NIP assigns specific tasks and activities in support of our strategy to the responsible Departments and agencies. The Plan has been briefed and shared with the Congress via the appropriate channels. A number of Departments and agencies have produced Department-specific, unclassified strategies and plans to carry out their specific responsibilities and functions in the War on Terror. The Administration strongly supports continuing to engage Congress and the American people on this vital issue in a manner that is both constitutional and protective of national security interests.
  