
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Matthew Donovan of Virginia, to be the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
Matthew Donovan currently serves as Under Secretary of the Air Force, and was acting Secretary of the Air Force from June to October, 2019. Previously, Colonel Donovan served as Majority Policy Director and Professional Staff Member for the United States Senate Committee on Armed Services, where his responsibilities included advising the Chairman on regional affairs and legislative policy, as well as oversight of the Department of Defense fixed-wing fighter, bomber, mobility, and special mission aircraft programs.
Colonel Donovan served over 30 years on active duty in the United States Air Force as a combat fighter pilot and in various operational and staff positions. Following his military retirement, Colonel Donovan was a Senior Defense Policy Analyst at Science Applications International Corporation, and then served as a civilian in various United States Air Force positions.
Colonel Donovan is a recipient of the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Defense Meritorious Service Medal, and the Aerial Achievement Medal. He holds a baccalaureate degree from Regis University, and master's degrees from Webster University, the United States Air Force School of Advanced Airpower Studies, and the United States Army School of Advanced Military Studies.
Victor G. Mercado of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (Strategy, Plans, and Capabilities).
Victor Mercado currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Plans and Posture. Before transitioning to government service in January 2019, Mr. Mercado served as Director of Maritime Operations for the United States Pacific Fleet in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Formerly, he served as Director of the Assessments Division for the Chief of Naval Operations.
Mr. Mercado has also served as Commander of Carrier Strike Group Eight, Vice Director of Strategic Plans and Policy for United States Central Command, and Deputy Director of the Surface Warfare Division.
Mr. Mercado is a graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School, where he earned his Master of Science in Systems Technology in Joint Command Control and Communications, and the United States Naval Academy, where he earned his Bachelor of Science in Mathematics.
Mr. Mercado is a recipient of the Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit, and the Meritorious Service Medal.
  