
    "Together, we are building a safe, strong, and proud America." --President Donald J. Trump
LAYING OUT A VISION FOR BIPARTISANSHIP: Tonight, President Donald J. Trump laid out an inspiring, bipartisan vision of American greatness.

In his second State of the Union address, President Trump highlighted new policies that will expand prosperity and improve the quality of life for all Americans.
President Trump is a problem solver and is offering commonsense solutions to the issues our Nation faces.
President Trump cast a vision for greater security and peace around the globe, noting America's return to a position of leadership.
The President cited criminal justice reform, landmark opioid legislation, historic reforms to the VA, and a sweeping new Farm Bill as proof of what can be achieved when our Nation's leaders work together in a bipartisan fashion.
Now is the time for all sides to work together to accomplish greatness for the American people.

PROMOTING ECONOMIC PROSPERITY: President Trump pledged to continue his policies that have unleashed the American economy and delivered prosperity for countless Americans.

Thanks to President Trump's policies, the American economy is booming, averaging 3 percent growth for the year – something not seen in a while.
More than 5.3 million jobs have been created since President Trump's election, sending unemployment rates plummeting and leading to real-wage growth.
The President's efforts to fight for fair trade and cut job-killing regulations has led to a rebirth in American manufacturing.
The historic tax cuts and reforms achieved by the President provided millions of Americans and their families with pay raises, bonuses, and increased benefits.
The United States is now the number one producer of oil and gas in the world and, in 2020, is projected to become a net exporter of energy for the first time in over a half century.

ACCOMPLISHING REAL IMMIGRATION REFORM: President Trump is committed to working to achieve real immigration reform that protects our country and benefits our citizens.

Immigration reform is a critical issue for the future of our country as it impacts all aspects of Americans' lives.
The President is urging Congress to pass legislation to address the crisis at the border, which includes humanitarian assistance, more law enforcement, drug detection at our ports, closing loopholes that enable child smuggling, and plans for a new physical barrier, or wall.
In order to achieve lasting reform, we must close catch-and-release loopholes, stop sanctuary cities, end illegal immigration, and secure our borders.
Without first securing our southern border, the American people will never trust Washington to achieve real immigration reform.

NEGOTIATING DEALS THAT WORK: President Trump pledged to continue to fight for fair and reciprocal trade that benefits the American economy and protects our workers.

President Trump has already secured trade deals like the United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement (USMCA) that will positively impact the lives of all Americans.
Congress should approve the USMCA to help the President fight for American workers, farmers, and businesses and continue his work to secure better deals for the American people.
President Trump is asking Congress to pass the United States Reciprocal Trade Act, giving him authority to take action to pressure other countries to lower their tariffs on our goods.

REBUILDING AMERICA'S INFRASTRUCTURE: President Trump is calling on Congress to come together and invest in 21st century infrastructure for the American people.

President Trump is calling for an infrastructure package that delivers new and important infrastructure investment to build a modern transportation system.
Building up our infrastructure is key to improving the quality of life for all Americans.

This includes investing in visionary projects such as advanced manufacturing and artificial intelligence.


The American people deserve a modern transportation system that reduces traffic, cuts down on commute time, and is safer and more reliable.

CARING FOR OUR NATION: President Trump is asking Congress to work with him to lower prescription drug prices and improve the quality of life for Americans.

President Trump is asking Congress to tackle high prescription drug prices by addressing the global freeloading in drug research, development, and distribution.
The President requested Congress pass reforms to lower drug costs for Medicare patients and cap out-of-pocket expenditures for our Nation's seniors.
President Trump is requesting Congress make the needed investments to defeat the HIV epidemic in the United States within 10 years and fund new childhood cancer research.

KEEPING AMERICA SAFE: President Trump is restoring the United States standing in the world by putting America first and achieving peace through strength.

President Trump is continuing his historic effort to rebuild our military and provide our troops with the best equipment and training.
The President has acted swiftly and decisively to protect America's interests: pushing for peace on the Korean peninsula, confronting Iran, and fighting terrorists worldwide.
The President has decimated ISIS and will be bringing our heroes home from costly wars as our partners in the region step up their commitments to destroy ISIS remnants in the region.
President Trump announced he is stepping up negotiations for a political settlement in Afghanistan, shifting our priorities from nation building to counterterrorism.

SUPPORTING AND PROTECTING AMERICAN FAMILIES: President Trump is working every day to protect the safety and well-being of American families. 

President Trump has continually called for the creation of nationwide paid family leave, and is the first President in history to include a proposal in his Budget.

Nationwide paid family leave will provide parents the chance to bond with their child while also promoting economic prosperity and financial stability in the household.


The President will ask Congress to support school choice in order to support working parents.
President Trump is committed to protecting the gift of life and is calling on Congress to pass legislation to prohibit late-term abortion.

This legislation would prevent the late-term abortion of babies who can feel pain in their mother's womb.



  