
    Rep. Stevens, a battle-tested Red-to-Blue leader, knows what it will take to keep the House blue and beat Trump in the Midwest
LIVONIA, MICHIGAN – U.S. Representative Haley Stevens (MI-11) today endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg, lauding his comprehensive agenda to create jobs and economic opportunity for the people and communities left behind by the Trump administration, his 21st century infrastructure plan, his strategy to create affordable, high-quality, and accessible health care, and his long-standing mission to improve America's resilience to climate change.
"Michigan needs an economic champion in the White House, a leader who stands up for working families and can get an infrastructure deal done to unlock prosperity for all," said Congresswoman Haley Stevens. "I know Mike Bloomberg will help grow Michigan's manufacturing economy, because I worked with him in the past to create advanced manufacturing jobs. I'm endorsing Mike Bloomberg for president because he has the experience to unite the country and defeat Donald Trump this fall, and I am eager to work with him to tackle our toughest problems and strengthen the middle class, lower healthcare costs, and fight climate change."
"Congresswoman Haley Stevens has been a leader on economic recovery and revitalization, and she sees through President Trump's empty rhetoric," said Mike Bloomberg. "She knows the minimum wage has been the same for 10 years and that job growth in Michigan has been anemic. I'm honored to have her support, and I'm ready to work with her to bring more good jobs with higher pay to all the Michiganders who have been shortchanged by the Trump administration."
Congresswoman Stevens represents MI-11, a highly competitive district that she flipped blue in 2018. She is a battle-tested leader who knows what it's going to take to beat Donald Trump in the Midwest in November. Before being elected to Congress, Stevens served as the Chief of Staff to President Obama's U.S. Auto Rescue Task Force, the federal initiative responsible for saving General Motors, Chrysler, and 200,000 Michigan Jobs. She also played a key role in setting up the Office of Recovery for Automotive Communities and Workers, and the White House Office of Manufacturing Policy. After serving in the Obama Administration, Stevens worked in a manufacturing research lab focused on the future of work in the digital age.
Stevens sits on the House Committee on Education & Labor, and the House Committee on Science, Space & Technology, where she also serves as Chairwoman of the Research & Technology Subcommittee. On these Committees, Stevens works to protect access to healthcare, promote manufacturing, expand educational opportunity, stand up for workers' rights, and increase investment in critical research and development.
Stevens received a master's degree in social policy and philosophy and a bachelor's degree in political science and philosophy from American University.
  