
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to designate one individual and nominate two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to designate Hansford T. Johnson of Virginia, to be Acting Secretary of the Navy. Mr. Johnson currently serves as the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Installations and Environment. Mr. Johnson has been a leader in the military, public and business sectors for over 41 years. He previously served as the Commander in Chief of the U.S. Air Force Transportation and Military Airlift Command and served as Deputy Commander in Chief of the Central Command during operation Earnest Will, the U.S. re-flagging of Kuwaiti oil tankers and escort operation in the Persian Gulf. During Viet Nam, he was a forward air controller and flew 423 combat missions. After his combat tour, he served as an assistant professor of aeronautics at the Air Force Academy. He is a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy, earned his master's degree from Stanford University and his M.B.A. from the University of Colorado. He went on to further his military training at the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College and the National War College.
The President intends to nominate John W. Snow of Virginia, to be United States Governor of the International Monetary Fund, for a five-year term; United States Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for a five-year term; United States Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank, for a five-year term; United States Governor of the African Development Bank, for a five-year term; United States Governor of the African Development Fund; United States Governor of the Asian Development Bank; United States Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice Paul O'Neill. Mr. Snow currently serves as the Secretary of the Treasury.
The President intends to nominate Gregory A. White of Ohio, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio. Mr. White currently serves as the Lorain County Prosecutor in Lorain County, Ohio. He is a graduate of Kent State University and earned his law degree from Cleveland Marshall College of Law.
  