
    
Hey everybody, my name is Neil. I've been volunteering with the Marco Rubio campaign in New Hampshire since August.

I'm from Derry, N.H., the fourth largest town in the Granite State.

I'm a social media manager at a high-tech company in Boston, Massachusetts. I love politics, news, social media, and the New England Patriots!
I work on a daily basis to spread the positive message of Marco Rubio's New American Century on social media, and after work and on the weekends, I make phone calls and knock on doors throughout the greater Derry area.
Help Our Volunteers by Calling from Home
Here's what a typical day on the trail is like:
When I wake up at 6 AM, I read the Rubio campaign's Daily Kick-Off email to get caught up on Marco news. Go here to sign up yourself!

So what does Team Marco New Hampshire do day to day? A lot of it involves braving the cold to get the message out about Marco!

Team Marco NH not only loves the Patriots (sorry Marco), but we run on Dunkins, lots of Dunkins!

A few weeks ago, I also delivered a personal invitation to an undecided voter during my lunch break. The voter ended up coming to the Derry event — every vote counts!

We also help out at events. I've seen Marco over a dozen times — it NEVER gets old!

I've even gotten a football signed by Marco — sorry Tom Brady!

We make phone calls to voters to get them to turn out to the polls, too. A few weeks ago, I got to do that on the Marcomobile. Very cool!

We spend lots of time knocking on doors for Marco.

Sometimes I even take my dog Roxy along and make phone calls while my wife drives the truck.

And sometimes, there are special events, like Marco's January 20 speech to the New Hampshire state house!


As you can see, volunteering for Marco can mean a lot of hard work, long hours, and time away from family, but it's all totally worth it!
Campaigning is truly a team effort, and it's a lot of fun, too.
We need you to play your part in helping to build a New American Century.
Go here to sign up to make calls to early states from anywhere in the country!
  