
    More than 75 surrogates will join campaign staffers and supporters to mobilize voters in every Super Tuesday state
NEW YORK — In the weekend leading up to Super Tuesday, the campaign of Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg will host more than 2,400 events across 30 states as part of Mike Bloomberg 2020's "Get Out The Vote" effort. To assist with mobilizing voters in the final days before they head to the polls, the campaign will deploy more than 75 surrogates to participate in the events, which will include phone banks, canvasses, and house parties.
"Our team of thousands of committed volunteers and state staff are spending the days leading up to Super Tuesday connecting with voters in their towns and communities across the U.S.," said Dan Kanninen, Bloomberg 2020 States Director. "Our unmatched organization will be in full display this weekend as we continue to build on our momentum and talk to voters about Mike's record on critical issues like health care, climate change, and gun violence prevention, and why he is the strongest candidate to defeat Donald Trump in November."
Mike Bloomberg is campaigning in Virginia, North Carolina, Alabama, and Texas in the days leading up to Super Tuesday. Since launching his campaign, Mike has visited every Super Tuesday state at least once. The Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign has built a ground operation that is unmatched and is uniquely positioned to reach voters no matter where they are.
Fast facts on Mike Bloomberg 2020's organizing effort:
Since January 1, 2020, the campaign has had 10 million voter conversations, and hundreds of thousands of people have taken action with the campaign.
The campaign has 2,000+ staff on the ground across the country, with an additional 400 at it's New York City headquarters.
The campaign has more than 200 offices around the country, including more than 100 across Super Tuesday states.

In California, for example, the campaign has opened 24 offices and has more than 300 staff.
In Texas, Mike Bloomberg 2020 has nearly 20 offices and 180 staff.
Critical Super Tuesday and November battleground states of North Carolina and Virginia have 8 offices and 125 staff and 7 offices and 80 staff respectively.
Tennessee has 7 offices and 40 staff and Arkansas has 3 offices and more than 20 staff.

  