
    
Atlanta, GA - Several prominent female leaders and activists from across the country have signed on to lead the official Women's Coalition for Newt Gingrich's Presidential Campaign.
The Women with Newt National Coalition will be led by Callista Gingrich, wife of Newt Gingrich and President of Gingrich Productions, a multimedia production company. A tireless campaigner, Callista has accompanied Newt across the country speaking to various women's groups and conservative organizations.
"Over the last several months, I have had the privilege of visiting with many wonderful women across the country — learning about their concerns and hopes for our future. My husband is the only candidate with the experience, knowledge, and vision to get our country back on the right track," said Gingrich.
Gingrich will lead a team of 6 national co-chairs, including Sue Lynch, President Emeritus of the National Federation of Republican Women, Jeri Thompson, a renowned political commentator and wife of Senator Fred Thompson, Gay Hart Gaines, a long-time Republican activist and former chairman of GOPAC, Linda Upmeyer, Iowa House of Representatives Majority Leader, and Newt's daughters, Kathy Gingrich Lubbers, an entrepreneur, and Jackie Gingrich Cushman, a nationally syndicated columnist and author.
This coalition will assist Gingrich in engaging with thousands of women across the country.
Jeri Thompson, a national co-chair, explained that the coalition's mission is forward-looking.
"This election is a referendum on the failed decisions and failed policies of an Obama Administration that without new, strong leadership, will leave our children and our grandchildren with a land of less opportunity and less freedom. For me and other mothers, joining this coalition is less a political move than a maternal one."
Gay Hart Gaines, also a national co-chair, expanded upon Thompson's sentiment. "In my opinion, there is no one better at upholding American Exceptionalism and articulating conservative values than Newt Gingrich. Newt has always stood above the rest when it comes to his ability to inspire and lead the conservative movement."
In the coming weeks, the coalition will be announcing several regional advisors in Tennessee, Texas, Georgia, California, and Ohio.
  