
    Mr. Prime Minister and all of our distinguished guests:
My remarks will be brief tonight because I know that all of you, having heard me so often, so much in recent days, will look forward to hearing the Prime Minister.
I said "distinguished guests" very deliberately a few moments ago, because as we were making up the guest list for this dinner, I found that never have we made so few happy at the expense of so many. [Laughter] There is always a long list of people who want to come to state dinners and obviously we would always like to have them all come. But this room, even with round tables, seats only 110 people, and so, out of the list of 8,000 or 10,000 and perhaps then down to 1,000 that "these must come," tonight from California, from New York, from the South, the East, the North, are the 110 most important people in the United States, Mr. Prime Minister, in honor of you. [Laughter]
They are here from both of our political parties and from all branches of our government because, first, they honor your country, with which we are privileged to be allied so closely in so many different ways, and also because they respect and honor you as an individual, as the leader of that country.
This is the fourth time we have met since you became Prime Minister. It is also the second time that we have had a dinner in this room. And I think I can best describe how we in America feel about you, the Prime Minister of Britain, in a term that I used, that you may have forgotten, in a note I wrote you very early in your period as Prime Minister when you had had to make a very difficult decision about economic policies. And I noted that it was a decision that, without question, would not be approved in the immediate future in your country, but in terms of the long-range interests, you had determined was absolutely essential. And I wrote to you to the effect that however it came out that I, as an individual, and as an old personal friend, admired you for making what I called "a gutsy decision."
The man we honor tonight, and I say this in the company of this group, is really, in his whole political career and as now the head of government in his country, a man who has the courage and the farsightedness and the vision to make gutsy decisions, whether it is in the economic field or whether it is in the field of foreign policy. He is not blinded by what tomorrow's headlines may be in a negative sense.
He does not allow those headlines and what they may be to blind him to the vision of what the future may be and that is why all who know anything about Britain's entering Europe know that it would not have happened--this great historic development--it would not have happened had it not been for the Prime Minister and it would not have happened except for the courage that he had, the courage to see that the long-term interest of his country, as distinguished from the short-term problems, would be served by being part of this great European Community which is now into being.
I think we could say that he is one of the prime architects of the new Europe and that the new Europe is an indispensable foundation for what we hope will be a new world, because it will contribute to that new world in which peace and, we trust, progress with freedom will be the watchword in the years ahead.
I think that what I have said indicates the respect that we have in this country for our distinguished guest. I think also what I have said indicates that, as far as we are concerned, we consider it a very great privilege to work with Her Majesty's Government and with the Prime Minister and his associates for goals that go deep into our national history, ideals which we share together, ideals which we basically inherited together. And I am sure that this visit will be one that, as we have completed an historic year in the field of foreign policy--a trip to Peking, a trip to Moscow, the end of a long and difficult war in Vietnam--that this marks a watershed where we move now to the works of peace. And we move in that area of the world that is indispensable to true peace and progress and freedom in the world, the whole Atlantic community of which the Prime Minister is one of the truly great leaders.
I know we can honor him most by raising our glasses to Her Majesty, the Queen. The Queen.
  