
    New Ads: The campaign launched new ads. On television, "Deserves" asks why Sen. Obama won't debate in Wisconsin, where "Rebuild" and Rep. "Tammy Baldwin" also began airing on television and radio, respectively. In Rhode Island, the campaign began running "Warned" and "Lifetime." Watch and listen.
Previewing Today: Hillary attends a campaign event at the Brat Stop in Kenosha followed by the Democratic Party of Wisconsin Founder's Day Dinner in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. President Bill Clinton holds "Solutions for America's Economy" events in Amarillo, Lubbock and Austin, Texas. Chelsea campaigns for her mom in Hawaii.
If You Listen to One Thing Today: At 11:30 a.m. EST, Hillary advisor Harold Ickes holds a conference call with press to discuss the delegate process.
Fair Credit: In Ohio, Hillary detailed her plan to take on the credit card companies and provide fair credit to America's families. Hillary will end hidden credit card fees and provide real consumer protections against abusive interest rates and sudden rate hikes. Read more.
By the Numbers: In Texas, a new Rasmussen poll has Hillary up by 16 points over Sen. Obama (54-38). In Ohio, a new Rasmussen poll has Hillary up by 14 points over Sen. Obama (51-37).
Real Solutions: Congress this week passed and sent President George Bush the Kids and Cars Safety Act, legislation Hillary co-authored with campaign supporter Rep. John Dingell to protect children from injury in and around motor vehicles. Read more.
Recapping Yesterday: In Cincinnati, Ohio, Hillary held an economic roundtable before a "jam-packed, standing-room-only crowd at Skyline Chili," where she ordered two cheese coneys. In Akron at a Lockheed-Martin plant, "many of the workers were eager to meet" Hillary. "As she walked through the work floor, Hillary stopped to autograph a teddy bear in the arms of an employee who wanted to surprise his wife." . In Cuyahoga Falls, Hillary "was greeted by a boisterous crowd." When Hillary spoke about universal health care, "one of her supporters yelled out, 'Yes, we can!' Sensing an opportunity, Clinton quickly retorted: 'Yes, we will!'" . In Lyndhurst, "Clinton brought that slogan to a packed rally of about 3,000." Hillary "led the mostly young and boisterous crowd into chanting: "Yes, we will! Yes, we will! Yes, we will!'"
Strong in the States: In Wisconsin, the campaign announced the names of 23 new endorsers including State Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass, State Senators Tim Carpenter, Jeff Plale and Jim Sullivan and the first woman mayor of Wausau, Linda Lawrence. In Texas, State Senator Leticia Van de Putte and a long list of Rio Grande Valley elected officials endorsed Hillary.
In Case You Missed It: "House Majority Leader Jim Clyburn. disagrees with (superdelegates) who base their support on election and caucus results." Read more.
If You Watch One Thing Today: NBC explores Sen. Obama's ties to nuclear giant Exelon. Watch.
FactCheck: The newspaper Sen. Obama cites in continuing to misrepresent Hillary's record on trade wrote that "Obama's use of the citation does strike us as misleading..It's an example of the kind of slim reeds campaigns use to try to win an office." Read more.
  