
    WEST CALDWELL, NEW JERSEY — Today, Congresswoman Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11) endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg for president, praising his commitment to reducing gun violence, protecting our environment, and rebuilding America's crumbling infrastructure. She applauded his plan to support servicemembers transitioning out of active service and into civilian life by connecting them to high-quality and high-paying jobs, his commitment to protecting the country's national security and economic interests, and his ability to restore the trust of the American people in our government once again.
"I served in the Navy with members of our military community dedicated to making our country safer and stronger, and it's clear we need the same level of commitment from our political leaders," said Congresswoman Mikie Sherrill. "Mike Bloomberg embodies the integrity we need from leadership and I am proud to give my support to him today. His unwavering commitment to making our schools and streets safe from gun violence, investing in our region's infrastructure, creating opportunities for our veterans, and protecting our environment is proof that Mike Bloomberg won't back down from the many serious challenges we face as a country. Mike is a true public servant, and I'm confident he will move this country forward into a bright future."
The endorsement comes as Mike delivers remarks on leadership and protecting veterans and military families in Norfolk, Virginia tomorrow. Mike will also talk about his policy to address the urgent economic, health, and housing needs of America's veterans and military families. While President Trump's erratic approach to foreign policy shows a dangerous disregard for our military's immediate and long term goals, Mike's plan puts the interest of our nation and our service members first.
"Congresswoman Mikie Sherrill is a true patriot, a leader with integrity and the courage to act on her convictions, and we need more people like her in elected office," said Mike Bloomberg. "She deserves to work with a president whose allegiance is to the country, not himself, and who is as committed as she is to rebuilding our infrastructure, reducing gun violence, and honoring our veterans — and that's what I'll be. I'm honored to have her support, and I look forward to working in partnership with her, building support across the aisle, and getting things done."
Congresswoman Sherrill represents New Jersey's 11th District. Sherrill serves as Freshman Whip for the New Democrat Coalition, and sits on the House Armed Services Committee and the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. She is also the Chairwoman of the Environment Subcommittee for the Science, Space, and Technology Committee.
After graduating from the United States Naval Academy in 1994, Sherrill spent almost 10 years on active duty in the United States Navy. She flew missions throughout Europe and the Middle East as a Sea King helicopter pilot, worked on the Battle Watch Floor in the European Theater during the Iraq invasion, and served as a Flag Aide to the Deputy Commander in Chief of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet. Sherrill also served as a Russian policy officer, working on the implementation of our nuclear treaty obligations and overseeing the relationship between the U.S. Navy and Russian Federation Navy.
Sherrill received a Bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy, a Master's degree in Global History from the London School of Economics and Political Science, and a Law degree from Georgetown University.
  