
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted February 8
Joseph Bordogna, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation, vice Anne C. Petersen, resigned.
Anne Jeannette Udall, of North Carolina, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2004 (reappointment).
Submitted February 10
Richard Holbrooke, of New York, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations, vice Bill Richardson, resigned.
Richard Holbrooke, of New York, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations.
Carl Schnee, of Delaware, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Delaware for the term of 4 years, vice Gregory M. Sleet, resigned.
Submitted February 11
Leonard R. Page, of Michigan, to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board for a term of 4 years, vice Frederick L. Feinstein who was appointed to this position during the last recess of the Senate.
John C. Truesdale, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2003, vice William B. Gould IV, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Submitted February 12
Naomi Reice Buchwald, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Miriam G. Cedarbaum, retired.
G. Edward DeSeve, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice John A. Koskinen, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
David M. Hurd, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of New York, vice Con. G. Cholakis, retired.
  