
    Join other South Florida and Tampa leaders in supporting Hillary for President
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsements of leading Florida elected officials, including Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Congressman Alcee Hastings.
"We need a leader with a clear vision and sound judgment, who can work with a Democratic Congress to renew the promise of America. Hillary is that leader," Rep. Wasserman Schultz said.
Rep. Hastings said, "When we elect the next President Clinton, this country will be a much better place for the African-American community, Floridians and all Americans."
Both Reps. Wasserman Schultz and Hastings serve in the Democratic leadership in the House of Representatives, and Hastings is the Vice Chair of Florida's congressional delegation.
Former Tampa Mayor Sandy Freedman also endorsed Tuesday, saying "Hillary Clinton is the most qualified candidate of either party in this race, and that's why she's going to be elected."
"I am grateful for the overwhelming support I've received in Florida," Senator Hillary Clinton said. "These local leaders will be vital to our efforts to renew America's promise."
Below is a full list of Florida officials endorsing Hillary Clinton today.
Florida Officials Endorsing Hillary Clinton for President
Congressman Alcee L. Hastings
Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz
State Senator Nan Rich
Former Tampa Mayor Sandy Freedman
Broward County Commissioner Sue Gunzburger
Broward County Commissioner Ken Keechl
Broward County Commissioner John Rodstrom
Broward County Commissioner Diana Wasserman-Rubin
Pembroke Pines Mayor Frank Ortis
Parkland Mayor Michael Udine
Broward County School Board Member Maureen Dinnen
Broward County School Board Member Jennifer Gottlieb
Broward County School Board Member Eleanor Sobel
Hillsborough County School Board Member April Griffin
Hillsborough County School Board Member Susan Valdes
Hillsborough County Clerk of Circuit Courts Pat Frank
Fort Lauderdale City Commissioner Charlotte Rodstrom
Parkland City Vice Mayor Jared Moskowitz
Former Executive Director of Florida Democratic Party Ana Cruz
Former League of United Latin American Citizens State Director Matilda Garcia
  