
    In America, we believe in the majesty of freedom and the dignity of the individual. --President Donald J. Trump
DEFENDING RELIGIOUS LIBERTY: President Donald J. Trump is a steadfast advocate for religious liberty.

President Trump is committed to protecting the liberty and freedom of our religious communities, organizations, and students.
The Trump Administration issued new guidance to protect religious liberty and expression in public schools.

The Administration's action will help protect each student's constitutional right to pray.


The Trump Administration took crucial action to support and defend Jewish students who face anti-Semitism on college campuses.
President Trump reversed the Obama-era policy that prevented the government from providing disaster relief to religious organizations.
The President signed an Executive Order establishing the Faith and Opportunity Initiative, which recognizes and promotes the essential contributions of faith-based organizations.

PROTECTING INNOCENT LIFE: President Trump is the most fearless pro-life president in American history.

Since his first day in office, President Trump has taken historic action to protect the sanctity of every American life.
President Trump has urged Congress to pass legislation banning the horrendous practice of late-term abortion.
Last year, President Trump took action to end Federal research using fetal tissue from abortions.
Shortly after taking office, President Trump issued a memorandum reinstating and expanding the Mexico City Policy, banning funding to organizations that provide abortion overseas.
The Trump Administration issued a rule preventing Title X family planning funds from supporting the abortion industry.
President Trump became the first sitting president to address the annual March for Life rally.

STANDING UP FOR AMERICANS' CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS: President Trump is a strong champion and defender of Americans' First and Second Amendment rights.

President Trump signed an Executive Order promoting free speech and inquiry at colleges and universities receiving Federal research or education grants.
President Trump held the first ever Presidential Social Media Summit to celebrate and promote freedom of speech on social media platforms.
The President has made clear that he will always stand up for Americans' Second Amendment rights to keep and bear arms.

  