
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
February 17
Following his arrival at Providence, R.I., the President toured the Rhode Island Group Health Association facility.
February 18
While in Bangor, Maine, the President attended a breakfast hosted by the Maine State Democratic Committee at Husson College.
Following his arrival at Nashua Senior High School in Nashua, N.H., for the town meeting, the President attended a reception for Senator Thomas J. McIntyre of New Hampshire.
The President returned to the White House from New Hampshire.
The President met in the Cabinet Room with Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall and other administration officials to discuss the coal strike.
February 20
The President attended a meeting in the Roosevelt Room with Secretary Marshall, Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger, and other administration officials who were discussing the coal strike.
February 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the bipartisan congressional leadership, Vice President Walter F. Mondale, and Secretaries Marshall and Schlesinger, to discuss the coal strike;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The White House announced that the President has received personal assurances from Lt. Col. Mengistu Halle Mariam, head of the Ethiopian Government, that Ethiopia does not intend to cross the Somalian frontier. These assurances were conveyed by David Aaron, the President's special emissary to Ethiopia, in a meeting with the President this morning. Mr. Aaron also conveyed an Ethiopian pledge not to interfere in the internal affairs of any of Ethiopia's neighbors. To provide better channels of communication between Ethiopia and the United States, the Ethiopian Government informed Mr. Aaron that agreement to receive a new U.S. Ambassador would be forthcoming in the near future.
The President attended a briefing on the Panama Canal treaties, given for citizens of Nebraska in the East Room.
The President attended an economic briefing for Hispanic American leaders in the State Dining Room.
February 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative Sidney R. Yates of Illinois;
—Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas;
—Representative Robert Garcia of New York;
—Gov. Brendan T. Byrne of New Jersey;
—Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and David Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Arthur F. Burns, Acting Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Mr. McIntyre;
—Peter Jay, British Ambassador to the United States;
—Secretary Marshall to discuss the coal strike.
The President attended a briefing on Government reorganization in the Cabinet Room given by administration officials for members of the House Committee on Government Operations.
February 23
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia and Secretary of Defense Harold Brown;
—the National Security Council;
—Secretary Marshall and a group of Congressmen, to discuss the coal strike;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Governors Julian Carroll of Kentucky, John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, and Milton J. Shapp of Pennsylvania, to discuss the coal strike.
February 24
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—representatives of the Bituminous Coal Operators' Association and administration officials to discuss the coal strike;
—Dr. Schultze;
—Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington;
—chief executives of the National Council of Churches of Christ of America.
The White House announced that the President will visit Venezuela, Brazil, Nigeria, and Liberia on March 28-April 3.
  