
    Klobuchar has staff on the ground in every state voting on Super Tuesday
RALEIGH, N.C. — Amy For America today announced the hiring of a number of experienced political operatives to lead the campaign's efforts in North Carolina ahead of the state's primary on Super Tuesday.
The new hires include Maggie Barlow as North Carolina State Director; Kimberly Reynolds as Senior Adviser; Mary Lee as North Carolina Political Director; Austin Cook as North Carolina Communications Director; and Seth Barnes as North Carolina Field Director.
"North Carolina Democrats want a nominee who can build a broad coalition of voters to defeat Donald Trump in November and begin bringing the country together come January," said Barlow. "Amy Klobuchar has shown time and again that she is the candidate who can meet the moment. We're eager to share her message and vision with North Carolinians across the state leading up to Super Tuesday."
Maggie Barlow brings more than two decades of political experience to the campaign's North Carolina team. She is a co-founder and partner at Maven Strategies and previously worked as Director of the North Carolina House Democratic Caucus and Finance Director of the Virginia Democratic Party.
Kimberly Reynolds, co-founder and partner at Maven Strategies, served as the Executive Director of the North Carolina Democratic Party from 2015 until 2019, having previously worked in the Office of the Democratic Leader in the state General Assembly. She also served as Chief of Staff in the office of then-Lieutenant Governor Walter Dalton.
Mary Lee has served as campaign manager on several state legislative races. She previously worked as Political Affairs Specialist at North Carolina Advocates for Justice (NCAJ), a prominent advocacy organization in the state and has experience in political fundraising and development.
Austin Cook has been part of the campaign's communications team since the fall, most recently helping oversee media outreach in Nevada. He previously served as the campaign's Iowa Press Secretary. Before joining Amy For America, he worked in the strategic communications division of The Glover Park Group in Washington, D.C.
Seth Barnes joined the Klobuchar campaign in 2019 and was previously Deputy Iowa Field Director. In the 2018 cycle, he served as a Constituency Organizer for Xochitl Torres Small's successful congressional campaign in New Mexico, flipping the seat from Republican to Democratic control.
  