
    
Geneva Reed-Veal created this just for Hillary.
Last summer, Sandra Bland lost her life in police custody.
She was a 28-year-old, college-educated woman, getting ready to start a new job. She died alone in a jail cell, three days after she was pulled over and arrested for failing to signal when changing lanes—despite the fact that she never broke the law.
Sandra's death reinforced the dangerous reality of systemic racism and its effect on our criminal justice system. In the weeks and months since, people all over the country have come together to demand justice for Sandra Bland and every other black person who has lost his or her life to police violence.
One of those people is Sandra's mother, Geneva Reed-Veal.
Geneva has channeled her grief over her daughter's senseless death into action, and joined other mothers who have lost their children to violence in fighting to fix the system. And yesterday, Geneva endorsed Hillary Clinton—because she knows that Hillary will fight to make sure that no mother ever has to experience what she did.


Geneva and other members of Sandra Bland's family, standing onstage with Hillary.
When Geneva and Hillary took the stage for an event in Chicago, Geneva let the audience know that she wasn't going to give Hillary the usual introduction.
"So, I'm gonna do something a little non-traditional. I'm not gonna speech it out to you guys," Geneva said. "I created this just for her." Then, she began to read.


Now is the time, this is the place,
Now we are ready. Hillary is the face.
Why am I endorsing this woman to my right?
Because she has for years continuously put up the fight.
She seeks to make equal pay for equal work a priority.
I don't know about you, but that sure works for me!
Here's a woman who has shown time and time again,
She has the skill, experience and staying power more than 20 years in.
Yes, there was Benghazi and the infamous email situation.
While both were stressful, she maintained her poise and dedication.
Dedicated to seeing mothers who singlehandedly raise babies
Finally get compensated equal pay in this world that has gone crazy. 
Selfless in sitting down with a room of mourning mothers,
Who have violently lost their children—both sons and daughters.
Now this I know to be absolutely true;
I am one of those who met with her and was able to make it through. 
She has a plan on gun laws that's like none other.
Unapologetically she speaks out about the NRA and issues of color.
Her plan for immigration is to keep families together.
She'll end family detention and close private immigration shelters.
She supports the bipartisan U.S.A. Freedom Act.
President Obama signed it into law, and she has his back!
She has fought for quality affordable health care her entire career.
So she'll defend the Affordable Care Act and build on the successes of it here.
She'll cut taxes for the middle class, raise the minimum wage, and ensure the wealthiest pay their fair share.
She'll invest in infrastructure and education. This woman really cares.
I've watched and followed her career, and saw her take hits.
Yet she still manages to stand here decades later as if it didn't bother her one bit!
As Sandra Bland's mother, I know a little about frustration.
You have to stand and push through it, even when you want a vacation.
Like me, she misses the counsel of her late father, who told her always "carry a shovel,"
So at any given time she could dig herself out of trouble.
Like me, she lost her dad in 1993.
His wisdom played a big part in the strength she shows you and me.
I've shared with you just some of Hillary's views,
Now it's up to you to do your research—and vote when you're through.
People, we are expecting a new president in nine months. Hillary is that new baby.
From now until November let's fiercely support this lady!
I present to you, Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton.

  