
    "No longer will we allow the infrastructure of our magnificent country to crumble and decay."- President Donald J. Trump
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE IS IN NEED OF REPAIR: Infrastructure systems across rural America have fallen into a state of disrepair, holding back rural communities. 

More than a third of all major rural roads in the United States were in poor or mediocre condition in 2015 according to a report by TRIP, a national transportation research organization.

15 percent of major rural roads were rated in poor condition. 
21 percent of major rural roads were rated in mediocre condition. 
14 states had 20 percent or more of their major rural roads rated in poor condition, with some states having around 40 percent in poor condition. 


Ten percent of all rural bridges were rated as "structurally deficient" in 2016, according to TRIP. 
Small community water systems, or systems that serve 3,300 people or fewer, have $64.5 billion in funding needs over a 20 year period according to a report by the Environmental Protection Agency.

Because small water systems lack economies of scale, small cities often experience the largest percentage increase in user charges and fees. 


More than 100,000 miles of rail lines have been abandoned over the past few decades, reducing critical rail access in many rural communities. 

INSUFFICIENT BROADBAND ACCESS: Far too many Americans living in rural communities lack sufficient broadband access. 

The high cost of rural broadband deployment has prevented commercial internet providers from installing broadband equipment in rural areas. 
Insufficient broadband access has left many rural Americans without the tools they need to engage in the modern economy and use important services such as telemedicine and long-distance learning. 
39 percent of Americans living in rural areas, 23 million people, lack sufficient broadband access, according to a 2016 report by the Federal Communications Commission. 

RURAL PROSPERITY DEPENDS ON INFRASTRUCTURE: It is time to give rural communities the quality infrastructure they need in order to grow and thrive. 

93 percent of rural Americans believe Federal investments in infrastructure are important to improving the job situation in their communities, according to a June 2017 poll published by The Washington Post and the Kaiser Family Foundation.

74 percent of rural Americans polled believe infrastructure investments are "very important" to improving the job situation in their communities. 


Many industries important to the rural economy require efficient infrastructure, including energy production, manufacturing, and agriculture. 
Communities with agriculture dominant economies need reliable infrastructure in order to effectively conduct business.

Effective transportation systems help reduce the prices farmers must pay for operating supplies. 
The agriculture industry relies on a variety of transportation methods such as trucking, rail, and waterways to maintain the agriculture supply chain.



  