
    THE PRESIDENT. This is, I think, one of the most important things that the American people have to address, and I would personally like to congratulate the American Heart Association and also the Heart, Lung and Blood Institute for the tremendous work you've done.
I think it's your 30th anniversary. And I notice that, in looking at the statistics before you came in, that since 1973, we've had a substantially, I think, well-established decrease in deaths resulting from heart disease and stroke, which is primarily because of the good work you're doing in educating people on what we need to do in simple things: regular medical checkups, good diet—watch the salt intake-and get exercise. I'm very proud of that.
We've initiated, when I was Governor of Georgia, what we called the Cripplers and Killers Analysis. And we tried to do simple things like just getting people to have the blood pressure checked and detect potential stroke victims. And as a part of that work, we've seen the death rate and the stroke rate in Georgia go down substantially, too.
I want to keep the trend going down and I'm eager to help you. But I'm very proud of what work you have done and are doing and am proud as President to associate myself with the efforts that you've undertaken and are doing so well. And I will pledge my support in every possible way.
And now I'll give you a copy of the American Heart Month proclamation and hope that all American people will join in with you to protect themselves. I understand that heart diseases are now still our most severe cause of death. In fact, about half the people die because of heart afflictions of some sort. It's very important work, and the progress has been, I think, profound.
DR. WILLIAM AUSTEN [president, American Heart Association]. Speaking for the scientific community, we not only want to thank you but we're very grateful for your help in this cause. And we are, I think, very pleased that you spent a little time with us and say these things. We look forward to working on these things in the years ahead.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Dr. Press reminds me frequently about my need to improve the commitment to basic research and also to promote programs like yours that have proven themselves to be effective. You've got a substantial recommendation of the Congress for increases in basic research funds which have been kind of dormant for too long.
I have a slight scientific background, not very much, but I feel like I'm part of the community.
DR. AUSTEN. Well, we're very pleased about that, too, because we saw your strong statement about an increase in terms of basic research and your wish to have that happen, which we agree with very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you.
DR. AUSTEN. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
  