
    "Continued American leadership in Artificial Intelligence is of paramount importance to maintaining the economic and national security of the United States." --President Donald J. Trump
ADVANCING TECHNOLOGY: President Trump is directing the Federal Government to prioritize research and development of America's artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities.

Today, President Trump launched his American AI Initiative that directs Federal agencies to prioritize investments in research and development of AI.
The Initiative focuses Federal Government resources toward developing AI technology and ensuring that the next great AI inventions are made in the United States. Highlights include:

Unleashing innovation in AI by supporting long-term research and increasing access to Federal data and computing resources for America's AI researchers;
Promoting a responsible approach to AI by encouraging transformative applications of AI, while continually improving outcomes for workers and users alike;
Preparing America's workforce for the jobs of the future by directing Federal agencies to help Americans gain AI-relevant skills and promoting Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education;
Directing regulatory agencies to establish guidance for AI development and use across technologies and industrial sectors;
Calling upon the National Institute of Standards and Technology to lead the development of appropriate technical and safety standards for AI systems; and
Protecting America's advantage in AI by promoting an international environment that supports American AI research and industries while securing critical AI technology.



DRIVING BREAKTHROUGHS: Developing America's ability to leverage AI is critical to increasing prosperity, enhancing our national and economic security, and protecting our values.

AI promises great benefits for American workers, with the potential to improve safety and increase productivity.

Investment in AI is critical to creating the industries of the future like autonomous cars, industrial robots, algorithms for disease diagnosis, and more.


Additionally, maintaining our Nation's global leadership in AI will ensure that the technology is developed in a manner consistent with our Nation's values, policies, and priorities.
However, our Nation urgently needs workers and businesses skilled in AI and capable of leading our country's development and application of AI into the future.
AI must also be developed in a way that does not compromise our American values, civil liberties, or freedoms.
Rapid technological innovation can lead to radical improvements in society and quality of life.

VISIONARY LEADERSHIP: President Trump is committed to enacting policies that promote and protect American leadership in technological development and innovation.

President Trump has directed his Administration to take action to promote technical education and apprenticeships for American workers.
The President has taken numerous steps to promote high quality STEM and computer science education in our schools and universities, with a particular focus on women and girls.
The President is also protecting our National Security Innovation Base against those who illicitly acquire America's hard-earned intellectual property.

  