
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, Presidential candidate Ted Cruz announced the expansion of both the Cruz for President national and South Carolina veterans coalitions at the "Vets for Ted" rally in Columbia, South Carolina. Vets for Ted currently has an astounding 23,471 coalition members nationwide. Former Governor Rick Perry, National Co-Chair Senator Bob Smith, Medal of Honor recipient Dakota Meyer, and National Co-Chair Sgt. Tim Lee will all be attending the rally today.
New National Co-Chairs include Lt. General William Boykin, Brigadier General Blaine Holt, Yinon Weiss and, Sgt. Tim Lee. They join National Co-Chairs Senator Bob Smith, Congressman Jim Bridenstine, and Texas Senator Brian Birdwell while Bill Connor serves as the National Director.
"It is truly humbling to see so many heroes who have fought honorably and bravely for this nation, rally together behind our campaign," Cruz said. "The corruption we are seeing within the Federal Government and its treatment of our veterans is wrong. I am proud to stand with the courageous men and women who have sought to defend the freedoms and liberties we hold dear, and am thankful for their support in this election."
Lt. Gen. (Ret.) William G. "Jerry" Boykin was one of the elite warriors chosen in 1978 to make up the first unit in America's ultra-secretive Delta Force. He was privileged to ultimately command these elite warriors in combat operations and eventually commanded all of the Army's Green Berets as well as the Special Warfare Center and School. His 36 years in the military included a tour at the Central Intelligence Agency and participation in clandestine missions around the world. Jerry retired in 2007, serving his last four years as the Deputy Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence. He is an ordained minister with a passion for spreading the Gospel of Jesus Christ and encouraging Christians to become warriors in God's Kingdom. He currently serves as Family Research Council's Executive Vice President. He and his wife Ashley enjoy spending time with their five children and growing number of grandchildren.
"After a long military career, including serving as Deputy Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence in the Bush White House, I know how to recognize the necessary traits of a skilled leader, such as courage, intelligence, a steady hand and resolve in the face of any enemy," Boykin said. "Ted Cruz, more than any other candidate, has those traits — and more.  He will do what is necessary to see that our country is kept safe, our military is unmatched in its strength and our veterans are appreciated and well cared for in every way.  Ted Cruz is a principled leader whom our service men and women will respect and our veterans will appreciate.  I am very proud to serve as National Co-Chair for Vets for Ted."
Brigadier General Blaine Holt is a command pilot with more than 3,900 flying hours. The General's command experience includes the 376th Air Expeditionary Wing, Transit Center at Manas, Kyrgyz Republic and the 16th Airlift and 817th Expeditionary Airlift Squadrons. General Holt's combat leadership in Kyrgyzstan during multiple crises was deemed "essential" by the Commander, U.S. Central Command. Key assignments include a previous posting as the Director of Logistics, United States European Command; a Military Fellowship at the Council on Foreign Relations, New York City, New York; and Director of the Air Force Secretary and Chief of Staff's Executive Action Group. He also served as the Deputy United States Military Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) supporting the Military Representative and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in executing the U.S. political-military mission at the North Atlantic Council. He has published a variety of papers across a range of national security issues and is a life member of the Wings Club and the Council on Foreign Relations. He is currently the President of Million Air Inc., an aerospace company based in Houston, Texas.
Yinon Weiss is CEO of RallyPoint, the nation's largest networking platform for military personnel and veterans. RallyPoint has the backing of two of the recent Joint Chiefs of Staff and nearly a million members. Prior to founding RallyPoint, Yinon served 10 years on active duty where he began his career in the Marine Corps as a Scout/Sniper Platoon Commander and later served in the Army Special Forces as a commander of Green Berets. Yinon has multiple overseas deployments, where he has been awarded a Bronze Star Medal, Combat Action Ribbon, the Combat Infantryman Badge, and currently serves as a Major in the National Guard where he recently commanded a Special Forces Company.Yinon received an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, and a B.S. in Bioengineering from UC Berkeley. He was also named a 2015 Presidential Leadership Scholar.
Sgt. Tim Lee is the son of a Baptist minister from McLeansboro, Illinois. Tim joined the Marine Corps in 1969. In March of 1971, he lost both of his legs in a deadly land mine explosion in Quang Nam Province, Vietnam. After returning home, Mr. Lee made the critical decision in the midst of turmoil to to use his platform to speak out about his faith in God. He served as a pastor for five years in southern Illinois before surrendering in 1979 to full-time ministry of evangelism. Today, Lee speaks in all kinds of venues from patriotic rallies to radio and television. Lee also serves on the board of directors of Trinity Baptist College in Jacksonville FL and has been on the Board of Trustees of Liberty University since 1991. Tim Lee is the President of Tim Lee Ministries based out of Garland, TX.
In addition, we are announcing the following South Carolina state leadership team for the Vets for Ted coalition:
Col. John Nelson, SC
Col. Frank Hall, SC
Chief Warrant Officer 5 Ret. Vic Dabney, SC
Chaplain Robert Vallier, SC
  