
    Obama, Clinton Praise The "Anti-Conservative" McCain Agenda
"[Sen. McCain] has contempt for conservatives who he thinks can be duped into thinking he's one of them, despite such blatantly anti-conservative actions as his support for amnesty for illegal immigrants, his opposition to the Bush tax cuts which got the economy rolling again, and his campaign finance bill which skewed the political process and attacked free speech." – Michael Reagan (Michael Reagan, Op-Ed, "John McCain Hates Me," Townhall, 1/31/08)
Watch the Democrats side with Sen. McCain on taxes and immigration: www.youtube.com/watch?v=ieGmXNXfL5U
At Last Night's Democrat Presidential Debate, Sens. Obama And Clinton Sided With Sen. John McCain:
Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) Said "I Respect" Sen. McCain For Voting Against The 2001 And 2003 Bush Tax Cuts. SEN. OBAMA: "If John McCain, for example, is the nominee, I respect that John McCain in the first two rounds of Bush tax cuts said it is irresponsible; that we have never before cut taxes at the same time as we are going into war. And somewhere along the line the Straight Talk Express lost some wheels -- (laughter) -- and now he is in favor of extending Bush tax cuts that went to some of the wealthiest Americans, who don't need them and were not even asking for them." (CNN, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Los Angeles, CA, 1/31/08)
Sen. Obama: "I Worked With John McCain" To Push For McCain-Kennedy Amnesty. MR. BLITZER: "We have a follow-up, Senator Obama. In an interview with CNN this week, you said this. You said, quote, 'I stood up for a humane and intelligent immigration policy in a way that frankly none of my other opponents did.' What did you mean by that?" SEN. OBAMA: "Well, what I meant was that when this issue came up, not driver's license but comprehensive immigration reform generally, I worked with Ted Kennedy, I worked with Dick Durbin, I worked with John McCain - although he may not admit it now - (laughter) - to move this issue forward aggressively." (CNN, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Los Angeles, CA, 1/31/08)
Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) Also Jumped To Show Her Support For McCain-Kennedy. MR. BLITZER: "... Senator Clinton respond, but were you missing in action when Senator Obama and Senator McCain and Senator Kennedy started formulating comprehensive immigration reform?" SEN. CLINTON: "Well, actually, I cosponsored comprehensive immigration reform in 2004, before Barack came to the Senate. (Cheers, applause.) So I have been on record on behalf of this for quite some time." (CNN, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Los Angeles, CA, 1/31/08)
  