
    Council to advise on labor-management relations in the executive branch
WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations.
•      Carol A. Bonosaro, Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      William Dougan, Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      Michael B. Filler, Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      John Gage, Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      David Holway, Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      Gregory Junemann, Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      Colleen M. Kelley, Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      H.T. Nguyen, Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•      Darryl Perkinson, Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
The Council, created in 2009 by Executive Order, is tasked with advising the President on matters involving labor-management relations in the executive branch. The Council is co-chaired by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, John Berry, and the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, Jeffrey Zients. The Chair of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, Carol Pope, was designated as an ex-officio member. In addition, the President designated to the Council the following individuals: W. Scott Gould, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs; Seth Harris, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Labor; Jane Holl Lute, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security; William J. Lynn, III, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Defense; and Neal Wolin, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Treasury.
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these distinguished men and women have offered their wise counsel to help foster successful labor-management relations within the executive branch. I look forward to continuing this important dialogue with them for years to come."
President Obama announced today his intent to appoint the following individuals:
Carol A. Bonosaro, Nominee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
Carol Bonosaro has been President of the Senior Executives Association, the professional association representing the top career executives in the Federal government, since 1986. She served on the Association's Board of Directors from 1981 to 1986, including as Chair from 1983-1986. Ms. Bonosaro began her government career in 1961 at the then Bureau of the Budget (now Office of Management and Budget) as a management intern. At 33, she reached the executive ranks at the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, where she held various positions including Director of the Women's Rights Unit where she developed the Commission's program implementing its new jurisdiction over sex discrimination. Ms. Bonosaro directed the Commission's Congressional and Public Affairs Program from 1980 to 1986 when she retired from the Senior Executive Service. She is Chair of the William A. Jump Memorial Foundation, a member of the Advisory Board of the Asian American Government Executives Network, and a former member of the National Partnership Council. She received the 2005 Stan Suyat Award from the Asian American Government Executives Network. A graduate of Cornell University, Ms. Bonosaro attended George Washington University for graduate study in economics and Harvard University's Program for Senior Managers in Government.
William Dougan, Nominee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
William Dougan has been the President of the National Federation of Federal Employees (NFFE) since 2009. A 30-year member of the National Federation of Federal Employees, he has served in a number of union positions at the Local, Council, and National levels. Previously, Mr. Dougan served as National Secretary-Treasurer in 2007 and also served over 4 years as President of NFFE's Forest Service Council. He began his federal career in 1976 as a temporary employee with the National Park Service. He then worked for the Forest Service as a firefighter and tree planter, and became a permanent employee (and NFFE member) in 1979. He worked as a forester on National Forests in Washington, Oregon, and Alaska. He retired from the Forest Service in 2007 after a 30-year career. Mr. Dougan received his B.S. in Forest Management from Humboldt State University and has completed graduate studies at Oregon State University, Washington State University, and the University of Washington.
Michael B. Filler, Nominee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
Michael B. Filler is the Director of the Public Services Division of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and has 30 years of public sector labor experience. Prior to joining the Teamsters in 2003, he served as Director of Negotiations for the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU). He also served for 12 years as the Northeast Regional Director.
John Gage, Nominee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
John Gage has been the National President of the American Federation of Government Employees since 2003 and is a member of the AFL-CIO Executive Council. He has been involved in AFGE and the labor movement for more than 25 years. Mr. Gage has committed years of service as president of AFGE Local 1923 and as national vice president of AFGE's 4th District. Mr. Gage also serves as a trustee of the National Labor College, an accredited four year college for union members and their families. He received his B.A. from Wheeling Jesuit University.
David Holway, Nominee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
David Holway has been the President of the National Association of Government Employees since October of 2002. Prior to his election in 2002, Mr. Holway served in many capacities at NAGE. He also previously held several government positions including Deputy Commissioner in the Massachusetts Department of Correction, Chief Financial Officer at the Norfolk County Hospital, and as budget and staff director at the Massachusetts Legislative Committee on Counties. Mr. Holway served on the Cambridge Massachusetts School Committee 1978-1979. He received his B.S. from Boston State College.
Gregory Junemann, Nominee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
Gregory Junemann has been President of the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers (IFPTE) AFL-CIO & CLC since 2001. Before assuming his presidential post, Mr. Junemann was serving his third term as Secretary-Treasurer/Director of Organizing for IFPTE, a position he was first elected to in 1994. As Secretary-Treasurer, he was IFPTE's Chief Financial Officer, responsible for all aspects of the Federation's finances. Prior to his election as Secretary-Treasurer, Mr. Junemann served IFPTE as the Midwest Area Vice President (1986-1994) and was the Finance Committee Chairman (1988-1994). On the local union level, Mr. Junemann served IFPTE Local 92 in Milwaukee in many capacities including President, Vice President, and Bargaining Committee Chairperson. He was also employed for 17 years at the Ladish Company in Wisconsin where he worked as a Senior Cost Estimator and Project Planner.
Colleen M. Kelley, Nominee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
Colleen M. Kelley has been the President of the National Treasury Employees Union since 1999 and was re-elected to a third four-year term in 2007. A Pittsburgh native, certified public accountant (CPA), and an NTEU member since 1974, Ms. Kelley was an IRS Revenue Agent for 14 years and served in various NTEU chapter leadership positions, including chapter president of NTEU Chapter 34 in Pittsburgh. Ms. Kelley serves on the Federal Salary Council, the Employee Thrift Advisory Council of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, and the Federal Employee Education and Assistance Fund (FEEA) Board of Directors. She is also a member of the Board of Governors of the Partnership for Public Service, which is committed to enhancing perceptions of public service and encouraging participation in the public sector. Ms. Kelley first joined the IRS upon graduation from Drexel University, where she earned a bachelor's degree in accounting. She also earned an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh.
H.T. Nguyen, Nominee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
H.T. Nguyen is currently the Executive Director/General Counsel for the Federal Education Association (FEA), a state affiliate of the National Education Association representing federally-employed educators. Previously, Mr. Nguyen served as the Deputy General Counsel for FEA (1988-1998), where he was the Association's lead attorney in all major cases involving FEA. Prior to that, Mr. Nguyen was a Staff Attorney with FEA (1984-1988). He holds a B.A. (American Government), an M.A. (International Relations), and a J.D from the Catholic University of America.
Darryl Perkinson, Nominee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
Darryl Perkinson currently serves as the National President of the Federal Managers Association (FMA), which represents the interests of the over 200,000 managers, supervisors and executives serving in the federal government. Within FMA, Mr. Perkinson held many leadership positions both at the local and national levels before ascending to National President in 2006. He is also presently the Nuclear Training Manager at the Norfolk Naval Shipyard (NNSY), serving in the Consolidated Training Division. He has also been assigned to serve as the chairman of the Shipyard's Training Council and as a member of the Shipyard Training Workforce and Development Board of Directors. Mr. Perkinson began his career at NNSY as a pre-apprentice in 1970 as part of the school-to-work program with the City of Portsmouth, Virginia, and Wilson High School. He attended Virginia Wesleyan College and obtained a B.A. in Social Sciences in 1975. In 2006, Mr. Perkinson received his Master in Business Administration with a Concentration in Human Resources from Strayer University with honors.
  