
    ACCOMPLISHING GOALS: President Donald J. Trump has taken action to ensure that all Americans are able to live safely, pursue their ambitions, and have faith in their Government.

President Trump has worked with the private sector to deliver tens of thousands of new jobs for Americans.
President Trump has negotiated to bring down the price of the F-35, saving millions of dollars.
President Trump put in place a hiring freeze for Federal civilian employees to stop the growth of a bloated Government.
President Trump signed an Executive Order establishing new ethics commitments for all Executive branch appointees, putting in place a five-year lobbying ban and a permanent ban on lobbying for foreign governments, so appointees serve the American people instead of their own interests.
President Trump directed each agency to establish a Regulatory Reform Task force to identify costly and unnecessary regulations in need of repeal or modification.
President Trump has required that for every new costly Federal regulation, two existing regulations be eliminated.
President Trump directed the Commerce Department to streamline Federal permitting processes for domestic manufacturing and to reduce regulatory burdens on domestic manufacturers.
President Trump signed legislation, House Joint Resolution 38, to prevent the burdensome "Stream Protection Rule" from causing further harm to the coal industry.
President Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum to clear roadblocks to construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline.
President Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum declaring that the Dakota Access Pipeline serves the national interest and initiating the process to complete construction.
President Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum to help ensure that all new pipeline construction and repair work use materials and equipment from the United States.
President Trump withdrew the United States from the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership.
President Trump and Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada launched the United States-Canada Council For Advancement of Women Entrepreneurs.
President Trump directed the Department of Justice to form a Task Force on reducing violent crime.
President Trump instructed the Attorney General to form a comprehensive approach to dismantling criminal cartels across the United States.
President Trump set directives to begin construction of a border wall along the United States-Mexico border and outlined other new immigration enforcement measures.
President Trump has taken action to remove illegal immigrants who are gang members, drug dealers, and criminals that threaten our communities.
President Trump ordered the Secretary of Defense to work with other cabinet members to develop a plan to defeat ISIS within 30 days.
Under President Trump's leadership, the Department of the Treasury sanctioned 25 entities and individuals involved in Iran's ballistic missile program.
President Trump kept his promise to the American people by nominating Judge Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.

  