
    Mayor de Blasio to Join Sanders This Weekend in Nevada
WASHINGTON – New York City Mayor and former presidential candidate Bill de Blasio on Friday endorsed Bernie Sanders for President. The Mayor will join Sanders in Nevada this weekend to rally volunteers and supporters at events across the state, including Sunday's event in Carson City.
De Blasio is a progressive leader who, as Mayor of the nation's largest and most diverse city, has championed policies to uplift working families such as paid sick leave, affordable housing, increasing the minimum wage, and universal pre-K.
"I am standing with Bernie because he stands with working families, and always has," said Mayor de Blasio. "New Yorkers know all too well the damage caused by Donald Trump's xenophobia, bigotry and recklessness, and Bernie is the candidate to take him on and take him down. I have called for a bold, progressive agenda, and that's exactly what Senator Sanders has championed for decades. I am proud to endorse a true progressive leader who will fight for working New Yorkers and families across the country."
"Mayor Bill de Blasio knows that the only way we can defeat Donald Trump is by uniting people from all backgrounds around an agenda that speaks to the needs of working families," said Sen. Sanders. "Jane and I grew up in Brooklyn and we are so proud to have the support of a New York City Mayor fighting every day to improve the lives of New Yorkers. Bill is a leading example of what bringing the Democratic Party together around so-called 'radical ideas' like universal pre-K, paid family and sick leave, and defending our immigrant neighbors can do for our country."
Mayor de Blasio has championed increased access to healthcare, including mental health services; criminal justice reform, including putting an end to stop-and-frisk; creating and expanding affordable housing and rent regulations; and implementing inclusive policies and programs that support and safeguard New York City's diverse communities.
Other recent endorsements from progressive leaders in New York include New York City Public Advocate Jumaane Williams, anti-corruption scholar Zephyr Teachout, and a slate of local and state elected officials including Albany Common Councilman Owusu Anane, New York City Council Members Helen Rosenthal and Justin Brannan, Utica Council Member Delvin Moody, Orange County Legislator Kevindaryán Luján, Rochester City Councilwoman Mary Lupien, Cheektowaga Council Member Brian Nowak, and Former Binghamton Council Member Dan Livingston.
  