
    President Reagan. Ladies and gentlemen, President Mubarak and I have just completed a most fruitful and wide-ranging set of meetings. Our discussions were frank and cordial and covering a number of matters of mutual concern. President Mubarak's visit demonstrates more clearly than any words the continuity of American-Egyptian relations and reflects the strong ties that bind us together.
Foremost among these ties is our belief in, and commitment to, a peaceful solution to the Arab-Israeli dispute. President Mubarak has assured us that Egypt remains committed to a peaceful solution of this conflict. And to that end, we'll spare no effort to achieve a comprehensive peace as set forth in the Camp David agreement.
During our talks, we reaffirmed our commitment to press ahead with the autonomy talks in order to reach agreement on a declaration of principles, which is the best means of making tangible progress toward a solution of the Palestinian problem in all its aspects as envisaged by Camp David.
We reviewed our mutual concerns about the strategic threats to the region and reconfirmed our indentity of views on the need to work closely together. We discussed in some detail our economic and military assistance programs. We agreed to consult regularly on methods of implementing and improving them. These consultations have, in fact, already been—or begun, I should say, among our principle advisers.
And, finally, let me just say that it has been a pleasure having this opportunity to further my personal relationship with President Mubarak. I'm confident that we will be working closely together to achieve those many goals that are in the mutual interest of our two countries.
Thank you very much, and, President Mubarak, we've been delighted to have you here.
President Mubarak. Thank you, sir.
Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very pleased with the outcome of my talks with President Reagan. As he just stated, the discussions we held were frank and cordial. They were very fruitful as well.
I welcomed the reaffirmation, the continuation of the U.S. role as a full partner in the peace process. We are determined to pursue our peace efforts until a comprehensive settlement is reached according to the Camp David accords.
I intend to maintain close cooperation and consultation with President Reagan and his administration. And we are looking forward to seeing him in Cairo.
Thank you very much.
  