
    Pool Reports by Astead Herndon, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




February 15, 202320:34 EST

AF2 Wheels Up: Pool Report #1
VP Harris' helicopter arrived to Joint Base Andrews at around at 8:10 pm and the VP boarded AF2 at 8:15 p.m. She waved to press as she boarded. Took no questions
AF2 is wheels up to Munich at 8:34 p.m



February 16, 202311:01 CET

VP Pool Report #2
AF2 landed in Munich at 10:32 a.m. local time. Press and staff got off the plane around 10 mins later and loaded to a nearby riser.
VP Harris disembarked AF2 at 10:49 a.m. She spent about 3 mins greeting dignitaries before loading motorcade. Press loaded motorcade immediately after. No questions
Below is relevant background about the Munich Security Conference attributed to a WH official:
Upon landing in Munich the Vice President received a ceremonial greet. She was greeted by those below.
- H.E. Minister-President Markus Söder, Bavaria
- Mr. Florian Herrmann, Head of the Bavarian State Chancellery
- Deputy Chief of Mission Woodard Clark Price, U.S. Embassy & Consulates
- Mr. Timothy Liston, U.S. Consul General in Munich
The Vice President is traveling to Munich, Germany to consult with allies and partners on the path forward in our response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, as we approach the one year anniversary. Throughout her meetings and engagements, the Vice President will make clear the enduring commitment of the United States to support Ukraine and impose costs on Russia, and demonstrate the strength of Transatlantic unity.
While in Munich, the Vice President will meet with a range of leaders, including: President Sunak of the UK, Chancellor Scholz of Germany, Prime Minister Macron of France, Prime Minister Marin of Finland and Prime Minister Kristersson of Sweden. She will meet with the Prime Ministers of Finland and Sweden in a trilateral setting and discuss the NATO accession process, underscoring the United States strong support for NATO membership for Finland and Sweden. With regard to Ukraine, throughout her meetings, the Vice President will discuss next steps in our support for Ukraine on the battlefield and efforts to impose costs on Russia. In addition, throughout her engagements, you can expect the Vice President will: Recognize the courage and resilience shown by the people of Ukraine; Reaffirm the support of American people for Ukraine; Commend the international community on the historic actions taken since February 2022; Celebrate Transatlantic unity and clarity of purpose; Reaffirm our security commitments to our European allies; And condemn Russia's continued illegal and brutal actions while calling for accountability and justice. The Vice President will discuss other global and regional topics in the bilateral and trilateral meetings, including relations with China and actions to address the climate crisis. She will also meet with the bipartisan CODELs which are traveling to Munich and highlight the bipartisan nature of U.S. support for Ukraine, which sends a strong signal to the world at Munich.
The Vice President will deliver remarks on the main stage of the Munich Security Conference on Saturday. She will be following-up on her remarks to the Munich Security Conference last year, where she laid out the Russian playbook we expected and outlined actions we would take following a Russian invasion of Ukraine. The Vice President will recount the questions last year at Munich—real questions and concerns about our collective response-- and how Ukraine and the Transatlantic community have risen to the occasion over the past year. She will then lay out what is at stake—both (1) the moral stakes and our values, while discussing the horrific war crimes and brutality Russian forces are committing in Ukraine and (2) the strategic stakes, including the importance of defending international rules and norms, and how this effort is about the type of world we want to live in. And we believe, by laying out the stakes of this fight and why this fight matters, it will be clear why exactly we will support Ukraine for as long as it takes.
At the 2022 Munich Security Conference the Vice President spoke extensively about the importance of upholding international rules and norms. This is a common theme she has raised around the world and throughout her foreign policy engagements, and will continue to be a key focus for her at the 2023 Munich Security Conference.



February 16, 202311:58 CET

VP Pool Report #3
VP motorcade took off from Munich airport just before 11 a.m. local time. Press and staff arrived at hotel ~11:45 a.m.
There are no further events scheduled today as VP is prepping for the conference




  