
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio will serve as Honorary Chair for the Romney for President campaign in Arizona. In addition to his Honorary Chair, Governor Romney named Jason Rose as State Director.
Governor Romney also announced several new members to the State Finance Steering Committee.
"I am gratified to have the support of these men and women. Each has many years of experience in Arizona politics and will help us mobilize our already robust network of grassroots support. They will be strong surrogates for our optimistic message of a stronger and safer America," said Governor Romney.
With today's announcement, Sheriff Arpaio said, "Governor Romney has put together a strong team in Arizona. His efforts to reach out to the state's Republicans and grassroots activists are clearly paying off. Governor Romney is the only candidate with the executive leadership and experience needed to lead our country forward."
Background On Governor Romney's Arizona Leadership Team:
Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio – Honorary Chair: Known around the country as "America's Toughest Sheriff", he has been one of Arizona's most popular officials since being elected in 1992. Maricopa County is home to approximately three million people including the Phoenix Metropolitan area.
Jason Rose – State Director: Recognized by the Arizona Business Magazine in 2006 as "Arizona's PR Heavyweight", Rose is one of Arizona's most well-known political consultants. Rose founded Rose & Allyn Public Relations in 1996. The firm's client list includes prominent members of the Arizona business and political community.
Corinne Lovas – State Finance Director: Lovas is considered the top political fundraiser in Arizona and the Southwest. She has enjoyed countless successes on behalf of U.S. Senator Jon Kyl, President Bush's 2004 re-election campaign, the Republican National Committee and numerous other Republican candidates and causes.
Additions To Governor Romney's Arizona Finance Steering Committee:
Ernie Baird: Founding partner of Baird Williams & Greer, LLP. From 1991 to 1997, he served in the Arizona House of Representatives. During his time in the House, he was the House Majority Leader and also served as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.
Scott Bundgaard: An executive with J.P. Morgan, Bundgaard served six years in the Arizona Senate both as Chairman of the Finance Committee and Vice Chairman of the Banking Committee. He is a veteran of commercial real estate and finance.
Paul Walsh: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of eFunds Corporation, a leading provider of risk management, electronic payments and global outsourcing solutions. Walsh has 30 years of experience in financial services. He has been the Chairman and CEO of Clareon Corporation, iDeal Partners and Wright Express Corporation. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Staples, Inc.
Don Cogman: Cogman is the Chairman of CC Investments, a private investment firm in Scottsdale, Arizona. In 2002, he was appointed by President Bush to serve on a panel tasked with overhauling the United States Postal Service. Cogman currently serves as Chairman of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) Education Foundation. Formerly, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer World-wide of Burson-Marsteller.

  