
    Voices Across America: Tonight at 9 p.m. EST, Hillary will host an unprecedented national town hall and answer questions from voters at events in 22 cities throughout America. Voters will join the conversation by attending events and watching and listening to the town hall live on Hallmark Channel, XM Satellite Radio and hillaryclinton.com. Emmy award-winning journalist Carole Simpson will join Hillary at the anchor event in New York and moderate the town hall.
If You Read One Thing Today: "New estimates say that a [health care] plan resembling Mrs. Clinton's would cover almost twice as many of those now uninsured as a plan resembling Mr. Obama's... If Mrs. Clinton gets the Democratic nomination, there is some chance... that we'll get universal health care in the next administration. If Mr. Obama gets the nomination, it just won't happen," writes Paul Krugman in the New York Times. Read more.
Previewing Today: Hillary will hold a "Solutions for America" roundtable in Connecticut and lead a "Solutions for America" rally and a Get Out the Vote phone bank in Massachusetts... Hillary will also appear on Entertainment Tonight, Inside Edition, EXTRA, the CBS Evening News, and the Late Show with David Letterman... President Bill Clinton will hold "Solutions for America" rallies in Santa Ana, Sacramento, Stockton and Sam Francisco, California... Chelsea will meet with students in Delaware and visit New Jersey and Connecticut.
Recapping Yesterday: In Missouri, "people lined up nearly six hours before Hillary Clinton was scheduled to speak" in Bridgeton... In Minnesota, 22 year old Elliot Saltzman said: "I haven't ever seen energy like this. You don't see it on TV, but you could feel it" at Hillary's Minneapolis town hall. Undecided before the event, Saltzman now has a favorable opinion of Hillary. "You can tell she's sincere about the issues." ... In California, President Bill Clinton visited churches in Gardena, Norwalk and Los Angeles... In Tennessee, Chelsea spoke to a crowd of hundreds, who were "enamored with the younger Clinton." In Arkansas, Chelsea attended a Super Bowl party in Fayetteville, where she "wore a blue New York Giants jersey with team quarterback Eli Manning's number."
By the Numbers: Nationally, Rasmussen has Hillary up by 11 points over Sen. Obama (49-38) and Pew has Hillary up by 8 points over Sen. Obama (46-38)... In Tennessee, InsiderAdvantage has Hillary up by 20 points over Sen. Obama (55-35)... In New York, Quinnipiac University has Hillary up by 14 points over Sen. Obama (53-39)... In California, ARG has Hillary up by 8 points over Sen. Obama (47-39).
Economic Focus: The economy is Americans' primary concern, according to a new Washington Post - ABC News poll. "More than twice as many people now highlight the economy as call Iraq the top issue." Read more.
  