
    Pool Reports by Emilie Munson, Hearst Newspapers



Sent:
Reports:




February 5, 2020
[APP Note: Report #1 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


February 5, 202010:11 

WH In-Town Pool Report #2 -- Conway speaks
White House Counselor Kellyanne Conway spoke to press in the briefing room for roughly 45 minutes, following a TV appearance. Here are some highlights:
On the State of the Union, Conway repeatedly slammed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, saying she thinks she should be "censured.""America saw an incorrigible child ripping up the State of the Union," Conway said. She added that Pelosi "looked like she was reading the Cheesecake Factory menu all night going through every single page." Conway also repeatedly noted that Pelosi appeared to be "muttering" to herself during the speech. She said Pelosi was "at the end of her tether.""I think it shows you how petty and peevish and partisan the Democratic party has become," Conway said.She said this was another example of Pelosi having a "temper tantrum."
On impeachment, Conway said "I'm sure you will hear from the President" today about the impeachment vote, noting it might be online or a statement.She said Trump will be "acquitted forever beginning today."
On Venezuela, Conway did not directly say whether opposition leader Juan Guaido was at the White House today, when asked about it, nor whether President Trump would meet with him while he is in Washington. She said "I don't want to get ahead of the president and anything he will say or do today" and said the White House is "very happy Mr. Guaido is here again."



February 5, 2020
[APP Note: Report #3 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


February 5, 2020
[APP Note: Report #4 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


February 5, 202022:18 

WH In-Town Pool Report #8
Your tag-teaming Hearst print poolers received this statement from the White House's Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump met with Interim President Juan Guaido of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. This meeting was a historic discussion about how we can work together with our partners in the region to achieve a democratic transition in Venezuela. President Trump underscored the United States' commitment to end the corrupt and violent dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro. Both leaders shared the importance of securing the return of freedom for all Venezuelans that will promote and safeguard a democratic and prosperous future for the Western Hemisphere.




Pool Reports by James Osborne, Houston Chronicle



Sent:
Reports:




February 5, 202014:21 

WH In-Town pool report #5
POTUS welcomed Venezuela opposition leader Juan Guaido to the White House shortly after 2pm.Guaido pulled up to the White House in a black Suburban SUV, as soldiers lined the driveway of the South Lawn holding flags.After the SUV pulled away, POTUS and Guaido faced the press, with POTUS giving a thumbs up.The two men then proceeded through the White House and along the colonnade, where they again stopped to pose for photos, before stepping inside.POTUS and Guaido were scheduled to have press availability in the Oval Office. But that was cancelled by the White House press office, without immediate explanation.



February 5, 202017:26 

WH In-Town Pool Report #6
The WH press office just put out the following statement on the impeachment verdict in the Senate.
Office of the Press SecretaryFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEFebruary 5, 2020
Statement from the Press Secretary
Today, the sham impeachment attempt concocted by Democrats ended in the full vindication and exoneration of President Donald J. Trump. As we have said all along, he is not guilty. The Senate voted to reject the baseless articles of impeachment, and only the President's political opponents – all Democrats, and one failed Republican presidential candidate – voted for the manufactured impeachment articles.
In what has now become a consistent tradition for Democrats, this was yet another witch-hunt that deprived the President of his due process rights and was based on a series of lies. Rep. Adam Schiff lied to Congress and the American people with a totally made up statement about the President's phone call. Will there be no retribution? Speaker Nancy Pelosi also lied to the American people about the need to swiftly pass impeachment articles they dreamt up, only to sit on them for a month before sending over to the Senate. In the Senate, the Democrats continued to make their political motivations clear – Rep. Schiff proclaimed the issues "cannot be decided at the ballot box" – proving once again they think they know better than the voters of this country. This entire effort by the Democrats was aimed at overturning the results of the 2016 election and interfering with the 2020 election.
Throughout this wholly corrupt process, President Trump successfully advanced the interests of the United States and remained focused on the issues that matter to Americans. He spent his time achieving real victories for the people of this country, and the Democrats – once again – have nothing to show for their fraudulent schemes. The President is pleased to put this latest chapter of shameful behavior by the Democrats in the past, and looks forward to continuing his work on behalf of the American people in 2020 and beyond.



February 5, 202017:54 

WH In-Town Pool Report #7
WH press office has called a travel lid. Good night from the press pool.




  