
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Michael Eric Wooten of Virginia, to be the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget.
Dr. Wooten is a senior advisor for acquisitions at the Department of Education's Federal Student Aid office. He recently served in the Trump Administration as acting Assistant Secretary and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Career, Technical, and Adult Education. Prior to this appointment, Dr. Wooten served as Deputy Chief Procurement Officer for the District of Columbia Government. Between 2005 and 2015, he served as a professor of contract management and in senior staff and acquisition workforce positions at Defense Acquisition University. Dr. Wooten holds a doctorate in Higher Education Management from the University of Pennsylvania, M.S. in contract management from the Naval Postgraduate School, master's degrees from George Washington University and Norwich University, and B.A. in psychology from Chapman University. He is a retired Marine Corps major and previously served in Afghanistan.
—
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Robert F. Bozzuto III of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor (Public Affairs).
Mr. Bozzuto currently serves as White House Liaison at the Department of Labor, a position he has held since the beginning of the Trump Administration. Before joining the Administration, Mr. Bozzuto was the Executive Director of the Republican Party of Pennsylvania, and prior to this role, worked for former United States Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) in Washington, D.C., on his legislative staff and 2006 campaign. Mr. Bozzuto graduated from the University of Pittsburgh.
Jonathan Warren Burkan of New York, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council for the remainder of a five-year term, expiring January 15, 2023. Sam Devinki of Missouri, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council for the remainder of a five-year term, expiring January 15, 2023. David Michael Flaum of New York, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council for the remainder of a five-year term, expiring January 15, 2023. Jeremey Halpern of New Jersey, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council for the remainder of a five-year term, expiring January 15, 2023.
  