
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Colorado House Republican Leader Michael May (R-Parker) endorsed Governor Mitt Romney's candidacy for President of the United States.
Announcing his support, Governor Romney said, "Representative May is a dedicated public servant who has fought hard in the Colorado House of Representatives for true conservative ideals. Joined by residents in Colorado and across the nation, we agree that the way to strengthen America is by strengthening the American economy. I am proud to have the support of this respected leader in advance of the Centennial State Caucuses next week."
"It is increasingly clear that conservatives around the country must coalesce behind the one candidate that will uphold bedrock Republican principles in the White House, such as lower taxes, less spending and smaller government," said Representative May. "Governor Romney is the only full-spectrum conservative with a strong base of support throughout the nation that can win the nomination and win in November. I am proud to join Governor Romney's campaign in Colorado and will work hard to share his optimistic vision for our country's future with residents in my district and across the state."
Background On Representative Michael May:
State Representative Michael May Represents House District 44 In The Colorado General Assembly. In March 2006, his colleagues elected Representative May as the House Minority Leader. In addition to his role as Republican Leader of the House, Representative May's duties include serving on the General Assembly Legislative Council and the Executive Council. Prior to serving in the legislature, Representative May served as a councilman on the Parker Town Council from 1998 to 2002. He has also worked as a Certified Public Accountant and owned accounting firms in Colorado and Utah for more than 20 years. Additionally, Representative May served in the U.S. Army, where he was on active duty during both the Berlin Brigade and the 101st Air Assault at Fort Campbell Kentucky.
  