
    
Kevin Singleton and Denise Quarles follow the example their mother set for them.
Myra Thompson received her certificate to preach at Mother Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal church in Charleston, South Carolina, just hours before she was gunned down during Bible study.
Her grandchildren were also supposed to go with her to Bible study that night, but they had to reschedule.
Kevin Singleton, Myra's son, says it's hard to imagine what could have happened if his children had been with their grandmother.
"These things happen," Kevin says, "and you try not to question fate. But it's hard when someone you love is gone too soon."
Myra was the type of person who would rather go without than deny help to a person in need. She believed that everything was possible through God, education, and family.

But her life, and the lives of eight other people, came to an abrupt end at the hands of a murderer, who was fueled by racism and hatred.
And he committed what is now known as the Charleston massacre with a gun that he should not have been able to buy?legally.
That's what shocked Myra's daughter, Denise Quarles.
"He took away the most precious person in the world to me," Denise says. "She won't be able to see me get married or have kids ... because he bought a gun that he shouldn't have been able to get."
Kevin and Denise support Hillary Clinton because they know Hillary will stand up to the gun lobby.
"One of the first things that got my attention was Mrs. Clinton's stance on gun control," Denise says. "She understands that there's no reason for things like this to happen, and she wants to stop gun violence from taking so many people away."
They also support her because their mother was a strong supporter of Hillary.
"She loved everything Mrs. Clinton stands for," Kevin says. "Hillary is a person that seems to be very serious about her business. They had that in common. And both have strong views about the need for a strong education system, to put kids on the right path in life."
"She isn't here to speak for herself," Denise says, "to say all the reasons she supported Mrs. Clinton. But I'm here."
But Kevin and Denise both say they'd still be supporting Hillary, even if their mother were still here today.
"Hillary stands firm on her beliefs, and still gets things done. She's got experience. I trust her," Kevin says.
Denise agrees. "She takes a stand on things," she says. "She believes there needs to be tighter restrictions around guns, which I personally feel a connection to. But there was also the water crisis in Flint, Michigan, and how adamant she was that things need to be turned around."
"As president, she won't just say she's going to do something. She will follow through and actually do it," Denise says. "That's why I support her."
Every day, Kevin and Denise honor their mother's legacy by lending a helping hand to anyone in need. Kevin runs a nonprofit called Passion to Forgive, which focuses on youth education, and Denise gives guidance to kids in her community.
And by supporting Hillary, they are continuing their mother's fight.
"She told me that Hillary is someone she very much wanted to see as president," Denise says. "We're going to do everything we can to make that happen for her."
  