
    "As Newt Gingrich visits Ohio, he still has questions he needs to answer about his work for the lobbyists at Freddie Mac. Ohioans have suffered during the housing crisis, while Speaker Gingrich was using his influence and connections to promote Freddie Mac's agenda in Washington. Speaker Gingrich likes to compare himself to the Wright Brothers, but it's become increasingly clear that his vision for America isn't taking flight with conservative primary voters." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Speaker Gingrich Has Likened Himself to Pioneering Ohio Natives Orville and Wilbur Wright:
Gingrich Claimed His Campaign Would Be "As Bold And As Brave As The Wright Brothers." "At that dinner, held in a convention center in Johnston, Gingrich sought to add more emotional lift into his stump speech. 'I am asking you to embark with me on a voyage of invention and discovery,' he said, 'to be as bold and as brave as the Wright brothers.'" (Jason Horowitz, "Newt Gingrich Draws Contrast With Romney," The Washington Post, 12/1/11)
Unlike the Wright Brothers, Newt's Campaign Has Been Having Trouble Getting Off the Ground:
"Gingrich Is Perpetually Late, He Frequently Strays Off Message And His Schedule Sometimes Seems Improvised." "Newt Gingrich is struggling to regain his footing following a campaign in Nevada beset by glitches as the race for the Republican presidential nomination moves to the next phase. ... Gingrich's campaign has always been a bit of a freewheeling affair ... Gingrich is perpetually late, he frequently strays off message and his schedule sometimes seems improvised." (Shannon McCaffrey, "In Nevada, Gingrich Fumbles But Moves Forward," The Associated Press, 2/4/12)
Speaker Gingrich's Ties to The Lobbyists At Freddie Mac — and the Unanswered Questions They Raise — Continue to Weigh Down His Campaign:
Bloomberg: Gingrich Was Paid At Least $1.6 Million By Freddie Mac. "Newt Gingrich made between $1.6 million and $1.8 million in consulting fees from two contracts with mortgage company Freddie Mac, according to two people familiar with the arrangement." (Clea Benson and John McCormick, "Gingrich Said to Be Paid About $1.6 Million By Freddie Mac," Bloomberg, 11/16/11)
"The Freddie Mac Executive Who Hired Gingrich Was ... The Head Of Freddie Mac's Lobbying Operations. ... [I]t Appears He Was Being Paid To Aid Freddie Mac's Lobbying Agenda." (Timothy P. Carney, "Gingrich Worked For Freddie Mac's Lobby Shop," The Washington Examiner, 1/23/12)
Gingrich's Contracts Mention Monthly Invoices That Provide More Detail About His Work — But Gingrich Has Not Released Those Documents. "At least one clause implies that more detailed records were submitted as part of his consultancy. A provision in the 'compensation' section of the contract required Mr. Gingrich to submit a 'detailed description of the services performed during the prior month' on the 15th of every month. His payment was contingent upon receiving those invoices. Those invoices were not made available Monday." ("Gingrich Releases A Freddie Mac Contract With Few Details," The New York Times, 1/23/12)
Ohio Homeowners May Want to Ask Gingrich Why He Was "Perfectly Happy to Not Push The Issue" at Freddie Mac Until the Mortgage Giant Imploded:
Ohio Had The 11th—Highest Foreclosure Rate In The Nation In 2011. "According to RealtyTrac, a California firm that follows the housing market, Ohio had the 11th-highest foreclosure rate in the country, up two slots from 2010." (Joe Vardon, "State Of The State," The Columbus Dispatch, 2/5/12)
Nearly One In Four Ohio Mortgage Holders Owe More Than Their Houses Are Worth. ("Q3 2011 Negative Equity By State," CoreLogic, 11/29/11)
In Central Ohio, The Housing Market Is "Back To 1998 Levels." "Central Ohio's housing market bore the brunt of the recession and lending freeze in 2008 and 2009, but its decline appears to be slowing given the sales performance last year. Sales of single-family houses and condos in the region tumbled nearly a fourth from 2006 ... Columbus' housing market peaked in 2005 for sales and selling prices, but last year's sales put the market back to 1998 levels, the statistics show." ("After The Beating, Housing Market Back To '98 Levels," Columbus Business First, 2/3/12)
Gingrich Has Admitted He Was "Perfectly Happy To Not Push The Issue As Long As [Freddie And Fannie] Weren't Failing." GINGRICH: "But there is zero reason now that they have failed — I was perfectly happy to not push the issue as long as they weren't failing. But now that they have clearly failed their fiduciary responsibility, there is zero reason for the average taxpayer to bail out these institutions." (Newt Gingrich, Remarks in St. Paul, MN, 9/3/08)
  