
    Shadow US Senators Paul Strauss and Michael D. Brown Cite Obama's Ability to Change our Country
Washington, DC - Two more superdelegates have endorsed Barack Obama today. Shadow United States Senators Paul Strauss and Michael D. Brown endorsed Obama, citing his longstanding commitment to the rights of DC residents and his ability to unite Americans to bring change.
Senator Paul Strauss said, "I am excited to endorse Barack Obama today. Barack Obama has been a leader for promoting unity and equality for all Americans, and has shown a steadfast commitment to the DC voting rights and full representation in Congress.
"We feel strongly that we should use our vote to uphold the will of the people who by decisive margins chose Barack Obama in contests across the country and by our region's voters in the Potomac Primaries. Barack Obama inspired voters from every part of Washington, DC to turn out on Primary Day and give him victories in every single voting precinct. His diverse experience, from his days as an urban community organizer, to his service in the US Senate, proves he is qualified and ready to unite us and lead our nation. "
"Senator Hillary Clinton has also served the American people well and has been a fighter for DC's rights, but it is our considered belief that Senator Obama is the best person, at this time in the history of our nation, to lead us all into the future."
Senator Michael D. Brown said, "I wholeheartedly give my endorsement to Senator Barack Obama with the audacious hope that the change he brings to America will include the full restoration of rights to the 600,000 good citizens of the District of Columbia. I proudly stand with my constituents in supporting his candidacy and pledge my assistance to help him win the nomination of our party and become the next President of the United States."
Senator Obama said, "I thank Senators Strauss and Brown for their support. Even without the vote, they have always been strong advocates for the rights of DC residents -- rights I will continue to support as President. And I look forward to working with them and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton and Mayor Adrian Fenty in the months ahead to bring about real change not just in the District of Columbia, but all across this country."
  