
    Yesterday, President Biden announced his intent to nominate Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, one of our nation's brightest legal minds, as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. President Biden sought a candidate with exceptional credentials, unimpeachable character, and unwavering dedication to the rule of law. Judge Jackson formerly clerked for Justice Breyer, and has broad experience across the legal profession – as a federal appellate judge, a federal district court judge, a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, an attorney in private practice, and as a federal public defender. She has been confirmed by the Senate on a bipartisan basis three times – most recently last year for her current seat. If confirmed, Jackson will be the first Black woman to serve on the Supreme Court.
A broad range of Latino leaders and organizations issued statements applauding her qualifications and acknowledging her historic nomination.
Here's what they are saying:
Maria Teresa Kumar, CEO, Voto Latino: "Judge Jackson is extraordinarily well qualified for a seat on the Supreme Court. Just as importantly, her nomination represents a profoundly important step towards creating a court that reflects the diversity of this country. I remember distinctly how proud I felt when President Obama nominated Sonia Sotomayor to become the first Latina to become a Supreme Court Justice. I'm overjoyed for the millions of Black women and little girls who I know are experiencing a similar sense of pride today. The issues before the Supreme Court will have a profound impact on the Latino community, from voting rights and immigration to our ability to be treated fairly on the job and access critical health care. The choice of a new justice is a profoundly important question that will shape our lives long after the president who named them leaves office. Now that President Biden has done his job and nominated an experienced, qualified jurist to the court, it's time for the Senate to do its job by running a fair confirmation process. Millions of Americans of all backgrounds will be watching closely to see if Republicans treat a brilliant, accomplished woman of color with the respect she deserves." [Statement, 02/25/22]
Janet Murguía, President and CEO, UnidosUS: "Historic nomination to the Supreme Court. It's a new day and about time! #ketanjibrownjackson" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Nathalie Rayes, President and CEO, Latino Victor Project: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson is one our nation's outstanding legal minds and an eminently qualified nominee for the Supreme Court. Judge Brown Jackson has a wealth of legal experience and background acquired through her years as public defender and federal district judge. She was nominated by President Obama and confirmed with bipartisan support by the Senate to serve as a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission. Her legal and lived experiences and qualifications will make her an exceptional Justice. It's long overdue that a Black woman serve on the nation's highest court. Latino Victory Project congratulates Judge Brown Jackson and commend President Biden for his commitment to ensure the United States Supreme Court reflects our nation's diversity. Now, we urge the Senate to confirm Judge Brown Jackson as expeditiously as possible to ensure the Court includes the voices of all the people it serves." [Statement, 02/25/22]
Felipe Benitez, Executive Director and Founder of Corazón Latino: "Judge Jackson is an exceptional nominee. All of us at Corazón Latino are inspired by her dedication to the law and are confident that she will represent the highest court of the land with integrity and insight. She is a top jurist with years of experience at the federal level. Both Republicans and Democrats respect Kentaji Brown Jackson. She is a well-reputed judge, having held many high-level positions throughout her career, including her current role as judge of the D.C. circuit court of appeals. Decisions made by the Supreme Court affect the lives of all Americans. U.S. Latinos have put their faith in President Biden to nominate the right person for the job. We are proud of his commitment to diversity by selecting Judge Kentaji Brown Jackson, and we expect a fair and timely confirmation hearing." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Domingo Garcia, National President, LULAC: "This is a historic day in America when we witness the very first African American woman nominated to serve on the nation's highest court. First, she has more than eight years of experience on the federal bench and is a graduate of Harvard Law School. She also has worked as a public defender and has stated that public service is at her core. Judge Jackson understands the historical inequities in the criminal court system and can bring a significant new voice to the Supreme Court," said Domingo Garcia, National President of LULAC. "If confirmed by the U.S. Senate, Judge Jackson would be the first person who has worked on the public defender side of the system to ever sit on our nation's highest court. LULAC strongly believes that only when our courts reflect the growing diversity in America can we have a fair and impartial judiciary that affords all men and women who come before it the true justice to which they are entitled under our Constitution. We urge the Senate to move without delay to confirm Judge Jackson." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Héctor Sánchez Barba, Executive Director and CEO of Mi Familia Vota: "Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's nomination to the Supreme Court of the United States is an incredible moment in American history. We look forward to learning more during the confirmation process about Judge Jackson's commitment to advancing racial and social equity and how she will approach the multitude of legal issues that affect our communities — including voting rights, labor issues, criminal justice, immigration, along with many others," said Héctor Sánchez Barba, Executive Director and CEO of Mi Familia Vota. "Judge Jackson's extraordinary breadth of experience in the nation's second-highest court makes her a strong and qualified nominee. We will watch the confirmation process closely and advocate for Senators to assess Judge Jackson to the Supreme Court so that she may apply her perspective, professional experience, and fidelity to the law and the lasting impact she will have on the next generation of Latinos and all Americans." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Andrea Nill Sanchez, Executive Director of Latinos for a Fair Judiciary: ""President Biden's nomination of Ketanji Brown Jackson — a former public defender and supremely qualified jurist who would also be the first Black female Justice — is a milestone for a nation still reckoning with the wrongs and inequities of its past. If confirmed, Judge Jackson's appointment wouldn't immediately rebalance the Supreme Court, but it would bend the arc of history by expanding the Court's collective knowledge and lived experiences. In addition to conducting a fair confirmation process, we urge the Senate to strongly consider Judge Jackson's commitment to advancing racial and social equity — including the many issues being litigated in federal courts that affect the ability of Latino communities to thrive." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Lourdes M. Rosado, President & General Counsel for LatinoJustice PRLDEF: ""The nomination of the first Black woman to serve in our highest court is a historic moment for our country and one that has been long overdue. We are optimistic that Judge Jackson's strong background in racial and social equity and her lived experience will be vital in guiding her to approach and undertake the issues of deep concern to our Black and Latino communities. Too much lies in the balance, voting, immigrant and worker rights, along with other priorities such as equal opportunities for our communities to thrive. We task Senators to call witnesses from the Latino community to ensure the inclusion of the Latino perspective throughout their assessment of the nominee. Perspective matters, and we will be vigilantly watching the process to ensure Judge Jackson is committed to championing equal rights for all." [Statement, 2/25/22]
Chispa Florida: "La nominación histórica de la juez Ketanji Brown Jackson a la Corte Suprema es un hito en la lucha por la justicia y la equidad raciales. Aplaudimos al presidente Biden por cumplir su promesa de campaña de nominar a la primera mujer negra a la Corte Suprema." (Tweet, 02/25/22)
Arturo Vargas, CEO, National Association of Latino Elected Officials (NALEO): "JUST IN: NALEO congratulates Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson for her nomination to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. The historic nomination of the first Black woman to serve in this role is an overdue moment for America. Read statement from CEO @ArturoNALEO  https://bit.ly/pr022522" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
Latino Community Foundation: "A historic day for our country, and especially for Black women and girls! With @POTUS' nomination, Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson could be the first Black woman to serve on the nation's highest court! Representation matters!" [Tweet, 2/25/22]
  