
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Commission on Executive Exchange for terms of 2 years:
David T. Kearns, of Connecticut. Upon his appointment, the President will designate him Chairman. He is chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Xerox Corp. He was born August 11, 1930, in Rochester, NY, and now resides in New Canaan, CT.
John Fellows Akers, of Connecticut, is president and chief executive officer of IBM Corp. He was born December 28, 1934, in Boston, MA, and now resides in Westport, CT.
Robert Anderson, of Pennsylvania, is chairman and chief executive officer of Rockwell International Corp. He was born November 2, 1920, in Columbus, NE, and now resides in Pittsburgh, PA.
James A. Baker III, of Texas, is Secretary of the Treasury. He was born April 28, 1930, in Houston, TX, and now resides in Washington, DC.
James E. Burke, of New Jersey, is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Johnson & Johnson Co. He was born February 28, 1925, in Rutland, VT, and now resides in Princeton, NJ.
David W. Christopher, of Pennsylvania, is the Ohio Valley area practice partner for Price Waterhouse Co. He was born February 13, 1930, in Coraopolis, PA, and now resides in Pittsburgh, PA.
Ralph P. Davidson, of New York, is chairman of the board of the publishing company of Time, Inc. He was born August 17, 1927, in Santa Fe, NM, and now resides in New York City.
Max L. Friedersdorf, of Florida, is consul general of the United States of America in Bermuda. He was born July 7, 1929, in Grammer, IN.
John Samuel Ludington, of Michigan, is chairman and chief executive officer of Dow Corning. He was born May 7, 1928, in Detroit, MI, and now resides in Midland, MI.
John K. McKinley, of Alabama, is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Texaco, Inc. He was born March 24, 1920, in Tuscaloosa, AL, and now resides in Darien, CT.
Fred W. O'Green, of California, is chairman and chief executive officer of Litton Industries, Inc. He was born March 25, 1921, in Mason City, IA, and now resides in Los Angeles, CA.
George Adams Roberts, of California, is president of Teledyne, Inc. He was born February 18, 1919, in Uniontown, PA, and now resides in Santa Monica, CA.
David M. Roderick, of Pennsylvania, is chairman of the board of U.S. Steel. He was born May 3, 1924, in Pittsburgh, PA, and now resides in Pittsburgh.
William B. Walsh, of Virginia, is founder and president of Project Hope. He was born April 26, 1920, in Brooklyn, NY, and now resides in Bethesda, MD.
  