
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Michael J. McCord, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), Department of Defense
•      Katherine M. Gehl, Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
•      Michael J. Warren, Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint individuals to the Vietnam Education Fund and the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. Their bios are below.
President Obama said, "The American people will be well-served by the expertise and commitment of these individuals. Their decision to serve their country is commendable, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administrations posts:
Michael J. McCord, Nominee for Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), Department of Defense
Michael J. McCord was initially appointed Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) in January, 2009 (at that time this position did not require nomination or Senate confirmation). He joined the Department of Defense (DoD) with 24 years of experience in national security issues in the legislative branch, including 21 years as a Professional Staff Member on the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) from 1987-2002 and from 2004 through January 2009. During his tenure on the SASC he was responsible for oversight of defense budget matters. He also, from 1995-2002 and 2004-2008, served as the minority or majority staff lead on the Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support, where he worked with his subcommittee leadership, Senators Glenn, Robb, and Akaka, on military installation and basing matters including construction and base closure. He was also responsible for oversight of over $100 billion in annual DoD operating funds and military readiness policy matters. During 2003 he served as the budget analyst for defense and veterans issues for the Democratic staff of the House Budget Committee. Prior to his Senate employment, he served as an analyst at the Congressional Budget Office. Mr. McCord is a graduate of the Ohio State University and the University of Pennsylvania.
Katherine M. Gehl, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
Katherine M. Gehl is presently the fourth-generation Chairman of the Board of her family-owned company, Gehl Foods, Inc. The company has approximately $175M in sales and 200 employees. As Chairman she oversees the development and execution of the company strategy. Previously, Ms. Gehl was a Vice President at Bernstein Investment Research and Management providing investment analysis and planning for private clients, foundations and endowments. Prior to joining Bernstein in 2002, she was Special Assistant to Mayor Richard M. Daley for Technology and Economic Development where she was responsible for developing and overseeing the Chicagoland New Economy Growth Strategy-a five year plan for economic development designed to spur job creation and income growth and position Chicago at the forefront of technologically-advanced cities. In between her work at Gehl and her work for the Mayor, Ms. Gehl was Director of Information Technology Services at Chicago Public Schools for a year and a half, and Director of Organizational Development at Oracle Corporation for three years. Ms. Gehl serves on the Boards of Directors of Public Allies and The Joffrey Ballet. She graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1988 and holds an MA in education from the Catholic University of America, and an MBA from Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management.
Michael J. Warren, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Michael J. Warren a Principal and Managing Board member of Albright Stonebridge Group, a global strategy firm. Mr. Warren also serves as a member of the Investment Committee of Albright Capital Management, of which Albright Stonebridge Group is a significant shareholder. Prior to joining Albright Stonebridge Group, Mr. Warren led corporate development at HORNE ENGINEERING Services and served as President of Appfluent Technologies. Mr. Warren served as a Senior Advisor and economic cluster head for the White House Office of Presidential Personnel for the Obama Administration. He was a member of the Obama-Biden Transition Project's Agency Review Working Group helping to oversee the international trade and economics agencies. Mr. Warren previously worked at McKinsey & Company, both as a strategic consultant in the technology and financial institutions industries and as a fellow of the McKinsey Global Institute, advising corporate leaders in the U.S. and Asian semiconductor industries. Mr. Warren also served in the White House as Executive Director of the President's National Economic Council and at the Labor Department. A Rhodes Scholar, Mr. Warren earned his degrees from Yale University and Oxford University. Mr. Warren is on the Board of Directors of the District of Columbia Retirement Board, Civitas Group, Virginia Tech's Intellectual Property Board, Catalist, and the National Child Research Center. He is a member of the Yale University President's Council on International Activities.
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to administration posts:
David Duong, Appointee for Member, Vietnam Education Foundation 
David Duong is the President and CEO of California Waste Solutions. Mr. Duong also manages Vietnam Waste Solutions, the company's overseas operation. He founded CoGiDo Recycling Company in Oakland, California, shortly after immigrating to the United States in 1979. After selling CoGiDo and prior to establishing California Waste Solutions, Mr. Duong served as the General Manager and then Marketing Manager for a major American solid waste and recycling firm. He has served as a Commissioner on the Oakland Waste Reduction and Recycling Commission, a Commissioner on the Oakland International Trade Commission, Chairman of the Board of Directors for the Vietnamese American Entrepreneur Association, a Director on the Board of Directors for the Silicon Valley Chamber of Commerce, and a Member of the Sacramento Asian Pacific Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Duong is very active in local charities and job development programs.
Marjorie Margolies, Appointee for Member, Vietnam Education Foundation
Marjorie Margolies is the founder and President of Women's Campaign International, providing advocacy training for women throughout the world, and an adjunct professor at the Fels Institute of Government at the University of Pennsylvania. She previously served as the Director of the United States delegation to the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, China, and was an elected Member of Congress from Pennsylvania's 13th district. Ms. Margolies is currently a Woodrow Wilson Fellow, and was previously a senior fellow at the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania as part of their Institute for Public Service. She is a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and a CBS News Foundation Fellow at Columbia University.
Bruce Bastian, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Bruce Bastian is the co-creator of the word processing program WordPerfect. After the WordPerfect Corporation merged with NOVELL Corporation in 1994, Mr. Bastian began devoting most of his time to philanthropy. His foundation, the B.W. Bastian Foundation, supports organizations that promote equality, particularly in the GLBT community. He also has been a supporter of many performing arts organizations including those at the University of Utah, Ballet West, and the Utah Symphony and Opera. In addition, he has supported several environmental organizations, wildlife funds and homeless shelters. Mr. Bastian serves on the Board of Directors of the Human Rights Campaign.
Colleen Bell, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Colleen Bell is the Director of Special Projects for Bell-Phillip Television Productions, Inc. She is a member of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art's Director's Committee, helping to provide support for the museum's continued growth. Ms. Bell has also led fundraising initiatives for music, art, and dance programs with P.S. Arts and co-founded the National Resources Defense Council's Leadership Council. As an advocate for children, she is also a Trustee with Children's Institute, Inc.
Charles A. Clarkson, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Charles A. Clarkson is the Founder and Chairman of The Clarkson Group, L.L.C, a real estate development and management company, and CEO and Chairman of IxReveal, Inc., an advanced analytics software company. He is active in community education and non-profit organizations, including serving as Chairman of Jacksonville's Communities in Schools and is especially supportive of the arts such as the Florida Ballet in Jacksonville, the Museum of Contemporary Art (MOCA) Jacksonville and the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra.
Lester Coney, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Lester Coney is the executive vice president in Mesirow Financial's Office of the Chairman. As a civic leader, Mr. Coney has been actively involved in many organizations in support of the arts, civic betterment, and minority and ethnic issues. He is a past chairman of both the Goodman Theatre and City Year Chicago, and founding chairman of Congo Square Theatre Company. He is a trustee for many organizations including: the Art Institute of Chicago, Columbia College Chicago, and Lincoln University. He sits on the board of directors of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library Foundation and board of governors of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Mr. Coney's honors include the 2007 Executive Leader Award from the Association of Fundraising Professionals Chicago, the 2007 King Legacy Award from Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Boys and Girls Club of Chicago, and he was awarded for Leadership in the Arts by the Arts and Business Council of Chicago in 2006.
Sylvia Davis, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Sylvia Davis, formerly a Partner at Katten Muchin Rosenman Law Firm in Washington DC, is an attorney specializing in various intellectual property matters. During her tenure at the Firm, she was actively involved in the Firm's recruitment efforts to build and maintain a diverse working environment. For many years, she was also a member of the Intellectual Trademark Association, where she served on various committees dealing with current IP policy issues.
Jill Goldman, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Jill Goldman is a film maker, wife and mother. Ms Goldman has raised significant funds for various organizations, including Rock the Vote; the GO! Campaign, which is dedicated to empowering orphans and vulnerable street children; and the Tunahaki Foundation, which supports an arts-based shelter for AIDS orphans. She currently serves on the Board of Directors for One Voice, a non-profit organization helping Los Angeles families living at poverty level, and A Place Called Home which is a non-profit youth center in South Central Los Angeles providing educational programs, counseling, mentoring, music, dance, and art classes to underserved children.
Howard Gottlieb, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Howard Gottlieb is the general partner of Glen Eagle Partners, Ltd., which is a family private investment firm. Mr. Gottlieb is an accomplished violinist and has played in the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and has performed as a soloist with orchestras, in recitals and in chamber music groups in the United States and Europe. He is a life trustee of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, and serves on the board of trustees of the Merit School of Music, the Lyric Opera, the Ravinia Festival and the American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra. He is a former trustee of the Aspen Music Festival. Mr. Gottlieb is a graduate of the University of Chicago and serves on the Visiting Committee of the College.
Victor J. Herlinsky Jr., Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Victor J. Herlinsky Jr. is a partner at Nowell Amoroso Klein Bierman in Hackensack, NJ, specializing in commercial litigation and land use law. Throughout his career, he has been appointed to numerous municipal public service positions. Most recently he was appointed by Governor Jon Corzine to the Interagency Council to Prevent and Reduce Homelessness. Last year, he was chosen to serve as President of the 56th Electoral College of New Jersey. Mr. Herlinsky also served on the Board for Shelter our Sisters, a non-profit organization in Bergen County, NJ, that assists women and children who are victims of domestic violence.
Kaki Hockersmith, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Kaki Hockersmith is founder and owner of interior design firm Kaki Hockersmith Interiors. An active member of her profession, she has been a guest lecturer at numerous design centers, museums and cultural institutions. In 2005, Ms. Hockersmith oversaw the development of a historically accurate reproduction of the Clinton Oval Office and Cabinet Room at the Clinton Presidential Center. In 1993, she was appointed to the Committee for the Preservation of The White House where she was actively involved in the historic renovation of several State Rooms and the development of eight exhibitions of 20th Century American Sculpture in the Jacqueline Kennedy First Lady's Garden. Ms. Hockersmith currently serves on the Arkansas Governor's Mansion Association and hosts many events in her home for charitable organizations in her community. She has been recognized nationally by the American Society of Interior Designers and has won ten regional ASID awards for her work.
Sharon Hoffman, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Sharon Hoffman is Advisory Board Chair, founder, and former 1st Vice President of The Kansas City Friends of Alvin Ailey. The organization is the second home of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and promotes the company as well as dance arts and education in the community. She is also a founder and former President of Friends of Union Station and an officer of the Union Station Development Corporation, organizations working to save and restore the historic Kansas City building. Ms. Hoffman previously served as the chair of the Art Symposium, Art Auction, and National Council of Anderson Art Ranch board in Aspen Colorado, and as a member on the Kansas City Art Institute board for 11 years.
Candace Bond McKeever, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Candace Bond McKeever is a strategic consultant to many corporations and non-profits and is a senior executive with Hidden Beach Recordings. She ran the entertainment division for Essence Magazine where she oversaw the production of the Essence Music Festival and Essence Awards. Previously Ms. Bond McKeever was VP of Special Markets for Motown Records where she oversaw the Motown catalog and produced over 100 music titles. Currently she serves as Co-Chairman of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Diversity Committee and serves on the boards of the California Science Center, the Red Cross of Southern California, the Alliance for Veterans and National Medical Fellowships.
Robert Monks, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Robert Monks is a real estate developer and entrepreneur. He is a founder and partner of several real estate companies, each engaged in specific segments of the market including commercial development, affordable housing, and property management. Mr. Monks is also the founder and former Chairman of Institutional Shareholder Services, the world's leading provider of proxy voting and corporate governance services; and in 2009 he became an owner and director of Maine Today Media Inc. He currently sits on the board of the Gulf of Maine Research Institute.
Wendy Riva, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Wendy Riva is a freelance interior designer and consultant. For over 20 years, she has worked as an art director in the motion picture industry designing movie sets and serving as a liaison between production designer and decorator. In addition, she has been actively involved with several not-for-profit organizations, including the GO! campaign, which empowers orphans and street children around the world; the Spiral Foundation, a humanitarian project in Vietnam and Nepal; and HOPE Haiti, which provides health care and education to the Haitian people.
Cari Sacks, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Cari Sacks is a civic and community leader and philanthropist in Chicago, Illinois. She is a Trustee for the Chicago Museum of Contemporary Art, serving as the Chair of the Exhibition Committee and serves on the Midwest Regional Advisory Board for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. Ms. Sacks is a Trustee of the Erikson Institute, a nationally recognized graduate school in early childhood development focused on its commitment to educate and support children and their families though research and policy initiatives.
Amy K. Singh, Appointee for Member, President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Amy K. Singh is an attorney who practices in the areas of entertainment, advertising and marketing, and provides counsel to clients on event production and promotion, television production, talent and other matters. Before starting her own practice, she held several positions, including as General Counsel/Senior Vice President of DDB Chicago Inc., and as an associate in the Chicago office of the firm now known as Sidley Austin LLP. Ms. Singh works to support the arts and youth, was a member of the Junior Board of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and is currently on the Board of the Mikva Challenge, which develops civic leadership in Chicago's high school youth.
  