
    Today, the Romney for President campaign announced the leadership of its Ohio Manufacturers for Romney Coalition.
"Manufacturing is one of the hardest hit sectors in this recession, and Mitt Romney is the only candidate with the vision, experience, and commitment to lead our country into a new era of prosperity," said State Representative Ross McGregor, Manager of Pentaflex, Inc.  "Barack Obama offered hope and change and has not delivered either.  What we need is vision and leadership.  Romney will deliver both."
Ohio's manufacturing sector makes up a significant share of its economy, employing more than 10% of its workforce, but like the national manufacturing sector, there has been a significant dip in strength over the past decade.
"Mitt Romney is the leader Ohio's manufacturers can depend on," said David Johnson, President and CEO of Summitville Tile and a Past President of the Ohio Manufacturers Association.  "Mitt Romney will put Americans back to work."
"Turning around manufacturing will be one of the key parts of turning around our country's economy," said Mitt Romney. "Making Ohio and the rest of the country a destination for manufacturing will bring jobs back to some of the hardest hit areas of our country. I look forward to working with these leaders to ensure that manufacturing will help lead our economic recovery."
Ohio Manufacturers for Romney
Chair
The Honorable Ross McGregor, State Representative; Manager of Pentaflex, Inc.
Co-Chair
David Johnson, President and CEO of Summitville Tile, Inc.; Past President of the Ohio Manufacturers Association
Steering Committee
Page Busken, Retired President of Busken Bakery
Timothy Clarke, President and CEO of Netherland Rubber Company
Edward Crawford, CEO of Park-Ohio Holdings, Inc.
Matt Crawford, President and COO of Park-Ohio Holdings, Inc.
William Cyr, President and CEO of Sunny Delight Beverages Co.
Dan McGregor, CEO of McGregor Metal
Ramesh Mehan, CEO of Innovative Technologies Corp
Mark Russell, Manager of Worthington Industries
John Stanton, President and CEO of John D. Stanton and Associates
John Stropki, President and CEO of Lincoln Electric
Frank Sullivan, President and CEO of RPM International Inc.
William Summers, Consultant
David Winch, Executive VP of Minster Machine
*Company/business names are provided for identification purposes only.
  