
    Mankiller Will Serve As National Campaign Co-Chair
Oklahoma City, OK –Wilma Mankiller, the first woman Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation and the first female in modern history to lead a major Native American tribe, announced her endorsement of Hillary Clinton today. Chief Mankiller will serve as a National Campaign Co-Chair for the Clinton campaign.
"I am honored and humbled to have the support of a deeply respected woman who knows what it takes to lead a nation," Clinton said. "Chief Wilma Mankiller has worked for change her whole life and is an inspiration to so many of us who have followed in her footsteps."
Following is a statement from Chief Wilma Mankiller:
"Over the course of the past few months I have watched both Senator Obama and Senator Clinton debate and discuss the most important issues of our time. We Democrats are very fortunate to have two presidential candidates of their caliber to choose from in the primaries on Tuesday, February 5th.
This 2008 election is about choosing a leader who can articulate a clear and common vision for our collective future. I believe Senator Clinton is the best person to do that for a variety of reasons, including her early and consistent support for tribal governments. Since I first met President Bill and Hillary Clinton when they were in Arkansas, they have understood and supported tribal treaty rights and sovereignty.
The Senator Clinton I know is a focused, strategic thinker who has the drive and ability to get things done. She is a person of faith who lives her faith by working for the common good. I am especially appreciative of her long-term commitment to universal health care.
As a survivor of three separate bouts of cancer, I am acutely aware of the fact that almost 50 million Americans do not have health insurance or access to the most basic health care. Since Senator Clinton has demonstrated an abiding commitment to changing the health care system in this country, I believe she is the best suited to undertake the daunting task of overhauling our national health care system. It is unconscionable that so many American families, elders, children, mothers and fathers, cannot afford to go to the doctor or obtain medicines when they become ill. As Senator Clinton undertakes the work to overhaul our national health care system, I am confident she will consult with tribal leaders, as she has done in the past.
We need to change the direction of this country. We each have an opportunity to be a part of that change by voting for Senator Hillary Clinton on Tuesday, February 5th."
  