
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Brent K. Park of Tennessee, to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, Department of Energy. As an Associate Laboratory Director at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), Dr. Park leads and manages national security programs for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), and other sponsors. A nuclear physicist, Dr. Park was previously Director of the DOE/NNSA Remote Sensing Laboratory. Previously, he managed and contributed to basic and applied research programs at Los Alamos National Laboratory, where his work spanned defense nuclear nonproliferation, modeling and analysis for nuclear weapons engineering, and manufacturing efforts in support of stockpile stewardship, physics of nuclear weapons, and fundamental physics research. Dr. Park holds B.S., M.A., M.S., and PhD degrees from Illinois State University, Indiana State University, Indiana University, and Ohio University, respectively. He is on the faculty of the University of Tennessee's Bredesen Center for Interdisciplinary Research and Graduate Education and is an adjunct professor of engineering at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
Emory A. Rounds III of Maine, to be Director of the Office of Government Ethics for a term of five years. Mr. Rounds, who joined OGE in 2009 and is currently an associate counsel, has held positions at OGE as the special assistant to a previous OGE acting director and as acting head of OGE's Internal Operations Division. Before joining OGE, Mr. Rounds was an ethics counsel on the White House Counsel's staff for six years during the George W. Bush Administration, first as a Deputy Associate Counsel and then as a commissioned Associate Counsel to the President. His previous government experience includes service in the ethics office at the U.S. Department of Commerce as well as 22 years active duty in the U.S. Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps. He earned his B.A at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and his J.D. at the University of Akron School of Law.
Christopher Krebs of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for National Protection and Programs, Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Krebs is the senior official performing the duties of the Under Secretary for the National Protection and Programs Directorate(NPPD) in the Department of Homeland Security, where he oversees the cyber and physical infrastructure security mission for the Department. Concurrently, he serves as Assistant Secretary for the Office of Infrastructure Protection, where he leads NPPD's mission on issues such as preventing complex mass attacks, securing high-risk chemicals, and other areas related to cyber and physical infrastructure resilience. This includes serving as the national coordinator for the critical infrastructure security and resilience mission and directly managing 6 of the 16 critical infrastructure sectors outlined in the National Infrastructure Protection Plan. Prior to coming to DHS, Mr. Krebs was a Director for cybersecurity policy at Microsoft's U.S. government affairs team. Mr. Krebs holds a bachelors in environmental sciences from the University of Virginia and a J.D. from the Antonin Scalia Law School at George Mason University.
Jonathan R. Cohen of California, to be Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations and Deputy Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations, with the Rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary and Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations. Mr. Cohen, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1986. He is currently Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs, a position he has held since 2016. He also served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq (2014-2016), Acting Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Paris, France (2013-2014), Minister Counselor for Political Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Paris (2011-2013) and Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Nicosia, Cyprus (2008-2011). He has served at Embassies or Consulates in Bangkok, Jerusalem, Vienna (OSCE), Stockholm, Ankara and Rome as well as in senior leadership positions at the Department of State. Mr. Cohen earned an A.B. at Princeton University. He also studied at Georgetown University and at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Israel. He speaks French, Swedish and Italian.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Personnel to Key Administration Posts
The following individual to be a Member of the of the Frederick Douglas Bicentennial Commission

Alveda King of Georgia
Eric Madison Lowery of Maryland
Naomi C. Earp of Maryland

  