
    TRANSCRIPT:
Narrator: In an interview with The Washington Post on November 11, 2003, Soros said that removing President George W. Bush from office was the "central focus of my life" and "a matter of life and death". He said he would sacrifice his entire fortune to defeat President Bush, "if someone guaranteed it."
This ultra-liberal financial supporter of groups like moveon.org donated almost $24 million dollars to defeat Georgia Bush.
So what does Mr. Soros think of Mitt Romney for President?:
George Soros: "If it's between Romney and Obama, there isn't all that much difference..." (video)
Narrator: Is he correct?
MONTAGE:
"Wall Street Executives turn back on Obama, start donating to Romney."(The Hill)
NEIL CAVUTO: "Dozens of Wall Street executives who once banked Obama are now banking Mitt Romney." (video)
ON TIM GEITHNER
OBAMA: "Tim Geithner is as sharp and as skilled a public servant as we have..."(video)
ROMNEY: "He is a person of accomplishment and skill. I think is a very bright individual..."(video)
ON ABORTION
OBAMA STATEMENT: As we mark the 39th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, we must remember that this Supreme Court decision not only protects a woman's health and reproductive freedom, but also affirms a broader principle: that government should not intrude on private family matters. I remain committed to protecting a woman's right to choose and this fundamental constitutional right. (WhiteHouse.gov)
ROMNEY: "I will preserve and protect a woman's right to choose and have devoted and dedicated to honor my word in that regard. I will not change any provision of Mass Pro-choice laws."(video)
ON GUNS
OBAMA: "Just because you have an individual right to bear arms does not mean that the state or local government can't constrain the exercise of that right..."(video)
ROMNEY: "We do have tough guns laws in Mass. I support them. I won't chip away them. I believe they help protect us and provide for our safety."(video)
ON HEALTHCARE
OBAMA: "You've got a Governor who's running for president right now who implemented the exact same thing in Massachusetts."
ROMNEY: If you don't want to buy insurance, you have to help pay for the costs...no more free riders...
OBAMA: "You can't be a free rider on everybody else..."
OBAMA: "In fact I agree with Mitt Romney who recently said he is proud of what he accomplished on healthcare... he's right." (video)
George Soros: "If it's between Romney and Obama, there isn't all that much difference..." (video)
Narrator: We can't afford two George Soros approved candidates this fall.
We need a candidate who will fight for hardworking taxpayers.
We need a candidate who left wing billionaires like George Soros fear, because they will fundamentally change Washington.
We need Newt Gingrich.
  