
    HOUSTON, Texas – Texas Governor Greg Abbott endorsed Ted Cruz for President this week and penned an op-ed in the Dallas Morning News urging Texas conservatives who want a trusted leader in the White House to vote for Cruz. See excerpts below and read the full op-ed here.
Dallas Morning News
Ted Cruz is our candidate for president
Gov. Greg Abbott
When the next president of the United States solemnly swears to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, I can think of no one who will more faithfully fulfill that promise than Ted Cruz.
For the first time in decades, Texans have the opportunity to play a powerful role in selecting our Republican nominee and the next president of this great nation.
After eight years of relentless attacks on our values from the Obama administration, it's our duty as Texas conservatives to support a leader we can trust to restore principled leadership and move this country forward.
That's why I'm supporting Ted Cruz for president.
Conservative values are at his core. He's principled and fearless with unbending convictions.
Unlike far too many in Washington, the Ted Cruz we've seen in the Senate is the same Ted Cruz we elected.
And he's the same Ted Cruz I served with when I was Texas attorney general and Ted was my solicitor general.
Ted worked with me in defending U.S. sovereignty against the United Nations and the World Court, defending our Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms, defending the constitutionality of the Ten Commandments Monument on the Texas Capitol grounds and defending the words "under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance.
And we won each time.
With Ted Cruz as our Republican nominee for president, we will win again.
America will win again.
....
Ted is a constitutionalist whose judgment I trust to appoint judges to the U.S. Supreme Court who will not legislate from the bench.
As Ted has said in the recent weeks, not one but two branches of government hang in the balance. We need a leader who we know will have the perseverance to nominate Supreme Court justices who abide by the Constitution, uphold individuals' freedoms and halt the activist agenda of Washington elites.
....
He will take seriously his obligation to restore freedom, prosperity and security to our nation. He will secure our border. He will take the fight to ISIS. He will rein in the federal government and unleash our job creators and innovators.
I know he will champion the top priorities for Texas and America.
My fellow Texas conservatives, we need to deliver.
This is our time. Ted Cruz is our candidate.
  