
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:

Sarah Elizabeth Mendelson - Representative of the United States on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the Rank of Ambassador

President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:

Peter J. Beshar - Member, Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Kathryn Brinsfield - Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and Chief Medical Officer, Department of Homeland Security 
Allen Croff - Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board 
Todd McCracken - Member, Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations 

President Obama said, "These fine public servants bring a depth of experience and tremendous dedication to their important roles. I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
Sarah Elizabeth Mendelson, Nominee for Representative of the United States on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador
Sarah Elizabeth Mendelson is the Senior Adviser and Director of the Human Rights Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C., a position she has held since 2014. She also served as Deputy Assistant Administrator in the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance at the United States Agency for International Development from 2010 to 2014. Prior to this, Ms. Mendelson was Director of the Human Rights and Security Initiative at CSIS from 2007 to 2010, and Senior Fellow in the Russia and Eurasia Program at CSIS from 2001 to 2010. Previously, she was an assistant professor at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and the Graduate School of Public Affairs and Policy at the State University of New York at Albany. She was also a Resident Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a Program Officer for the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs serving in Moscow, Russia. Ms. Mendelson received a B.A. from Yale University and a Ph.D. from Columbia University.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Peter J. Beshar, Appointee for Member, Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Peter J. Beshar serves as the Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Marsh & McLennan Companies, a position he has held since 2004. He was a litigation partner and Co-Chair of the Securities Litigation Department during his time at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP from 1995 to 2004. Mr. Beshar served as Assistant Attorney General for the State of New York in 1994. He served as Special Assistant to Secretary of State Cyrus Vance during the U.N.'s peace negotiations on the former Yugoslavia from 1992 to 1993. He also served as a clerk for Judge Vincent Broderick of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York from 1989 to 1990. Mr. Beshar is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He was a member of the Obama for America National Finance Committee from 2011 to 2012. Mr. Beshar received a B.A. from Yale University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
Dr. Kathryn Brinsfield, Appointee for Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and Chief Medical Officer, Department of Homeland Security
Dr. Kathryn Brinsfield is the Associate Chief Medical Officer and Director for Workforce Health and Medical Support at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), a position she has held since 2009. Since 2013, she has also served as the Acting Assistant Secretary in the Office of Health Affairs and the Acting Chief Medical Officer at DHS. From 2012 to 2013, she was detailed to the National Security Staff as the Director of Medical Preparedness Policy. Previously, Dr. Brinsfield served in leadership roles for the Emergency Medical Services of the City of Boston Public Health Commission. She retired from the Boston Public Health Commission as Medical Director for Public Health Preparedness and Homeland Security in 2009. Dr. Brinsfield has also held associate professorships at Boston University School of Medicine and Boston University School of Public Health, and has worked as an attending physician and Director of Resident Education at Boston Medical Center. Dr. Brinsfield received a B.S. from Brown University, an M.P.H. from Boston University School of Public Health, and an M.D. from Tufts University School of Medicine.
Allen Croff, Appointee for Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board 
Allen Croff is an adjunct professor at Vanderbilt University, a position he has held since 2011. He also serves as a consultant to the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, a position he has held since 2010. From 2010 to 2012, Mr. Croff was a senior technical advisor to the Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future. He was vice-chairman of the Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste and Materials at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) from 2004 to 2008, and he subsequently consulted with the NRC until 2010. Prior to this, he worked in various capacities at Oak Ridge National Laboratory from 1974 to 2003. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Croff was a member of the Department of Energy's Nuclear Energy Research Advisory Committee. Mr. Croff served as member of ten National Academy of Sciences' committees from 1991 to 2013, and was a member of the National Academies' Nuclear and Radiation Studies Board from 2004 to 2009. Mr. Croff received a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Michigan State University, a Nuclear Engineer Degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and an M.B.A. from the University of Tennessee.
Todd McCracken, Appointee for Member, Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations
Todd McCracken has served as President and CEO of the National Small Business Association (NSBA) since 1997. In this capacity he also oversees the activities of the Small Business Exporters Association. Since 1988, he has held multiple roles at the NSBA, including Director of Government Affairs and Vice President. Mr. McCracken has been a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations since 2011. He served on the National Advisory Council of the Small Business Administration during both the Clinton and Bush Administrations. Mr. McCracken received a B.A. from Trinity University.
  