
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The birth of a nation is a momentous event that inscribes a people's name forever in the annals of history, motivating and inspiring those who live under its banner and ideals. Seventy-two years ago, on February 16, 1918, the people of Lithuania realized their long-denied dream of independence. The free Republic of Lithuania prospered until the tragic events of 1940 -- when Soviet troops invaded and occupied the country as a result of the infamous Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact signed just 1 year before.
Lithuania's struggle for liberty, and that of its neighbors in Estonia and Latvia, served as an inspiration to many who saw the collapse of old empires as a harbinger of peace and freedom for Europe. Later, when these heartfelt aspirations were crushed by totalitarian aggression, freedom-loving men and women around the world were rightfully outraged.
The ongoing Baltic dilemma remains an unresolved legacy of the Stalin era. However, the democratic reawakening in Lithuania offers hope that popular aspirations for political, economic, and social justice will be realized.
The brave men and women of Lithuania began to pursue just and noble goals on the 16th of February, 1918. We reaffirm our support and admiration for the Lithuanian people as we recall the significance of that date today -- the 72nd anniversary of Lithuanian independence.
In recognition of the aspirations of freedom-loving people in all nations, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 149, has designated February 16, 1990, as "Lithuanian Independence Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim February 16, 1990, as Lithuanian Independence Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities in reaffirmation of their devotion to the principles of democracy and freedom throughout the world.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  