
    Office of National Drug Control Policy
Today, White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Director Jim Carroll released the Trump Administration's Fiscal Year (FY) 2021 National Drug Control Budget, which requests $35.7 billion for counter-drug efforts, an increase of $94 million from the previous year.
The request includes $18.6 billion for prevention and treatment efforts, and $17.1 billion for domestic law enforcement, interdiction, and international drug control efforts. These efforts and resources will enable the Nation to achieve the goals and objectives of the National Drug Control Strategy.
"From day one, President Trump has brought a relentless, whole-of-government approach to combating the crisis of addiction in our country. The FY 2021 budget request sends a strong message that, although we've seen signs of real progress, the Trump Administration will not let up in our efforts to save American lives. Whether it is going after drug traffickers, getting people struggling with addiction the help they need, or stopping drug misuse before it starts, this budget request ensures our partners will have the resources needed to create safer and healthier communities across the Nation," ONDCP Director Jim Carroll said.
The $35.7 billion request funds key drug control priorities across 14 Executive Branch departments and agencies, the Federal judiciary, and the District of Columbia, including more than $7 billion in funding to continue the progress the Administration has made in responding to the opioid crisis.
Below are highlights from the FY 2021 National Drug Control Budget:

The Budget request for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration's State Opioid Response Grants is $1.6 billion. These grants provide States, tribes, and territories with critically needed funding to respond to the opioid crisis and the flexibility to respond to the need for treatment for other drugs, including stimulants such as methamphetamine and cocaine.
The Budget seeks more than $9 billion for the Department of Justice in resources for community programs, investigations, prosecutions, State and local assistance, and intelligence efforts to address drug control challenges, including the opioid epidemic.
The Budget request for the Department of Homeland Security's Customs and Border Protection includes $3.4 billion to protect America's land, sea, and air borders from drug trafficking-related security threats.

The Trump Administration recently released its 2020 National Drug Control Strategy, which establishes the President's priorities for addressing the challenge of drug trafficking and use.
To view the FY 2021 National Drug Control Budget Highlights, click HERE.
  