
    The President. Thank you all for coming down here this morning. Seven years ago today, I submitted our economic recovery program which has resulted in 63 months of economic growth. And today I'm sending our fiscal year 1989 budget to the Congress. This budget fits within the second year of the bipartisan budget agreement that we reached last November, and it also meets the deficit reduction targets of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, and it contains no increases in taxes. And in this budget, we have increased funding for drug interdiction and treatment, funding for our air traffic safety, education, science, and space; and we've increased by 38 percent the level of funding for the fight against AIDS.
And while meeting these domestic priorities and our national security needs, this budget does not increase taxes—again, consistent with our budget agreement. And these recommendations to the Congress, along with budget reform proposals, improve government management; and continued efforts toward privatization will continue the economic growth that we've all witnessed these past 5 years. And now I'm hoping we can work together through the budget process this year, sticking to our agreement and completing the appropriations process before the end of this fiscal year.
Republican Presidential Campaign
Reporter. Mr. President, are you going to call in Senator Dole and Vice President Bush and give them a little lesson on the 11th Commandment? [Laughter]
The President. I'm not going to talk about anything but the budget. [Laughter]
Q. Are you pleased about the way the campaign's going on the Republican side at this point?
The President. I'm—no comments.
Abduction in Lebanon
Q. Sir, is there anything you can do for Colonel Higgins?
The President. There, I have to tell you we're doing everything we can. We're trying to find out as much as we can, and we'll try to get him located. And certainly we want to rescue him.
Congressman Conte. You have a sizable increase in here for education, Mr. President—
The President. Pardon?
Congressman Conte. You have a sizable increase in this budget for education, and we want to thank you—some of us who have been fighting for it for many years now.
  