
    President Kubitschek, Your Excellencies, and citizens of Rio de Janeiro:
It is a privilege and a particular pleasure to meet again your distinguished President and a privilege to return to this great country with which over the years we have enjoyed fruitful relations in a tradition of friendship.
When I visited Brazil in 1946, I came as a former commander of allied military forces to pay personal tribute to the gallant Brazilian people for their invaluable contributions to our common victory in World War II.
Now, in response to your President's gracious invitation and to my long-held desire to reciprocate the courtesy which he did us in visiting the United States as President-elect, I come here as the representative of 180 million citizens of the United States. They share with you this fervent wish: that war and all forms of coercion be forever banished from the earth; that leaders of all nations hearken to the prayers of their peoples for peace--for a peace founded on mutual respect, understanding, and collaboration--a peace in which the race of armaments will give way to a constructive, cooperative attack against disease, ignorance, and poverty--a peace which makes neighborliness such as that enjoyed by our two countries a reality throughout the world.
It is impossible to enter Rio de Janeiro without feeling the inspiring impact of this city's scenic grandeur. But Rio has more than natural beauty.
For decades this city has become a symbol of Brazil's cultural contributions to the world.
In the halls of Rio, great principles have been proclaimed, righteous determinations formed.
Here, in 1942, the Foreign Ministers of the American Republics voiced this hemisphere's determination to defend itself against a Fascist aggression. Here representatives of the Americas met in 1947 to proclaim in solemn treaty that an attack on one American Republic would be an attack on all. That treaty has enabled the nations of this hemisphere to live in peace, free of the fear that any one of them, however weak or small, would have its independence challenged by any other, however strong or large.
Brazil and the United States have always lived together in peace and friendship. Constant cooperation has been mutually beneficial. I hope that my brief visit here will emphasize the desire of my Government and all the people of my country to strengthen bonds of friendship with you. We seek only greater understanding of one another, a mutual conviction that all problems existing between us can be resolved to the benefit of both nations, and a lasting partnership in efforts to build a stronger, freer hemisphere--a stronger, freer world.
Mr. President, I am grateful for the generosity of your welcome and remarks, and to all of you, thank you very much.
  