
    "What I'll say in my speech is first describing the challenge that we face as a nation, and the conservative choice that has to be brought forward. But secondly, I'll look at my record and describe my record as governor. Some of those things get hidden over time, people forget but economically of course that we balanced the budget every year. We put in place a rainy day fund of about $2 billion." — Mitt Romney
"Hannity"
FOX News
February 9, 2012
Click Here To See The Clip
MITT ROMNEY: "Well, I think you're seeing that Rick Santorum get his opportunity now to be one of the leading contenders. He hasn't been as visible in the sweepstakes so far but he certainly is now. And that means that he will be under the microscope like all the rest of us have been. And obviously, some of the things of his record are troubling, the fact that he voted five times to raise the debt ceiling without getting compensating reductions in federal spending, that's a problem. The fact that while he was in Washington, government spending grew by 80 percent. And the fact that he is a defender of earmarks. Look, I'm in favor of a ban on earmarks. I think spending in Washington is out of control. And I wouldn't raise the debt ceiling without getting compensating reductions in federal spending."
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS: "You are going to be speaking at CPAC this weekend, one of the largest gatherings of conservatives around the country. And I remember your speech by the way going back after the 2008 process. And I thought, actually I remember at that time, I thought was one of the best speeches that you gave. It seems like this is an opportunity for you because, and I had Karl Rove on the program discussing this last night. You still it seems have not been able to close the deal. And these were his words as well and his observation with conservatives within the Republican Party. So, what will you say to them when you go to CPAC this weekend to tell these conservatives, I will govern as a conservative, you can put your trust in me?"
ROMNEY: "Well, of course, first of all, I'd note that I won among conservatives in New Hampshire, I won solidly among conservatives in Florida. Won among conservatives in Nevada and have the most delegates in this race. So, I wouldn't say that I haven't been able to get good support from conservatives. But secondly, what I'll say in my speech is first describing the challenge that we face as a nation, and the conservative choice that has to be brought forward. But secondly, I'll look at my record and describe my record as governor. Some of those things get hidden over time, people forget but economically of course that we balanced the budget every year. We put in place a rainy day fund of about $2 billion. And some things that we didn't talk about a lot. We had an attack on religious liberty in Massachusetts as well. The legislature passed a bill for the morning after pill. Insisted the Catholic Churches provide this to their employees at universities and hospitals. I vetoed that bill. I was one of those that stood up and fought against the intrusion on religious liberty in my state. And we'll be talking about marriage as well. Obviously, the Supreme Court of my state began a process of providing for same-sex marriage. I led the charge to put in place an amendment that would reverse their decision. And we missed by one vote in the legislature to be able to proceed with that amendment. So, I have a record of being a strong conservative on the issues that matter and I'm going to point that out when I'm together with my friends at CPAC."
  