
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
February 12
The President returned to the White House after a weekend stay at Camp David, Md."
February 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Cabinet.
February 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative John Brademas of Indiana;
—Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland and representatives of farm organizations;
—Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall, Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger, and other administration officials to discuss the coal strike.
The President attended a White House reception for members of the Finance Council of the Democratic National Committee.
The White House released manifests listing passengers who have flown on White House authorized military aircraft from July 1, 1977, to January 6, 1978. The lists were sent to Representative Jack Brooks, chairman of the Legislation and National Security Subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Operations, and were made available for inspection by the press.
February 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative Jonathan B. Bingham of New York;
—Representative Dante B. Fascell of Florida;
—Secretary Marshall to discuss the coal strike;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois;
—Senator James B. Allen of Alabama;
—officials of the Department of Labor, the United Mine Workers, and the Bituminous Coal Operators' Association, who were recommencing negotiations on the coal strike.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President was awarded the Silver Buffalo, the highest award of the Boy Scouts of America for noteworthy service to youth. The President also received the Boy Scouts' 1978 Report to the Nation.
The White House announced that the President has extended an invitation to Prime Minister Menahem Begin of Israel to meet with him in Washington. It is anticipated that the Prime Minister will come at a mutually convenient time in the early part of March.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Jean-Daniel Mambouka of the Gabonese Republic, Iulai Toma of Western Samoa, Danudirdjo Ashari of Indonesia, and Konstantin Nickolov Grigorov of Bulgaria.
The President has amended his February 10 declaration of a major disaster for Massachusets because of damage caused by coastal flooding, beginning about February 6, to include damage caused by high winds and tidal surge, beginning about February 6. In addition, this amendment also authorizes the provision of Federal assistance to individuals only, as authorized by Public Law 93-288, for damages resulting from snow and ice, beginning about February 6, in the eight counties previously designated as eligible for Federal assistance by the Administrator of the Federal Disaster Assistance Administration under the President's February 10 major disaster declaration.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of California as a result of severe storms, high tides, wave action, high winds, mudslides, and flooding, beginning about February 5, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
February 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan of Israel;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—a group of administration officials and 12 State Governors, to discuss steps that have been taken and can be taken to alleviate hardships resulting from a lack of settlement of the coal strike.
February 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance,
Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Samuel L. Evans, president of the American Foundation for Negro Affairs;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of Rhode Island as a result of snow and ice, beginning about February 6, for the purpose of implementing those programs of Federal agencies that provide assistance to individuals only, as authorized by the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, Public Law 93-288.
The President has declared a major disaster for the State of New Hampshire as a result of high winds, tidal surge, and coastal flooding, beginning about February 6, for the purpose of providing assistance to State and local governments and individuals. The President also determined that the damage resulting from snow and ice, beginning about February 6, is sufficient to warrant implementation of those programs of Federal agencies that provide assistance to individuals only, as authorized by the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, Public Law 93-288.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Maine as a result of high winds, tidal surge, and coastal flooding, beginning about February 7, for the purpose of providing assistance to State and local governments and individuals. The President also determined that the damage resulting from snow and ice, beginning about February 7, is sufficient to warrant implementation of those programs of Federal agencies that provide assistance to individuals only, as authorized by the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, Public Law 93-288.
The President left the White House for a trip to Rhode Island, Maine, and New Hampshire.
  