
    THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say, first of all, that it's a great pleasure and an honor for us to have you here today in the White House. I know that the history of black journalism in our country is a very fine and honorable one. And I had a chance to commemorate, I think, the 150th anniversary by greeting some of you in the Oval Office this past year.
MINORITY PROGRAMS
Very shortly I intend to send to the Congress a message, within the next week or two, extending the CETA program, so that we can focus roughly $13 billion worth of public service job money more narrowly on areas where it is needed. In addition to that, we'll add $400 million in private sector jobs.
This past year we had a substantial increase in employment among black Americans, I think about 6.7 percent, and among black teenagers, an increase of 7.8 percent. But that still leaves a tremendous unemployment rate, particularly among our young people.
We have plans in the 1979 budget to triple the amount of money devoted to the training and employment .of young minority teenagers, from roughly $776 million to about $2.3 billion. So, we are making steady progress, and many of the programs that we initiated with the help of the Congress in 1978 are just now beginning to have its full effect be observed.
In addition, we have passed our goal of having $100 million in Federal money deposited in minority-owned banks, and we will meet our goal of more than 10 percent of the local public works projects being devoted or assigned to minority businesses for completion.
I've instructed all executive agencies in the Federal Government to double in this and the next fiscal year the amount of purchases of equipment and supplies from black or minority-owned businesses.
And the last point that I wanted to make is that we will send to the Congress very shortly a complete reorganization of our civil rights agencies in the Federal Government. I think you'll have a chance this afternoon to meet with Eleanor Holmes Norton, who will be able to answer your questions more specifically about that.
We have a long way to go in our country in meeting the legitimate needs of citizens who have been deprived too long of equal employment opportunities, equal educational opportunities, and equal opportunities, once they establish, through their own initiative, a business, to be treated fairly by their own government. But we are making progress, and it's gratifying to me to be able to make this brief report to you.
And I hope that during the next months, as these programs become effective, Congress authorizes the appropriation of money—and I think we have an excellent chance to 'be successful—that you will help us by reporting to Bunny Mitchell or someone else in the White House or me directly if you see the need, any absence of completing the goals that I've described to you.
We have a good attitude in the Congress. The Congressional Black Caucus is very vocal, very well organized, very forceful. They help to inspire me to do a better job, and I think they will tell you that we have a good working relationship here.
I'll be glad to answer any questions that you might have about these or other matters for a few minutes. I've got to go at 1:30. I've got to meet with Foreign Minister Dayan, and I'd like to save enough time to get a photograph with you all, if you have no objection.
QUESTIONS
MINORITY PROGRAMS
Q. One quick question I have, Mr. President, is that in view of some of the programs you wish to put into effect, once it's seen that they are moving ahead or the timetable being so important, is it possible perhaps by Executive order to get some things rolling sooner?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, some of the things I've described to you are being done by Executive order. For instance, the increase in deposits in black banks—that was done by orders from me to my Cabinet members.
The doubling of purchases from blackowned suppliers of equipment and supplies was done by Executive order. We've had 10 percent built into the law as a target for black-owned contractors in public works projects for construction, ground preparation. The last report I got was we were exceeding that; we were at about 14 percent level. That's at Commerce Department.
And of course, the reorganization of the civil rights agencies in the Federal Government is done under the reorganization bill. I don't have to get a law passed. What I do is submit the reorganization plan to the Congress, and if they don't veto it, it goes into effect. It's kind of a combination Executive order, in other words.
Now, the tripling of money set aside for minority youth employment is a budget item, and that specific tripling of the money allotted for youth employment does have to be approved by the Congress.
Q. I was concerned about SBA [Small Business Administration] or OMBE [Office of Minority Business Enterprise].
THE PRESIDENT. The SBA, particularly Title 8-A program, is being done now by Vernon Weaver, who's the Administrator of that Agency. And I don't believe that we will be delayed because of congressional action. I think we can proceed with a greater number of reforms there to make sure that the present law is administered properly, which it really wasn't the last 8 years.
ENERGY EMERGENCY AND THE COAL STRIKE
Q. You're meeting with the Governors this afternoon, and I'm wondering what help you're going to be able to give to the State of Ohio, where the poor are really affected by the recent weather problems, the coal strike.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we were successful last night, as you know, in getting the coal operators and the mineworkers back to the negotiating table. They recommenced their negotiations this morning at 9:30 under the auspices of and with the help of the Secretary of Labor directly.
In the meantime, though, there are a lot of things we can do to prevent people from becoming unemployed. One is to transfer electric power from the surrounding areas into the 12 States that are most heavily impacted by cold weather and by heavy dependence upon coal.
Another thing that we can do is to transfer coal, either within States or across State lines, from one source of supply, where the inventory might be quite high, to another one, which is in danger of having to shut down an electric power production plant.
Another thing that we need to do is to make sure that any transfer of that kind in coal is done without violence to those who are trying to transport those supplies. And this is primarily a responsibility of the local and State officials. And, of course, we have to be sure that we, at the Federal level, give full support and coordination.
What I'll do this afternoon with the 12 Governors—the attendance will be a hundred percent because of the seriousness of the problem—is to exchange ideas and communications with them and set up a mechanism in the White House so that any particular problem that evolves in Ohio or Indiana, Pennsylvania, the others, can be addressed to me directly without delay.
We have some administrative action that can be taken. For instance, when coal is burned in complete compliance with environmental protection standards, it's only at about 96 percent of the efficiency than if it's burned and you emit some stack gases, because you can shut down the air scrubbers and get a little bit more power production per ton of coal. And during the 30-day energy emergency that I have declared, the Environmental Protection Agency can authorize the Governors to let coal be burned without the stack scrubbers that take about 4 percent of the power away. So, there are a few things we can do in this manner.
I think that we also have to prepare for the eventuality that I hope we never see, of a breakdown in the negotiations. And if we do have to invoke the Taft-Hartley Act—and I sincerely hope we will not-then the Federal courts, if they agree that an injunction is necessary, would get such an injunction, and it would require a little more attention then to law enforcement to make sure that there is no violence perpetrated against persons or property.
ADMINISTRATION ACCESSIBILITY; BLACK
REPORTERS; D.C. HOME RULE
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned for us to contact Bunny Mitchell. I've called her on several occasions, and I have several different people answering the phone. Does she have a staff, or, if not, would you see to it that she get a staff, inasmuch as she is going to be handling these problems?
Number two, we have correspondents here—and I don't know whether it's by omission or not—but we have a tendency, we don't have an opportunity for black reporters to participate in your press conferences. Very seldom are they given an opportunity to ask you a question.
And then the final question, I want to thank you on behalf of District employees, as far as coming out for home rule. How do you envision our getting full voting privileges here in our Nation's Capital? Do you have any predictions of what we could do?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first place, if you need to contact the White House itself, Bunny is the proper one to call. Or if there's a matter that relates to domestic affairs, to Stu Eizenstat; if a matter relates to employment opportunities, it would be the EEOC [Equal Employment Opportunity Commission]; and if it relates to transportation, obviously you'd call the Secretary of Transportation.
I don't mean that whatever problem comes up that you have to call the White House to get it done. I think the best approach would be for you to call the member of the Cabinet who's responsible for that particular function. And I hope that after today all of you will know at least fairly clearly which department has which responsibility. Obviously, housing and urban development would come under Pat Harris; the Commerce Department administers the local public works programs and the EDA programs, and that would be Juanita Kreps. Anything related to transportation would be Brock Adams; and anything related to health, education, and welfare, Joe Califano.
I think the first preference would be for you to go to the Cabinet. I should have made that clear.
Bunny is my staff person in the White House. I have seven senior staff members. She is one of the seven, and we have a very small staff support here at the White House. We don't have a Haldeman-Ehrlichman. You don't have to go through the White House to get to a person who's administering a specific program.
Since you live in the District, quite often your people will be Federal employees and might be complaining about equal employment opportunity. Eleanor Holmes Norton would be the one to contact directly on that.
If you don't get satisfaction though at the Cabinet level, then I would welcome you calling the White House directly.
The question about voting rights in the District we have endorsed this full representation for the District of Columbia. The hearings are now going on, I think, in the House Judiciary Committee. As you know, it would require a constitutional amendment to authorize the District of Columbia to be treated in the Congress as a State. The District of Columbia would not be a State, but it would have two Senators and the equivalent number of House Members, depending upon its population, which is growing.
We support this fully, and the members of my Cabinet, including the Attorney General, are testifying in favor of the need for this.
As far as the black reporters being recognized .at press conferences, I don't know many of the names of the reporters who serve on the White House press pool. I know we had a reception for them Christmas; we had, I think, 1,400 people who came. There are hundreds of them. And I try to do the best I can to spread the questions around. But one black reporter that I call on every now and then is Ed Bradley with CBS. And I try to spread my questions around.
Q. We'll give you the names of our black-owned newspapers. [Laughter] Ed Bradley is with CBS.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know.
Q. We are desirous, however, our black-oriented publications have an opportunity to ask our President a question.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that's a good idea.
Q. Thank you, sir.
HUMPHREY-HAWKINS BILL
Q. Mr. President, I think you should know there are 13 members of the National Association of Black Journalists here, and we took a poll last night of what we consider the most critical issue of crisis proportions facing the black people, and almost unanimously it was unemployment. And I'm asking you, are you sufficiently satisfied with the new version of the Humphrey-Hawkins bill that you will put all of your weight behind it, make it a top priority?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I am.
BAKKE CASE
Q. Mr. President, the corporate world seems to be standing still, awaiting the outcome of the Bakke case and—as far as their affirmative actions are concerned. Are you doing anything at the White House to deal with a favorable decision in this particular case, in the Bakke case?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, we filed a brief that was prepared by the Solicitor General, Mr. McCree, which I think is compatible with what you would have wanted. This is the White House position, because I personally approved the brief. I am not a lawyer. And the Attorney General filed it on behalf of me and the entire administration.
This case is in the Supreme Court, and, of course, it's a separation of powers. I don't have anything to do with the Supreme Court except to file a position, and then they rule on the ultimate case as far as Mr. Bakke is concerned.
So, I would say that now that it's in the hands of the Supreme Court and we have filed our position, that there's nothing additionally that we would do until after the Supreme Court rules.
When Ms. Norton comes in a few minutes—I think she's coming after me, Eleanor Holmes Norton—I think she could tell you in more specific terms what the entire Federal Government agencies are doing to ensure that we have equal employment opportunities, which does not just apply, by the way, to Federal employees. It applies to equal treatment and fair treatment in the private sector as well.
Under our reorganization plan, we'll try to bring together those functions, concentrated much more greatly under Ms. Norton. In the past, they've been spread in Commerce and Labor and HEW and other agencies. And so we're trying to focus them more clearly so that we can address them more effectively.
OHIO ENERGY EMERGENCY
Q. Back in Ohio, there's great fear from the mass layoff that was talked about yesterday, and we were wondering if there was any hope of the layoffs expected in the next 2 or 3 days, some of them have already started. So, we were wondering-this really affects the black community, and more for the babies, so we were wondering what, if anything, that we have to hope for, or whether or not there's any. thing that you can help in this area.
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I've declared Ohio not only a disaster area, to give help in matters of transporting energy materials, coal and oil and natural gas, but we've offered the services of the Federal agencies to help with the maintenance of law and order.
We've tried to bring the negotiators back to the table. And in addition, Ohio is one of the two States that I've declared an energy emergency area to let energy be burned more efficiently. I could answer your question better after I meet Governor Rhodes this afternoon. He will be here, and with the 11 other Governors, myself, Dr. Schlesinger, who heads up the Energy Department, and others, we'll share ideas on what we can do to minimize the damage that has already occurred and is rapidly building up among those who are employed.
I know that quite often when a plant has to lay off 10 percent of its workers or 15 percent of its workers, that the last ones hired are generally the ones laid off first, and quite often, because of the recent arrival of civil rights laws on the scene, the last ones hired are minority citizens and, in some instances, women.
But we'll be discussing this around the same table this afternoon with the 12 Governors and myself.
HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE UNITED STATES
Q. Mr. President, we know that you're very outspoken on human rights issues around the world. I'd like to know, really, what is your human rights policy for the United States—I'm thinking specifically of the Wilmington 10 case and seeing that that sort of thing is no longer allowed to continue.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously we deplore any sort of violation of human rights or civil rights in this country. And I think that the basic structure of our courts, although sometimes it seems a tedious process and the delays are excessively long, justice tends to triumph ultimately.
Our Justice Department, with the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, the Solicitor General, and others, has been very aggressive in trying to defend those who are the victims of the violation of civil rights.
I understand—well, the Wilmington 10 case has been entirely within the North Carolina courts. They have now filed, I think, a habeas corpus petition, and this will get the case into the Federal courts. Again, though, although I don't have any apology to make, I think our Founding Fathers were correct—once the case gets in the court, other than the filing of brief papers that the judges can assess, I don't have any authority over the courts themselves. But we try to search out instances like the Bakke case, where we didn't have to intervene and filed a brief on behalf of the proper administration of civil rights.
As you know, the judge in North Carolina-I'm not familiar with the details of the case—has made a ruling, which many people think is not adequate, some think it went too far, that will let almost all the imprisoned people be eligible for parole this year. And in the meantime, though, the Federal courts are just now taking under advisement their habeas corpus petition.
MINORITY OWNERSHIP IN BROADCASTING
Q. Mr. President, secretary of National Association of Black-Owned Broadcasters, and I have several other members of the board sitting here with me from Savannah, all the way to New York City. We would like to thank you and your staff for your efforts in supporting minority ownership in broadcasting in the United States. However, we have a major problem confronting us in not having the enabling legislation to make the proper funds available so that we can procure these facilities and would like to know what your plans are so far as MESBIC [Minority Enterprise Small Business Investment Companies] and SBA loans are concerned.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first place, our administration over this past year has been very concerned about the difficulty of black citizens and other minority groups in trying to acquire ownership of the electronic media. And on behalf of the minority citizens of our country, we have now filed a petition directly with the Federal Communications Commission, as you know, and I have sent a message to Congress-and Walt Wurfel or somebody can get you a copy of it—expressing to Congress the need to ensure that in the future black citizens and black citizens' groups can acquire ownership and control of the electronic media, both television and radio.
And now over a longer period of time, the Congress will evolve and pass legislation. In the meantime, though, we are moving as aggressively as possible with the FCC under a Justice Department petition filed on my behalf to expedite the process.
So, you really have a two-phase effort. One is the Federal Communications Commission taking action under its existing authority, and the other one is the message to Congress that will, in the long run, bring about legislation, perhaps.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
Q. One more question.
THE PRESIDENT. Just this question and I really have got to be on time for the next meeting.
SELECTION OF FEDERAL JUDGES; ETHIOPIA-SOMALIA CONFLICT
Q. Just two quick ones. One, I'm from Philadelphia; the Marston affair is still in the news. The question is, did you or Mr. Bell meet with Senator Eastland anytime after your election and agree to take the selection of Federal judges out of the patronage process, but leave the selection of U.S. attorneys in the patronage process?
And the second question is, what do you plan to do about the situation regarding Ethiopia and Sorealia? Will there be any transfer of arms to Somalia directly or indirectly, perhaps from Iran?
THE PRESIDENT. I met with Senator Eastland at the Governor's mansion in Georgia after I was elected. And we dis. cussed with him my desire to have Federal judges appointed on a merit system basis.
He pointed out to us what we already knew, and that is that historically, the United States Senators in States had been the ones to put forward names of judges to be appointed. We informed Senator Eastland that the circuit judges, the ones that come from several States, that we would set up immediately, when I became President, screening committees to make sure that they gave me the names of the five most qualified people before I made the selection.
We now have a screening commission set up in every one of the circuits in the Nation. Neither Senator Eastland nor I have the authority to remove, against their will, the historical right of Senators to participate in the district judgeships. But we have encouraged the Members of the Senate—I've written handwritten letters to every Democratic Senator—to do so, and I think now in 18 States, these merit selection commissions have already been set up.
There was never any discussion at all about U.S. attorneys.
And the other question is, we don't intend to send arms to either side. We've called on Somalia to withdraw from Ethiopian territory, out of the Ogaden area.
The Somali Government position, you know, is that these are not Somali troops, but they are independent groups who went in to protect citizens of Somali heritage who lived in Ethiopia.
And we've also let Ethiopia know that we would consider it a very serious breach of peace, endangering even worldwide peace, if they should cross the Somali border in their counterattack.
I have hopes that this will not be the case, and we hope also that the OAU, the Organization of African Unity, will play a more forceful role in bringing Ethiopia and Sorealia together.
The Ethiopians said they will not negotiate until Somalia is off their territory and the Somalis are willing to negotiate on what to do about the Ogaden area. But we do not intend to send weapons to Somalia or Ethiopia.
Well, let me thank you. We covered a lot of points.
  