
    "The last thing President Obama and his team want to do is face Mitt Romney in the general election. Their factually false television ad proves they are more focused on Mitt Romney than they are on getting Michiganders back to work. President Obama is desperate to hold onto power."  —Amanda Henneberg, Romney Spokesperson
For Three Years, President Obama Has Presided Over Failed Economic Policies And Record Unemployment Levels:
Despite The President's Trillion-Dollar Stimulus, The Country Has Had 36 Straight Months Of Unemployment Above 8%: The jobless rate has been above 8% since February 2009, a thirty-six month span unequaled in recorded history. (Bureau of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 2/16/12)


    "The Congressional Budget Office Is Projecting Unemployment Of More Than 8% Throughout This Election Year And Into 2014." (David Jackson, "CBO Projects 8%-Plus Unemployment Into 2014," USA Today, 2/16/12)
  



    Michigan's Unemployment Rate Is Currently 9.3%. (U.S. Bureau Of Labor Statistics Website, www.bls.gov, Accessed 2/23/12)
  

The United States Is Currently Experiencing The Highest Level Of Long-Term Unemployment In Recorded History: Since December 2009, more than 40% of jobless workers have been unemployed for six months or longer, the highest level in recorded history. (Bureau of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 2/16/12)
President Obama Has Projected The "Fourth Straight Year Of Deficits Over $1 Trillion." "Obama's budget projects that the deficit for the current year will total $1.33 trillion, the fourth straight year of deficits over $1 trillion." ("Highlights Of Obama's $3.8 Trillion Budget," The Associated Press, 2/14/12)
Last Fall, President Obama Proposed "One Of The Biggest Tax Increases In History." "President Obama unveiled part two of his American Jobs Act on Monday, and it turns out to be another permanent increase in taxes to pay for more spending and another temporary tax cut. No surprise there. What might surprise Americans, however, is how the President is setting up the U.S. economy for one of the biggest tax increases in history in 2013." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," The Wall Street Journal, 9/14/11)


    Yesterday, President Obama Proposed $250 Billion In Additional Tax Increases On Businesses And Job Creators. "The broad parameters of Obama's plan include lowering the effective tax rate -- the real amount corporations pay after tax breaks are deducted -- to no more than 25%, down from the current 32%. But the package would seek to raise $250 billion more from corporations over the next 10 years." (Jim Puzzanghera, "Obama Wants To Cut Corporate Tax Rate To 28% As Part Of Overhaul," Los Angeles Times, 2/22/12)
  

Governor Romney Has Consistently Called For A Process That Would Have Lifted Up Auto Companies, But Avoided Bailouts:
Governor Romney Has Consistently Supported A Process That Would Have Rescued The Auto Companies, But Avoided A Taxpayer-Funded Bailout Of Tens Of Billions Of Dollars. ROMNEY: "I think they wanted $50 billion. And I wrote an Op-Ed in the paper and I said, absolutely not. Do not write a check for $50 billion. These companies need to go through a managed bankruptcy, just like airlines have, just like other industries have. Go through a managed bankruptcy" (Mitt Romney, Remarks At CNN Republican Presidential Debate, Mesa, AZ, 2/22/12)
Governor Romney: "No Way Would We Allow The Auto Industry In America To Totally Implode And Disappear." ROMNEY: "No way would we allow the auto industry in America to totally implode and disappear. That was my view. Go through bankruptcy. When that happens, then the market can help lift them out." (Mitt Romney, Remarks At CNN Republican Presidential Debate, Mesa, AZ, 2/22/12)
The New York Times Has Confirmed That Governor Romney Did Not Write And Did Not Approve Of The "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt" Headline. "There's just one small thing to consider: Mitt Romney didn't write the headline. ... After Democrats harangued Romney for his anti-bailout stance last week, sources at the New York Times confirmed for RCP that an editor at the Gray Lady chose 'Let Detroit Go Bankrupt.' What's more, Romney and his team never got a chance to see or approve of it before publication." (Erin McPike, ""Bankrupt" Headline: An Unfair Albatross For Romney?," Real Clear Politics, 2/21/12)
  