
    SAN DIEGO — U.S. Representative Juan Vargas (CA-51) today endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg, praising Mike's vision for putting America on the right path forward, his record of taking on the gun lobby and comprehensive gun safety policy proposals, and his ability to defeat Donald Trump in November.
"We cannot sit idly by while Americans continue to fall victim to gun violence," said Congressman Juan Vargas. "We need a leader in the White House who is willing to work constructively with the Senate to pass gun violence prevention legislation – and that is not Donald Trump. Mike Bloomberg has made gun safety a top priority and has fought tirelessly to keep guns out of the wrong hands – for that and his ability to beat Trump, Mike has my vote. I look forward to working with Mike as our next president on combating this devastating national crisis."
"Every day, 100 Americans are killed with guns and hundreds more are injured, while President Trump does nothing but bow down to the NRA," said Mike Bloomberg. "Rep. Vargas knows how urgent this issue is and has been a leading voice for gun safety. As president, I will work with Rep. Vargas to enact common sense laws — like background checks for all gun sales — that protect our children and communities. And together, we will get it done."
Representing California's 51st Congressional District, Congressman Vargas was first elected in with over 70 percent of the vote, the highest in both San Diego and Imperial counties. Currently serving his fourth term in Congress, Vargas serves on the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Vargas previously served on the San Diego City Council where he assumed a leadership role in planning, funding, and advocating for public safety, municipal infrastructure and schools. During his seven-year tenure on the San Diego City Council, Vargas helped establish community-based policing, which has become a national model, fought tobacco advertising directed at children, and helped create the City of San Diego' s 6-to-6 after-school program. Before this, he was a member of the California State Assembly, representing the 79th Assembly District and appointed Assistant Majority Leader in his first year.
  