
    NEW YORK — During his tenure as mayor, Mike Bloomberg led New York in becoming one of the most progressive cities in the country. Mike pioneered New York through a new era of progress and prosperity – writing one of the great comeback stories in American history following the destruction of 9/11.
Unlike other candidates on the stage who talk about their support for Democratic causes, Mike has a proven record of action:

He turned around a broken school system.
He drove down crime to record lows, took on the scourge of illegal guns, and reduced incarceration.
He spurred economic growth that led to the creation of nearly 500,000 new jobs.
He introduced anti-poverty programs that became national models.
He created new parks, invested in arts and cultural organizations and pioneered ambitious public health initiatives, including a ban on smoking in all indoor workplaces.
He launched policies that raised air quality to the highest levels in fifty years and increased average life expectancy for New Yorkers by three years.
He injected new opportunity into neighborhoods that had been left behind.
He made major investments in new mass transit and other critical infrastructure.
He led the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site, the creation of the 9/11 Memorial and Museum, and the revitalization of Lower Manhattan – which today has more residents, businesses, and visitors than ever before.

Since leaving City Hall, Mike has continued to build on the work he began as mayor, and he has shared his results-oriented approach to management with other mayors around the country. Through Bloomberg Philanthropies, Mike has worked to increase the number of low- and middle-income students who attend top colleges.
Everytown for Gun Safety, the gun safety group Mike co-founded, has fought and won time and again, including for laws requiring background checks on all gun sales (in states like Vermont), ensuring domestic abusers can't access guns (in states like Minnesota), and enabling family members to intervene when a person poses an extreme risk to themselves or others (in states like Colorado). And he has led the charge against climate change. In partnership with the Sierra Club, Mike is working to close half the nation's coal-fired power plants and working to advance the country's clean energy market.
  