
    Good morning. Recently, I had the honor of welcoming Coretta Scott King and her children to the White House to observe Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday. Shortly after the holiday I visited the school that young Dr. King attended in Atlanta, Booker T. Washington High School. It was a moving experience to see the place where this great American began his life of learning.
February is Black History Month, a time of learning for all of us. Ever since the historian and educator Carter Woodson put Black history on the calendar back in 1926, February has been a time to reflect on the contributions of African Americans and the need to remember and celebrate all of our history.
Nobody can understand this country without understanding the African American experience. It began when America began. And throughout our history, the experience of Black Americans has challenged every American to live up to the best ideals of our country: freedom, equality, and justice.
We have come far, and we have a way yet to go. But our goal is the same goal that Dr. King set for us, to be one people in fact as well as in name. And one way to realize this goal is the same way that Carter Woodson showed us, education.
Education is the beginning of opportunity. Through the historic education reform bill I recently signed, we are returning high standards and accountability to all our public schools. And my administration strongly supports the work and the mission of our historically Black colleges and universities.
My first budget pledged a 30 percent increase over 4 years and Federal support for historically Black colleges and universities and Hispanic-serving institutions. And my new budget, even in a time of recession and war, keeps us on track to reach that target. These are schools like Morehouse College in Atlanta, where Dr. King earned his first degree, schools like Howard University in Washington, DC, where Carter Woodson was dean of the College of Liberal Arts.
Our historically Black colleges and universities opened the door to knowledge when other doors were barred. And today, they offer exciting opportunities to young people to contribute to their country.
February is a month rich in important anniversaries. It is the month in which Abraham Lincoln and Frederick Douglass were born, two men, very different, who together ended slavery. It is the month of the birth of W.E.B. DuBois, whose eloquent histories opened our country's eyes to its own past and possibilities, and of the birth of Rosa Parks, who courageously refused to yield to injustice on a Montgomery, Alabama, bus.
Today, we are fighting for freedom in a new way and on new battlefields. And we continue to press for equal opportunity for every American here at home. We want every American to be educated up to his or her full potential. We salute the accomplishments of our historically Black colleges and universities. And I hope all Americans will draw inspiration from the message of Black History Month.
Thank you for listening.
  