
    Principal Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on ABC's This Week: "At some point, we get to a place where we have got to move on and start focusing on the things that the American people care about."
SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS: "I think the real easy answer here is that the FBI has already said this story is B.S. Those are their words, so I apologize to my mom. But literally those are the words of the FBI, that the story is B.S. They came to us, they approached us. We're putting that story out there. I think the American people deserve to know the truth and that's exactly what it is, that there's nothing here. Just because reporters say something over and over and over again doesn't start to make it true. At some point, we get to a place where we have got to move on and start focusing on the things that the American people care about and I don't think this is it. We've talked about it time and time and time again, asked and answered. Let's move forward. Let's start talking about the economy. Let's talk about education. Let's talk about border security. Let's talk about national security. That's what's keeping most Americans up at night. That's what they want us focused on and that's what this Administration is doing day in and day out."
Sanders: "Even Democrats will admit Obamacare is simply not sustainable. It's collapsing under itself."
SANDERS: "What I know that the President can promise is exactly what he's been saying. . . . This is not just a repeal program, [and] we absolutely have to repeal it but replace it with something that's better. George, even Democrats will admit Obamacare is simply not sustainable. It's collapsing under itself. It cannot maintain the track we're on. We have to make big changes. I think both Republicans and Democrats agree with that. This was a program that was shoved through with so many problems and we're still every day finding out new problems [with] this program. We know that we can't just repeal it and not do anything else. We have to repeal it, and we have to replace it with something better. That's what this President is committed to doing and that's exactly what we're working to do."
Sanders: "This was a President who campaigned on speaking directly to Americans and that's exactly what he's going to spend his time doing."
SANDERS: "George, I think it's pretty safe to say, I think we all spend enough time around each other as it is. But look, this wasn't a President who was elected to spend his time with reporters and celebrities. This was a President who campaigned on speaking directly to Americans and that's exactly what he's going to spend his time doing. I think it's kind of naive of us to think we can all walk into a room for a couple of hours and pretend that some of that tension isn't there. You know, one of the things we say in the south: 'if a girl scout egged your house, would you buy cookies from her?' I think this is a pretty similar scenario. There's no reason for him to go in and sit and pretend like this is going to be just another Saturday night. I think he's very focused on protecting our borders, national security, growing our economy, and instead of going and spending a night doing that, I think he'll spend the night focused on what he can do to better America."
  