
    Pool Reports by Shelby Talcott, The Daily Caller 



Sent:
Reports:




February 14, 202212:33

FLOTUS Pool Report #1: Gathering + Background 
Good afternoon,
I'll be your pooler for this afternoon's FLOTUS event at the White House. Your pooler has been COVID tested, and we are gathering to join FLOTUS and second graders for the Valentine's Day event.
Below is some background from the White House on today's event:
In celebration of Valentine's Day, the First Lady's Valentine to the country will be installed overnight on the North Lawn of the White House. The installation consists of hand-painted wooden artwork in the shapes of the Bidens' puppy, Commander, and cat, Willow. There is also a heart cut-out inscribed with 1 Corinthians 13:13 "Three things will last forever - faith, hope, and love - and the greatest of these is love." Inside the White House, Dr. Biden also features "heart-work" from the second-grade classes of the Washington, DC 2021 Teacher of the Year, Mr. Alejandro Diasgranados, of Aiton Elementary School. The students' "heart-work" is displayed in the East Wing.
Twenty second-grade students, Mr. Alejandro Diasgranados, and 2-3 chaperones will come to the White House and receive a tour on Monday afternoon – including stops in the Diplomatic Reception Room, China Room, Vermeil Room, Library, East Room, Green Room, Red Room, and State Dining Room. In addition, the First Lady will bring the second graders outside to see the Valentine's Day installation on the North Lawn.
Coverage of the student's arrival at the South Portico, their stop to the north lawn, and their visit to the East Wing with the First Lady will be pooled. Pool should plan to gather outside the Palm Room at Noon.
BACKGROUND ON THE "HEART-WORK"Both of Mr. Diasgranados' second grade classes designed two Valentine's Day hearts using a template and instructions provided by the Office of the First Lady. A group of 21 students participated in the art activity and created 42 total hearts that will be on display in the East Landing on Valentine's Day. Many of Mr. Diasgranados' second grade students have never been to the White House and are excited to have their "heart-work" on display in the East Wing.
Each student was asked to use the following words, reflecting the First Lady's values, to guide their Valentine's Day heart designs:

Compassion
Courage
Family
Gratitude
Healing
Hope
Kindness
Love
Peace
Strength
Unity

Mr. Alejandro Diasgranados currently teaches two second grade classes at Aiton Elementary School, located in Ward 7 of the District of Columbia. Dr. Biden previously met Mr. Diasgranados when she, President Biden, and U.S. Department of Education Secretary Miguel Cardona hosted the Council of Chief State School Officers' (CCSSO) 2020 and 2021 State and National Teachers of the Year at the White House on October 18, 2021.


February 14, 202212:55

FLOTUS Pool Report #2: Second-Graders Arrive 
Pool walked out to the South Portico at 12:26pm. The school bus rolled up at 12:36pm. A loud round of cheers could be heard from the school children upon pulling up, and your pooler very briefly caught a glimpse of (and heard) Commander behind a tree.
The children exited the bus at 12:38pm, masked and wearing coats on this chilly February afternoon.
"That's the paparazzi!" One young boy shouted as he pointed at the press. An aide was there to meet each child and asked if they were excited about coming to the White House.
The children finished entering the White House at 12:39pm. Commander barked a few more times as they entered. We have not seen FLOTUS yet, and are meeting back up with the group in a little bit.
In the meantime, pool has returned to the press area.



February 14, 202213:34

FLOTUS Pool Report #3: FLOTUS WH Decorations 
Pool re-gathered at 1:15pm. The second-graders have been touring parts of the White House, according to the background guidance passed along earlier.
Pool walked to the North Portico area at 1:16pmto await FLOTUS exiting the WH, but moved to Pebble Beach shortly after to set up in front of the giant Valentine's Day decoration.
(The decoration is a big, red heart that says: "Three things will last forever - faith, hope & love - and the greatest of these is love — 1 CORINTHIANS 13:13. On one side of the heart sits a giant cut-out painting of Commander. On the other, a giant cut-out painting of Willow).
FLOTUS walked down from the WH at 1:22 pm, wearing a light pink mask and a light pink coat. She held two of the children's hands, and the others followed.
FLOTUS told the school children she wanted to show them the decoration and highlighted the images of her pets. She had one of the children read out the phrase on the heart for the rest of the group.
"Yes, love! Can we get a picture?" FLOTUS said before posing with all the kids in front of the decoration.
"Wave to the press!" She said as all of the children shouted, "Happy Valentine's Day!!"
Dr. Biden was asked where she got the corsage, seen on her wrist.
"It was a gift from Joe, for Valentine's Day," she said.
Pool is now on the move, adjacent to FLOTUS and the children.
"See you later, paparazzi!" One of the children yelled at the press as he waved.



February 14, 202214:00

FLOTUS Pool Report #4: FLOTUS, Children Decorations 
Pool entered the WH at 1:28pm, just in time to see the school children and FLOTUS walk down to the East Landing.
FLOTUS stopped to show the children some photographs hanging on the wall before ushering the group into the movie theatre (pool is stationed down at the end of the hallway, waiting).
There are some Valentine's decorations inside the WH as well — the East Landing features hearts set up on the edges of a big window that say "HEALING, Love Jill" "LOVE" and "hope."
Paper hearts decorated by the second-graders are hanging down the window.
"Let's look at the hearts!" FLOTUS said as she walked to the area with the decorations. She ignored a question about what message she has for military families involved in the Ukraine crisis.
The children were very excited to see their decorations featured at the White House. FLOTUS chatted with them but your pooler couldn't hear specific conversations over the children chatting.
One child turned and waved excitedly to the press as others examined their artwork.
Pool was ushered away at 1:34pm as FLOTUS appeared to be posing with the kids for another photo. We exited through the Jackie Kennedy garden and are now back to where the school bus parked, waiting for the children to come back out.



February 14, 202214:02

FLOTUS Pool Report #5: Children Depart WH 
Your pooler could hear the chattering of children as the press waited for the group to exit the WH.
They did so at 1:39pm and FLOTUS walked to an aide holding a basket of Valentine's Day treats.
"Cookie!!!" Some of the children exclaimed excitedly as FLOTUS handed out the treats to everyone.
"Happy Valentine's Day!!!" One of the children told the press.
There was a brief debate by an adult present over whether the children were supposed to have one or two cookies and it appeared at least some of the children got two cookies (based on the exchange).
FLOTUS said she would give the leftover cookies to the teachers, suggesting perhaps they will be given out as prizes for correct answers.
"Thank you, Dr Biden!!!!" All of the children shouted in unison after an adult suggested a thank you was in order.
The children began re-boarding the school bus at 1:42pm as FLOTUS took a photograph with and chatted with one of the adults (presumably a teacher).
FLOTUS wished the adult a happy Valentine's Day, gave him a hug and apologized for giving the children so much sugar. She stayed outside and waved after boarding completed.
Pool left at 1:44pm and did not see FLOTUS head back into the WH or the school bus leave. That's all from me today, stay warm!




  