
    Gingrich says it's time to stop bowing, start drilling
Atlanta, GA — Newt 2012 announced today a new "Drill Here, Drill Now" Facebook petition to highlight the soaring cost of gasoline under the Obama administration and Gingrich's plan to lower gas prices to $2.50 per gallon. Americans can sign the Facebook petition here.
"The Obama administration's ideological refusal to expand American energy production continues to block the development of resources which could lower gasoline prices dramatically," said Newt Gingrich. "As we saw most recently with the administration's rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline, the president is more interested in playing favorites with environmental extremists rather than embracing the ‘all-of-the-above' strategy that could achieve energy independence and help all Americans now."
The Facebook petition asks the American people to send a message to President Obama that there are immediate steps we can take to increase American energy production and reduce the price of gasoline.
The petition reads as follows:
We the undersigned petition President Obama to act immediately to lower gasoline, diesel, and other energy prices and reduce our dependence on overseas energy sources from unstable countries by enacting Newt Gingrich's plan to lower gas prices to $2.50 per gallon, including the immediate authorization of the Keystone XL pipeline and aggressive development of more North American oil and natural gas.

"$2.50 a gallon gas is not a dream. It's achievable with the right policies, and that starts with a president who will stop bowing and start drilling," Gingrich continued. "If we take the right steps, we can quickly and dramatically reduce the price of gas by tapping America's incredible oil and gas resources to increase supply."
The campaign also released updated language for Plank 3 of Newt's 21st Century Contract with America, which focuses on increasing energy production.
Gingrich first coined the phrase "Drill Here, Drill Now, Pay Less" back in 2008 when gas prices reached $4.00 per gallon, launching a nationwide movement calling for the production of more American energy.
  