
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
February 21
In the afternoon, the President met with his foreign policy team to discuss the situation in Iraq. In the evening, he and Hillary Clinton attended an NBA basketball game at the MCI Center.
February 23
The President announced that Federal disaster aid was made available to the victims of tornadoes in central Florida. In addition, Federal aid was made available for families and businesses in 11 central Florida counties struck by earlier storms.
February 24
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael J. Copps to be Assistant Secretary for Trade Development at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to nominate Deidre A. Lee to serve as Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy at the Office of Management and Budget.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ruth Y. Goldway to serve as Commissioner on the Postal Rate Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate William C. Apgar to be Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sue Bailey to be Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs at the Department of Defense.
The President announced his intention to appoint Warren B. Rudman as Chair of the Special Oversight Board for Department of Defense Investigations of Gulf War Chemical and Biological Incidents.
February 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Kissimmee, FL, and in the afternoon, he traveled to San Francisco, CA.
February 26
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oakland, CA. Later, he traveled to Salt Lake City, UT.
The President announced his intention to nominate Q. Todd Dickinson to be Deputy Assistant Secretary and Deputy Commissioner of the Patent and Trademark Office at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced that four additional California counties, hard hit by torrential rain, are eligible for Federal disaster assistance.
February 27
The President announced his intention to appoint Michael Lewan as member and Chair and Edgar Gluck as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
  