
    Note: "In Saturday's Republican presidential primary, voters committed to changing how their federal government functions should ignore the blather of candidates without real credentials to lead the country. Instead, voters should choose Ohio Gov. John Kasich and his actual record of improving federal and state governments."
The State
Columbia, SC
This election cycle has certainly proven that millions of Americans are frustrated with their federal government.
That's understandable, given the gridlock and hyper-partisanship that blanket nearly every issue connected to Washington. The good news is that South Carolinians this week have a special opportunity to help fix the problem.
In Saturday's Republican presidential primary, voters committed to changing how their federal government functions should ignore the blather of candidates without real credentials to lead the country. Instead, voters should choose Ohio Gov. John Kasich and his actual record of improving federal and state governments.
Mr. Kasich is a pragmatic leader with experience as a congressman and governor. He was mostly successful in both jobs, playing a key role in balancing the federal budget and in turning Ohio's state budget to a surplus from a deficit.
He understands the fundamental lesson we all learned as children and that we teach our children now: Accomplishments only come from working with others.
——
Mr. Kasich, 63, is in his second term as Ohio governor. Under his leadership, the state budget's projected $8 billion deficit was transformed into a $2 billion surplus. The unemployment rate has fallen to less than 5 percent (4.6 in December) from more than 9 percent. Taxes have been cut, and new industry has moved into the state.
That record alone is impressive. But Gov. Kasich stands out even more because of his leadership approach.
In a meeting with The State's editorial board, he said the country's welfare is more important than adhering to Republican Party ideology. "The party is my vehicle," he said, "not my master."
That view is important because the public has too often been hurt by partisanship that paralyzes government, wastes time or blocks meaningful improvements.
——
A president's leadership skills can't begin and end with insults, bullying and firing people. His or her skills must include diplomacy, toughness, listening and convincing.
On Saturday, South Carolinians can vote for candidates who are angry and scream for change. Or voters can choose John Kasich, a candidate whose leadership approach has delivered results.
To read the full article, click here.
  