
    Endorsement Comes on Heels of Resounding Victories in Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C.
Austin, TX - The day after resounding victories in Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C., the Obama Campaign today announced the endorsement of Ed Garza, former mayor of San Antonio and the second Hispanic mayor of San Antonio.
"Senator Obama's unique ability to bring people together and bridge partisan divides make him the best candidate to bring change we can believe in," Ed Garza said. "He is the only candidate to rise above partisan rhetoric with a sincere desire for American unity. He understands the challenges our country faces, and as President he will bring an honest and strong value system to the decision making process."
Last night, Senator Obama won Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C. by large margins. In Virginia, he won voters of all ages and races; education and income levels; and voters in urban, rural, and suburban areas. Obama won among women and Hispanic voters and has now won the Hispanic vote in four states.
Former mayor Ed Garza was elected in May of 2001 and served the maximum two terms as mayor. As San Antonio's second Hispanic mayor in modern times, Garza became the city's youngest mayor at the age of 32. In a historic campaign, Garza received a cross section of support from all geographic, political and cultural sectors of the city.
"We are proud to have the support of Ed Garza as we continue to build our grassroots movement to change politics in Washington, D.C.," Senator Obama said. "Ed will play a key role in reaching out to Texans about our campaign's vision to unite our country and turn the page on the failed economic and foreign policies of the past."
This week the Obama Campaign received the endorsements of U.S. Congressman Charlie Gonzalez and State Representative Trey Fischer Martinez. The campaign also began airing a Spanish-language radio ad which will run in San Antonio, Harlingen, Corpus Christi, Laredo, Dallas, Houston, Austin, and El Paso. The ad highlights Barack Obama's decision to pass up a high-paying job after graduating from college and work in the community to help families hurt by plant closings. It highlights his ability to bring the country together, stand up to the special interests in Washington, DC and build a better future for families across the country.
  