
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, U.S. Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) endorsed Governor Mitt Romney for President of the United States. Congressman Bishop joins Senators Bob Bennett and Orrin Hatch and Congressman Chris Cannon in support of Governor Romney.
Joining Romney for President, Congressman Bishop said, "Of all the viable candidates running for president, Governor Romney is the only one who talks about the significant role that state and local governments play in solving people's problems. Everyone else talks about expanding the role of the federal government. Governor Romney is the only candidate with executive and administrative experience."
Making today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "It is an honor to have Congressman Bishop as part of our team. He knows how important quality educations are for our children to be able to compete in the face of a new generation of challenges. Congressman Bishop will be an important voice in our campaign for conservative change, Western issues and improving education."
Background On Congressman Rob Bishop:
Congressman Rob Bishop Represents Utah's First Congressional District In The U.S. Congress. Congressman Bishop was elected to Congress in 2002. He currently serves on the Armed Services Committee, the Committee on Natural Resources and the Education and Labor Committee. He is also the Ranking Republican Member on the Parks and Public Lands Subcommittee. Congressman Bishop currently serves as a Vice Chair of the House GOP Policy Committee and is the Outreach and Communications Chair for the Congressional Western Caucus.
Congressman Bishop has dedicated his life to teaching. He started teaching at Box Elder High School in Brigham City in 1974. From 1980 through 1985, he taught German and coached debate at Ben Lomond High School in Ogden, Utah. Before retiring in December of 2002, he returned to Box Elder and taught advanced placement courses in government and U.S. History, while serving as the Chair of the History Department.
Prior to his Congressional service, Congressman Bishop represented his community in the State Legislature for 16 years. His last two years he was unanimously elected to serve as Speaker of the House. He also co-founded the Western States Coalition, an organization dedicated to protecting states' rights and promoting Western interests and values.
Congressman Bishop is married to Jeralynn Hansen, a former Miss Brigham City. They have five children.
  