
    The President today announced the following appointments to the White House staff:
DOUGLAS HURON, to be Associate Counsel to the President;
RICHARD HUTCHESON, to be Staff Secretary;
BRUCE KIRSCHENBAUM, to be Associate Assistant for Intergovernmental Relations; MARGARET McKENNA, to be Deputy Counsel to the President; and
MARK SIEGEL, to be Deputy Assistant to the President for Policy Analysis.
Huron was 'born December 28, 1945, in Highland Park, Mich. He received a B.A. from Swarthmore College in 1967 and a J.D. from the University of Chicago Law School in 1970.
From 1970 through early 1976, Huron worked in the Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department, where he prosecuted cases of employment discrimination. In April 1976, he resigned from the Justice Department to work for the Carter campaign. In the general election, he served as counsel to the Carter-Mondale campaign, where he was responsible for ensuring compliance with Federal election laws.
Hutcheson will be responsible for organizing the paper flow to and from the President; for seeing that all communications going to the President are appropriately staffed; and 'for following up on the President's comments on the material he has read.
Hutcheson was delegate selection coordinator for the Carter campaign during the primaries, and directed the Carter floor operation at the 1976 Democratic National Convention. During the general election campaign, he was national campaign coordinator, responsible for relating the polling, scheduling, and field office operations to one another.
In 1974 he was assistant to the director of political research at the Democratic National Committee. He received an M.A. in political science from the University of California at Berkeley in 1974 and a B.A. with highest honors from Swarthmore College in 1973. He was born January 23, 1951, in Yorktown, Va.
Kirschenbaum was born January 31, 1945, in New York City, and grew up there and in Harrison, N.Y. He is a graduate of Syracuse University and Columbia University Law School.
Prior to joining the Carter transition staff in August 1976, Kirschenbaum served as director of New York City's Washington office. Other positions included director of the Washington office of the National Legal Aid and Defender Association, staff attorney at the Office of Economic Opportunity, and legislative assistant to Senator Jacob Javits. Kirschenbaum resides in Reston, Va.
McKenna is a native of Providence, R.I., born June 3, 1945. She served as Rhode Island State coordinator for the Carter-Mondale campaign, and was formerly assistant to the director of the Office of Revenue Sharing of the Treasury Department.
From 1974 to 1976, she was executive director of the International Association of Official Human Rights Agencies. prior to that she was a trial attorney in the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice.
McKenna is a graduate of Emmanuel College in Boston. She attended Boston College Law School and graduated from Southern Methodist University Law School in Dallas, Tex. She has taught at SMU Law School and the University of Oklahoma Graduate School of Human Relations.
Siegel will work with Hamilton Jordan. He served as executive director of the Democratic National Committee from 1975 to 1977, and before that was executive officer of the national committee coordinating the party's reform efforts.
He was born December 23, 1946, in Brooklyn, N.Y., and is a graduate of Brooklyn College of the City University of New York. He holds a master's degree and doctorate in political science from Northwestern University.
A former American Political Science Association Congressional Fellow, he has served as an assistant professor of political science at Loyola University of Chicago, legislative assistant for domestic affairs to Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, elementary schoolteacher in the New York City school system, and with the Office of Economic Opportunity's Northeast Regional Headstart and Community Action components. He resides in Silver Spring, Md.
  