
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Saritha Komatireddy of New York, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Saritha Komatireddy is Deputy Chief of General Crimes in the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York. She has also served as Acting Deputy Chief of International Narcotics and Money Laundering, and as the Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property Coordinator for the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York. Ms. Komatireddy also previously served as Counsel to the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling, and was in private practice at Kellogg, Hansen, Todd, Figel & Frederick, PLLC. Ms. Komatireddy is a Lecturer in Law at Columbia Law School and previously taught at George Washington University Law School. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Komatireddy served as a law clerk to then-Judge Brett Kavanaugh of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Ms. Komatireddy earned her B.A.,cum laude, from Harvard University and her J.D., magna cum laude, from Harvard Law School, where she served on the Harvard Law Review.
Jennifer H. Rearden of New York, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Jennifer Rearden is a Partner in the Litigation and Crisis Management practice groups at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, LLP in New York, New York, where she has litigated complex commercial cases before United States District Courts and State courts throughout the country. Prior to joining Gibson Dunn in 2003, Ms. Rearden practiced at Davis, Polk & Wardwell, LLP and in the Atlanta office of King & Spalding, LLP. Ms. Rearden earned her B.A., magna cum laude, from Yale University and her J.D. from New York University School of Law, where she served as Article & Note Editor of the Journal of International Law & Politics. 
Tyreece L. Miller of Tennessee, to serve as United States Marshal for the Western District of Tennessee.
Tyreece Miller is the Deputy Chief–Commander of Police Patrol Operations in the Jackson Tennessee Police Department, where he has served for more than 22 years. Mr. Miller began his career with the Jackson Police Department in 1997 and held various positions before assuming his current role, including Investigator, Sergeant, Captain of the Criminal Investigation Division, and Deputy Chief-Commander of the Investigative Services Bureau. Before his law enforcement career, Mr. Miller served in the United States Marine Corps. Mr. Miller earned his B.S. from Bethel University.
  