
    
  Hails Dr. Paul's call to restore the Republic

BELLEVUE, Washington — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by the Spokane County Republican Party Vice-Chairwoman, Cindy Marshall.
The latest in a long string of recent endorsements from the area is particularly notable because Spokane County is the fourth most populous in the state, with the city of Spokane being the second-most populous in the state, comprising more than 600,000 Washingtonians in the metro area.
In making her public endorsement as an individual, not representing any organization or party, Ms. Marshall issued the following statement:
"Many in our nation have been duped by our leaders to believe the United States of America is a democracy. We have headed in that direction, as our morals, government and economy have been undermined and eroded. We were founded as a republic, which we state every time we say the 'Pledge of Allegiance.' A republic limits the power of government, and implies and ensures individual responsibility.
"Dr. Ron Paul, our constitutional Representative from Texas, has stood firm throughout his political career, and has fought to keep our republican way of governing. I stand with Congressman Ron Paul, by personally endorsing his Republican presidential nomination for President of these United States."
Ms. Marshall served nine years in the U.S. Army Reserves between 1974 and 1983 as an LPN in hospitals and private facilities. She was home educated, is married with three daughters, and serves her community also as a chair of a local property rights group, and as a Republican precinct committee officer in Otis Orchards.
In addition to her endorsement, as a function of this announcement Ms. Marshall also joins the national advisory board of "Veterans for Ron Paul," in particular its Washington steering committee.
Providing a strong boost to Ron Paul's Washington State organization, such endorsements present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. They also demonstrate that the 12-term Congressman from Texas has the only campaign organization capable of maintaining a 50-state competition with the moderate-establishment Romney.
  