
    (New York, NY) February 11th, 2016 - Today Donald J. Trump for President Inc. announced the endorsements of dozens of Georgia officials including that of his first statewide elected official, Public Service Commission Chairman Lauren "Bubba" McDonald, Jr.
Mr. Trump stated, "It is my great honor to receive these coveted and influential endorsements from tremendous people in the state of Georgia. I have visited many times and had great crowds and poll numbers. I look forward to being in Georgia again soon and working with each of these local leaders to Make America Great Again."
McDonald served 20 years as a State Representative in the Georgia Legislature and also served as a commissioner in Jackson County, served on the Board of Managers of the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia, and volunteered as a Firefighter for the city of Commerce for 35 years. He joins the campaign as a Statewide Co-Chair.
McDonald said, "Mr. Trump is a proven leader with unparalleled success. He has the capabilities to make our country stronger and better than ever before. I am proud to endorse his candidacy for President of the United States along with many other community leaders here in Georgia."
Former State Representative Mitchell Kaye will lead the local elected officials coalition. Mitchell Kaye served east Cobb county for five terms in the Georgia House of Representatives, rising to deputy GOP Whip and ranking member of the tax-writing and cutting House Ways and Means committee. Kaye was awarded "Legislator of the Year" by the Georgia Association of Taxpayers for his tax cutting successes and by Phyllis Schlafly's Eagle Forum for his educational efforts.
The Georgia officials endorsing Donald J. Trump for President join State Senators Burt Jones and Michael Williams. Mr. Trump continues to lead in all national and state polls after winning the New Hampshire Primary by a landslide. He will campaign in South Carolina and other SEC states prior to the first in the south primary on February 20th.
  