
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Exploratory Committee Arizona Finance Steering Committee. Together, the Finance Steering Committee will help Governor Romney raise the resources needed to campaign in Arizona and across the nation.
"I am gratified to have the support of these outstanding men and women. The team we have put together in Arizona is a collection of some of the state's best, most energetic and most committed leaders. With their help, I know our vision for the future will be heard loudly in Arizona," said Governor Romney.
The Steering Committee, along with many others, held its first meeting on Thursday, January 25, in preparation for Governor Romney's next visit to Arizona.
Governor Romney has made numerous trips to Arizona meeting with top business and political leaders, in addition to numerous members of the Arizona media.
In addition to today's announcement regarding Governor Romney's finance team in Arizona, the campaign will soon be announcing its political team and endorsements in Arizona.
Background On The Committee's Arizona Finance Steering Committee:
Co-Chair Paul And Susan Gilbert: One of Arizona's most recognized attorneys, Paul Gilbert is co-founder of the Beus Gilbert Law Firm in Scottsdale, Arizona. Gilbert and his wife, Susan, recently attended and participated in Governor Romney's successful $6.5 million "National Call Day" in Boston.
Co-Chair Lee Hanley: Hanley is the Founding Principal and Chairman of Vestar, one of America's leading developer/managers of large scale retail shopping centers. Lee has served on a wide variety of civic and charitable boards in the Phoenix area. Hanley also participated in Governor Romney's "National Call Day."
Co-Chair Kevin DeMenna: DeMenna previously served as Finance Chairman for Arizona's 2002 Republican gubernatorial nominee. Last Friday, he was recognized by the Arizona State Republican Party with its Harry Rosenzweig Award for being the state's top Republican fundraiser. He was recently recognized by the Arizona Capitol Times as being among the most influential people at the State Capitol.
Co-Chair Harry Cavanagh: Cavanagh has been a pillar in Arizona's business, legal and philanthropic communities since moving to the state decades ago. He was the founder of the O'Connor Cavanagh Law Firm and is now the namesake of the Phoenix-based Cavanagh Law Firm.
Co-Chair Wil Cardon: Cardon is the President & CEO of The Cardon Group, one of Arizona's most active and well known real estate companies.
State Finance Director Corinne Lovas: Lovas is considered the top political fundraiser in Arizona and the Southwest. She has enjoyed countless successes on behalf of U.S. Senator Jon Kyl, President Bush's 2004 re-election campaign, the Republican National Committee and numerous other Republican candidates and causes.
  