
    West Des Moines, IA—Fifteen Latina, Latino and Latinx community leaders and activists in Iowa have endorsed Elizabeth Warren for president. The endorsements coincide with the release of more than 100 Latinas, Latinos and Latinx people endorsing Elizabeth across the country, and builds on support from Iowa union members, veterans, high school and college students, African American leaders and a broad coalition of elected officials, political activists and community leaders.
"I support Elizabeth Warren because we both feel the urgent obligation to address the crisis of climate change," said Alfonso Medina, a Marshalltown community leader and small business owner. "I know that Elizabeth will make climate action a priority on day one."
"Elizabeth is also the leader that will restore America's reputation around the world. She will be someone world leaders respect and want to work alongside," Medina added. "The time for a woman president is long overdue. Elizabeth Warren can do the job, and she has my utmost trust."
Elizabeth's plans will provide much-needed change and expand opportunity for working families in America. Her plan for a fair and welcoming immigration system will grow legal immigration and establish a fair, achievable path to citizenship for undocumented individuals. Elizabeth will empower American workers by expanding labor and organizing rights and value the work of women of color by taking executive actions to boost wages and open up new pathways to professional leadership positions. And she'll invest in high-quality public education for every kid in America—no matter the color of their skin.
Name, Position, City:Heather Anderson, Des Moines Public Schools board member, Des Moines Kyrstin Delagardelle, Des Moines Public Schools board member, Des Moines Cara McFerren, city councilor, West Liberty Edgar Villagrana, city councilor, Conesville Scott Syroka, city councilor, Johnston Dave Barajas, community leader, Marshalltown Ricardo Garcia, community leader and small business owner, Postville Himar Hernandez, former LULAC Local 377 president, Ottumwa Caleb Knutson, community leader, Garden City Johnny Alcivar, community advocate, Des Moines Mayra Lopez, LULAC Council 309 member, Storm Lake Alfonso Medina, community leader and small business owner, Marshalltown Silvia Quezada, former city councilor, University Heights Sonia Reyes-Snyder, community advocate, Des Moines Julia Villatoro, Captain Latino Caucus of Iowa Democratic Party, Des Moines
  