
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 26
In the evening, the President placed a telephone call to Coach Mike Shanahan of the Denver Broncos to congratulate him and the team on winning Super Bowl XXXII.
The President announced his intention to appoint John Deutch as a member of the President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology.
January 27
In the morning, the President had telephone conversations with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany and Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom concerning the situation in Iraq.
The President announced his intention to nominate Togo D. West, Jr., to be Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
January 28
In the morning, the President traveled to Champaign-Urbana, IL, and in the afternoon, he traveled to La Crosse, WI. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
January 29
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada concerning the situation in Iraq.
The President announced his intention to nominate Scott S. Fleming to serve as Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs at the Department of Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stuart E. Eizenstat to be Alternate Governor for the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the African Development Fund, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate David R. Oliver, Jr., to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology.
The President announced his intention to nominate Margaret H. Greene to be a member of the Board of Directors at the U.S. Enrichment Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rebecca T. Bingham and Martha B. Gould to serve as members of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gen. Henry Shelton, USA, to serve as a member of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas L. Soto to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Mort Topfer and Jerome Davis as members of the Advisory Committee to the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection.
The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm on December 22-25, 1997.
January 30
In the afternoon, the President hosted a reception for the 1997 Stanley Cup champion Detroit Red Wings in the East Room.
In the evening, the President and Chelsea Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
The President announced his intention to appoint former Senator George J. Mitchell as a member of the Roosevelt Campobello International Park Commission.
  