
    By Jack Sisson, Director of Research and Rapid Response
TUNE IT=> GMH is live on Sean Hannity now!
WHAT a DAY! Just six days left till the Iowa caucuses and adrenaline at HQ is rising fast. The Gov. had a fantastic performance last night with country-music star Josh Turner here in Des Moines. Despite the arctic blizzard that blew through town, Huckabee supporters from across the state were cutting rug and having a blast! Today, we had great events across the state and a caucus night training session here at HQ. Cable news is wall-to-wall political attack ads—although I haven't seen any anti-Bernie (or pro-Bernie) Sanders ads on Fox. A few minor clips below…
----
"Huckabee jams hits with country star Josh Turner" — The Des Moines Register ... A little snow in central Iowa didn't stop Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee from slapping the bass with American country star Josh Turner. "It's an honor to be here in spite of the weather," Turner said to the Des Moines crowd as he took the stage. The award-winning singer-songwriter performed six songs at Wooly's in the East Village. He warmed the crowd with hit tunes including "Why Don't We Just Dance?," "Your Man" and "Everything Is Fine." Huckabee joined Turner and his accompanying musicians for two tracks, including "All Over Me." Turner told the audience he backs Huckabee because he "cares about people." "He's about as genuine as the day is long," Turner said. "He cares about each and every one of you. He cares about our nation." Before busting out the bass, Huckabee addressed the crowd of about 150. He praised the crowd for braving the weather and talked about the importance of caucusing. "People are tired of seeing this country governed with disregard," Huckabee said before introducing Turner. New York-born comedian Jimmy Labriola — best known as Benny from '90s popular sitcom "Home Improvement" — opened the evening's event with jokes ranging in topic from his Italian father to funerals to Osama bin Laden. "We can see a license plate from outer space but it took us 10 years to find bin Laden?" he joked. What brought the comedian to Des Moines for the former governor of Arkansas? "I totally believe in him," Labriola said. "They don't come more real than this guy. This guy believes in what he says." Turned closed the evening with "Long Black Train," a song off his debut record of the same name. Before digging into the number, he said he wrote the song with "no commercial ideas of aspiration in mind," and that it's been "awfully good" to him. ... "He's the right man for the job," Turner said about Huckabee before closing his set.
"Huckabee super-PAC to voters: Get serious" — The Hill ... A super-PAC that supports former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee is running a radio ad in Iowa urging Republican voters to "consider someone serious" for the White House. The ad criticizes Republican presidential front-runners Donald Trump and Ted Cruz and calls Huckabee a conservative with a "record of achievement and respect for public service." "At times, this presidential campaign has been downright hard to watch," the ad says. "It's as if Trump and Cruz have completely forgot they're running for the highest office in the land, an office held by great men, great Republicans." The ad, released by Pursuing America's Greatness, said Huckabee balanced budgets, cut taxes, fought corruption and created jobs during his time as governor. "Mike Huckabee is a serious conservative leader and a man of faith we can always trust," the ad says. "Mike Huckabee for president."
Opinion: "You'll Be Shocked Which GOP Candidate This NYT Bestselling Author Likens To Ronald Reagan ... they are master communicators." — Western Journalism ... A few years ago I wrote a biography of Ronald Reagan. I spent hundreds of hours extensively researching, studying and interviewing people close to President Reagan. Now, I have spent countless hours getting to know, observe and study many of the GOP presidential candidates. And I've been struck by an uncanny likeness between Reagan and Mike Huckabee. Not only are their personalities, styles and temperaments much alike, but they share many of the same principals, beliefs, talents and gifts, on top of having many similar experiences in their lives. I don't make these comparisons lightly. Here are some of the reasons why I think they are so similar. The common thread begins in their backgrounds. Reagan and Huckabee successfully held the political office of governor of their state for two terms. Less well known is that before politics, Huckabee, like Reagan, worked in TV and radio. The leadership strength both share is they are master communicators. The main essence of communication is to connect with others, and impart and share information or ideas. Both men share the keen ability to take complex ideas and difficult-to-understand problems and explain them in clear, concise and easy-to-understand ways. "A leader," Huckabee explains, "is the one who can outline the broad vision and the direction, and say here's where we are going to go, here's why we need to go there, and here's how we are going to get there." Reagan and Huckabee are deep thinkers, but they both explain things in a very natural and easy-to-understand manner, often using metaphors and analogies. Pundits and journalists make the mistake of assuming them not to be deep thinkers, but this is contrarily so, because it takes a great deal of intelligence and unique ability to take the complex and paint word pictures and stories with examples to help clearly explain a multifaceted situation, or take a gigantic numerical figure and relate it to a common object as a way of explanation. Early on, some intellectuals erroneously assumed the ability to speak clearly and naturally to everyday people, as Reagan did, was the result of simple thinking. However, quite the opposite was true. It takes a very gifted and skilled communicator to achieve this ability. Another huge leadership quality and advantage both share is their optimism, cheerfulness, sense of humor and storytelling. In fact, what might come as a surprise to some is the importance storytelling can play in the lives of extraordinary leaders. Think Lincoln, Churchill and Roosevelt in addition to Reagan. Another shared trait is Reagan's and Huckabee's sense of humor. Leadership studies have shown it's a powerful tool and sign of intelligence. A cleverly placed joke can ease stress, decrease conflict and increases comradery, cohesiveness and bonding in groups. Motivational speaker Mike Kerr says humor can boost morale, motivate people, increases communication and builds trust and relationships. After almost 8 years of Barack Obama, division and strife have grown rampant among Americans. Our nation sorely needs to unite. Reagan was masterful at uniting Americans, as now Huckabee seeks to do. By having a great sense of humor, Reagan and Huckabee found a good way to express something that's hard for some people to hear, but softens it while getting the idea or message across without sounding too harsh. Neither Reagan or Huckabee are narcissistic and self-centered, like some politicians. "Candidates don't run for themselves; they run for the future," Huckabee said in October. And Reagan had a saying on his desk in the White House that read, "There is no limit to what a man can do or where he can go if he doesn't mind who gets the credit."
"Conservative national groups battle in the states over Constitution redo" — The Center for Public Integrity ... It's only a short phrase buried in the U.S. Constitution, but it enables an unprecedented avenue to change the law of the land: If two-thirds of the states demand it, Congress "shall call a convention" for proposing constitutional amendments. A hopeless pipe dream? Actually, no; the issue is front and center right now. ... So suddenly such a meeting, not held since the earliest days of this country, is becoming a real possibility. Even GOP presidential candidates are seizing on the burgeoning movement, with Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee….endorsing this unconventional process and rallying their supporters as legislative sessions start up again. While the legislation appears to be a grassroots effort bubbling up from the states, in reality it's quite the opposite. National groups have been holding workshops, publishing tips and even crafting model legislation for years to persuade legislators to use their states to circumvent the logjam in Congress….
"Mike Huckabee in the news" — Cleveland.com ... Huckabee has been particularly hostile toward Ted Cruz: he clearly thinks Cruz is fundamentally untrustworthy and deceptive, and he would likely support Donald Trump over Cruz: (National Review). Huckabee said... "I just think it's hard to say God is first in your life if he's last in your budget," Huckabee said in an interview with Buzzfeed. "If I can't trust God with a dime out of each dollar that I earn, then I'm not sure how I can tell him that I trust him with my whole life." (Buzzfeed) In a follow-up interview with Fox News' Bill O'Reilly, Huckabee said he's not sure he's been too "critical" of Cruz, but he said people who claim to be consistent must act as such. When O'Reilly asked whether Cruz is being "phony" when it comes to Christian charitable giving, Huckabee replied, "I think it's something he needs to answer. What are his parameters of stewardship?"
(The Blaze) ... Huckabee will play bass guitar in Des Moines on Monday alongside country music artist Josh Turner. Actor Jim Labriola, best known for playing donut-loving delivery man Benny Baroni on the 1990s sitcom "Home Improvement," will also join Huckabee on the Iowa campaign trail through the end of the month.
(Des Moines Register) Huckabee and Trump bumped into each other in an Iowa hotel hallway last Wednesday, according to a tweet from Huckabee's daughter and campaign manager, Sarah Huckabee.
"Only in IA can 2 pres candidates randomly bump into one another in a hotel hallway," the tweet read. No word on what the pair talked about: (Des Moines Register).
"Mike Huckabee returning to Ames Wednesday" — Iowa State Daily ... Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee is planning on a stop in Ames this week during his final tour of the state before the Iowa Caucus. Details about the event, which is free and open to the public, are below: WHO: Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, 2016 Republican presidential candidate; WHAT: Huckabee Huddle - Moral Clarity; WHEN: 12:30 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 27; WHERE: Jeff's Pizza, 2420 Lincoln Way, Ames; RSVP for the event at MikeHuckabee.com. Huckabee was in Ames just before the start of the spring semester, talking to supporters at a town hall at Oakwood Road Church.
"Mike Huckabee sticks to his guns in Iowa" — The Guardian ... "I killed it, whatever it was," says Janet Huckabee as she lifts her AR-15 rifle away from the suburban shooting range in Iowa and inspects a shredded paper target. In the neighbouring lane, her husband and former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee is having less luck. A variety of handguns jam, his safety glasses mist up, and he wants to know why all his shots are pulling to the left. In fairness, both seem more than comfortable with the firearms on offer during what is largely a photo opportunity for journalists... what he likes to hunt: duck, turkey, pheasant, deer and antelope. "The second amendment is not about hunting though," he wants to make clear. "It has to do with protecting ourselves, our homes, our families and our country from tyranny. Whether it's the tyranny of a burglar or the tyranny of a government that wants to take our liberty away." Just in case Barack Obama's recent order to introduce more background checks for those buying firearms is not proof enough of this existential threat, the governor goes on to claim it was a fear of armed American civilians that deterred the Japanese from invading California after the Pearl Harbor attack. "It might take the sheriff 20 minutes to get to where I live," he says, outlining a hypothetical scenario. "So I would call 911 - I am not just going to be some vigilante - but in those next 20 minutes, I am not sitting around helplessly waiting to be a victim. The reason I call 911 is to tell the sheriff where to come to pick up the carcass of the idiot who tried to break into my home at 2 o'clock in the morning." ...This soft-spoken conservative won the Iowa caucus in 2008, with strong backing from the state's evangelical faithful, and is making 150 stops in the state this month to try to prove that the opinion polling is wrong this time. "I know the New York media already decided who is going to win on caucus night," Huckabee concludes in his pitch to the small room of supporters. "They have already got it figured out, but every time we have a caucus here in Iowa, they get it wrong." It's a relatively unsophisticated message, even by the standards of 2016. "I like Mike," reads one poster. Apart from mentioning the second amendment, he speaks only of his plan to abolish income tax...Press adviser Hogan Gidley bristles when the Guardian suggests that the fun of messing about with country stars and shooting ranges might be part of what keeps the campaign going: "He's doing 150 stops. It's hard work. This is just a bit of relief."
"Mike Huckabee: 'Sick Day in America When Our Government Punishes Those Who Expose Evil'" — Breitbart ... GOP presidential candidate former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee slammed Houston prosecutors for indicting the activists who used hidden cameras to record Planned Parenthood officials allegedly attempting to trade body parts from aborted babies. "Harvesting human organs is beyond barbaric, it's unimaginably grotesque and evil," Mike Huckabee said. "And it's a sick day in America when our government punishes those who expose evil with a smartphone—while accommodating those who perform it with a scalpel." After a two-month-long investigation into Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast, the Harris County District Attorney's office in Houston, Texas, indicted the two individuals who created the undercover videos. They did not indict Planned Parenthood officials. David Daleiden and Sandra Merritt were indicted by a grand jury for "tampering with a governmental record, a second degree felony." WMUR reports, "Daleiden was also indicted on the count of prohibition of the purchase and sale of human organs, a class A misdemeanor, according to the Harris County district attorney."
"THE ENDORSEMENTS SCORECARD" — Powerline Blog ... How important are endorsements by office holders when it comes to nominating a presidential candidate? I think the conventional wisdom is that this year, at least on the Republican side, they won't count for much. On the other hand, Aaron Bycoffe of FiveThirtyEight cites research showing that in presidential nomination contests between 1980 and 2004, early endorsements by members of the party elites were the most important cause of candidate success in the state primaries and caucuses. Accordingly, FiveThirtyEight is keeping track of endorsements this cycle. Even if dndorsements end up not helping successfully to predict the nominees, the scorecard is fascinating, at least to me. FiveThirtyEight's scorecard awards 10 points for endorsements by governors, 5 points for endorsements by U.S. senators, and 1 point for endorsements by U.S. representatives. The winner, as of now, on the Republican side is Jeb Bush with 51 points. He is followed by Marco Rubio (43), Chris Christie (26), Mike Huckabee (26),...Ted Cruz, said to be "hated" by his GOP Senate colleagues, hasn't picked up any Senate endorsements. ... Mike Huckabee and Chris Christie benefit from home cooking...
"Gov. Mike Huckabee Plays Bass Guitar With Country Music Star Josh Turner In Downtown Des Moines" — Breitbart ... DES MOINES, Iowa — With snow blanketing Iowa's capitol city outside, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee—a 2016 GOP presidential candidate and the winner of the 2008 Iowa GOP caucuses—took the stage with country music star Josh Turner here in Wooly's downtown to play bass guitar. Under high ceilings with the rafters showing, the packed downtown honky-tonk—dimly lit with hightop tables surrounding a hardwood dance floor, long bar off to the left and higher-top booths lining the right wall — buzzed with Huckabee supporters as they waited for their candidate and Turner to take the stage. Huckabee volunteers passed out campaign stickers and sold bright red #ImWithHuck tee-shirts. "I want to say thanks to all of you for coming out—for us, this is horrible weather," Huckabee told the 150 or so supporters gathered inside Wooly's a few blocks from the Iowa State Capitol building while inches of snow piled up outside. "I know you're from Iowa, you're saying 'This is great. This is normal.' Look, a lot of us on this campaign and the campaign staff, we're all from the South. I'll tell you, our blood is not as thick as yours is and we really admire you guys—we were in Cedar Rapids earlier today and coming to Des Moines tonight it was just like a blinding snowstorm the whole time and I'm just always amazed. This would have just shut everything down in Arkansas—and it wouldn't take this much. We're always amazed when we hear on the news about people who have heart attacks while they're shoveling snow, and we think why would anyone shovel snow? That's the problem with yankees: They're always out there shoveling snow. We're thinking this is dumb because snow will melt except for you it doesn't melt for weeks or months, for us it melts tomorrow. It's really, I mean, everything closes. The government closes, school closes. Washington, D.C., closed last week for several days." The crowd cheered. About 150 people came out to Wooly's for the Huckabee event—more than double that had RSVP'd before the snow started pelting Iowa roads—for the free concert. When Turner took the stage—Huckabee joined him mid-set—he didn't say much besides singing. "I just wanted to say it's an honor to be here despite the weather," Turner told the crowd. "We're out here at Wooly's, we're indoors and the heat's working so everything's fine." Turner, a conservative Christian, did say why he's supporting Huckabee for president. "He's about as genuine as the day is long," Turner said. "He cares about each and every one of you. He cares about our nation." While on stage, Turner played six songs for the Huckabee team. He kicked it off with"Why Don't We Just Dance?," then shifted to "Everything Is Fine" before turning to "Would You Go With Me?" and then "Your Man." After that Huckabee joined him on stage to play bass for "All Over Me" and "Long Black Train." Huckabee was also joined by his wife, former Arkansas First Lady Janet Huckabee. "I want to thank you all for coming—I know the weather was a little less than sunshiny today," Janet Huckabee said on stage before comedian Jimmy Labriola—who's starred on shows like Home Improvement and in movies like The Santa Clause—performed to open up the night. When Gov. Huckabee was on stage, the 2008 caucus winner said that he expects to do a lot better than polling currently shows and the media predicts he'll do in the caucuses next Monday. "Folks, we are one week away, one week from tonight the Iowa caucuses—tonight is sort of a practice for the caucuses," Huckabee said. Not that Josh Turner will be at the caucuses singing at all 800 locations and not that Jim Labriola will be there. But I hope you'll be there. One of the things, I don't know if it ticks you off, but the media from the east coast has already figured out who you're going to vote for. They've already told you who you're going to vote for. Why is it that every four years they're wrong? They have been since Jimmy Carter won the Iowa caucuses all the way back in the 70s—nobody saw that coming. Time after time after time, the people of Iowa have made up their own minds. Once again, we are believing that something very surprising will happen a week from tonight. The media will once again have it wrong and we are going to have the opportunity to shock the nation and launch from Iowa on to the White House. The crowd cheered again. Alabama Secretary of State John H. Merrill, who endorsed Huckabee for president and joined his team at Wooly's on Monday night, told Breitbart News backstage that he's backing Huckabee because he's a strong Christian conservative.
"Cindy and I—my wife—we've been very, very fortunate to meet all of the candidates that are running because as part of the SEC primary we've been able to host all of the candidates that come down to Alabama," Merrill told Breitbart News. Every time that we met one and we started at the Red State Gathering in Atlanta, and we've had personal interaction time with each one of them, we always found ourselves comparing each one of them to Mike Huckabee. How do we like this guy as compared to Gov. Huckabee? We couldn't find anybody that we had more confidence in, had more faith in or believed in stronger than we did in Gov. Huckabee. So we just made a commitment that we were going to offer our support to other candidates as they come to Alabama because of my role but my personal endorsement and personal support has been with Gov. Huckabee. We've made phone calls, visits, we've come to Iowa to campaign with him for this last week. We're just honored to be with him—because what I want in my president is I want a committed conservative Christian who believes that Jesus Christ is the living son of the living God who has Christ as a center point for his life and I want that person to be someone who has proven to me to be a conservative fiscal manager, a conservative moral leader, a conservative leader in our government who is a strong manager and Gov. Huckabee has proven that as a very conservative governor of a Democrat state. Merrill added that he's confident Huckabee will do a lot better than the media predictions have him doing. "So the question comes, why are you helping somebody who can't win?" Merrill said. That's what everybody says—why are you for Mike Huckabee?—and this is what I say 'if everybody who thinks that Mike Huckabee would be a good president supports Mike Huckabee, he'll be the next president.' So for me, not doing it because I didn't believe he could make it would mean that I didn't believe enough in the future of our government and what I expect the government to be. So I have to be one of those people that steps up and says I support this guy because this guy is the kind of guy we need. Merrill, who's been in Iowa with Huckabee for just two days so far, told Breitbart News too that "there's no doubt about it to me" that the energy for Huckabee ahead of the 2016 caucuses is stronger than what's showing up in the mainstream media. He continued, "So what has to happen—the caucus vote is just like it is on any election—who gets their people out?" Merrill said. "So if we can get our team out to the caucuses on Monday, our team supports our guy, then our guy can finish in the top three. If our guy finishes in the top three, all bets are off. If he makes it to South Carolina, he'll win South Carolina. And if he wins South Carolina, he'll win the SEC primary. And if he wins the SEC primary, then he's on his way to the nomination." And if that scenario plays out for Huckabee, Merrill notes, "he's the only one that's running as a Republican that defeated the Clintons not just once but several times." As such, that's why when Huckabee was on stage, he pushed for his supporters to show up at the caucuses for him since most of the politicians in Washington, D.C., don't care about American workers like them. I know there are lots of choices in this election, I get that there are 327 Republicans running now—I would simply say to you in all seriousness, one of the things that I think makes this year's voter so angry is that it seems to not matter whether Democrats or Republicans are occupying Washington," Huckabee said. "It's the same stuff. Which is always for their best interest and never for yours. Many of you work all day standing on your feet all day working on a concrete floor. You lift heavy things. You sweat to do what you do. Somehow it just seems like to the folks that make the decisions that they end up making decisions that ship your jobs to Mexico or to China or to Indonesia. [They have] no idea how hard you're working or what little you have to show for it thanks to policies that have turned into six of the richest counties in America being right around Washington, D.C.
"Huckabee announces Wednesday campaign events" — The Des Moines Register ... Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee has announced his campaign events for Wednesday. The events, which are free and open to the public, include: Des Moines: 8:30 to 9 a.m., address at the Iowa Pork Producers Association's "Pork Congress Forum," Iowa Events Center Hy-Vee Hall, 730 Third St.; Marshalltown: 10:15 to 11:30 a.m., meet and greet, Marshalltown Senior Citizens Center, 20 E. State St.; Ames: 12:30 to 2 p.m., meet and greet, Jeff's Pizza Shop, 2402 Lincoln Way.; Boone: 5:30 to 7 p.m., meet and greet, Saints Avenue Café, 1312 S.Story St.
"Huckabee pans power of polls" — The Gazette... the former governor of Arkansas and 2008 Iowa caucuses winner has a point when he argues that polling is becoming too powerful in shaping the presidential campaign, from media coverage to candidate debates. The need for a campaign focused on ideas and issues, Huckabee contends, is being swallowed in a sea of survey-driven spectacle. Huckabee, who met with our editorial board Monday, compared our current politics to people who watch NASCAR races mainly to see spectacular wrecks. "I'm really fearful that we've created a situation where people are watching this election cycle for the wrecks, not for the performance of the cars," he said. It's a vicious vortex of polls, celebrity and TV ratings. Polls are used to limit and position candidates on the main stage at televised debates, where, as he puts it, "it's all about the circus." Moderators ask questions designed more to spark conflict and stoke ratings than to chart a course for the country. And in this election cycle, candidates who excel at making a spectacle tend to climb in the polls, grab the spotlight and command center stage... "Well, first I'm going to come over there and punch you in the nose and get a lot of publicity, and people will love me for that and my poll numbers will go up." If only Huckabee had done it, he might be a contender. This is, clearly, the polling-est campaign I've ever seen. When the Republican front-runner spends remarkably long stretches of his public bloviations lauding his amazing poll numbers and denigrating polls that don't show his lead as adequately yuge, something's seriously amiss….
"Huckabee to Screen 'God's Not Dead 2' For Voters in Iowa On Eve of Caucuses" — Townhall.com ... Many would argue that Gov. Mike Huckabee's (R-AR) strongest issue on the campaign trail is his fight for religious freedom. In his pursuit of defending Americans' right to worship, the presidential candidate announced Tuesday that he will be showing a screening of the new film God's Not Dead 2 this Sunday on the eve of the Iowa caucuses. While the original movie centered on a student's courage to stand up to his atheist teacher, the sequel, out April 1, follows a high school teacher who is forced to defend her Christian faith in the courtroom after daring to speak the name Jesus in her classroom. Huckabee makes a cameo in the powerful story. In 2014, God's Not Dead stunned the box office by becoming the highest grossing independent faith film of the year, proving audiences were hungry for its message. In a statement, Huckabee explained why he is eager to bring the second installment to Iowa voters: "The success of GOD'S NOT DEAD stunned Hollywood, but not the people of middle America," Huckabee said. "On the eve of the Iowa caucuses, this screening will be a great opportunity for people in Iowa to be among the first in the nation to see the film before it gets to theaters and be reminded why this election is so important to preserving religious liberty. Since there is limited seating, we hope people contact us early to be there." "Christians across the United States feel like their voice has been taken," saysGod's Not Dead 2 Director Harold Cronk. His film will answer the question: What is really at risk?
"Report: Republican Strategist Henry Barbour Wants Mike Huckabee To Attack Ted Cruz" — Breitbart ... Establishment Republicans and donors are seeking to coalesce around whichever candidate is not Donald Trump or Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX), according to the New York Times. One influential Republican strategist says he wants to see former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee to go after Cruz. "Whoever is not named Trump and not named Cruz that looks strong out of both Iowa and New Hampshire, we should consolidate around," said veteran Republican strategist Henry Barbour….
Huckabee: Iowa caucuses' grassroots impact in danger — Globe Gazette ... ANKENY, Iowa — Mike Huckabee said he fears a poor showing for him in Monday's Republican presidential caucuses could portend an end to Iowa's first-in-the-nation influence. Huckabee, speaking to reporters Tuesday after giving an address at Faith Baptist Bible College, said the caucuses historically have rewarded candidates who campaign on the ground, visiting as many areas of Iowa as possible and shaking as many Iowans' hands as possible. Huckabee, who won the 2008 caucuses, has resumed that style of retail politics this year, visiting each of Iowa's 99 counties and holding 138 campaign events since April, according to Drake University's Iowa Caucus Project... Huckabee said if candidates learn they can win the Iowa caucuses without spending time on the ground here, the presidential nominating process will be dominated by big-money donors, not voters. "It always has paid off. There's never been an Iowa caucus in which people could win (taking) the shortcut. If they can this year, I think it's the end of the Iowa caucus as we know it," Huckabee said. "Because if in the future a candidate can go to Wall Street, go to the big banks, raise a bunch of money, come down here and throw some TV ads together, make a few appearances, just enough to say we were here, put a flag down, if they can win that way then why will candidates go and do what I've done, which is to go to all 99 counties and do the grassroots, person-to-person approach? They won't." Huckabee said if presidential candidates learn they can win Iowa without devoting time on the ground, the presidential primary will become a race more about who can garner the most money to spend on advertising. "It will become a process like any other, and they people will spend their time in New York, California, Texas and Florida getting money. And it'll be a shame," Huckabee said. "The real losers are the American people who won't have the benefit of somebody filtering these candidates through the questions and the lenses of farmers and housewives and factory workers. Where else in America do candidates have to be held accountable in this kind of setting, face to face? I think that could be a real tragedy for the country." Unlike other presidential candidates who have spoken here, Huckabee's address Tuesday to roughly 200 Faith Baptist Bible College students was more sermon than campaign speech. He challenged students to stand up for Christian values in a world in which he said Christianity is being "virtually criminalized." "If you think the world in which you live is a morally dark world, then all the more reason for you to be the light of the world," Huckabee said. "If you are unwilling to be the light, then darkness will prevail."
Fox News—Justice With Judge Jeanine
...From the campaign trail in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Republican Presidential Candidate Governor Mike Huckabee. Good evening, Governor...How's it going out there for you? [Huckabee] "Well, it's going great. We're in the middle of a 150-event month in January. Just in Iowa. So I don't think anybody can say that we are rolling over, giving up or slowing down…Oh, absolutely. People forget that for 40 years, the Iowa caucus has always produced big surprises. And the people that were absolutely touted by the East Coast media usually don't win. And the winner ends up being somebody that they had not factored in. And I think we're going to see a surprise February 1st…Oh, the evangelicals have never been a monolithic group. I think it's one of the greatest myths that has existed in Republican politics. Evangelicals don't always vote according to a predictable pattern. I didn't really have an overwhelming Evangelical vote even eight years ago. I had a lot of rank-and-file working-class people. A lot of folks voting for me have been Evangelical. But I was standing-up for folks who were standing on the factory floors, sweating through their clothes, lifting heavy things…
NBC- Des Moines, Iowa...Republicans are spending caucus crunch time on the campaign trial. Candidates are making nearly two dozen stops combined throughout the state…Ted Cruz, Mike Huckabee, Carly Fiorina…Huckabee is hoping some star power will gain him some iowa support... Jim Labriola will campaign for him beginning tomorrow, through the 31st. Labriola frequently appeared on the television show "Home Improvement."
CBS- Des Moines—The Iowa caucuses one week from today... Mike Huckabee, Marco Rubio... have campaign events in Iowa. Democrats Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders, and Martin O'Malley also have events planned...
CBS- Rochester, Iowa—Other candidates campaigning in Iowa this week…Mike Huckabee…
CBS-Des Moines, Iowa—Mike Huckabee and marco rubio will all be in our state today.
NBC- Des, Moines— a handful of republicans are taking time in iowa leading up to that debate... here's a look at today's parade of g-o-p contenders.... rick santorum... ben carson... ted cruz... Mike Huckabee... marco rubio... carly fiorina plus all three democratic candidates head to iowa.
Des, Moines, Iowa—Mike Huckabee was in cedar rapids playing his bass guitar with the blues rock band wooden nickel lottery.
CBS, Des Moines—and a busy day campaigning tomorrow. republican candidates rick santorum, ben carson, ted cruz, mike Huckabee, and carly fiorina all have campaign events planned for central iowa tomorrow.
  