
    The St. Petersburg Times' David DeCamp: "All eyes on him, Rudy Giuliani hit the hot Republican issues like it was batting practice. Cut taxes, fight terrorism, stop illegal immigration – whack, whack, whack." (David DeCamp, "Giuliani Strives To Rebuild Momentum," The St. Petersburg Times, 1/15/08)
DeCamp: "On the sixth leg of a 15-event bus tour [Giuliani] moved with ease on stage Monday at the Shell Point retirement village church, gesturing and laying out his plans. More than 1,000 people listened." (David DeCamp, "Giuliani Strives To Rebuild Momentum," The St. Petersburg Times, 1/15/08)
The Tampa Tribune's William March: "To some, he has almost rock-star status." (William March, "Giuliani Bus Tour Rolls Through Area," The Tampa Tribune, 1/15/08)
March: "Crowds were enthusiastic at most of the stops, swelled with retired New Yorkers – a group likely to be a major advantage for Giuliani in Florida." (William March, "Giuliani Bus Tour Rolls Through Area," The Tampa Tribune, 1/15/08)
Former New York City and current Sarasota resident Bridget Spiess: "'I'd feel safer with him as president than any other candidate, Republican or Democrat … I lived through many mayors of New York and he was the best.'" (William March, "Giuliani Bus Tour Rolls Through Area," The Tampa Tribune, 1/15/08)
Sarasota resident Joe Summonte: "'I think he's clearly going to carry Florida …'" (William March, "Giuliani Bus Tour Rolls Through Area," The Tampa Tribune, 1/15/08)
The Naples Daily News' Liz Freeman: "For 65-year-old Naples retiree Ron Fiano, a Vietnam War veteran, Giuliani's mention of more help for veterans was important. He brought his copy of Giuliani's new book, 'Leadership,' which Giuliani autographed. 'I thought it was great,' Fiano said afterward. 'He touched on all the issues. He touched on veterans issues. You can tell he's thought something on veterans.'" (Liz Freeman, "Giuliani Touts Tax Cut, Immigration Plan," The Naples Daily News, 1/15/08)
Naples resident Helen Minogue: "'[Rudy] makes a lot of sense … I wouldn't get up at 7 a.m. in the morning for anybody else.'" (Liz Freeman, "Giuliani Touts Tax Cut, Immigration Plan," The Naples Daily News, 1/15/08)
The Naples Daily News reported Giuliani's crowd seemed "particularly jazzed." ("Giuliani Appears Unfazed By Latest Dip In Polls," The Naples Daily News, 1/15/08)
Clearwater Small Business Owner David Earp: "'[Giuliani] did a phenomenal job in New York City, which is one of the toughest markets in the world … New York faced a lot of the same things that the overall state of Florida is facing right now and he did an incredible job putting that ship right.'" (Stacey Eidson, "Giuliani Appeals For Votes At Mel's Diner," The Bradenton Herald, 1/15/08)
The Bradenton Herald's Stacey Eidson reported that when Giuliani arrived the crowd "instantly became energized." (Stacey Eidson, "Giuliani Finding 'Love' In Area," The Bradenton Herald, 1/15/08)
"Kim Gennocro, of River Club in East Manatee, brought her two daughters, Angela, 10, and Julia, 6, to Mel's Diner to meet Giuliani because she believes his leadership during the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks proved he should become the next president." (Stacey Eidson, "Giuliani Finding 'Love' In Area," The Bradenton Herald, 1/15/08)
Gennocro: "'When you think back to Sept. 11, his visibility in leading New York through such a tragedy was so admirable … If he could lead our country in that same amazing way, that would be what I'm looking for.'" (Stacey Eidson, "Giuliani Finding 'Love' In Area," The Bradenton Herald, 1/15/08)
The Daytona Beach News-Journal's Melanie Stawicki Azam: "[Holly Hill City Commissioner Liz Towsley] told the candidate her son, who signed up for the Marines in the wake of 9/11, is preparing to deploy on his third tour in Iraq. 'He re-upped because Mayor Guiliani [sic] is running for president and because he believes in what he is doing …'" (Melanie Stawicki Azam, "Giuliani Campaigns In Southeast Volusia," The Daytona Beach News-Journal, 1/16/08)
The Florida Times-Union's Beth Kormanik: "The speech was embraced by veterans such as Dave Schlessinger of Jacksonville, a retired Navy chief electrician technician. … 'I love his stand on fighting terrorism,' he said. …" (Beth Kormanik, "Giuliani Courts First Coast Military," The Florida Times-Union, 1/16/08)
Kormanik: "[Giuliani] announced his support for bringing the aircraft carrier George H.W. Bush to Mayport Naval Station when it is commissioned in 2009 – to huge applause from the several hundred people in attendance." (Beth Kormanik, "Giuliani Courts First Coast Military," The Florida Times-Union, 1/16/08)
The Panama City News Herald's Ryan Burr: "Turnout for the rally was high." (Ryan Burr, "Rudy's Pitch," Panama City News Herald, 1/17/08)
Burr: "A conference room in the Student Union's east wing, where the rally was held, had to be opened to encompass a second room, and still many people were standing, some into the hallway." (Ryan Burr, "Rudy's Pitch," Panama City News Herald, 1/17/08)
"Jim Barr, [Gulf Coast Community College's] coordinator of education programs, said Giuliani's staff anticipated turnout of about 100, but Barr said it was closer to 500." (Ryan Burr, "Rudy's Pitch," Panama City News Herald, 1/17/08)
Barr: "'This was a very enthusiastic crowd …'" (Ryan Burr, "Rudy's Pitch," Panama City News Herald, 1/17/08)
The Pensacola News Journal's Thyrie Bland: "After visiting Gulf Breeze, Giuliani attended a rally at The Fish House on Barracks Street in downtown Pensacola, where a boisterous crowd of about 200 people packed the restaurant." (Thyrie Bland, "Giuliani Touts His Plan For National Catastrophe Fund," The Pensacola News Journal, 1/17/08)
"Moneen McElhatten of Gulf Breeze said she supports Giuliani because of his leadership during the terrorist attacks. 'I think we are in a stagnant stage, and he could help lift us …'" (Thyrie Bland, "Giuliani Touts His Plan For National Catastrophe Fund," The Pensacola News Journal, 1/17/08)
  