
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, and his intention to appoint one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Steven Robert Blust of Florida, to be Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission and upon confirmation, designate Chairman, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2006. He is currently President and CEO of Bay International Terminals in Tampa, Florida. He worked for Lykes Brothers Steamship Company from 1987 to 1996 where he served as Vice President from 1991 to 1996. Blust also worked for the Jacksonville Port Authority from 1985 to 1987. He has a BS degree from the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and an MBA from Tulane University.
The President intends to nominate Deborah Matz of New York, to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring August 2, 2005. She is currently the Executive Officer of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. From 1997 to 2001, she was the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Administration at the Department of Agriculture. Matz has a BS from Cornell University and an MS from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Mark Sullivan of Maryland, to be U.S. Executive Director of the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development. He is currently an Attorney in the Washington D.C. area. He was President of the Small Business Funding Corporation from 1996 to 1999, and General Counsel of the Department of the Treasury from 1988 to 1989. Sullivan has BA from Yale and an LLB from the University of Virginia Law School.
The President intends to appoint Vernadette Ramirez Broyles of Georgia, to be a Member of the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. Boyles is currently the Director of Public Policy and Legal Counsel for We Care America. From 1998 to 2000, she was an Assistant District Attorney with the Fulton County District Attorneys Office in Atlanta. She has a BA from Yale University and a JD from Harvard Law School.
  