
    The campaign began airing a new television ad, a new Spanish language television ad, and two new radio ads. In "Lifetime," Hillary makes clear that she works hard every day to help people. Watch it. In "Nuestra Amiga," Hillary focuses on her respect and support for the Latino community and her real solutions to the challenges Latinos face. Watch it. In "My Girl," Dr. Maya Angelou talks about Hillary's experience as an advocate for families. Listen. In "Experience," Earvin "Magic" Johnson focuses on Hillary's ability to lead on day one. Listen.
FLORIDA: By a nearly 17 point margin, Hillary won the highest turnout Democratic primary in the state's history. More than 1.5 million Democrats voted – more than cast votes in Iowa, Nevada, South Carolina, and New Hampshire combined. "Hillary's victory... gives her the bragging rights that come with winning the biggest, most diverse state to vote so far." ... Hillary won voters who decided on Election Day; women and men; urban, suburban and rural voters; and just about every income group, education level and age category – including 18-29 year-olds. Hillary won nearly 6 in 10 Latinos and nearly 3 in 10 African Americas. Read more... Hillary received more votes in Florida than Sen. McCain, the winner of the Republican primary. Hillary also received more votes in Florida alone that Sen. Obama received in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina combined... Florida Sen. Bill Nelson became the latest Senator to endorse, bringing Hillary's total to 11. "Too many Americans have been invisible to their own government. In this primary, some even tried to silence our state. Hillary will never let that happen," said Sen. Nelson. Read more.
ARIZONA: Peterson Zah, former Chairman and President of the Navajo Nation, endorsed Hillary. Read more... The campaign announced that President Bill Clinton will on Thursday visit Arizona State University in Tempe. Read more.
ARKANSAS: On a conference call, State Sen. Tracy Steele discussed the campaign's push to get out the early vote.
CALIFORNIA: U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters, the founder and Chair of the Out of Iraq Caucus, endorsed Hillary. Read more... Former California Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante also endorsed Hillary... A new SurveyUSA poll has Hillary up by 11 points over Sen. Obama (49-38). Read more... U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and California Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez joined national campaign Manager Patti Solis-Doyle, state director Ace Smith, and Women for Hillary Leadership council member Alice Huffman on a conference call to discuss the state of the California campaign... In Fresno, Hillary supporters engaged in morning rush hour visibility... In San Diego, the campaign highlighted its Latino outreach efforts and hosted a "Bring Your Own Phone" (BYOP) party during which Latino community leaders met with residents and encouraged fellow Latinos to turn out and vote for Hillary.
COLORADO: In Denver, the campaign's Hispanic Leadership Council held a women's small business roundtable... In Grand Junction, supporters gathered for a "Team Hillary" volunteer recruitment and training event.
CONNECTICUT: State Rep. Jason Bartlett and former State Democratic Party Chair George Jepsen held a conference call to outline their roles as members of Hillary's Rapid Responders. The Rapid Responders are a national group of truth tellers who will respond to distortions of Hillary and President Bill Clinton's statements and records.
GEORGIA: The campaign announced Hillary will today speak to the National Baptist Convention of America in Atlanta... Georgia Labor Commissioner Michael Thurmond, former State Sen. and DeKalb County CEO Liane Levetan, Macon City Councilwoman Elaine Lucas, and Atlanta business owner Brooke Jackson Edmond held a conference call to outline their roles as members of Hillary's Rapid Responders. The Rapid Responders are a national group of truth tellers who will respond to distortions of Hillary and President Bill Clinton's statements and records.
MARYLAND: In Prince George's County, the campaign held a volunteer meeting to discuss get-out-the-vote activities.
MASSACHUSETTS: The Cape Cod Times endorsed Hillary. "Change... involves diligence, experience, playing through pain. That is Clinton's history. That's why she deserves her party's endorsement." Read more.
MISSOURI: Jackson County Executive Mike Sanders, State Sen. Joan Bray and Board President of the Greater Kansas City Women's Political Caucus Ina Montgomery held a conference call to unveil a new TV ad and discuss the campaign's rapid response efforts. Read more.
NEW JERSEY: President Bill Clinton held a "Solutions for America" rally at Camden County College in Blackwood. Read more.
NEW MEXICO: Peterson Zah, former Chairman and President of the Navajo Nation, endorsed Hillary. Read more... Seven mayors from across the state endorsed Hillary. Mayors Martin Chavez of Albuquerque, Joseph Maestas of Espanola, Henry Sanchez of Las Vegas, Orlando Ortega Jr. of Portales, David Coss of Santa Fe, Ravi Bhaskar of Socorro, and Bobby Duran of Taos cited Hillary's experience and ability to deliver real solutions.
NEW YORK: The New York Blade endorsed Hillary. "We want a tough president with more experience and a solid game plan. There is no time for on-the-job training." Read more... In Binghamton and White Plains, campaign officials and grassroots supporters kicked-off Hillary's major campaign activities in each region.
NORTH DAKOTA: Former Governor George Sinner and his wife, Jane Sinner, joined North Dakota Steering Committee members at a press conference to explain why Hillary is the best candidate for President.
OHIO: President Bill Clinton held a "Solutions for America" event in Cleveland. Governor Ted Strickland, U.S. Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones and Warrensville Heights Mayor Marcia Fudge joined President Clinton at the event. Read more.
OKLAHOMA: A new SurveyUSA poll has Hillary up by 17 points over Sen. Obama (44-27). Read more... In Norman, Attorney General Mike Turpen and former State Rep. and Gubernatorial nominee Dr. Laura Boyd spoke with students and residents about Hillary's campaign. Read more.
TENNESSEE: A new Public Policy Polling survey has Hillary up by 11 points over Sen. Obama (43-32). Read more... Former State Rep. Bob Clement, former state Democratic Party Chair Randy Button and former Hamilton County Democratic Party Treasurer Scott Lindsay held a conference call to outline their roles as members of Hillary's Rapid Responders. The Rapid Responders are a national group of truth tellers who will respond to distortions of Hillary and President Bill Clinton's statements and records.
UTAH: As part of the campaign's "Our Voice, Our Future" tour, Chelsea spoke to students at the University of Utah and Weber State University. Read more.
  