
    At Clemson University rally, Edwards vows he will take the fight for middle class families all the way to the Democratic convention and the White House
Clemson, South Carolina – Today, Senator John Edwards returned to South Carolina for a homecoming rally in the Military Heritage Plaza at Clemson University. Joined by family members from his hometown of Seneca, Edwards was welcomed home by more than 1,000 Palmetto State supporters.
"I'll never forget where I come from," Edwards said. "I'm running for president to make sure every American has the same opportunities I've had. But today, families are working harder than ever just to get by. It's time that Washington worked for middle class families, not the special interests.
"What I learned growing up here, is you don't start a fight, but you never walk away from one," Edwards continued. "The fight to restore the promise of America and save the middle class will be an epic battle – but I will never give up. I have spent my entire life standing up and fighting for regular Americans against powerful entrenched interests, and I know if we fight together we can get the change we need and give voice to all of those whose voices are not being heard in this democracy."
Edwards' Clemson rally comes on the heels of growing momentum for his campaign throughout the state with the South Carolina Democratic Primary only weeks away. Edwards is the only candidate in the race who was born in South Carolina, and he is the only Democratic candidate to ever win in a "red" state. Edwards leads the Democratic field in both campaign stops and money raised in the Palmetto State, and recently, the campaign launched its sixth television ad in South Carolina, entitled "Native Son." In the ad, Edwards says that he will fight to save the middle class and will never forget his South Carolina roots
At 7:00 PM tonight, Edwards will hold a second homecoming rally at Dreher High School in Columbia, South Carolina, and tomorrow, he will volunteer with local supporters at a food bank in Charleston.
  