
    MANCHESTER, NH — Deval Patrick's campaign today announced they are growing their New Hampshire campaign with nine staff hires and a campaign office in Manchester. This announcement comes just before Governor Patrick makes his 10th trip to the state this weekend, and plans to spend more time in New Hampshire than any other candidate before the February 11th primary.
"We are thrilled to be growing our campaign in New Hampshire with a group of talented leaders and organizers who all have strong ties to the region," said Campaign Manager Abe Rakov. "As other campaigns begin to focus elsewhere, we're going into January with momentum and a commitment to running a campaign that everyone from each and every corner of the Granite State can make their own."
In addition to State Director Wyatt Ronan, the leadership team announced today is:
Wyatt Ronan - NH State Director
Wyatt has spent many years in New Hampshire working for Democratic candidates and causes, most recently as the New Hampshire Communications Director for Beto O'Rourke's presidential campaign, and before that as Communications Director for Chris Pappas, both in his Congressional office and throughout his historic 2018 campaign. Wyatt served as the New Hampshire Democratic Party Communications Director in 2017-2018, as a Regional Press Secretary in Ohio for Hillary Clinton in 2016, and as an organizer for President Obama's re-election campaign in New Hampshire in 2012. Additionally, Ronan worked as NextGen Climate's New Hampshire Press Secretary in 2015 and 2016.
Caroline Kimball-Katz - NH Communications Director
Caroline joins the Patrick campaign after nearly five years working for Boston City Council President Andrea Campbell, most recently as Deputy Chief of Staff. Caroline has organized on local and statewide campaigns in Massachusetts and New Hampshire, including for Andrea Campbell, Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey, Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign, and President Obama's 2012 re-election.
Laura Cantwell - NH Organizing Director
Laura is an experienced organizer, and most recently served as South Carolina Upstate Organizing Director for Beto O'Rourke's presidential campaign. In 2018, Laura managed field operations for Beto O'Rourke's Senate campaign in Texas. She is a graduate of Northeastern University in Boston.
Samuel Sands - NH Outreach Director
Sam has been active in New Hampshire politics for the last few years while earning his Masters in Community Development Policy from the University of New Hampshire's Carsey School of Public Policy. Most recently, Sam served as Director of Special Projects for Beto O'Rourke's presidential campaign in New Hampshire, and worked on Chris Pappas's Congressional campaign in 2018, conducting policy research, coordinating Latinx voter engagement efforts, and leading large event operations.
In addition to the New Hampshire leadership team, the campaign has hired five New Hampshire organizers and is opening a campaign office in Manchester this weekend.
  