
    "We were never told that this was about Bain Capital or Mr. Romney and that's the part that's incorrect and inaccurate." - Mike Baxley, Subject of Gingrich Super PAC Video America's Radio News Network January 18, 2012
Segment From America's Radio News Network:
Host: "Have a conversation with Mike Baxley.  He's the owner of 'Washers-R-Us'.  Mr. Baxley is featured in this, now infamous Super PAC documentary called the King of Bain. Mr. Baxley thank you for making time for us here on America's Radio News."
Mike Baxley: "Thank you guys for having me."
Host: "You're featured in this documentary and it has been alleged by the Gingrich campaign that a lot of fallacies exist inside of this, this Super PAC documentary. And as my understanding you contend that a lot of your quotes were taken out of context as well sir."
Baxley: "That's correct."
Host: "Well how do they misrepresent your feelings?"
Baxley: "Well mainly, the way the whole video was presented to us, we were asked to do a documentary on factory closings in the United States. And a lot of the questions that were asked were about large corporations taking over small private companies.  And our factory had been through that type of takeover, and buyout so to speak.  And we were answering questions in that aspect. We were never told that this was about Bain Capital or Mr. Romney and that's the part that's incorrect and inaccurate."
Host: "So what you're saying is that you were questioned about your experience under false pretense and therefore misrepresented, correct?"
Baxley: "Absolutely yes ma'am, that's exactly what we're saying."
Host: "And so what was your experience overall? Did you have some experience with Bain? And what was it?"
Baxley: "Well, our company was first purchased by Raytheon. And this was the company I worked at UniMac since 1994. And when Raytheon purchased us we became part of that corporation and that situation that we were talking about in the video. And then we were later sold to Bain.  And then ultimately the company was sold to the Ontario Teachers' Pension Fund in Ontario Canada.  And all of those stages were different through that time period for us and we went through a lot of positives and a lot of negatives.  But all through that time period, you know our pay increased, we had promotions during that time and especially through the Bain, Bain Capital period.  I know I was promoted twice during that time period. So."
Host: "So let me get this straight. You actually, when Bain actually owned your company, you actually saw 30% increase in your salary and you received 2 increases. Is that correct?"
Baxley: "That is correct."
Host: "So that allegation made by this documentary was patently false."
Baxley: "Absolutely."
...
Host: "What was your overall sense of it? Coming from someone who's actually lived this experience."
Baxley: "My overall thought was anger, disgust, and dissatisfaction basically.  Because those mistruths and what you're talking about... sure you can take that video and as we said those things and those clips that they put in.  We did say those things obviously you can see us saying those things in the video.  But it's very short clippets and then it's followed by their documentary talking or the additions that they put in with video as well as audio.  And it's just not telling the whole truth that we were talking about.  As a matter of fact our, one of the things that we really talked about a long time during our interview was the success story of our company, 'Washers-R-Us'.  And how, how we, you know, we learned this trade that we're in, from Alliance, from Bain Capital, and while we were part of that company. So we have a lot of ties to that company still."
...
Click HERE to Listen to Interview 
  