
    
  Jenkins, Skrmetta to Serve as State Chairmen

(New York, NY) January 19th, 2016 — Today Donald J. Trump for President Inc. announced its Louisiana State Leadership Team. The Trump Campaign's Louisiana operation is being led by State Director Ryan Lambert and today announced Public Service Commissioner Eric Skrmetta and former State Representative Woody Jenkins as the State Chairman and Jeff Crouere and Brian Trascher as state Co-Chairs.
Mr. Trump says, "I am proud to announce our Leadership Team in Louisiana where we have tremendous grassroots support and a great team in place. I look forward to visiting soon and working with these individuals, whose support is so important, to share my vision to Make America Great Again!"
Skrmetta was elected Public Service Commissioner for District 1 in 2008. His district includes 11 parishes and a million consumers in the southeastern part of Louisiana. Skrmetta served as Chairman of the Commission and earned high praise for leading Louisiana to the lowest utility rates in the nation. He also serves as President on the Entergy Regional State Committee. A lifelong Republican, Skrmetta began his dedication to public service on the staff of the former Louisiana Governor Dave Treen, the first Republican Governor of Louisiana since Reconstruction.
Also a lifelong Republican, Jenkins was elected to the Louisiana House of Representatives in 1972 and served for 28 years until 2000. He represented District 66 located in East Baton Rouge parish. As a legislator, over three hundred of the bills he authored became law. While in the legislature, Jenkins formed and served as chairman of the Conservative Caucus in the state house. He also served as chairman of the House Committee on Labor and Industrial Relations and was the 1996 Republican Nominee for Senate. A journalist by trade and an inductee into the LSU Journalism Hall of Fame, Jenkins is the editor of Capital City News, an award-winning community weekly newspaper. Jenkins is the Chairman of the East Baton Rouge Parish Republican Party, the largest in the state.
Said Skrmetta, "I look forward to sharing the policies of businessman Donald Trump and promoting his candidacy. His confidence and strong convictions have a place in today's politics. His business-savvy and negotiation skills will be valuable assets to our country. I support Mr. Trump's economic policies favoring free enterprise and fewer government regulations."
Republicans Jeff Crouere and Brian Trascher, both natives of New Orleans, will add political expertise as State Co-Chairs of the campaign. Jeff Crouere is host of the Louisiana based radio and TV program, "Ringside Politics" and is previous Executive Director & Deputy Chairman for the LAGOP. Brian Trascher is a Senior Partner with New Orleans-based Gulf South Strategies, the firm best known for recruiting the Uber Car Service to Louisiana. Trascher is a veteran political operative with strong, bipartisan relationships throughout Louisiana. Crouere and Trascher join Tim Breaux of Lafayette and Wayne Ryan of Alexandria as Co-Chairs.
  