
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 6
J. Brian Atwood, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Brazil.
Wayne O. Burkes, of Mississippi, to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2002, vice Gus A. Owen, term expired.
Melvin E. Clark, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 1999, vice Gloria Rose Ott, term expired.
Carolyn L. Huntoon, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environmental Management), vice Alvin L. Alm, resigned.
Regina Montoya, of Texas, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 53d session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Hassan Nemazee, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Argentina.
Robert A. Seiple, of Washington, to be Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom (new position).
Stephen H. Glickman, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of 15 years, vice John Maxwell Ferren, term expired.
Hiram E. Puig-Lugo, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Arthur L. Burnett, Sr., resigned.
Eric T. Washington, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of 15 years, vice Warren Roger King, resigned.
Kay Kelley Arnold, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2004, vice Neil H. Offen, term expired.
Hulett Hall Askew, of Georgia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 1999 (reappointment).
Richard W. Bogosian, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Coordinator for Rwanda/Burundi.
Harry J. Bowie, of Mississippi, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of 3 years, vice Tony Scallon, term expired.
Kenneth M. Bresnahan, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Labor, vice Edmundo A. Gonzales, resigned.
Robert Clarke Brown, of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring November 22, 1999, vice Jack Edwards, term expired.
William Clyburn, Jr., of South Carolina, to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2000, vice J.J. Simmons III, term expired.
Gordon Davidson, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2004, vice Kenneth Malerman Jarin, term expired.
Montie R. Deer, of Kansas, to be Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission for the term of 3 years, vice Tadd Johnson.
Sylvia de Leon, of Texas, to be a member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of 5 years (new position).
Vivian Lowery Derryck, an Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 27, 2003, vice John F. Hicks, Sr., term expired.
Charles H. Dolan, Jr., of Virginia, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2000 (reappointment).
Craig Gordon Dunkerley, of Massachusetts, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Envoy for Conventional Forces in Europe.
Douglas S. Eakeley, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 1999 (reappointment).
Susan G. Esserman, of Maryland, to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Jeffery M. Lang, resigned.
Timothy Fields, Jr., of Virginia, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Elliott Pearson Laws, resigned.
Phyllis K. Fong, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Small Business Administration, vice James F. Hoobler.
Timothy F. Geithner, of New York, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice David A. Lipton.
Gary Gensler, of Maryland, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice John D. Hawke, Jr.
T.J. Glauthier, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of Energy, vice Elizabeth Anne Moler.
Rose Eilene Gottemoeller, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Non-Proliferation and National Security), vice Archer L. Durham, resigned.
Richard A. Grafmeyer, of Maryland, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for the remainder of the term expiring September 30, 2000, vice Harlan Matthews, resigned.
Frank J. Guarini, of New Jersey, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 52d session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Stephen Hadley, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2003.
John Paul Hammerschmidt, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term of 4 years (new position).
Denis J. Hauptly, of Minnesota, to be Chairman of the Special Panel on Appeals for a term of 6 years, vice Barbara Jean Mahone, term expired.
John D. Hawke, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be Comptroller of the Currency for a term of 5 years, vice Eugene Allan Ludwig, resigned.
James Catherwood Hormel, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Luxembourg.
A.E. Dick Howard, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term of 6 years, vice Lance Banning.
Albert S. Jacquez, of California, to be Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation for a term of 7 years, vice Gail Clements McDonald, resigned.
Ayse Manyas Kenmore, of Florida, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2000 (reappointment).
Zalmay Khalilzad, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2001, vice Christopher H. Phillips, resigned.
Kenneth W. Kizer, of California, to be Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs for a term of 4 years (reappointment).
George M. Langford, of New Hampshire, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice Charles Edward Hess, term expired.
Joseph A. Miller, Jr., of Delaware, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice John Hopcroft, term expired.
Norman Y. Mineta, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term of 6 years (new position).
Arthur J. Naparstek, of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2003 (reappointment).
Jose Antonio Perez, of California, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of California for the term of 4 years, vice Steven Simpson Gregg.
Susan E. Rice, an Assistant Secretary of State, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 17, 2003, vice George Edward Moose, term expired.
Bill Richardson, of New Mexico, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the 42d session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Robert C. Richardson, of New York, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice James L. Powell, term expired.
Stanley A. Riveles, of Virginia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Commissioner to the Standing Consultative Commission.
Cleo Parker Robinson, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2004, vice Ira Ronald Feldman, term expired.
Peter F. Romero, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Jeffrey Davidow.
Maxine L. Savitz, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice Frank H.T. Rhodes, term expired.
Paul L. Seave, of California, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of California for a term of 4 years, vice Charles Joseph Stevens, resigned.
Luis Sequeira, of Wisconsin, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice Ian M. Ross, term expired.
Gerald M. Shea, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2004 (reappointment).
James M. Simon, Jr., of Alabama, to be Assistant Director of Central Intelligence for Administration (new position).
Jack J. Spitzer, of Washington, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 52d session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
William Lacy Swing, of North Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Ruth Y. Tamura, of Hawaii, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2001 (reappointment).
Chang-Lin Tien, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice Richard Neil Zare, term expired.
Edwin M. Truman, of Maryland, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Timothy F. Geithner.
Mark Reid Tucker, of North Carolina, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of North Carolina for the term of 4 years, vice William I. Berryhill.
John F. Walsh, of Connecticut, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2006, vice Bert H. Mackie, term expired.
Diane Edith Watson, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federated States of Micronesia.
Kent M. Wiedemann, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Alice Rae Yelen, of Louisiana, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2001, vice Fay S. Howell, term expired.
Submitted January 7
James Roger Angel, of Arizona, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring February 4, 2002, vice Charles Szu, term expired.
Alejandro N. Mayorkas, of California, to be U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California, vice Nora Margaret Manella, resigned.
Myrta K. Sale, of Maryland, to be Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice G. Edward DeSeve.
John T. Spotila, of New Jersey, to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, vice Sally Katzen.
Thomas Lee Strickland, of Colorado, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Colorado for the term of 4 years, vice Henry Lawrence Solano, resigned.
  