
    
  Bauer: "Cruz is the clear choice of Reagan conservatives"

HOUSTON, Texas – Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Gary Bauer, one of the nation's most effective pro-family leaders and communicators. Bauer served as Under Secretary of Education and head of the White House Office of Policy Development for President Reagan. He later served as Senior Vice President of Focus on the Family and as President of the Family Research Council.
Over the course of ten years, Bauer led the Family Research Council from a three person, one million dollar operation, to a 120 person, $14 million operation. In 2000, Bauer was a candidate for the Republican nomination for President of the United States.
After the campaign, he founded and now serves as the president of American Values, a non-profit educational organization committed to defending life and traditional marriage. Bauer additionally serves as chairman of the Campaign for Working Families, one of the nation's largest conservative political action committees, focused on electing conservatives to Congress. He holds a law degree from Georgetown and, along with his wife Carol, is the father of three children.
"Today, with great pleasure, I am endorsing Ted Cruz for President," Bauer said. "Ted Cruz is a courageous conservative who has built a consistent record on the issues that matter most. He has fought for religious liberty at home and abroad. He believes all of our children should be welcomed into the world and protected by the law. Ted knows that government is too big and that taxes and regulations are too high. He will rebuild our military strength and pursue a foreign policy that repairs our frayed alliances. Ted Cruz understands that Israel is our friend and that Iran is our enemy. He understands that border security is national security. Last, but certainly not least, Ted Cruz is committed to restoring the rule of law and repealing President Obama's outrageous executive orders."
Bauer continued, "Ted Cruz can be trusted to nominate judges who will respect their proper constitutional role and resist the temptation to legislate from the bench. He is the clear choice of Reagan conservatives."
"I have the highest respect for Gary and his impact on American culture and political life," said Cruz. "As Chairman of President Reagan's Special Working Group on the Family, Gary brought national attention to the importance of marriage and the family. He has been highlighting the issues that matter and addressing them with courage and intelligence for decades, and our nation is stronger because of it. I am honored to have Gary's backing on this campaign."
*Titles and affiliations of Gary Bauer provided for identification purposes only.
  