
    Pool Reports by Rob Crilly, The Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




January 21, 202209:35 EST

VP travel pool report #1: JBA departure for California
Good morning from a chilly JBA from where the VP is departing for a trip to California, returning on Monday via Milwaukee.
Marine 2 touched down at 0928.
VP and Doug Emhoff wrapped up against the cold walked briskly to AF2 where they were greeted by Secretary Vilsack who is also travelling with us.
Wheels up shortly VP waved to pool and they all boarded
Our first stop is San Bernardino.
Guidance from VP's office:
At 9:30AM EST, the Vice President and the Second Gentleman will depart Washington, DC en route San Bernardino, California. The departure from Joint Base Andrews and arrival at San Bernardino International Airport will be covered by the travel pool.
At 1:25PM PST, the Vice President will receive a briefing on wildfire prevention and mitigation with Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack. This briefing at the Forest Service Del Rosa Fire Station will be pooled press.
At 1:55PM PST, the Vice President will deliver remarks to highlight the historic investments made by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law in wildfire preparedness and resilience. Sec. Vilsack will also deliver remarks. These remarks will be pooled press.
At 4:15PM PST, the Vice President will depart San Bernardino en route Los Angeles, CA. The departure from San Bernardino International Airport and arrival at Los Angeles International will be covered by the travel pool.



January 21, 202212:12 PST

VP travel pool report #2: San Bernardino
AF2 was wheels up from Andrews at 0945
Wheels down San Bernardino International airport at 11:50 local.
VP will take an aerial briefing tour of the San Bernardino National Forest and make funding announcement - see background from White House below.
VP arrived to temperature of 69F and clear skies
She deplaned at 12:03 in a black trouser suit, having shed her heavy coat, with Doug Emhoff. Sec Vilsack followed them down stairs.
After chatting with greeters she hugged the second gentleman and he climbed into a waiting SUV. He has a separate program.
VP and Vilsack then strode off to waiting blackhawk helicopters for aerial tour.
Pool is holding nearby while she takes tour.
Greeters:- Governor Gavin Newsom- Senator Alex Padilla- Congressman Pete Aguilar
Background from White House Official
Vice President Harris Highlights Administration's Year-Round Focus on Wildfires
Since taking office, President Biden and Vice President Harris have put an unprecedented focus on helping communities mitigate, prepare for, respond to, and recover from wildfires, including through the historic investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. As climate change increasingly fuels hotter, drier, and longer wildfire seasons, and development continues to expand in the Wildland Urban Interface, the proactive and preventative measures that are taken while fires are not burning become even more essential.
That is why today, Vice President Harris is visiting San Bernardino, California with U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Vilsack to receive an aerial briefing and tour of the San Bernardino National Forest, highlight the wildfire investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and receiving a briefing on the 2022 wildfire outlook.
Wildfire Resilience Funding Announcements
During remarks at the U.S. Forest Service's Del Rosa Fire Station, the Vice President will make two funding announcements:

$1.3 billion in disaster relief funding for the U.S. Forest Service, including $600 million in California. This funding for states impacted by wildfire and hurricane disasters in 2021 will go toward hazardous materials cleanup, reforestation, watershed restoration, and infrastructure repairs.
$48 million in funding for Joint Chief's Landscape Restoration Partnership projects, including 4 projects in California. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law codified and expanded the Joint Chief's Landscape Restoration Partnership program, which engages federal, state, Tribal, and local agencies to combat the impacts of climate change across federal and non-federal lands. These projects reduce future wildfire threats, create drought-resilient landscapes, protect water quality, and enhance wildlife habitat.

Wildfire Investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law included over $5 billion to address wildfire risk reduction and response,primarily via funding for the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture. Highlights include:

$600 million to support federal firefighter salaries. This funding builds on the Administration's commitment to support federal firefighters and establishes a new 'firefighter' occupational series alongside the existing 'forestry technicians' classification with competitive pay and benefits.
$1 billion to create a new Community Wildfire Defense Grants Program to create and implement plans for defensible space to help defend communities from wildfires. This program is based on the Vice President's Wildfire Defense Act that she led in the Senate. These grants are prioritized for communities at high-risk of wildfire and low-income communities. The grants provide funding to both create plans and implement them.
$650 million for burned area rehabilitation efforts to support long-term post-fire land restoration projects on Federal lands.
Nearly $2.4 billion for hazardous fuels management, as well as billions of additional dollars for ecosystem restoration.
Additional funding to modernize our response to wildfires including funds for preseason wildfire response planning, improved wildfire detection capabilities, wildfire monitoring capabilities, mapping at-risk communities, and competitive research grants.

Vice President Harris' Leadership on Wildfires
As a California native, Vice President Harris brings her lived experience and expertise to addressing issues that are most acute in, but not exclusive to, the West, including wildfire and drought. As a Senator, the Vice President led the Wildfire Defense Act, which among other things, created Community Wildfire Defense Grants to help communities comprehensively plan for wildfires and then implement those plans. A version of these grants is included in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
This work grew out of the Vice President's meetings with firefighters and impacted community leaders, as well as visits to wildfires over the years, including the Tubbs Fire in Santa Rosa in 2017, the Camp Fire in Paradise in 2018, and the Creek Fire outside Fresno in 2020. In June and July of 2021, the Vice President joined President Biden in meetings with Western Governors on wildfires emphasizing this administration's understanding of the unique challenges wildfires present western states. In her remarks, the Vice President drew the connection between drought, heat, wildfires, and climate change.
As chair of the National Space Council, the Vice President has highlighted the role of space-based sensors in helping communities prepare for, respond to, and mitigate climate-fueled disasters like wildfires. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes $20 million to enhance these capabilities.
Vice President Harris' Leadership on the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
The Vice President worked with President Biden to help shape and pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law through dozens of public events nationwide and engagements with Members of Congress. As part of that effort, the Vice President has visited:

Oakland, California to discuss water infrastructure
High Point, North Carolina to discuss electric school buses
Cincinnati, Ohio to discuss public transit
Plymouth, New Hampshire to discuss rural broadband
Lake Mead, Nevada to discuss water infrastructure
Charlotte, North Carolina to discuss public transit
UPCOMING: San Bernardino, California to discuss wildfire resilience (1/21)
UPCOMING: Milwaukee, Wisconsin to discuss removing lead pipes (1/24)

Beyond traveling the country, legislation the Vice President led during her time in the Senate – including the Clean School Bus Act, the Wildfire Defense Act, the Water for Tomorrow Act, the Water Justice Act, the Environmental Justice for All Act, and others – shaped and influenced components of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and represent her commitment over the years to address the climate crisis and advance environmental justice.
As the administration has hit the ground running to implement the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Vice President released the Biden-Harris Lead Pipe and Paint Action Plan and the Biden-Harris Electric Vehicle Charging Action Plan.



January 21, 202212:59 PST

VP pool report #3: aerial tour ends
Army 2 wheels up 12:21
Army 2 wheels down 12:51
VP took off in Army 2 (VP nerds by all means correct me but helicopter was supplied by US Army so...) with two escorts for aerial of San Bernardino National Forest. They took off in unison and landed together half an hour later.
From White House:
'The Vice President is taking aerial tour of the San Bernardino National Forest to view the
burn scars of the El Dorado Fire.'
VP exited Army 2 after return and climbed straight into motorcade as pool watched from a distance. Now rolling for Forest Service Del Rosa Fire Station at 12:57 for a briefing.



January 21, 202214:29 PST

VP pool report #4
Motorcade arrived at USDA Forest Service Del Rosa Fire Station at 13:11
On the way we passed small pockets of protesters - including at least one with a Let's Go Brandon sign - and plenty of onlookers holding up their phones in the modern manner. The road to the fire station snaked up a hill and pass a small clump of charred tree stumps (from a controlled burn I'm told) to the fire station, a collection of low rise buildings.
Officials are set up outside in the parking lot, with maps and charts on easels. Two small blue drones - maybe two foot in width - are set up on tables.
A strong breeze is causing surrounding eucalyptus trees and fan palms to ripple and rustle, playing havoc with everyone's audio. At one stage the wind was so strong a gust blew a drone off the table and had to be rescued by a member of White House staff and a photographer.
The sound of protesters with a bullhorn can occasionally be heard too. Some is inaudible but chats of 'Let's Go Brandon' can be heard above the wind. The word 'border' was also audible at one point.
VP emerged from the fire station building at 14:08.
Rand Moore ( details below) opened proceedings:
'It only takes one visit to see the devastation.'
He introduced officers who described the extent of wildfires in the past 20 years, showing how 12 m acres has burned - compared with seven million acres in the past two years.
She was told how 15000 lightning strikes in 48 hours in 2020 caused an eruption of wildfires in a series of extreme weather events.
Again 'let's go Brandon' could be heard from bullhorn in the distance. And then a USA chant.
Participants paid no heed.
Wade Crawfoot: 'Climate change means it will only get worse.' but there are steps that can be taken.
'The good news is these measures are working.'
Participants From WH:
Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of Agriculture
- Governor Gavin Newsom- Senator Alex Padilla- Congressman Pete Aguilar- Chief Randy Moore, United States Forest Service- Anthony Scardina, Deputy Regional Forester, United StatesForest Service- Secretary Wade Crowfoot, California Natural Resources Agency- Jennifer Eberlien, Regional Forester, United States Forest Service- Acting Chief Michael Richwine, CalFire
Pool ushered away at 14:22 - now awaiting VP remarks, which are not being streamed
Am posting occasional images to Twitter at @robcrilly



January 21, 202215:16 PST

VP pool report #5: Remarks - funding announcement
Remarks Otter file here: https://otter.ai/u/gU5LjyhYTIdw7RZtqftOiDh7Y8U
As ever check quotes against the audio
From White House on background:
Before the briefing, the Vice President saw old friends and colleagues from her time in California, including Michael Ramos, former Republican District Attorney of San Bernardino County. They worked together as fellow DAs and have been friends for nearly 20 years. Also, Assemblymember James C. Ramos, the former Board Chairman of San Bernardino County, who worked with the Vice President on several issues facing the County.
After the briefing, VP has moved to the other side of the fire station where there is a lectern set up on a gravel track, in front of a fire truck with a backdrop of eucalyptus trees. It is still 69F, with barely a cloud in the sky, although the gusting wind brings things down a touch.
She was introduced by:
Chief Randy Moore
Rep Pete Aguilar
Sen Alex Padilla
Gov Gavin Newsom: 'In the briefing, you heard about the loss of 7 million acres just in the last two years in the State of California ... but it's the fear of loss that's beyond just those acres. It's the fear of losing traditions, lifestyles, people. I mean, think about what happened last year, Grizzly Flats wiped off the map, a town that disappeared last year because of wildfires.'
Secretary Tom Vilsack: 'Senator, Congressman, thank you.
we wouldn't be having this day without your vote and your support for additional resources.'
'The vice president's leadership on this particular set of issues is unmatched. The president has a very personal interest in this as well. But it really makes a difference that both the president vice president are focused on this.
'Intense droughts, rising temperatures, extreme weather conditions, hazardous fuel buildup equates to longer and more intense fires. We've talked about acres today. We talked about 32 civilians who lost their life in this state because of fires over the last couple of years.
'Let's talk about the three brave firefighters who lost their lives, trying to protect our lives and our property.
'Let's talk about the 14,117 homes - part of the American Dream that we all treasure and cherish - destroyed by fire.'
Final introduction was by firefighter Sarah Hudson
VP began speaking at 15:02
She said it was time wildfires got a new focus in federal response
'There's been so much about the history and tradition of federal response to national or to natural disasters that has been grounded on natural disasters that are not wildfires. ... for example, hurricanes, tornadoes, and this epidemic of wildfires is relatively new in that there have always been wildfires in one form or another, but the frequency and the intensity, and the ubiquity of wildfires just in the last couple of years, as the governor talked about, is extraordinary and requires our federal government to see what is happening and act in real time.'
As a 'proud daughter of California' she said she had a 'bit of personal experience growing up where we had droughts growing up in these conditions understanding the seriousness of being able to respond quickly. Our family in the last few years. We've had evacuation orders because of the wildfires.'
She paid tribute to firefighters
'So the work that the president and I are doing is about meeting this moment, understanding that the climate crisis has almost everything to do with what we are seeing in terms of the crisis of wildfires. It is about recognising that we cannot as a government or as a society, or people who care, only respond in reaction to a moment of harm or danger. We must also be able to use technology and common sense and the expertise of those on the ground.
'To understand we have the tools to predict these wildfires ahead of time and once we are able to do that, does it not compel us to say what are we doing to prevent the knowable or the predictable'
She announced '$48 million for an approach to the country that is really about making forest healthier and safer. And it is focused on what we need to do to be resilient to wildfires.
'The other important announcement we are making today is that we are committing $1.3 billion to disaster relief funding, including $600 million for California.'
She said it was made possible with the bipartisan infrastructure deal.
'I can't talk enough about what we were able to accomplish with that law ...., that is going to directly benefit this issue. Specifically, there will be $5 billion and more actually for wildfire preparedness and resilience. And it will include and this requires its own conversation, a pay raise for our federal firefighters.'
'This is a subject that requires us to understand that when we as a country get in front of an issue, it is not because of any one leader or any one approach is because there's collaboration is because there's a recognition that the work that happens on the ground usually requires great skill. skill and hard work that should be rewarded.'
finished at 15:15



January 21, 202216:20 PST

VP travel pool report #6: San Bernardino departure
Motorcade arrived back at San Bernardino Airport at 16:14.
Before leaving the fire station VP did two local interviews:Jeff Horseman of Southern California News GroupAlan Leyva of KABC.
On the way to the airport we passed pockets of supporters - including some with a 'Build Back Better with solar' sign.
Before boarding, VP posed for photos with a rank of soldiers. Then she waved to pool and headed up the stairs to wave again at the top.
Wheels up shortly for LA.



January 21, 202218:04 PST

Correction - VP pool report #6 
It was of course Ellen Leyva - as you all knew



January 21, 202217:06 PST

VP travel pool report #7: LAX
AF2 wheels down LAX at 16:52.
VP deplaned 10 min later and headed straight to SUV pausing only for a quick wave to pool
Motorcading from airport now.




  