
    Yesterday afternoon, Secretary of Education-designate Dr. Miguel Cardona joined leaders from disability organizations in the education field for a virtual roundtable discussion. Dr. Cardona thanked the leaders for their time and counsel, for their hard work during the pandemic, and said that he viewed the meeting as the beginning of an ongoing partnership.
Participants discussed issues affecting blind students, deaf students, those with speech-related disabilities, as well as higher education, in particular student loan forgiveness. Other participants expressed urgent issues that will require long-term attention, including significant disproportionality - when districts identify, place, or discipline students from any one racial or ethnic group at disproportionate rates to their peers, the school to prison pipeline, additional higher education priorities including universal design, and employment opportunities. Participants noted the disproportionate effects the pandemic has exacerbated for students with disabilities, particularly around access and equity.
Additionally, Dr. Cardona affirmed participants' comments that we must challenge a deficit mentality, noting that all students have diverse abilities and their abilities make schools better. He himself has seen firsthand how schools with diverse populations created a culture of community.
Representatives from the following organizations, along with other individual advocates for people with disabilities, joined the Secretary-designate:

American Association of People with Disabilities
American Physical Therapy Association
Assistive Technology Act Program
Association of People Supporting Employment First
Association of University Centers on Disabilities
Autism Society
Bazelon Center for Mental Health
Center for Public Representation
Center for Workforce Development
Chinatown Disability Advocacy Project
CommunicationFIRST
Conference of Educators and Administrators of Schools and Programs for the Deaf
Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates
Disabled Students' Program University of California, Berkeley
Disability Justice Initiative at Center for American Progress
Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund
Education Law Center
Juvenile Justice Advocate
Little Lobbyists
National Association of the Deaf
National Association of State Directors of Special Education
National Center for Learning Disabilities
National Center for Special Education in Charter Schools
National Disabilities Rights Network
National Down Syndrome Congress
National Federation of the Blind
Parent Education & Advocacy Leadership Center
Parent Power
Public Interest Law Center
SPAN Parent Advocacy
Special Education Advocate
The Arc
The George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences

  