
    TRENTON - Governor Jon S. Corzine, Congressman Rob Andrews, Congressman Frank Pallone, Assemblyman and Democratic State Party Chair Joe Cryan and Assembly Majority Leader and former state party chair Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statements in reaction to Hillary Clinton's victory in the Nevada caucuses today. The victory comes the same day the campaign announced that Hillary would be visiting the Garden State on Wednesday, January 23:
"The deck was stacked against Hillary in Nevada, but she put her faith in caucus goers who want change and are struggling in this economy, and their voices were heard," said Governor Jon Corzine. "The results in Nevada and New Hampshire indicate both the broad level of support she enjoys and the momentum her campaign has gathered. And her visit to New Jersey this week will help us build on that momentum here to ensure she is successful on February 5."
"Hillary Clinton built an impressive, across the board coalition in Nevada," said Congressman Rob Andrews. "We are working hard to build a similar coalition to win a strong victory in New Jersey."
"One of the terrible failures of the Bush era is the damage the Republicans have done to the economy," said Congressman Frank Pallone. "Democrats now control Congress and soon will occupy the White House. Restoring the economy is one of our top priorities and Hillary Clinton's new ideas and leadership will help get us there."
"Hillary Clinton is gaining political momentum when it counts," said Assemblyman Joe Cryan. "She knows how to meet a challenge. As the campaigns head towards the Super Tuesday primary on February fifth, Hillary's supporters in New Jersey will be organized and motivated to convert her widespread support into victory."
"The Nevada win is a resounding victory for Hillary and an endorsement of her message of economic renewal in America," said Assembly Majority Leader Bonnie Watson Coleman. "Hillary cares about those who have been left behind economically and she has a plan to do something about it. She believes that economic opportunity should be available to everyone and she will put her beliefs into action."
  