
    Congressman to serve as Campaign Co-Chair of the Southwest Region
In a major display of momentum one day before the Nevada caucuses, Hillary Clinton today received the endorsement of Congressman Silvestre Reyes of Texas, the chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Congressman Reyes is one of the Democratic Party's leading voices on national security and U.S.-Mexico border issues. He will serve as the Clinton Campaign's Co-Chair for the Southwest Region.
"America needs a leader who can start solving problems and changing direction on day one. That leader is Hillary Clinton," said Congressman Reyes. "Both at home and abroad she has the experience and qualifications to move our nation forward. She knows and understands the unique challenges facing communities along the U.S.-Mexico border, such as access to health care. I have worked with her on issues facing the Armed Services committees in Congress, and know she will be a strong leader on military and intelligence issues at this critical time in our nation's history."
Elected in 1996, Congressman Silvestre Reyes became the first Hispanic to represent the 16th District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives. In December 2006, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi selected Reyes to be Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a committee on which Congressman Reyes has served since 2001. Prior to his election to Congress, Reyes served his country in Vietnam and then spent 26 years rising through the ranks of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in the U.S. Border Patrol. He is a leader on intelligence, national security, immigration reform, and cross-border issues.
"Congressman Reyes is one of our wisest and most experienced leaders on national security and the particular issues that affect Americans living along the border and throughout the Southwest. I am proud to have his support and grateful for his advice," Senator Clinton said. "This endorsement is another sign of our growing momentum as we head into the Nevada caucuses."
  