
    
Vote like your reproductive rights depend on it.
Republicans in Congress just voted again to defund Planned Parenthood—and if we had a Republican president right now, millions of Americans would lose access to basic health care. So in 2016, this country faces a choice: Let Republicans take their assault on reproductive health and rights all the way to the White House, or fight back.The reality is, Republican presidential candidates don't just have bad records—they're tripping over themselves to brag about who will do more damage to women's health if they get elected. We have to make sure they don't get the chance.Here are a few of the reasons why a Republican president would be very, very bad news for women:

Planned Parenthood
It's not just Republicans in Congress. Every single Republican presidential candidate has vowed to defund Planned Parenthood, which would cut off millions of patients' access to life-saving preventive care, including cancer screenings, well-woman exams, STI and HIV tests, and more.

Today's vote proves that it's never been more critical to have a president who stands with Planned Parenthood. You won't find that person in the Republican field.

Safe and legal abortion
Last year alone, Republicans in Congress voted numerous times to chip away at women's reproductive rights. And Republican presidential candidates are on the same mission: Every single one of them supports efforts to restrict women's access to safe and legal abortion, and some even oppose abortion in cases of rape, incest, or to protect a woman's health.

In other words: If Congress sends a bill restricting women's reproductive rights to a Republican president, you can bet he or she will sign it—and with as many as four Supreme Court seats opening up within the next president's term in office, the right to safe and legal abortion itself could hang in the balance.

Access to birth control?
All of the Republican presidential candidates have pledged to repeal the Affordable Care Act—which makes birth control and preventive care available at no out-of-pocket cost.

To make matters worse, many of the Republican candidates for president applauded the Supreme Court's recent Hobby Lobby decision, which lets bosses impose their personal beliefs on their employees' birth control options. Instead of protecting and expanding access to birth control the way President Obama has done, a Republican president would put it back out of reach for millions of women.

The Affordable Care Act
Republican candidates have made it crystal clear: Each one of them, if elected, will waste no time in tearing up the Affordable Care Act, kicking 18 million Americans off their health care plans, and ripping away all the progress we've made. That means taking us back to the days when insurers could charge women more than men for the exact same health coverage. It means going back to insurers denying women coverage because of "pre-existing conditions" like breast cancer, pregnancy, or domestic violence (seriously). And it means forcing women to go back to paying hundreds of dollars a year for basic health care, like cancer screenings and birth control.


It's 2016, and Republican candidates still think they have the right to interfere in decisions that should be made by women in consultation with their doctors.
  