
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals and appoint five individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Nelson M. Ford, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of the Army. Mr. Ford currently serves as the Acting Under Secretary of the Army and the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Financial Management as well as Comptroller of the Army. Prior to this, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Financial Management and Comptroller of the Army. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health Budgets & Financial Policy. Mr. Ford received his bachelor's degree from Duke University and his master's degree from the University of Delaware.
The President intends to nominate Joxel García, of Connecticut, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service and Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services (Health). In addition, the President intends to nominate Dr. García to be Representative of the United States of America on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization. Dr. García currently serves as Senior Vice President and Senior Medical Advisor at MAXIMUS Federal Services, Inc. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Director of the Pan American Health Organization in the Regional Office of the World Health Organization for the Western Hemisphere. Earlier in his career, he served as Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Public Health. Dr. García received his degree in pre-medical studies from the University of Puerto Rico, his MD from the Ponce School of Medicine and his MBA from the University of Hartford.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey J. Grieco, of Virginia, to be Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Legislative and Public Affairs). Mr. Grieco currently serves as Acting Assistant Administrator (Legislative and Public Affairs) and Senior Deputy Assistant Administrator for Public Affairs and Agency Communications at the United States Agency for International Development. Prior to this, he served as President of the National Association of Settlement Purchasers. Earlier in his career, he served as Executive Vice President and Managing Director of Stone Street Capital, Inc. Mr. Grieco received his bachelor's degree from the George Washington University and his master's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the National Board of Education Sciences:
Jonathan Baron, of Maryland, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/28/11

Frank Philip Handy, of Florida, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/28/11

Sally Epstein Shaywitz, of Connecticut, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/28/11

Joanne Weiss, of California, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 11/28/10
The President intends to appoint the following three individuals to be Members of the Board and one individual to be Chairman of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development:
H. H. Barlow, of Kentucky, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 07/28/09;

William DeLauder, of Delaware, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 07/28/08 and an additional four-year term expiring 07/28/12;

Keith W. Eckel, of Pennsylvania, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 07/28/08 and an additional four-year term expiring 07/28/12;

Robert A. Easter, of Illinois, to be Chairman of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development.
The President intends to appoint John M. Townsend, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Panel of Arbitrators of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 06/19/08 and an additional six-year term.
  