
    
  Granite State heroes hail from Belknap, Cheshire, Hillsborough, Merrimack, Rockingham, and Stratford counties

CONCORD, NH - The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today the names of 10 New Hampshire residents joining the active "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
Support for the Ron Paul 2012 campaign in the 'Live Free or Die' state continues to benefit from the backing of veterans such as those speaking out today. Reasons for Dr. Paul's substantial support from voters who are veterans include his dedication to veterans while in Congress, highlighted in an ad here, and the fact that he is himself a veteran, serving as an Air Force flight surgeon.
Representing six counties, information about each veteran is provided in the following statements.
Belknap County
Sanbornton resident David G. Parenteau served for 20 years in the U.S. Army, seeing action in West Germany, East Thailand, Laos, Vietnam, and Cambodia. He was injured in Vietnam during the Tet Offensive, and was awarded several medals. David offered, "I like Congressman Paul's conservative-constitutional thinking. He's a veteran and did not look for excuses not to serve. He's not a flip-flopper."
Cheshire County
CDR Michael Goldschmidt, USNR (Ret.), resides in Swanzey. CDR Goldschmidt voiced his support for Congressman Paul saying, "As a veteran who served 22 years, I take my oath to the Constitution seriously. I cannot give any candidate my vote that does not do the same. Dr. Paul consistently uses the Constitution as his guide when voting or acting on matters of state. Politics comes second, the Constitution comes first."
Matt Primrose, who served in the Army, lives in Winchester. He attained the rank of Staff Sergeant. "After serving eight years with multiple combat deployments - Bosnia, Afghanistan, and two tours in Iraq - it is time to bring the troops home. Ron Paul will do this, and at the same time address the real issues of this country, our national debt being one of many. I stand beside Ron Paul, and couldn't be happier to give him my vote this Tuesday," said Primrose.
HillsboroughCounty
With combined service in both the U.S. Army and the U.S. Coast Guard, John A. Jeskevicius spent 10 years in the military before settling in Manchester. Jeskevicius chose Paul for several reasons saying, "I support Dr. Paul because of his dedication to conducting the business of the country under the limitations set forth by the Constitution. He will be the greatest asset and motivator in the restoration of the Republic." In addition John said, "I agree with Dr. Paul that getting our fiscal liabilities under control and abolishing the Federal Reserve is a paramount issue. Dr. Paul's voting record is a testament to his defense of the limitations set by the Constitution."
Manchester resident Joshua Holmes served for 5 years in the U.S. Army, leaving as a Specialist. He was deployed to Iraq twice, and earned the Combat Infantry Man's Badge, and two Army Commendation Medals. Joshua was clear about why he will vote for the 12-term Congressman from Texas saying, "As a soldier who has seen combat directly, I understand that Ron Paul is absolutely right when he says that our troops should only be sent into harm's way with a clear, achievable mission and a declaration of war as required by the Constitution. Unlike most of the other candidates, Dr. Paul served as an officer in the military and he understands the risks we take by putting on the uniform."
Jon Forrester of Manchester served in both Iraq and Afghanistan in the U.S. Air Force as an E-4, enlisting in 2003 and ending his tour of duty in 2009. Forrester recalled, "When I first heard Dr. Paul speak, I was impressed with his honesty and strong convictions. He is a principled man who sticks to his beliefs and bravely brings up topics that are not necessarily popular, but must be discussed. I think the American people are looking for someone to lead who they can believe in, and I found that in Congressman Ron Paul."
Merrimack County
Army veteran Matthew Perry of Hill was stationed in Germany and Fort Carson, Colorado from 1990-1993. Perry explained, "As a veteran who served honorably in the United States Army, I am supporting Ron Paul. He is the only candidate who understands that our endless wars in the Middle East are bankrupting this nation. Additionally, Dr. Paul advocates a foreign policy that follows the wisdom of both George Washington and Thomas Jefferson: maintaining a strong national defense that protects the interests and borders of the United States. Ron Paul is committed to helping those who have served and the troops returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan."
Rockingham County
Newmarket Town Councilman Philip J. Nazzaro served in the U.S. Army from 1998-2008, attaining the rank of Captain. Said Councilman Nazzaro, "I support Dr. Ron Paul for President because he will keep this country safe, strong, and secure. He truly understands the oath of office all service members take, to support and defend the Constitution of the United States, and he will work to restore it to its rightful place as the supreme law of the land." He added, "Ron Paul will restore honor to the oath again."
Ken Akiyama of Derry ranked as a sergeant in the Army, serving from 2003-2008. Now a small business owner, Akiyama said Dr. Paul was the first presidential candidate he has ever supported. He explained, "I was drawn to him because of his unique understanding of the problems we face and courage to address the issues at the core of our national crises. The Federal Reserve is behind our economic crisis, and our aggressive and immoral foreign policy threatens our national security." Ken further stated, "The Constitution is at the core of our freedom. More than any election since 1776, and more than any other issue, this election is about freedom."
Stratford County
Bill Owens, a Marine Corp sergeant who served from 1984-1988, resides in Barrington. While on active duty, he was stationed in Okinawa for a portion of his service. Bill stated, "I support Dr. Paul because of his America-first stance. He wants to bring the troops home, stop aid to foreign countries for them to use to fight against us, and he wants to cut the budget to get us back on sound financial ground. He also wants to restore the personal liberties that have been taken away since 9/11. Ron Paul would stop trying to police the world and tell other countries how to live. He would instead focus on fixing the problems we have in our own country."
As a first basic step, those interested in joining the "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page by clicking here. Those residing in New Hampshire should email New Hampshire Communications Director Kate Schackai at KateS@RonPaul2012.com.
  