
    
January 15, 2016
John Stephen, New Hampshire's 2010 GOP nominee for Governor, is backing Marco.Here's what Stephen had to say:
I'm proud to endorse Marco Rubio today as our nation's next President. After watching last night's debate, my mind is made up that Marco is the conservative leader to lead our country's economy in the 21st century. Marco gives us the best chance of both winning in November and delivering meaningful change to a broken Washington.  
He is an ardent reformer of the status quo, who has demonstrated his ability to take on Washington special interests by scoring a victory in defunding the insurance bailout provisions of ObamaCare. His commitment to limited government and helping states like New Hampshire break free from overarching federal mandates, rules and regulation shows that he's not just worried about the next election, but our next generation.
Marco has the vision, judgment and experience to keep our country and our families safe as our next President.  As every debate has shown, Marco is smart, tested and tough, and ready to take action and get results on Day one.  He is the leader our Party can unite behind, and I look forward to working closely with him in the weeks ahead.
Stephen joins a growing New Hampshire leadership team for Marco. In fact, Marco will also receive the backing of Brenda Willis, Vice Chairman of the Derry Cooperative School District, today.An additional 25 First In The Nation leaders also signed on with Team Marco last week. Check out that list below:
Chris Ager, Amherst
Chelsi Christensen, North Hampton
Fred Coolbroth Jr., Concord
Scott Couloumbe, Chester
Edd DeClerq, Salem
Irene Fotino, Hudson
Naomi Getman, Bow
Larry Getman, Bow
Paul Goldberg, Dover
Mike Hatch, Meredith
Former Rep. Win Hutchinson, Manchester
Rochester City Councilor Mac Kittredge, Rochester
Ann Lane, Durham
Marcia Litchfield, Meredith
Hudson selectman Ted Luszey, Hudson
Scott Maltzie, Boscawen
Rita McCullough, Rindge
Hooksett Town Councilor Marc Miville, Hooksett
Luke Pickett, Hampton
Former Sen. Jim Rausch, Derry
Jim Sievert, Londonderry
Danville school board member Nancy Steenson, Danville
Kurt Tolksdorf, Milford
Pelham selectman Doug Viger, Pelham
David White, Bethlehem.
  