
    Greenville, SC — Newt 2012 announced today that 100 Tea Party leaders from 25 states have come together to form the Tea Partiers With Newt coalition to help elect Newt and defeat Massachusetts Moderate Mitt Romney and then President Barack Obama.
"I've considered all the candidates, and Speaker Gingrich has the right combination of vision and experience to lead this country out of the economic misery created by government overreach that has been occurring for generations," said Peter Lee, Founder and Director of the East Side Tea Party of Orlando, FL. "It is clear to me and many others in the Tea Party movement that Newt is the Reagan Conservative that America needs — not a Massachusetts Moderate."
"The purpose of Tea Partiers With Newt is to work together to give the Gingrich campaign a boost leading up to the South Carolina primary. The 2012 election will be critical to rolling back liberal and big government policies from the current administration" said Tamara Colbert, Co-Founder of TeaPAC in Pasadena, CA.
Tea Party support for Newt in South Carolina is very high according to Dianne Belsom, President of Laurens County Tea party in Laurens County, SC. "We were looking seriously at the republican candidates and realized that Newt is the only one that has a proven track record of cutting government. And we simply cannot allow Mitt Romney to become our candidate. It may be harsh, but Romney's record is littered with Obama style programs. And he has never indicated as part of his campaign that he would differ to any great degree from where we are now."
Endorsing specific candidates is a barrier that has kept the typically vocal tea party unusually quiet during Republican candidate selection process. "Tea Party members have avoided endorsing candidates," said Colbert. "This time is different though; we realize that in an election of this magnitude we must get behind the candidate that will lead us. During the primary process it is especially critical that all citizens get behind the candidate they support."
"Tea party members must stand up now and fight harder than ever to support the candidate of their choosing. For me, Newt Gingrich has always been someone I would like to run for president. I'm going to do everything in my power to help him get there," said Katrina Pierson, member of the Dallas Tea Party Steering Committee and member of the Texas Tea Party Caucus Advisory Board.
The Newt Gingrich Tea Party Coalition believes that in a time when our country is in need of experienced leadership, all citizens must step up and educate themselves about the Republican candidates and exercise their right to vote. The coalition believes that Gingrich has a pro-growth strategy that is directly aligned with objectives of the Tea Party such as balancing the federal budget, repealing Obamacare and eliminating dependence on foreign oil.
If you are a Tea Party member, you are encouraged to join the Newt Tea Party Coalition and help return America to her founding principals at http://www.newt.org/coalitions.
  