
    Pool Reports by Rob Crilly, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




January 24, 202207:05 PST

VP travel pool report #1: LAX 
Good morning from LAX.
VP's motorcade arrived at 06:59.
VP and second gentleman walked straight to steps. They gave a quick wave at top before entering AF2.
Next stop is Milwaukee for tour and remarks on lead pipes and infrastructure. I am told the remarks will be streamed.
Some background from WH below.
We will be wheels up imminently
Hi everyone, the note below is On Background from a White House Official
Vice President Harris to Highlight Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Investments to Replace Lead Pipes While Visiting Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Tomorrow, January 24, 2022, Vice President Kamala Harris will visit WTRP | BIGSTEP in Milwaukee, Wisconsin to meet with local community leaders fighting for clean water, public health leaders working to protect communities, and union workers doing the work replacing lead pipes. This visit follows the Vice President's announcement of the Biden-Harris Lead Pipe and Paint Action Plan on December 16, which accelerates the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law investments toward a goal of removing and replacing all lead pipes in the next decade.
The Vice President will be joined in Milwaukee by the Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan, Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI-04). She will deliver remarks on the importance of the historic funding in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to remove and replace lead pipes across the nation and in Wisconsin.
Additional Background
All families should be able to drink clean water, breathe clean air, and live in healthy homes. However, lead in drinking water pipes, faucets, paint, and walls threatens the health and well-being of families and children across the country. The Environmental Protection Agency, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and countless experts agree that there is no known safe level of lead in a child's blood.
Yet, up to 10 million American households connect to water through lead pipes and service lines. Children, toddlers, and teenagers in 400,000 schools and child care facilities are at risk of exposure to lead in their water. And 24 million housing units have significant lead-based paint hazards. Because of inequitable infrastructure development and disinvestment, low-income communities and communities of color are disproportionately exposed to these risks. President Biden and Vice President Harris believe this is unacceptable and must change.
That is why the President and Vice President made replacing lead pipes a centerpiece of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law – to deliver clean drinking water to families and children across America. These game-changing investments will put American plumbers and pipefitters to work replacing America's lead pipes and service lines and making other critical upgrades. All families should be able to turn on the faucet at home or school and drink clean water — including in low-income communities and communities of color that have been disproportionally affected by dangerous lead pipes – while we also create good paying jobs taking lead out of homes.
Lead Pipe Funding in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law puts forward an historic investment of $15 billion to remove and replace lead service lines across the country. The Environmental Protection Agency has already announced that $3 billion will be sent to states in 2022 to jumpstart work replacing lead pipes, including $48 million for Wisconsin.
On December 2, 2021, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Regan sent a letter to Governors outlining the first year of investments in water infrastructure, including lead pipes, from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. In the letter, Administrator Regan reiterates the administration's commitment to environmental justice and targeting resources to disadvantaged communities.
Vice President's Leadership on Environmental Justice and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
The Vice President worked with President Biden to help shape and pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law through dozens of public events nationwide and engagements with Members of Congress. To emphasize the importance of the water infrastructure investments in the infrastructure plan, the Vice President's first trip to discuss infrastructure was to a drinking water plant in her hometown of Oakland.
To discuss the importance of investing in our infrastructure, the Vice President has traveled the country, including visits to:

Oakland, California to discuss water infrastructure
High Point, North Carolina to discuss electric school buses
Cincinnati, Ohio to discuss public transit
Plymouth, New Hampshire to discuss rural broadband
Lake Mead, Nevada to discuss water infrastructure
Charlotte, North Carolina to discuss public transit
San Bernardino, California to discuss wildfire resilience
UPCOMING: Milwaukee, Wisconsin to discuss removing lead pipes (1/24)

As the administration has hit the ground running to implement the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Vice President released the Biden-Harris Lead Pipe and Paint Action Plan and the Biden-Harris Electric Vehicle Charging Action Plan.
Long-Standing Commitment
Beyond traveling the country, legislation the Vice President led during her time in the Senate – including the Environmental Justice for All Act, Climate Equity Act, the Clean School Bus Act, the Wildfire Defense Act, the Water for Tomorrow Act, the Water Justice Act (which had an emphasis on treating lead pipes in homes and schools like the crisis it is), and others – shaped and influenced components of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and represent her commitment over the years to address the climate crisis and advance environmental justice.
As District Attorney of San Francisco, the Vice President opened one of the first environmental justice units in the nation, and as California Attorney General, the Vice President fought alongside communities like Bay View Hunter's Point and Mira Loma in their fight against environmental injustice



January 24, 202213:03 CST

VP travel pool report #2: Milwaukee
Air Force Two wheels down at the Nation Guard side of Milwaukee airport at 12:35 CT.
Temperature is 19F (feels like 6) and there is enough snow to close DC for a week.
VP emerged from AF2 with second gentleman at 12:47 . She moved briskly through the reception line and boarded a waiting SUV.
We are motorcading to WTRP | BIGSTEP at 12:54
On background from a White House Official:
The Vice President and Second Gentleman landed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin at 12:40 pm central time. Upon landing they were greeted by Michael Regan, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator, Governor Tony Evers, First Lady Kathy Evers, Senator Tammy Baldwin, Congresswoman Gwen Moore, Brigadier General David May and Chief master Sergeant Meredith Conn.



January 24, 202213:44 CST

VP travel pool report #3: WTRP | BIGSTEP
VP visit is to a local nonprofit - Wisconsin Regional Training Partnership, Building Industry Group Skills Trades Employment Program (WRTP BIG STEP) for a tour of the training center in a low, warehouse like facility. She stopped to speak to three sets of people, highlighting their work, including a four-foot long drill used in replacing lead pipes, two healthcare workers and a presentation on sources of lead in drinking water. Names supplied by White House below.
At the first stop she heard from a mother Deanna Branch who showed her pictures drawn by her son of the 'lead monster' which she uses to help raise attention to the dangers of lead in drinking water.
'It means a lot to me and my community that I am hearing and talking to you on their behalf.'
'You put the call out and it was heard,' said the VP after saying the administration was working on the problem.
At the second stop she heard from two workers from HERO Plumbing about their work to replace lead 'laterals'. VP asked what a lead lateral was, and the worker said it was the pipe leading from public water supply to buildings.
'It is because of the work that you all are doing... that makes us all so excited... We just got a law passed and part of that law is to invest billions of dollars in lead removal...' said the VP.
'It's going to be about investing in talented people like you...'
'Each day we fixed these is a day we help a child.'
At the third station, she heard about health implications from a paediatricia Dr. Heather Paradis who decribed how they continue to see children whose development has been affected by the impact of lead.'Any amount of lead in the blood is too much. Even low levels of lead in a child's blood can have long lasting effects.
VP said it sounded like mitigation was not enought. 'We just have to get rid of the lead.'
'I know this has been a movemnet that has been growing for some time and I know you have been leaders.... thank you for that.'
'It's solvable.'The Vice President was joined by Administrator Regan, Senator Baldwin, Congresswoman Moore, Dan Bukiewicz, President, Milwaukee Building-Construction and Mayor of Oak Creek, WI and Deanna Branch, Impacted Resident, Coalition on Lead Emergency, for a tour of briefings highlighted below.
- Briefing from Deanna Branch on the community impact of lead pipes.- Briefing from Jamie Marie Freschinger and Dr. Heather Paradis on the public health impacts of lead poisoning.- Briefing from Kylen Lenoir and Reshawn Spivey.Pool is now holding for the VP's remarks which can be streamed on the White House website.



January 24, 202213:59 CST

VP travel pool report #4: VP remarks
As we left tour location, VP ignored shouted questions about Ukraine.
VP is now set up in front of two flags, with a wooden shed structure behind her. We are in a warehouse space with a big skylight overhead. there are piles of building materials, including aggregate, as well as tools and ladders dotted around..Introductory remarks are beginning now at 13:58
You can follow live at:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NqHyhBiIU6M&feature=youtu.be



January 24, 202214:33 CST

VP pool report #5: Remarks end 
On background from a White House Official:Mayor Dan Bukiewicz initiated welcome remarks followed by Congresswoman Moore, Senator Baldwin and EPA Administrator Regan. The Vice President was introduced by Deanna Branch who earlier spoke on the community impact of lead pipes. The Vice President delivered remarks to highlight the historic funding in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to remove and replace lead pipes in Wisconsin and across the country. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan also delivered remarks.
VP began speaking at 14:18
Her remarks ended at 14: 26
Pool holding in a very cold room to return to airport and then home to Andrews. VP doing local media interviews.



January 24, 202214:36 CST

VP pool report #6: speakers 
While we hold, White House sends along the order of speakers from the event:
On background from a White House Official:
Mayor Dan Bukiewicz initiated welcome remarks followed by Congresswoman Moore, Senator Baldwin and EPA Administrator Regan. The Vice President was introduced by Deanna Branch who earlier spoke on the community impact of lead pipes. The Vice President delivered remarks to highlight the historic funding in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to remove and replace lead pipes in Wisconsin and across the country. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan also delivered remarks.



January 24, 202216:04 CST

VP pool report #7: Ukraine
VP gave brief statement on Ukraine under wingOtter herehttps://otter.ai/u/XijY63Fdi0PIpmf1hvPdSpasnJw
'So here's the deal. First of all, I am being briefed on a constant basis by my national security team. And, as you know, to the President I and other members of our administration have been in active discussions with our allies and partners around the globe. In particular in Europe. And the bottom line is that we have been clear and consistent for quite some time, that we respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and we expect that Russia would do the same and any aggressive action taken by Vladimir Putin will be met with severe consequences. The ball is clearly in his court. I can't tell you what he's gonna do. But we are prepared to take decisive action if he moves in an aggressive manner into Ukraine.'
Check against audio
Wheels up for Andrews imminently
Motorcade left for the airport at 15:37.
Pool did not spot any protesters or supporters along the route. Just one hardy dog walker. That's how cold it is.



January 24, 202218:56 EST

VP pool report #8: Andrews
Air Force Two wheels down at JBA at 18:38.
VP deplaned at 18:50 with the second gentleman. She waved to pool at the bottom of the steps and then walked straight to Marine Two.
Marine Two was wheels up at 18:55.
The White House has supplied details of the VP's interviews in Milwaukee. They were with:
TV:Kent Wainscott WISN 12Henry Strunk WISN 12
Print:Bill Glauber Milwaukee Journal SentinelMark Hoffman Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
And this concludes our coverage of the VP's trip to California and Wisconsin. Have a great week evening




  