
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6400
Sea Island, GA – Governor Mitt Romney today addressed Awakening 2007 – a leading conservative gathering created 12 years ago to stimulate dialogue about the important issues confronting the United States. Governor Romney was invited and introduced by Dr. Robert E. Moffit of the Heritage Foundation who is a member of Awakening's Board of Directors.
Governor Romney discussed his record of strong conservative leadership in Massachusetts and his vision for leading our country into the future.

Key Excerpts Of Governor Romney's Remarks As Prepared For Delivery:
"Now, I wasn't always a Ronald Reagan conservative. Neither was Ronald Reagan, by the way. And perhaps some in this room have had the opportunity to listen, learn, and benefit from life's experience – and to grow in wisdom, as I have. My life experience convinced me that Ronald Reagan was right. I'm a conservative that gets the job done. And you don't just have to take my word for it, you can just look at my record."
...
"At this decisive moment in our nation's journey into a new global frontier, there are two competing visions about how America must meet a new generation of challenges. We must choose between calling on stronger government – the liberal vision – or calling on the strength of the American people – and that is my vision.
"I believe we must call on our economic muscle, our innovative minds, and the fiber of our families. I believe our country wants our vision to prevail, because when America faces challenge, Americans don't look to Washington, they look inside themselves ... and time and time again, they meet that challenge.
"I know, the list of things we need to do to stay competitive seems daunting. And it may be tough to get things done in the next two years, with a House led by Nancy Pelosi and a Senate led by Harry Reid.
"But I am optimistic about our future: Americans always rise to the occasion. Abigail Adams, in a letter to her son when he was concerned about America's future, said: 'great necessities call forth great virtues.' I have seen that time and again."
  