
    Suzette Kuhlow Kent of Texas, to be Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government, Office of Management and Budget. Ms. Kent is an industry leader of large-scale business transformation using technology, for the world's most complex organizations.  She is currently a principal at EY and has been a partner at Accenture, consulting president at Carreker Corporation and a Managing Director at JPMorgan.   Although technology change has been at the core of her professional career, retooling the workforce and creating new opportunities for people has been an essential element of efforts that she has led.   She has served as an enterprise leader for organizational learning, diversity and inclusiveness, and career development at every organization in which she has worked.  Suzette is a frequent speaker in global industry forums, publisher of thought leadership pieces and holds patents in banking processes.
James Reilly of Colorado, to be Director of the United States Geological Survey, Department of the Interior. Dr. James F. Reilly, II, Ph.D., of Colorado Springs, CO, to be Director of the USGS. Dr. Reilly currently serves United States and allied militaries as a subject matter expert on space operations, and he is a technical advisor supporting the National Security Space Institute of the U.S. Air Force. Previously, Dr. Reilly held management positions in academia, as well as at TAEUS Corp., and PhotoStencil, Corp. in Colorado Springs. During his 13 year career at NASA, he flew 3 spaceflight missions conducting 5 spacewalks for a total of over 856 hours in space. Prior to NASA, he was chief geologist at Enserch Exploration, Inc., working projects around the world including in Antarctica and on the continental slope of the Gulf of Mexico. He earned his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. in geosciences from the University of Texas at Dallas.
Seth Daniel Appleton, to be an Assistant Secretary (Policy Development and Research) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Appleton currently serves as an Acting Assistant Secretary and General Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, where he manages the Department's congressional and intergovernmental relations.  He previously served as a senior staff member in the United States House of Representatives, most recently as chief of staff for United States Representative Blaine Luetkemeyer of Missouri from 2009 to 2017.  During his tenure in the House, Mr. Appleton focused on policy issues related to housing, financial services, small business, and agriculture among other subjects.  He earned a B.A. in history from Stanford University.
  