
    CALIFORNIA – University Professional and Technical Employees (UPTE)-CWA 9119, the nation's largest Communication Workers of America (CWA) local representing nearly 17,000 employees across the University of California (UC) system, today endorsed Senator Bernie Sanders for president following an all-member voting process. Sanders carried the election with 66% of the vote.
Sanders has long been the candidate of the working class and organized labor, recently refusing to cross the picket line for the December Democratic debate in Los Angeles, speaking at a strike action with UPTE-CWA 9119 last year, and standing with unions across the country in their struggle for fair wages and a fair contract.
"I'm honored to receive UPTE-CWA 9119's support today," said Sanders. "The labor movement helped build the middle class in this country, and strong unions are key to reviving it today. As president, I'll continue to stand on the side of workers and unions like UPTE-CWA 9119 in the fight for a fair and just economy that works for all of us."
The decision comes at a critical time for UPTE-CWA Local 9119 as the union reached a new contract agreement after years of negotiations with UC executives for critical salary increases and protections on health-care premiums and overtime pay.
"Senator Sanders has fought for labor for decades and empowers workers to fight for what is just and deserved," said UPTE-CWA 9119 President Jamie McDole. "He fights shoulder to shoulder with workers on the picket lines, and stood with our UPTE members when we struck last year. He stands against privatization of education, and as a union that represents nearly 17,000 higher education employees and educators on 13 public university and community college campuses, the fight is a reality for us. It's time for a candidate who puts people first. I am proud of my members for standing up and endorsing Senator Sanders today."
Originally formed in 1990 by a group of employees who believed that UC workers would benefit from a union to safeguard and expand workers rights, in 1993, UPTE members voted to affiliate with the Communications Workers of America, a 700,000-member union in the AFL-CIO. Today, the union represents workers across the UC system, Department of Energy labs, and three community colleges--including museum scientists, IT workers, social workers, researchers and health care workers.
Today's endorsement follows those from other major labor groups including the United Teachers Los Angeles (UTLA), National Nurses United (NNU), SEA/SEIU 1984, New Hampshire American Postal Workers (NH APWU), United Electrical, Radio, & Machine Workers of America (UE), and National Union of Healthcare Workers (NUHW).
A strong, unwavering advocate for unions across all sectors, Sanders has the most thorough and extensive plan of any presidential hopeful to strengthen rights for American workers and the labor movement, laid out in his Workplace Democracy Plan.
  