
    Edwards campaign begins airing new television spot in South Carolina that draws contrasts between Edwards and his competitors
Columbia, South Carolina – Today, the John Edwards for President campaign began airing a new 30-second television spot in the Palmetto State to highlight how Senator Edwards is the only Democratic presidential candidate who will stand up to the drug companies and powerful Washington lobbyists and fight for hard-working middle class families.
The ad begins with photographs of Senator Clinton and Senator Obama on the screen as the narrator states, "One gets more money than anyone from drug companies. The other one takes more money than anyone from Washington lobbyists. What's happened to the Democratic Party? Whatever happened to the party of the people?"
As the visuals switch to a montage of crowds at Edwards' campaign events and images of Senator Edwards working to rebuild a home in New Orleans and greeting supporters, the narrator continues, "The only one who's never taken a dime from PACs or Washington lobbyists, who knows we've been ignored too long, who knows that rebuilding the middle class is more important that politics - our John Edwards. The only one."
Born to a working class family in South Carolina and raised in small, rural mill towns, Edwards has spent his life taking on powerful interests on behalf of hard-working families like the ones he grew up with. He has never taken a dime from Washington lobbyists or PACs, and has pledged that he will ban corporate lobbyists from serving in his White House. As president, he will only support smart and safe trade deals, opposing trade deals that put the profits of multinational corporations ahead of the needs of hard-working families.
Tomorrow, Edwards will set off on a two-day "Back Roads, Back Home Barnstorm" of South Carolina's small towns and rural communities to bring attention to the millions of rural Americans who, for too long, have been forgotten by Washington politicians. During the tour, Edwards will be joined by longtime activist and actor Danny Glover, Congressman Heath Shuler, former Congressman and Dukes of Hazzard star Ben "Cooter" Jones and Bluegrass legend Dr. Ralph Stanley. During the barnstorm, Edwards will visit volunteer firefighters, stop by diners and discuss his bold plans for change with South Carolinians.
Edwards is the only candidate in the race who was born in South Carolina and he is the only Democratic candidate to ever win in a "red" state. Edwards leads the Democratic field in both campaign stops and money raised in the Palmetto State, and his campaign boasts an impressive statewide grassroots organization strengthened by deep support from Edwards' 2004 campaign.
A full transcript of the new ad is included below. To view the ad, please visit: http://www.johnedwards.com/ads/what-happened. A high quality version of the ad can be downloaded at: http://www.johnedwards.com/watch/what-happened/press.
Transcript of "What Happened" (30 seconds):
Narrator: One gets more money than anyone from drug companies.
The other one takes more money than anyone from Washington lobbyists.
What's happened to the Democratic Party?
Whatever happened to the party of the people?
Good question.
The only one who's never taken a dime from PACs or Washington lobbyists
Who knows we've been ignored too long.
Who knows that rebuilding the middle class is more important that politics.
Our John Edwards.
The only one.
John Edwards: I'm John Edwards and I approve this message.

  