
    Garners a notable 41.5 percent of Sunshine State Hispanic Republicans who will vote in the primary
KISSIMMEE, Florida — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul wins a strong plurality of Hispanic voters in the early voting state of Florida, according to a new poll.
Paul earns a commanding 41.5 percent among this large voting segment, with Newt Gingrich a distant second with 25.3 percent. Mitt Romney in third place and Rick Santorum in fourth place fare quite poorly, garnering just 9.2 and 4.1 percent, respectively, in the survey of registered Republican voters who respond that they will vote in the Tuesday, January 31st primary.
Among the total voters sampled, Paul is in third place with 13.1 percent in the state, ahead of Santorum with 10.7 percent, remarkable considering the Paul campaign is pursuing a longer-term delegate-accumulation strategy in lieu of the Sunshine State nominating contest.
"Ron Paul's support among Hispanic Republicans makes sense since Hispanics desire the same reforms that their non-Hispanic counterparts want—strong purchasing power for their hard-earned dollars, a regulatory climate hospitable to business and job growth, and personal and economic liberties returned so decision-making on important life matters occurs in the home and not in Washington," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"These numbers bode well for Dr. Paul. We've got a lengthy, 50-state national campaign ahead of us and Hispanic voters will play a part in the Republican nominating contest and in the general election," added Mr. Benton, referring to the 12-term Congressman from Texas as "doctor" because Paul is by trade an OB/GYN who personally delivered more than 4,000 babies.
The Florida poll comes on the heels of news that Paul defeats incumbent President Barack Obama 49 to 45 percent in a general election matchup, according to a CNN/ORC Poll. Paul also bests all other Republican candidates among nonwhite voters when matched against Obama in the CNN/ORC poll, carrying a solid quarter of those votes, and defeating Obama among white voters 54 to 41 percent, and men 49 to 44 percent.
InsiderAdvantage/Majority Opinion Research conducted the Florida poll of 557 registered Republican voters for Newsmax on Sunday. For the full poll results, please click here.
  