
    The President of the United States of America and the President of the Russian Federation share the view that full guarantees of respect for basic human rights and fundamental freedoms of all persons are indispensable for the maintenance of good relations between countries and the strengthening of stability and security in the world. They also share the view that the development of a state founded on the rule of law with an independent, impartial and effective legal system is essential for the respect of human rights.
They agree that aggressive nationalism and political extremism are the main threat to peace and democracy today. They therefore reaffirm their resolve to focus attention, through joint efforts where possible, on violations of human rights wherever they may occur and to continue to work for the elimination of discrimination, intolerance, racial and national prejudices, xenophobia and anti-Semitism. Adhering to the principle of intolerance of any nationalistic or religious extremism, they reiterate their commitment to take all necessary measures for the effective guarantee of the rights of all citizens, regardless of their nationality or religion.
They will take coordinated steps to increase the effectiveness of the activities of international organizations and mechanisms in order to improve human rights practices everywhere and to guarantee their full respect. They reaffirm the determination of CSCE Foreign Ministers in Rome that better use of CSCE human dimension instruments, including CSCE missions, should be made to promote open and diverse media. They reiterate their commitment to safeguard freedom of expression as a basic human right and underscore its importance for a free and open society.
The United States reaffirms its support for democratic reforms in Russia. Among these reforms are the establishment of an independent judiciary as a fundamental part of a state based on the rule of law, the strengthening of other foundations of a civil society and full realization of personal rights and liberties. The Presidents agree that the continued success of the democratic transformation in Russia is of great importance for the promotion of the principles of democracy and human rights all over the world and for the maintenance of international stability and security.
  