
    DOVER, N.H. — Today, New Hampshire State Senator David Watters endorsed former Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick's candidacy for President. Senator Watters is the only Democratic Senator in New Hampshire to represent two of the state's 13 cities, Dover and Somersworth. Watters is also among the longest-tenured members of the New Hampshire Senate and a longtime champion on issues like education and the environment. This announcement marks the most prominent New Hampshire endorsement Governor Deval Patrick has received, making him one of just five candidates in the race to earn the endorsement of a New Hampshire State Senator.
"We need a candidate who can defeat Donald Trump, and who can then assume office and deliver for working people," said Senator David Watters. "As a former two-term governor, Deval Patrick has a record of delivering results unlike any other candidate in this race. His style of leadership asks that we reject division and turn to each other rather than on each other. Leading by that example, he delivered health insurance to 99 percent of Massachusetts residents, developed a national model for responding to climate change, and led on education, innovation, and infrastructure. I believe he will do the same as president, and by doing so, he will make the American Dream real for everyone, everywhere, which is why I'm proud to endorse Deval Patrick's candidacy for President."
"I'm thrilled to have Senator David Watters on our team as we campaign hard for the nomination between now and the February 11th First in the Nation Primary," said Governor Deval Patrick. "As a lifelong educator, a leader in the New Hampshire Senate, and an advocate on so many issues important to improving people's lives, Senator Watters' support is especially meaningful. We are excited to have his help and his voice in the race. The people of New Hampshire should also expect that if I am President I will be here between elections, not just during campaign time. Because you are important to me and I intend to deliver for you."
Governor Patrick just wrapped up a two-day swing through New Hampshire that included stops in Nashua, Merrimack, and Berlin. Since announcing for president, Governor Deval Patrick has spent more time and held more events in New Hampshire than any candidate in this race, and he intends to be back more than any other candidate for the presidency between now and February 11th.
  