
    On 35 th anniversary of Roe v Wade, reproductive rights group cites her unassailable pro-choice record
WCLA – Choice Matters, one of the oldest pro-choice advocacy organizations in the nation, today endorsed Hillary Clinton for President, releasing the following statement from Catherine Lederer-Plaskett, President of WCLA – Choice Matters:
"WCLA - Choice Matters is proud to endorse Senator Hillary Clinton for President today, January 22, 2008, the 35th anniversary of Roe v. Wade.
"At a time when states across the country are proposing and passing laws that limit reproductive rights and some that immediately criminalize abortion should Roe v. Wade be overturned; at a time when the US Supreme Court has launched a direct attack on Roe v. Wade, by completely disregarding 30 years of legal precedent, and—for the first time ever—voting to uphold a ban nationwide on a medically safe and necessary abortion procedure—a ban that contains no exception for the health of a woman: we need a leader who counts women's health among her top priorities.
"We know that Hillary Clinton's words translate into action, and her leadership translates into results. While women 's rights have been challenged over the past 35 years, Hillary has stood up and spoken up for women here at home and around the world. During her time in the Senate, she has voted for every pro-choice bill that has come to the floor. She stood up to the Bush administration to win approval for access to emergency contraception, waging a three year battle to make Plan B contraception available over the counter to those in need, and sponsored the Prevention First Act to expand family planning services to low income women and require health insurance companies to cover contraception.
"Hillary spoke out against the nomination of anti-choice judges, and opposed legislation that would take away women's legal protections. She co-sponsored legislation to suspend the global gag rule, and championed legislation to ensure that rape victims would receive the medical care they need.
"Senator Clinton has a track record of action, not simply votes. At a time when it is very possible that two more Supreme Court justices who support the Roe v. Wade decision may retire, it is more important than ever that we elect a president who considers women's reproductive health a top tier issue. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is that person."
  