
    Edwards campaign unveils new television and radio ads in South Carolina one day before voters head to the polls
Columbia, South Carolina – As Senators Clinton and Obama continue to squabble, the John Edwards for President campaign today released two new ads in South Carolina focusing on the issues that really matter to the American people in this election.
The new 30-second television spot "Grown Up" includes clips from last Monday's South Carolina debate where Senators Clinton and Obama launch viscous personal attacks against each other. These attacks are contrasted with Edwards' "grown up" response where he reminds voters that this election is not about us personally – but rather "what we are trying to for this country."
In the new radio ad, "What Really Matters," Edwards says he is "proud to represent the grown up wing of the Democratic Party."
"While Senator Clinton and Senator Obama seem intent on tearing each other down, I'm intent on building you up," Edwards says in the 60-second ad. "And, as your President, I'll fight everyday to strengthen the middle class, create good paying jobs, stop unfair trade deals, and make our government work for the American people, not for a bunch of irresponsible corporations."
Today, on the last day before the primary, Edwards is campaigning across South Carolina to meet with voters and tell them, as president, he will never forget the voices of South Carolina's working families. Joined by James Lowe, his parents Bobbie and Wallace Edwards, his daughter, Cate, and Rev. James Blassingame of Sumter, South Carolina, Edwards is discussing his bold plans to make sure America's working families have a voice in Washington.
Transcripts, as well as links to watch and listen to the new ads, are included below.
"Grown Up," (30 seconds – television)
Watch: http://www.johnedwards.com/ads/grown-up
SENATOR OBAMA: While I was working on those streets, you were a corporate lawyer sitting on the board of Wal-Mart.
SENATOR CLINTON: I was fighting against those ideas when you were practicing law and representing your contributor, Rezko, in his slum landlord business in inner-city Chicago.
EDWARDS: This kind of squabbling - how many children is this gonna get health care? How many people are gonna get an education from this? This is not about us personally. It is about what we are trying to do for this country.
I'm John Edwards and I approve this message.


"What Really Matters" (60 seconds – radio)
Listen: http://www.johnedwards.com/media/audio/what-really-matters-sc-radio-ad/
ANNOUNCER: The middle class is being squeezed. An economic crisis looms. Our nation is at war. And too many Americans have no health care.
And what do we get from two Washington politicians running for President?
Nasty squabbling and personal attacks.
It's time we had a grown up in the White House who understands us and will actually get something done for the middle class.
EDWARDS: I'm John Edwards and I approved this message because I'm proud to represent the grown up wing of the Democratic Party.
While Senator Clinton and Senator Obama seem intent on tearing each other down, I'm intent on building you up.
This campaign isn't about us personally. It's about what we're trying to do for this country.
I understand the struggles middle class families face, just like mine did right here in South Carolina.
And, as your President, I'll fight everyday to strengthen the middle class, create good paying jobs, stop unfair trade deals, and make our government work for the American people, not for a bunch of irresponsible corporations.
It's time we had a President who will stand up for the American people.
ANNOUNCER: Paid for by John Edwards for President.

  