
    Edwards' supporter Doug Bishop says John Edwards is the best candidate to restore the promise of America
Des Moines, Iowa – On the day of the Iowa caucuses, between 5:20 and 6:00 pm, Doug Bishop, a former Maytag employee from Baxter, Iowa, will call on Iowans to caucus for the one candidate who will fight for the middle class – John Edwards. Mr. Bishop's 60-second address will air on television stations across the state shortly before the caucuses begin this evening.
In September 2004, Mr. Bishop was among the first wave of employees laid off at the Maytag plant in Newton, Iowa. In the television spot, Mr. Bishop tells the story of how shortly after he lost his job, he and his family met Edwards as Edwards was campaigning for the vice presidency on the Democratic ticket.
"This is something I'll never forget," Mr. Bishop says in the ad. "[John Edwards] grabbed my seven-year-old son by the hand, he dropped to one knee, and he looked him straight in the eye and he said 'I'm going to keep fighting for your daddy's job, I promise you that.' You know, that stuff sticks with you. That's the kind of things we need in a leader in this country...I want a guy that's going to sit down and look a seven year-old kid in the eye and tell him 'I'm going to fight for your dad's job.' That's what I want."
The television spot can be viewed at http://www.johnedwards.com/ads/bishop/ and a higher resolution version can be downloaded here: http://www.johnedwards.com/watch/bishop/press/. A full transcript is included below.
Transcript of "Bishop" (60 seconds):
DOUG BISHOP: Now I myself was a former Maytag employee – I was laid off September of 2004.
And I was asked "Would you and your family like to come up and meet Senator Edwards?"
And this is something I'll never forget – he grabbed my seven-year-old son by the hand, he dropped to one knee, and he looked him straight in the eye and he said "I'm going to keep fighting for your daddy's job, I promise you that."
You know, that stuff sticks with you. That's the kind of things we need in a leader in this country.
Not somebody that's going to go to a big fundraiser and say "Write me a check for $2,300, and I'll let you know you have my support."
I want a guy that's going to sit down and look a seven year-old kid in the eye and tell him "I'm going to fight for your dad's job." That's what I want.
I'm going to do my best to make sure that my children aren't the first generation of Americans that I can't look them in the eye and say "You're going to have a better life than I had."
And I think the person that's going to get that done is my friend, and yours, Senator John Edwards.
EDWARDS: I'm John Edwards and I approve this message.

  