
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of business leaders in South Carolina.
"These business leaders in South Carolina are an important part of our country's economic engine," said Mitt Romney. "But they can't afford four more years of an over-taxing, over-spending, over-regulating Obama Administration. As President, I will put in place policies that free the private sector to do what it does best: create jobs. With the help of leaders like these, we will get our economy back on the right track."
"Mitt Romney will be able to fix our economy and create jobs - because he has had one," said Barry Wynn. "When Mitt Romney becomes president, job creators across the country will be able to have the confidence that their president is supporting them, not trying to demonize them and regulate them out of business. Along with these other South Carolina business leaders, I am proud to endorse Mitt Romney because we know he will reinvigorate South Carolina's economy and the American entrepreneurial spirit."
South Carolina business leaders supporting Mitt Romney:

William Biggs, Anderson
Dr. William Bogache, Grand Strand Urology, Myrtle Beach
William Bradshaw, Bradshaw Automotive, Greer
Terry S. Brown, CEO of EDENS, Columbia
Peter M. Brown, President of Colite International, Columbia
Richard E. Coen, President of Coen & Densmore, Charleston
E. Bart Daniel, Charleston
Henry B. Fishburne, Jr., Charleston
Joseph P. Griffith, Jr., Charleston
Kevin Hall, Partner at Hall & Bowers, Columbia
Lynn Harton, Greenville
Henry Horowitz, Chairman of Oxford Capital Partners LLC, Greenville
Matthew R. Hubbell, Charleston
Phil Hughes, President of Hughes Investments, Greenville
Sharon and Rus Kingman, President of J.R. Kingman Inc., Greer
E. Smyth McKissick, III, President of Alice Manufacturing Company, Easley
Jodie W. McLean, President & CIO of EDENS, Columbia
Charlie Mickel, Capital Deployment LLC, Greenville
David Posek, Former Chairman & Current Board Member of the SC Ports Authority, Pawleys Island
Henry C. Scott, CEO of Collum's Lumber Products LLC, Allendale
Greg A. Thompson, President & CEO of Thompson Construction Group, Sumter
John von Lehe, Charleston
Barry Wynn, President of Colonial Trust Company, Spartanburg
Anita G. Zucker, Chairman and CEO, The InterTech Group, Charleston

*Company/business names are provided for identification purposes only.
  