
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 22
Mary Burrus Babson, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of one year (new position).
Richard L. Morningstar, of Massachusetts, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Adviser to the President and the Secretary of State on Assistance to the New Independent States (NIS) of the Former Soviet Union and Coordinator of NIS Assistance.
Luis Valdez, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2000, vice Peter deCourch Hero, term expired.
Submitted January 24
Lawrence Neal Benedict, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cape Verde.
Joseph J. DiNunno, of Maryland, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2000 (reappointment).
Ronnie Feuerstein Heyman, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2000, vice Jocelyn Levi Straus, term expired.
Barry R. McCaffrey, of Washington, to be Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice Lee Patrick Brown, resigned.
Robert B. Rogers, of Missouri, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 3 years (new position).
Shirley W. Ryan, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1997 (reappointment).
Withdrawn January 24
Chris Evert, of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 3 years (new position), which was sent to the Senate on June 6, 1995.
Christine Hernandez, of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term of 2 years (new position), which was sent to the Senate on June 6, 1995.
Kirsten S. Moy, of New York, to be Administrator of the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (new position), which was sent to the Senate on February 24, 1995.
Cherry T. Kinoshita, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position), which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 1995.
Stanley K. Sheinbaum, of California, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years, vice John P. Roche, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 1995.
Submitted January 25
Richard A. Paez, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Cecil F. Poole, resigned.
Elmer B. Staats,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2001 (reappointment).
  