
    PRESIDENT CARTER. On this departure from the great nation of France, it is difficult for me to express how deep the emotions have been in me and among the American people for the extraordinary hospitality that has been extended to us on this all too brief visit.
The many reminders of the historical alliance and the mutuality of heritage between our country and France, the common demonstrations of bravery of our fighting people who have defended liberty have been overwhelming in the depth of emotion engendered in all of us.
The personal welcome given to us by President Giscard d'Estaing and his wife, the Ministers of the French Government, have been equaled, even though this has been very difficult, by the spontaneous and genuine expressions of friendship among people at Normandy, at Bayeux, on the streets of Paris, and last evening at Versailles.
The open demonstration of mutual commitment for the future of the ideals and principles of our two nations has indeed been reassuring to us and, I believe, even to the rest of the world. And I want to express my personal thanks to your great President and to the wonderful people of France.
PRESIDENT GISGARD D'ESTAING. Just a word, Mr. President, to say that our conversations we had during your visit were exceptionally cordial and open and have taken place in full respect of the views of the other. Perhaps for the first time in conversations of this sort, neither of the partners, in fact, at either time tried to alter or change the policy of the other, but on the contrary, tried to seek out those elements in common which can be pursued together.
I would say that it was a particularly warm welcome that you received from the people of France, and those who know the people of France would agree it was exceptionally cordial and warm.
There is, of course, the effect of the longstanding friendship between our two countries, but there is also the favorable judgment in the eyes of the people of France for the generous action that you have undertaken. Your desire for idealism in the international responsibilities of your country is something which is very akin to the views and feelings of the French people. And I am quite convinced that, thanks to our conversations and our meetings, we will be able to work fruitfully together for the understanding and peace and progress of the world.
  