
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to section 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d)), the text of the proposed Agreement for Cooperation Between the United States of America and Sweden Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy and accompanying annexes, agreed minute, and exchange of notes; my written approval, authorization and determination concerning the agreement; and the memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the agreement. The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy, which includes a summary of the provisions of the agreement, and the views and recommendations of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and the Members of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission are also enclosed.
The proposed revised agreement with Sweden has been negotiated in accordance with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act, which sets forth certain requirements for new agreements for peaceful nuclear cooperation with other countries. In my judgment, the proposed agreement for cooperation between the United States and Sweden, together with its accompanying agreed minute, meets all statutory requirements.
The proposed bilateral agreement between Sweden and the United States reflects the desire of the Government of the United States and the Government of Sweden to establish and confirm a framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between our two countries in a manner which recognizes both the shared non-proliferation objectives and the friendly and harmonious relations between the United States and Sweden. The proposed agreement will, in my view, further the non-proliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed agreement and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution, and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
January 26, 1984.
  