
    Pool Reports by Tom DeFrank, National Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




January 24, 202110:05

Pool Report # 1
Good morning. Pool was tested? before reporting for duty at 8 am.
At 10:15 am pool will assemble for a movement. The venue hasn't been disclosed yet but it seems a fair surmise that it isn't a certain golf club in the Virginia suburbs familiar to weekend poolers.



January 24, 202110:50

Pool Report #2
Pool assembly at Palm Doors has slid for the moment. Meanwhile, principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled with poolers for about four minutes outside, committing no news but reiterating President Biden's themes of bipartisan governance.
"Hesaid from Day One that he's gonna take action...He's gonna continue to hit on these crises"and that's what the American people need."



January 24, 202113:06

Pool Report #3 - Resend/Cleanup
Pool assembly at Palm Doors has slid for the moment. Meanwhile, principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled with poolers for about four minutes outside, committing no news but reiterating President Biden's themes of bipartisan governance, dealing simultaneously with multiple crises, and continuing to pursue negotiations with Republicans to reach common solutions.
"He said from Day One that he's gonna take action...and he did...he's gonna continue to hit on all of these critical crises and that's what people need," she said.
White House officials will have conversations today with 16 legislators today, eight from each party. "He's always worked with Republicans (his entire career)"to get big things done."
"We believe that the Senate can do all of this; they can walk and chew gum at the same time and get things done for the American people."
"We can't wait...just because Washington has been gridlocked before doesn't mean it has to continue to be gridlocked."



January 24, 202112:14

Pool Report # 4 - Church
Motorcade departed South Lawn at 11:51 am arriving at Holy Trinity in Georgetown exactly 10 minutes later.
POTUS went directly into the church, where he has worshipped often over the years.



January 24, 202113:32

Pool Report #5 - Return From Church
POTUS was inside Holy Trinity for about 35 minutes. Asked how the service was, he replied through his mask: "Lovely."
The motorcade departed at 12:38 pm and arrived back to the South Lawn 19 minutes later, taking almost twice as long as the arrival motorcade.
That was because POTUS directed the motorcade to stop so Hunter Biden could make a food run at Call Your Mother, an iconic bagelry with such a cult following that it expanded last year to new shops in Georgetown and Capitol Hill.
Hunter Biden stood at the window several minutes for his takeout order but WH officials didn't know exactly what he purchased.
This was a stop of several minutes during which POTUS stayed in the limo. Hunter Biden's daughters Finnegan and Maisy, who also attended the service, stayed in the car with their grandfather.
As might be expected a sizable crowd of several dozen congregated at the intersection near CYM.
A lid for the day has been declared.




  