
    Pool Reports by Cassie Semyon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




January 13, 202310:58

SGOTUS POOL REPORT #1
Good morning and happy Friday. The Second Gentleman is delivering remarks at a naturalization ceremony at the White House today, marking National Religious Freedom Day. 15 candidates will be sworn in today from 15 different countries. Candidates were also informed if they have children living with them under the age of 18, they will also become citizens today.
According to the White House, here are the order of events:

Welcome speech from the SGOTUS
National Anthem
"Call of countries and presentation of candidates"
Administration of the oath of allegiance and congratulatory remarks by the Director of USCIS
Remarks from outstanding Americans by choice recipient - Rev. Eugene Cho, President and CEO, Bread of the World
Keynote address by Melissa Rogers, Special Assistant to the President and Executive Director, White House Office of Faith Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
Pledge of allegiance
Presentation of certificates
Closing remarks

More to come once the ceremony starts. Any questions for me, feel free to reach out. I am also including below the advisory from USCIS about today's event.
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff to Join USCIS Director Ur M. Jaddou in Welcoming 15 New US Citizens
WASHINGTON—On Friday, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff; Executive Director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships Melissa Rogers; and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Director Ur M. Jaddou will welcome America’s newest citizens at a special naturalization ceremony in recognition of National Religious Freedom Day at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. Second Gentleman Emhoff will deliver welcoming remarks at the ceremony. Director Jaddou will administer the Oath of Allegiance to 15 new citizens and present theOutstanding Americans by Choice recognition to Rev. Eugene Cho.
The Outstanding Americans by Choice recognition is bestowed upon naturalized citizens who have made significant contributions to their community and their adopted country through civic participation, professional achievement and responsible citizenship. Rev. Eugene Cho immigrated to the U.S. from South Korea as a child. He has pastored local churches for nearly 30 years and is now president and CEO of Bread for the World, a non-partisan Christian organization that advocates for policy change to end hunger in the United States and globally. An author of several books, Cho also founded and is board president of One Day’s Wages, a grassroots movement to alleviate extreme global poverty.
The 15 new citizens originate from the following 15 countries: Afghanistan, Armenia, Aruba, Bangladesh, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Ethiopia, Guyana, Honduras, Peru, Sudan, Thailand and Turkey. In Fiscal Year 2022, USCIS welcomed more than 1 million new U.S. citizens. This represents the highest number of naturalized citizens in almost 15 years.
National Religious Freedom Day is observed on Jan. 16 and commemorates the adoption of the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom on Jan. 16, 1786. This law became a basis for constitutional guarantees of religious freedom.




WHEN:


Friday, Jan. 13, 11 a.m.




WHERE:


Indian Treaty Room
Eisenhower Executive Office Building
1650 Pennsylvania Ave. NW
Washington, D.C. 20500




CONTACT(S):


For information about the naturalization ceremony, contact:
USCIS Public Affairs Officer Sharon Scheidhauer







January 13, 202311:20

SGOTUS POOL REPORT #2
SGOTUS entered the room at 11:05am to applause from the audience.
"Welcome to the White House!" he said as he began his remarks at 11:07am. He says there is no better place than to begin this new journey than here at the White House.
SGOTUS exited at 11:12am, remarks lasted about 7 minutes.
Some partial quotes:
"I know getting here wasn't easy…but you never gave up."
"On days like today, I have to think about my great grandparents who escaped persecution from what is now Poland."
"Continue to be who you are - bring your traditions…this is a nation built on the belief that everyone should have the freedom to be your whole extraordinary self."
As always, check the quotes against the otter.https://otter.ai/u/DIfw_W68zCdm0k3mM42oNzdIP2c




  