
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and appoint three individuals to serve in his Administration. He also announced the appointment of sixteen individuals.
The President intends to nominate Margaret Scobey, of Tennessee, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Arab Republic of Egypt. Ms. Scobey recently served as Political Minister Counselor at the United States Embassy in Baghdad. Prior to this, she served as Ambassador to Syria. Earlier in her career, she served as Country Director in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. Ms. Scobey received her bachelor's degree and her master's degree from the University of Tennessee.
The President intends to nominate D. Kathleen Stephens, of Arizona, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Korea. Ms. Stephens, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Political Advisor for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs at the Department of State. Previously, she served as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs. Prior to this, she served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs. Earlier in her career, she served as internal political unit chief at the United States Embassy in Seoul, Korea and Principal Officer at the United States Consulate in Busan, Korea. Ms. Stephens received her bachelor's degree from Prescott College and her master's degree from Harvard University.
The President has appointed the following individuals to be Members of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Literacy:
Charles R. Schwab, of California, and upon appointment, Designate Chair; John Bryant, of California, and upon appointment, Designate Vice Chair; Theodore Beck, of Colorado; Theodore R. Daniels, of Maryland; Cutler Dawson, of Virginia; Robert F. Duvall, of New York; Tahira Hira, of Iowa; Jack E. Kosakowski, of Colorado; Sharon L. Lechter, of Arizona; Robert V. Lee III, of Florida; Laura Levine, of the District of Columbia; David Mancl, of Wisconsin; Don J. McGrath, of California; Janet Parker, of Alabama; Ignacio Salazar, of Michigan; Mary L. Schapiro, of the District of Columbia.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust, for the remainder of four-year terms expiring 05/04/11:
Nancy Hellman Bechtle, of California; J. Michael Shepherd, of California, (San Francisco Bay Area Representative); William Wilson III, of California, (Military Representative).
  