
    Presidential Determination No. 93-11
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Pursuant to the authority vested in me by Section 503(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2311(a) and Section 3(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2753(a)(1), I hereby find that the furnishing, sale, and/or lease of defense articles and services to the Government of the Solomon Islands will strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.
You are directed to report this finding to Congress and to publish it in the Federal Register.
GEORGE BUSH
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, January 6, 1993.

Justification for Presidential Determination of Eligibility of the Solomon Islands To Be Furnished Defense Articles and Services Under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control Act
Section 503 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and Section 3(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act (the Act) require, as a condition of eligibility to acquire defense articles and services from the United States, that the President find that the furnishings of such articles to and services to the country concerned will strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.
The Solomon Islands occupies a strategic geographic position in the South Western Pacific. It is a parliamentary democracy, and pursues a friendly, pro-Western foreign policy. There have been regular national elections since independence in 1978. It has a market economy, in which fishing plays a major role.
The Solomon Islands recently established a maritime guard. This service will help the country monitor fishing activities in its waters. Secondary functions will be disaster relief, search and rescue, medical evacuation, and environmental pollution control. This improved capability will enable the Solomon Islands better to control its resources and thus will contribute to its development. We anticipate that the Solomon Islands will look to the United States and other friendly countries as potential sources for the procurement of defense articles and services to sustain that capability.
In addition, since 1991, the United States has contributed to the Solomon Islands' security through the International Military Education and Training Program (IMET). Access to the Foreign Military Sales Systems system (FMS) would provide an effective vehicle by which the Solomon Islands Government can purchase educational and other materials related to the IMET program.
Providing defense articles and services to the Solomon Islands will further our long-term goals of promoting democracy, stability, and economic development in the Solomon Islands, and will thereby strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.
  