
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Throughout this campaign, Governor Romney has addressed the need for change in Washington. With his experience turning around businesses, the 2002 Winter Olympics and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Governor Romney is the one candidate who can truly change Washington. Here is a timeline of Governor Romney's calls for change in Washington:
FEBRUARY 2007: In His Announcement Speech, Gov. Romney Called For "Innovation And Transformation In Washington." "It's time for innovation and transformation in Washington. It's what our country needs. It's what our people deserve. I don't believe Washington can be transformed from within by lifetime politicians. There have been too many deals, too many favors, too many entanglements...and too little real world experience managing, guiding and leading. I don't believe Washington can be transformed by someone who has never tried doing such a thing before, in any setting, by someone who has never even run a corner store, let alone the largest enterprise in the world. Throughout my life, I have pursued innovation and transformation." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks, Dearborn, MI, 2/13/07)
MARCH 2007: Speaking To The Conservative Political Action Conference, Gov. Romney Said "I Can't Wait To Get My Hands On Washington." "It's time for some economic conservatism in Washington as well. We've seen an embarrassing spike in non-defense, discretionary spending. ... It's time to cut out the mountains of waste and inefficiency and duplication in the federal government. I've done that in business, I've done that in the Olympics, and I've done that in Massachusetts. And boy, I can't wait to get my hands on Washington." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)
APRIL 2007: Outlining His Foreign Policy, Gov. Romney Decried The "Divisiveness, The Bitterness, The Smallness, The Disunity" Of Washington. "But I think most Americans look at Washington and are appalled at the divisiveness, the bitterness, the smallness, the disunity. Senator Arthur Vandenberg once famously opined that 'politics stops at the water's edge.' But last week, the Democratic chair of House Foreign Affairs said that we have two foreign policies, one for each party. And then the Speaker of the House helped dignify a state sponsor of terror. At this time of war, her action stands as one of the most partisan, divisive, and ill-considered of any national leader in this decade. United we stand. United we have stood the test of time and tyrants. Divided is not the American way." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks, College Station, TX, 4/10/07)
JULY 2007: Gov. Romney: "I Can Change Washington." "And in my view, if there's ever been a time that we needed change in Washington, it is now. And the reason I'm running for president is because we face enormous challenges, and I can change Washington so it can finally deal with our challenges and take advantage of opportunities to keep this land strong." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At A Campaign Event, Council Bluffs, IA, 7/3/07)
AUGUST 2007: At The Ames Republican Straw Poll, Gov. Romney Called For Change In Washington. "What brought us here is that change begins in Iowa and change begins today. ... If there's ever been a time that we needed to see change in Washington, it's now. We need somebody in Washington who will get the job done, who will get Republicans and Democrats pulling together and actually deal with the problems we have." (Rick Pearson and John McCormick, "Romney Victorious In Straw Poll," Chicago Tribune, 8/11/07)
- Watch Gov. Romney Call For Change: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHrrYD1eFWU

SEPTEMBER 2007: At Mackinac Island, Gov. Romney Says "Change Begins With Us." "Republicans for Change know how to run a tight ship. The Katrina clean-up didn't look like Republicans were in charge. We need to bring more accountability back to Washington. You have heard of the sub-prime credit crisis. Well, there's a government agency that's supposed to prevent problems like that from occurring, warning consumers, warning lenders. But they didn't do their job. And do you know what will happen? Congress will give them more money. Do you know what should happen? Heads should roll." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
- Watch The "Change Begins With Us" Television Ad: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=32IO7tX9Co0

OCTOBER 2007: Gov. Romney Says "Washington Is A Real Mess." "Washington is a real mess. The political process has been badly broken there. It's going to take both parties to make some important changes. From my standpoint, changes begin with us. When we were in the position of having both branches, executive and legislative, we spent too much, we earmarked too much. To many people our ethical standards were found wanting. If that's going to be the case, America is the loser because people expect Republicans to hold back spending and to abide by high standards of ethical conduct." (Steve Kraske, "Prime Buzz Exclusive: Romney Would Veto SCHIP," Kansas City Star's "Prime Buzz," 10/2/07)
JANUARY 2008: Gov. Romney: "Washington Is Fundamentally Broken." "I think America faces an unusual set of challenges, and people recognize that Washington is fundamentally broken, unable to deal with issues like health care, like illegal immigration, like dealing with the threat of global radical jihad, and they want to see somebody who could actually lead in Washington, who has the experience and leadership. And I think I can bring that to the capital." (CBS' "Early Show," 1/3/08)
- Watch Gov. Romney: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TVLpbfpW3zg

  