
    Today my administration transmitted to the Congress the "Progress Report of the American Heritage Rivers Interagency Committee and Task Force." The successes of the American Heritage Rivers initiative, detailed in this report, are a tribute to the efforts of thousands of citizens all across America who committed themselves to proving that what is good for the environment is also good for the economy, and to making their communities better places in which to live, work, and do business.
When I traveled to North Carolina in July 1998 to designate 14 rivers across the country as American Heritage Rivers, I was optimistic about the prospects for restoring these waterways and reinvigorating the communities they help sustain. Since that time, this initiative has helped steer hundreds of millions of dollars in Federal assistance to these communities to revitalize riverfronts, restore precious habitat, preserve cultural and historic resources, save open space, create recreational opportunities, and spur economic growth.
At the same time, this initiative has helped forge new partnerships between citizens, businesses, grassroots organizations, and local, State, and Federal agencies. And it has helped demonstrate how the Federal Government can work as a good neighbor in support of local communities, helping them realize their own visions for their rivers and their future.
I want to thank the many Members of Congress who supported this initiative, including the late Senator John Chafee; his son, Senator Lincoln Chafee; Senators Mary Landrieu, Carl Levin, and John Kerry; and Representatives Paul Kanjorski, Sue Kelly, Corrine Brown and William Jefferson. Three years after I announced it, the American Heritage Rivers initiative is a strong community-driven effort with broad and increasingly bipartisan support.
I urge Congress and the incoming administration to build upon the great strides made in just the last few years by acting on several recommendations contained in this report. Building on this record of progress will enable communities across the country to continue their efforts to bring new vitality to rivers that are truly the lifeblood of our Nation.
  