
    Pool Reports by Olivia Nuzzi, New York Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




January 17, 202211:30

VP pool report #1 — South Court Auditorium 
Good morning from the White House. Pool is awaiting the VP's arrival to the South Court Auditorium, where the VP will deliver virtual remarks to Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Beloved Community Commemorative Service.
From the VP's office:
"On Background from a White House Official
Today at 11:15AM EST, the Vice President will deliver virtual remarks to the Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Beloved Community Commemorative Service. Her remarks will be a part of the annual celebration hosted by the King Center commemorating the life, teachings, and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. The remarks will be live-streamed to the Horizon Sanctuary at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia. Last Tuesday, the President and the Vice President visited Ebenezer Baptist Church while in Atlanta.
During her remarks, the Vice President will say that to truly honor Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr's legacy, we must continue to fight for the freedom to vote.
Livestream link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y1oO4xsNlIs
At 12:15 PM EST, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will participate in a service event at Martha's Table for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service. For 41 years, Martha's Table has supported strong children, strong families, and strong communities by increasing access to quality education, health and wellness, and family resources. During the school year, Martha's Table serves thousands of families through their food distribution program. The Vice President and Second Gentleman previously visited Martha's Table for Martin Luther King Jr. Day in 2021."



January 17, 202211:43

VP pool report #2 — VP arrival 
SGOTUS Doug Emhoff entered the South Court Auditorium at 11:32 AM and took a seat in the second row, directly in front of the lectern.
At 11:34 AM, the Vice President arrived and stood off to the right side of the lectern for a few moments as she watched the service on one of the screens toward the back of the room. She then assumed her position at the lectern.
At 11:40 AM, an aide gave the pool a two minute warning.



January 17, 202212:02

VP pool report #3 — VP remarks
The VP began her remarks at 11:44 AM. She wove references to and quotations from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. into her case for the Senate taking action on voting rights.
"Today our freedom to vote is under assault," the VP said. "In Georgia and across our nation laws are being passed that could make it more difficult for 55 million Americans to vote…" She said that proponents of those laws "are also working to interfere with our elections and to get the outcomes they want." She condemned this as antithetical to democracy.
"The senate must pass this bill now," the VP said. "Today we must not be complacent or complicit. We must not give up and we must not give in."
VP concluded her remarks at 11:49 AM.



January 17, 202212:05

VP pool report #4 — motorcade rolling 
Motorcade departed the WH at 11:57 AM, en route to Martha's Table.
Per the VP's public schedule:"the Vice President and the Second Gentleman will participate in a service event at Martha's Table for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service."



January 17, 202212:58

VP Pool report #5 — Martha's Table 
Motorcade arrived at Martha's Table at 12:09 PM. VP Harris and SGOTUS Emhoff entered at 12:19 PM, wearing red Martha's Table aprons over their suits. They each put on a pair of plastic gloves and started placing produce and other groceries into bags. This went on for about fifteen minutes, the VP and SGOTUS making small talk with Martha's Table volunteers.
The grocery bagging operation paused when a reporter asked the VP about voting rights. The VP reiterated that she is committed to seeing it through. The VP was then asked if she had a message for Manchin and Sinema. She said: "As I've said before, there are a hundred members of the United States Senate, and I'm not going to absolve any of them." She added that all senators take the same oath.
With that, aides to the VP ushered the pool outside of Martha's Table and toward the motorcade, but then turned around and brought the pool back to Martha's Table. The pool was held outside.
At 12:40 PM, the pool was brought back inside Martha's Table. At 12:42 PM, the VP addressed volunteers.
The VP acknowledged that the pandemic had been isolating. Volunteer work, she said, is especially important now. "When we're able to do this it just reminds folks that they are part of a community…" she said. She thanked everyone for their work.
Mr. Emhoff then spoke briefly. He cracked a joke about the difficulty of following the VP. He emphasized the importance of getting vaccinated and thanked the volunteers for their work.
Pool was ushered back out at 12:45 PM. Motorcade departed Martha's Table at 12:50 PM en route to the White House.



January 17, 202214:22

VP Pool report #5 — Martha's Table — updating with complete transcript of VP quote
Hi all, sending along the complete quote from the VP on the second question from the pool, re: Manchin and Sinema, courtesy Jeff Mason:
"I'm not going to absolve -- nor should any of us absolve -- any member of the United States Senate from taking on the responsibility to follow through on the oath that they all took to support and defend the Constitution of the United States."




  