
    DETROIT – Former NFL Linebacker, entrepreneur and philanthropist Dhani Jones today endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg, lauding Mike's agenda to create jobs and bring economic opportunity to people and communities not benefiting from the nation's growth and prosperity, as well as his strategy to support small businesses and entrepreneurship.
"The American dream is possible with the right partners. I am proud to endorse Mike Bloomberg for President because he embodies the entrepreneurial spirit and innovative thinking the country needs and deserves to have as their partner," said Dhani Jones. "During his time as Mayor, Mike demonstrated a commitment to creating jobs and supporting entrepreneurs and small businesses by creating programs like New York City's Department of Small Business Services. He's a leader who cares about the economic interests of all Americans, and I am confident his policy platform will invest in all of America and help underserved communities come off the sidelines and get back in the game."
"I know from experience how hard it is to start and grow a business – but Dhani Jones makes it look easy. He's a talented entrepreneur who has started several successful ventures in Cincinnati, while also giving back to good causes and helping to strengthen entrepreneurs across the country," said Mike Bloomberg. "He's my kind of leader – someone who leads by doing, and who works to expand opportunity for others – and I'm honored to have his support."
At the University of Michigan, Jones was a three time All-Big Ten honoree. He later joined the NFL playing with the New York Giants, Philadelphia Eagles, New Orleans Saints, and Cincinnati Bengals. After retiring from the NFL, he founded BowTie Cause, a small business and philanthropic endeavor to design signature bow ties to increase awareness of organizations around the country. He is involved in several business ventures, authored his own memoir and is the co-founder of Petram Data which is aimed at helping businesses adapt to the evolution of marketing.
  