
    Today President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following judicial nominees:
Rossie David Alston, Jr., of Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia.
Roy Kalman Altman, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, of Puerto Rico, to be United States District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico.
Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
M. Miller Baker, of Louisiana, to be a Judge of the United States Court of International Trade.
Thomas P. Barber, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida.
Pamela A. Barker, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio.
J. Campbell Barker, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas.
Kenneth D. Bell, of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina.
Wendy Williams Berger, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida.
Joseph F. Bianco, of New York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit.
Jean-Paul Boulee, of Georgia, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia.
Holly A. Brady, of Indiana, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Indiana.
Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Alabama.
Brian C. Buescher, of Nebraska, to be United States District Judge for the District of Nebraska.
James David Cain, Jr., of Louisiana, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana.
Stephen R. Clark, Sr., of Missouri, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri.
Clifton L. Corker, of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee.
Daniel Desmond Domenico, of Colorado, to be United States District Judge for the District of Colorado.
Philip M. Halpern, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York.
Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims.
Ryan T. Holte, of Ohio, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims.
Karin J. Immergut, of Oregon, to be United States District Judge for the District of Oregon.
Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas.
Damon Ray Leichty, of Indiana, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Indiana.
Thomas Marcelle, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of New York.
Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit.
Corey Landon Maze, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama.
Matthew Walden McFarland, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio.
Eric D. Miller, of Washington, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
David Steven Morales, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas.
Sarah Daggett Morrison, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio.
Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
Carl J. Nichols, of the District of Columbia, to be United States District Judge for the District of Columbia.
Howard C. Nielson, Jr., of Utah, to be United States District Judge for the District of Utah.
Michael H. Park, of New York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit.
J. Nicholas Ranjan, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
Neomi J. Rao, of the District of Columbia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit.
Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
Timothy M. Reif, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of International Trade.
Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
Allison Jones Rushing, of North Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit.
Lisa M. Schenck, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Military Commission Review.
Rodney Smith, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
Michael J. Truncale, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas.
Wendy Vitter, of Louisiana, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
T. Kent Wetherell, II, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Florida.
Allen Cothrel Winsor, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Florida.
Joshua Wolson, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Patrick R. Wyrick, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma.
John Milton Younge, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
  