
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: To all here in the Rose Garden and to the vast gathering of Americans, young and old, on our National Mall at this very hour, welcome back to Washington, D.C. and welcome back to the largest pro-life gathering in the United States of America, the 45th annual March for Life. (Applause.)
More than 240 years ago, our Founders wrote words that have echoed through the ages. They declared "these Truths to be self-evident," that we are, each of us, endowed by our "Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are, Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness."
Forty-five years ago, the Supreme Court of the United States turned its back on the unalienable right to life. But in that moment, our movement began. A movement that continues to win hearts and minds. A movement defined by generosity, compassion, and love. And a movement that one year ago, tomorrow, inaugurated the most pro-life President in American history, President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
From preventing taxpayer dollars from funding abortion overseas to empowering states to respect life and Title X, to nominating judges who will uphold our God-given liberties enshrined in the Constitution of the United States. This President has been a tireless defender of life and conscience in America. And today, President Trump will do even more to defend the most vulnerable in our society.
My friends, life is winning in America because love saves lives. And know, as you march for life, that your compassion, your persistence, your activism, and your prayers are saving lives. And this pro-life generation should never doubt we are with you. This President stands with you. And He who said, "Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you," is with you as well.
And I believe with all of my heart, with your continued dedication and compassion, with pro-life majorities in the Congress, with President Donald Trump in this White House, and with God's help, we will restore the sanctity of life to the center of American law. (Applause.)
And so, with a grateful heart, on this 45th annual March for Life, it is now my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you the 45th President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump. (Applause.)
  