
    Edwards campaign releases new TV spot calling on New Hampshire voters to join the fight for the middle class
Manchester, New Hampshire – Building on Senator Edwards' momentum from the Iowa caucuses last night, today the Edwards campaign launched the "Main Street Express – Real Change Starts Now" bus tour across New Hampshire. From January 4th through Primary Day on January 8th, John and Elizabeth Edwards will hold Graniteroots rallies and town halls with voters across the Granite State, joined by their children Cate, Emma Claire and Jack as well as John's parents Bobbie and Wallace. In conjunction with the launch of the tour, the campaign also began airing a new television spot in New Hampshire today titled "Your Time Is Now."
"Corporate greed is not just stealing the future of the children of Democrats - it's doing the same thing to the children of Independents, the same thing to the children of Republicans," Edwards says in the 30-second ad. "We have an epic fight for the future of the middle class in this country. If you believe that, your time is now – your time to speak up, stand up, and do what's right."
The "Main Street Express" got an early start this morning with 6:15 am rally in Manchester, and later in the day, Edwards will hold events in Nashua and Portsmouth. Over the next five days, Edwards will continue to campaign throughout the state in the newly redecorated "Main Street Express" bus, which now features the motto "Real Change Starts Now – Join the Fight for the Middle Class."
Momentum from Edwards' strong performance in Iowa last night will fuel the "Main Street Express" across New Hampshire and into the other early states. Early this morning, the campaign was reporting a flood of online contributions -- on pace to make Friday the top fundraising day since JohnEdwards.com went online more than a year ago.
The "Your Time Is Now" television spot can be viewed at . A full transcript is included below. Also included below are John and Elizabeth Edwards' schedules for the next five days.
Transcript of "Your Time Is Now" (30 seconds):
Corporate greed is not just stealing the future of the children of Democrats – It's doing the same thing to the children of Independents, The same thing to the children of Republicans.
  The middle class is being damaged.
  It is the entire country.
  We have an epic fight for the future of the middle class in this country.
  If you believe that, your time is now –
  Your time to speak up, stand up, and do what's right. I'm John Edwards, and I approve this message.

Schedule For Senator John Edwards
FRIDAY, JANUARY 4TH
2:00 PM
Nashua organizing event with John and Elizabeth Edwards
Radisson Hotel – Ballroom A
11 Tara Blvd., Nashua
6:30 PM
Portsmouth Town Hall with John and Elizabeth Edwards
Frank Jones Center
400 Route 1 Bypass, Portsmouth
SATURDAY, JANUARY 5TH
9:00 AM
Portsmouth Canvass Kick Off with John and Elizabeth Edwards
Market Square
Corner of Pleasant St. and Market Sq., Portsmouth
10:15 AM
Concord Rally with John and Elizabeth Edwards
Bektash Temple Hall
189 Pembroke Road, Concord
1:15 PM
Lebanon "Fighting for our Families" Town Hall with John Edwards and his parents Bobbie and Wallace Edwards
Lebanon High School
195 Hanover St., Lebanon
9:00 PM (approximately)
John Edwards will participate in the WMUR/ABC/Facebook Democratic debate
SUNDAY, JANUARY 6TH
12:00 PM
Manchester health care forum with John and Elizabeth Edwards
Franco American Centre
62 Concord Street, Manchester
3:15 PM
Keene "Fighting for the Middle Class" town hall with John Edwards and his parents Bobbie and Wallace Edwards
Keene State University
229 Main Street, Keene
7:15 PM
Derry "Working Families" forum with John and Elizabeth Edwards
Gilbert H. Hood Middle School Cafeteria
5 Hood Road, Derry
MONDAY, JANUARY 7TH
10:45 AM
Lakeport "Giving America Hope" town hall with John Edwards and Mrs. Lakey, mother of Valerie Lakey
Lake Opechee Inn
62 Doris Ray Court, Lakeport
7:15 PM
Dover Rally with John and Elizabeth Edwards
Elks Lodge 184
282 Durham Rd., Dover
TUESDAY, JANUARY 8TH
Additional events to be announced shortly.
Schedule For Elizabeth Edwards
John Edwards for President Election Night Site
Tower Mills
300 Bedford St., Manchester
SATURDAY, JANUARY 5TH
12:30 PM
Derry "Graniteroots Star" House Party with Elizabeth Edwards
The Home of Donna Thompson
3 Towne Drive, Derry
3:00 PM
Peterborough House Party with Elizabeth Edwards
The Home of Kristin Frykman
304 Elm Hill Road, Peterborough
SUNDAY, JANUARY 6TH
3:00 PM
Berlin Town Hall with Elizabeth Edwards
Hillside Elementary School
183 Hillside Ave, Berlin
MONDAY, JANUARY 7TH
11:15 AM
Nashua House Party
The Home of Sonya Hackel
7 Bellingrath Place, Nashua
1:30 PM
Bedford House Party
The Home of Peter and Jo Smith
72 Hardy Rd, Bedford
3:45 PM
Exeter House Party
The Home of Pat and Steve Wilson
176 High St
Exeter, NH
  