
    Real Solutions: "Universal health care is a core Democratic principle. I am willing to go to the mat for it. I've been there before. I will be there again. I am not giving in; I am not giving up; and I'm not going to start out leaving 15 million Americans out of health care... I am not running for president to put Band-Aids on our problems," Hillary said during last night's debate.
Making News Today: Stock markets worldwide continue to fall because of concerns about our struggling economy. In Arizona and California, Hillary details her plans for jumpstarting the economy and creating a new era of shared prosperity.
Fact Check: During the debate, Sen. Obama made a number of inaccurate claims about his views on single-payer health care and his vote against setting a ceiling on interest rates for credit card loans. He also made inaccurate statements about Hillary's economic stimulus package and her trade policy. Get the facts.
If You Read One Thing Today: The Boston Globe writes about Hillary's early work for the Children's Defense Fund. "I knew then that I wanted to spend my career being a voice for children." Read it.
Polling Prowess: In California, a new Field Poll has Hillary leading Sen. Obama by 12, 39 to 27 percent... In Connecticut, a new Hartford Courant poll shows Hillary up by 14. She leads Sen. Obama 41 to 27 percent... In New York, four new polls have Hillary significantly ahead of Sen. Obama. Siena College shows her leading by 25, Zogby and Rasmussen have her up by 21 and Marist has her 16 ahead.
Endorsement Watch: In California, Assemblymember Felipe Fuentes and State Sen. Alex Padilla, both former supporters of Governor Bill Richardson, endorsed Hillary... In Indiana, former Governor Joe Kernan and First Lady Maggie Kernan joined the campaign... In Nebraska, Public Service Commission Chairwoman Anne Boyle endorsed Hillary.
Talk vs. Action: Yesterday, Sen. Obama broke his pledge not to campaign in states that do not adhere to the Democratic National Committee calendar. His new ad is running in Florida, in direct violation of the pledge's prohibition of electronic advertising. "Words matter, promises matter and pledges matter. It calls into question the promises and pledges he's made on the campaign trail," said former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack.
  