
    Economists pick Edwards because he will fight for sustained growth, full employment and an end to poverty
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, the John Edwards for President campaign announced that more than 30 leading U.S. economists have endorsed John Edwards for president. "Economists for John Edwards" includes such notable scholars as James K. Galbraith from the University of Texas at Austin; Deirdre McCloskey from the University of Illinois at Chicago; Thomas Palley, founder of the Economics for Democratic & Open Societies Project; Clyde Prestowitz, president of the Economic Strategies Institute; Harley Shaiken from the University of California, Berkeley; and Edward Wolff from New York University.
"I'm proud to endorse John Edwards and his campaign to build One America.," said James Galbraith, the Lloyd M. Bentsen, Jr. Chair in Government/Business Relations at the LBJ School of Public Affairs, University of Texas at Austin. "Edwards understands that in order for America to prosper, our economy needs to reward work as well as wealth – and he's proposed detailed and comprehensive policies to address the growing income gap, the health care crisis, job loss and the other critical social issues facing our nation."
"I am honored to have earned the support of this distinguished group of economists," said Senator Edwards. "Today, families across the country are working harder than ever, but struggling to make ends meet. To help middle-class families get ahead, we need a president who will fight for universal health care, smarter trade policies and a new energy economy."
In their endorsement of Edwards, the "Economists for Edwards" signed on to the following statement:
"As professional economists, we support John Edwards for President of the United States in 2008 because we believe that John Edwards has best demonstrated the capacity and the policies to be the next president of the United States.
"We support John Edwards because we believe his campaign is the single best expression of progressive political values in American politics today.
"We support John Edwards because we believe that as president he will best wage the hard fight that lies ahead for the principles and programs we endorse.
"We support John Edwards because as economists, we seek effective public policy aimed at sustained growth, full employment, an end to poverty, and progress toward solving the major social and environmental problems associated with health care, education, trade, taxation and climate change.
"John Edwards' approach to these issues has been uniquely serious, honest, and far-reaching. We urge all Americans – and particularly the Democratic voters of Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina - to join us in supporting John Edwards for president."
A complete list of the members of "Economists for Edwards" is included below.
Economists for Edwards
Note that institutional affiliations are for identification purposes only.
Gar Alperovitz
Lionel R. Bauman Professor of Political Economy
University of Maryland-College Park
Lourdes Beneria
Professor of City and Regional Planning
Cornell University
Michael A. Bernstein
Provost
Tulane University
Martha Campbell
Associate Professor, Economics
SUNY Potsdam
Manuel Castells
Chair Professor of Communication Technology and Society
University of Southern California, and
Distinguished Visiting Professor of Science and Technology
MIT
Jane D'Arista
Former staff economist
U.S. House of Representatives
William Darity, Jr.
Arts & Sciences Professor of Public Policy Studies
Professor of African and Africa-American Studies and Economics
Duke University
Paul Davidson
Editor, Journal of Post Keynesian Economics
Bernard Schwartz Center for Economic Policy Analysis
The New School University
Gerald Epstein
Professor of Economics
University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Susan F. Feiner
Director of Women's Studies
Professor of Economics
University of Southern Maine
James K. Galbraith
Lloyd M. Bentsen, Jr. Chair in Government/Business Relations
LBJ School of Public Affairs
The University of Texas at Austin, and
Senior Scholar, Levy Economics Institute
Richard Garrett
Associate Professor of Economics
Division of Accounting and Business Management
Marymount Manhattan College
Mary King
Professor of Economics
Portland State University
Jan Kregel
Visiting Distinguished Research Professor of Economics
The University of Missouri - Kansas City
Peter Hans Matthews
Department of Economics
Middlebury College
Middlebury, Vermont 05753
Deirdre McCloskey
Professor of Economics
University of Illinois at Chicago
Richard McIntyre
Honors Program Director and Professor of Economics
University of Rhode Island.
Thomas Michl
Professor of Economics
Colgate University
David Miller
Assistant Professor of Economics
University of California, San Diego (UCSD)
John Miller
Professor of Economics
Wheaton College
Tracy Mott
Professor of Economics
University of Colorado at Boulder
Thomas Palley
Founder
Economics for Democratic & Open Societies Project
Dimitri Papadimitriou
President
Levy Economics Institute
Bard College
Chip Poirot
Associate Professor of Economics
Department of Social Sciences
Shawnee State University
Robert Pollin
Professor of Economics and Director,
Political Economy Research Institute (PERI)
University of Massachusetts-Amherst
Robert Prasch
Associate Professor of Economics
Middlebury College
Clyde Prestowitz
President
Economic Strategies Institute
Bruce Roberts
Professor of Economics
University of Southern Maine
J. Barkley Rosser
Professor of Economics
James Madison University
Harley Shaiken
Class of 1930 Professor
Graduate School of Education and Department of Geography
University of California, Berkeley
Nina Shapiro
Professor and Chair
Department of Economics and Finance,
Saint Peter's College
Edward Wolff
Professor of Economics
New York University
Martin Wolfson
Professor of Economics and Policy Studies
University of Notre Dame
L. Randall Wray
Research Director
Center for Full Employment and Price Stability
Department of Economics
University of Missouri-Kansas City, and
Senior Scholar, Levy Economics Institute
  