
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Romney for President launched its newest web ad, "Twists." In 2000, Senator John McCain personally attacked George Bush's integrity by comparing him to President Clinton. Today, Senator McCain is once again personally attacking his opponent, but this time it's Governor Romney. The truth is that Senator McCain voted against the Bush tax cuts and supported last year's amnesty bill. That's straight talk for being in Washington too long and that's leadership our country cannot afford. Script and viewing links are below.
Script For "Twists" (WEB:30):
ANNOUNCER: "Remember? Last time John McCain attacked President Bush's integrity."
JOHN MCCAIN: "His ad twists the truth like Clinton. We're all pretty tired of that."
ANNOUNCER: "Comparing Bush to Clinton? He was wrong then, and he's wrong about Mitt Romney now.
"The truth? 'McCain is not as conservative as Romney.'
"'He voted against the Bush tax cuts.'
"On immigration, McCain supported this year's amnesty bill.
"Higher taxes, amnesty for illegals.
"That's straight talk for being in Washington too long."
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney and I approve this message."
To watch "Twists," please see: http://tv.mittromney.com/?showid=728652
AD FACTS For "Twists" (WEB:30):
ANNOUNCER: "Remember? Last time John McCain attacked President Bush's integrity." JOHN MCCAIN: "His ad twists the truth like Clinton. We're all pretty tired of that." ANNOUNCER: "Comparing Bush to Clinton? He was wrong then, and he's wrong about Mitt Romney now."
- In 2000, Senator McCain Ran An Attack Ad Comparing Then-Gov. Bush To Bill Clinton. SEN. MCCAIN: "I guess it was bound to happen. Governor Bush's campaign is getting desperate, with a negative ad about me. The fact is, I'll use the surplus money to fix Social Security, cut your taxes and pay down the debt. Governor Bush uses all of the surplus for tax cuts, with not one new penny for Social Security or the debt. His ad twists the truth like Clinton. We're all pretty tired of that. As president, I'll be conservative and always tell you the truth. No matter what." (McCain 2000, Campaign Ad, 2/9/00; www.youtube.com/watch?v=UHoXkCprdL4)

ANNOUNCER: "The truth? 'McCain is not as conservative as Romney.'"
- National Review : "John McCain is not as conservative as Romney. He sponsored and still champions a campaign-finance law that impinged on fundamental rights of political speech; he voted against the Bush tax cuts; he supported this year's amnesty bill, although he now says he understands the need to control the border before doing anything else." (Editorial, "Romney for President," National Review, 12/11/07)

ANNOUNCER: "'He voted against the Bush tax cuts.'"
- In 2001, Senator McCain Was One Of Only Two Republicans To Vote Against The $1.35 Trillion Tax Cut. The bill lowered marginal rates, eliminated the marriage penalty, and doubled the child tax credit. (H.R. 1836, CQ Vote #170: Adopted 58-33: R 46-2; D 12-31; I 0-0, 5/26/01, McCain Voted Nay)
- In 2003, Senator McCain Was One Of Only Three Republicans To Vote Against The $350 Billion Tax Cut. The comprehensive bill lowered taxes by $350 billion over 11 years – including increasing the child tax credit and eliminated the marriage penalty. (H.R. 2, CQ Vote #179: Passed 51-49: R 48-3; D 3-45; I 0-1, 5/15/03, McCain Voted Nay; H.R. 2, CQ Vote #196: Adopted 50-50: R 48-3; D 2-46; I 0-1, 5/23/03, McCain Voted Nay)

ANNOUNCER: "On immigration, McCain supported this year's amnesty bill. Higher taxes, amnesty for illegals. That's straight talk for being in Washington too long." GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney and I approve this message."
- Senator McCain Helped Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA) Forge A "Fragile Agreement" On The 2007 Senate Immigration Bill. "As Congress begins debate on a complex immigration bill, the leading Republican candidates for president have finally found a policy issue to squabble over. The chief differences have emerged between Senator McCain of Arizona, who helped forge a fragile agreement with Senator Kennedy in the Senate, and Mitt Romney, who quickly came out against the bill and derided it as a form of 'amnesty' for illegal immigrants." (Russell Berman, "GOP Presidential Hopefuls Square Off Over Immigration," New York Sun, 5/21/07)
- Columnist Charles Krauthammer: 2007 Immigration Bill Supported By Sen. McCain Was "Amnesty" And "Vacuous Nonsense." "The immigration compromise being debated in Congress does improve our criteria for selecting legal immigrants. Unfortunately, its inadequacies in dealing with illegal immigration – specifically, in ensuring that 10 years from now we will not have a new cohort of 12 million demanding amnesty -- completely swamp the good done on legal immigration. ... The amnesty is triggered upon presidential certification that these bureaucratic benchmarks are met – regardless of what is actually happening at the border. What vacuous nonsense." (Charles Krauthammer, Op-Ed, "One Short Amendment," The Washington Post, 5/25/07)

To watch "Twists," please see: http://tv.mittromney.com/?showid=728652
  