
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Tim Albrecht (515) 491-2722
Boston, MA - Governor Mitt Romney announced today that former Iowa House Speaker Brent Siegrist (R-Council Bluffs) and former First Congressional District candidate Brian Kennedy (R-Bettendorf) will serve as advisers to his Presidential Exploratory Committee.
"Iowa is a critical state, and we are building a strong organization with talented and experienced people. After stopping in Waterloo, Fairbank, and Dubuque last Friday, I could see that our supporters are motivated and energized. With the help of this experienced leadership, I know our Exploratory Committee will continue to have a strong presence in Iowa," said Governor Romney.
The two join Chairman Doug Gross, Rich Schwarm, State House Republican Leader Christopher Rants, and adviser David Kochel on Governor Romney's Iowa leadership team.
"We are methodically putting together a team on the ground that combines the experience and knowledge needed for a successful caucus campaign," said Gross. "As we begin looking toward a possible presidential campaign, this team will offer serious guidance and advice for Governor Romney's Iowa efforts."
Kennedy will provide critical leadership in Iowa's First Congressional District, which covers 12 counties in northeast Iowa. Included in the District is Dubuque and Waterloo, where Romney drew large crowds last Friday.
"Governor Romney will appeal to Iowans in each corner of the state," said Kennedy. "As people see and talk to him, they are impressed and want to be involved. I believe that as Governor Romney travels our state, his message will resonate. I am excited about this campaign."
Governor Romney also announced his Iowa staff today. Joining the Iowa leadership team will be Gentry Collins as State Director, Jill Latham as Political Director, Nicole Schlinger as Straw Poll Director and Tim Albrecht as Communications Director.
Background On The Iowa Staff:
Gentry Collins - State Director: In 2003-04, he served as Executive Director for the Republican Party of Iowa, where President Bush carried the state for Republicans for the first time in 20 years. Last campaign cycle, Collins served as Political Director for the Republican Governors Association.
Jill Latham - Political Director: In the last campaign cycle, Latham, an Alexander native, served as Political Director for the Republican Party of Wisconsin. In 2003-04, she was field staff on the Bush-Cheney Wisconsin presidential campaign.
Nicole Schlinger - Straw Poll Director: Nicole is President and founder of Capitol Resources, Inc., Iowa's largest fundraising and event management firm for Republican candidates. Prior to starting Capitol Resources in 1999, she was the Finance Director for the Republican Party of Iowa.
Tim Albrecht - Communications Director: Albrecht was field staff on the Forbes 2000 presidential caucus campaign, and most recently served as Director of Communications for House Speaker Christopher Rants.
  