
    The Clinton campaign today launched the "Our Voice, Our Future Tour," a two-week tour to encourage young voters to support Hillary and make their voices heard. The tour builds on and expands Hillblazers, the campaign's youth mobilization program. Through visits to high schools, colleges and young professional events, Chelsea Clinton, Members of Congress, and prominent Hillary backers will reach out to young people and inspire and mobilize support for the campaign. New supporters will be encouraged to engage their social networks in support of Hillary.
"Young people have always been a voice for change. Throughout my campaign, I've heard students and young professionals speak about the challenges we face and the solutions they'd like to see, from an education policy that makes college affordable to a health care policy that provides quality care to all Americans," said Clinton. "Young Americans are thinking about our future and making their voices heard during this election, and I am listening, and I'll be sure to continue to listen in the White House."
In addition to the launch of the tour, the campaign announced several high-profile endorsements, including former NFL player Keyshawn Johnson and NBA players and twin brothers Jarron and Jason Collins.
Johnson and actresses America Ferrera and Amber Tamblyn joined Chelsea Clinton this morning for the tour's inaugural event at Francis Marion University. Future tour events will include Jarron Collins and Yusef Jackson, son of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, as well as other celebrities and young supporters.
"Young voters are thinking very seriously about the future of our country, about the challenges we face, and who is ready to lead on the issues they care about. They're out front and ready to fully participate in this historic election," said Johnson. "I'm excited to get involved and encourage all young Americans to join Hillary's campaign."
"Young voters know that this election is far too significant to watch from the comfort of our homes. We also know that the choice before us is not a popularity contest and is too important to make based on campaign slogans," said Ferrera, who recently signed on as a Co-Chair of Hillblazers. "I know Hillary is the most fit and capable candidate. She has spent her whole life working hard to make a real difference in people's lives. She has the vision and experience to turn the country around and I am confident she will help us build a future worth inheriting."
"My generation cannot stand on the sidelines during this important election," said Jarron Collins. "I support Hillary Clinton because I know she will make a positive impact on our country and our world."
  