
    Columbia, SC -- South Carolina Lieutenant Governor Andre Bauer endorsed Mike Huckabee for President, it was announced today. Bauer will join Huckabee as well as Former Governor David Beasley, State Chairman Mike Campbell , Chuck Norris, and Ric Flair on the campaign trail on Thursday.
Bauer stated, "I, like many voters, have been previously undecided, but this election is too important to sit on the sidelines. This week, I have decided to vote for Mike Huckabee, and I urge all South Carolinians to join me in voting for Mike Huckabee this Saturday. Simply put, I believe Mike Huckabee is the best of several fine candidates to lead America . As America faces tough times, Mike Huckabee has the character, integrity, and proven leadership to ensure our greatest days are yet to come."
"Also, I've tried to carefully compare each candidate's position as it relates to issues affecting senior citizens, and I've concluded that Mike Huckabee is a sound choice for senior citizens," Bauer said. As Lt. Governor, Bauer heads the state's office on aging.
Bauer also said he admires Huckabee's ability to win against the odds, noting that he, too, has a history of winning races considered to be upsets.
"Nobody knows better than I do that it's the people, not the polls, which determines the winner on election day," Bauer said. "I believe the fact that Mike Huckabee has stayed positive while others have waged negative campaigns against him, will sway undecided voters toward him. I believe it speaks to his character."
Huckabee stated, "I welcome Andre's support and am glad to have him on board Team Huckabee. I'm really pleased to have the support of a leader with such a solid record of achievement and a reputation for hard work and being a servant of the people, who shares my commitment to conservative governance."
Bauer, who is serving his second term as South Carolina's Lieutenant Governor, has joined Mike Huckabee's leadership team in South Carolina, which already includes Former Governor David Beasley, United States Congressman Bob Inglis, State Chairman Mike Campbell and the family of Former Governor Carroll A. Campbell Jr., and numerous state legislators including Greenville State Senator David Thomas, Rex Rice, and Liston Barfield of Conway.
  