
    Today, Hillary Clinton received the endorsement of the Kansas City Star in Missouri's upcoming primary on February 5th.
In its endorsement editorial the Kansas City Star wrote that Hillary 'is a woman of obvious intelligence with a strong commitment to reform on health care, taxes, energy, immigration, education and global warming."
Excerpts of the Kansas City Star editorial follows:
"In the Democratic contest, the top candidates all show a solid grasp of the public's general dissatisfaction with the economy and the disappointments in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have spotlighted health-care reform as well.
In our view, however, Sen. Clinton would be the top choice for the Democratic nomination. She is a woman of obvious intelligence with a strong commitment to reform on health care, taxes, energy, immigration, education and global warming.
And Clinton gives voters a clear picture of what she has in mind. On health care, for instance, she offers a comprehensive program that would allow people to keep their current insurance coverage or choose from among the health plans available to members of Congress.
Despite her strong differences with Republicans, she has shown the ability to work with some of them in Congress. And from years of experience in Washington, she speaks thoughtfully about what the federal government can and can't do.
Clinton has used her years in the Senate to develop considerable expertise in defense issues, serving on the Armed Services Committee.
She has properly criticized mistakes that have been made in Iraq and offered constructive suggestions to improve our military forces. Clinton also realizes that President Bush's open-ended military commitment to Baghdad is a mistake.
As first lady and then a senator, Clinton developed a thorough knowledge of the world and many national or regional leaders.
She understands the need for more effective American diplomacy to deal with problems ranging from terrorism to global warming.
Some critics have focused on the mistakes of her husband's administration. But if Sen. Clinton is to be held responsible for some of those mistakes - which is appropriate - she must also get credit for some of its successes. And there were, in fact, many successes.
Sen. Barack Obama, whose voting record puts him to Clinton's left on the political spectrum, has impressive rhetorical and organizational skills. He has put those to good use in energizing voters and drawing more young people into the political process.
His optimism and appeals for greater national unity have struck a cord with many. Still in his first Senate term, however, he lacks Clinton's experience, military expertise and knowledge of the world.
In this year's presidential contest, we believe those differences are decisive."
To read the full editorial [Click here]: http://www.kansascity.com/340/story/450952-p2.html
  