
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Let me just say to all the volunteers: Thank you all. You know, Ms. Earnestine, we were talking about it -- and Brian. As you all know -- you know, there are many ways to measure strength. But if you want to really see somebody's muscles, see what they do to lift other people up.
PARTICIPANTS: Amen!
THE VICE PRESIDENT: That's the (inaudible) -- (applause) -- it truly, truly is.
And Ms. Earnestine and Brian -- I mean, it's just different generations but in the same continuum with everybody as a community of people. You know, as Dr. King would say, "the beloved community." And it's about always seeing the goodness -- right? -- in others and knowing our power to spread that -- to spread what it means to be a community, what it means to live a life of service.
What it means -- also, you know, Dr. King -- I think so much of what he talked about also was not -- it wasn't about "charity," right? "Charity" suggests sometimes that you do it because you got a little extra or because you're just benevolent, right? Versus, "duty," which is -- it is our duty, I think we would agree, in a beloved community to give what we can -- give as much as we can in service of each other, understanding how it is a cycle that strengthens us all, and it lifts us all up.
And these have been some very difficult times with COVID. And it's just -- you know, it's a time where I think people have felt isolated these last couple of years and felt alone. And when we're able to do this, it just remains folks that they are a part of a community and that we have a sense of duty, borne out of love for our fellow person and for our neighbor. And that's what this is about.
So, the Second Gentleman and I just wanted to come to thank you all because I know who's here, and I know this is one day of many days that you give and that you serve. And it really makes a difference.
So, thank you to everybody. And it's so good to be back with you. And thank you for all that you guys have done. (Applause.)
PARTICIPANT: Mr. Second Gentleman, (inaudible) as well?
THE SECOND GENTLEMAN: Yes, thank you. It's hard to follow her, but -- (laughter) -- thank you all so much, Ms. Earnestine and Brain. Just to -- to get to spend the time with you -- and all of you for all of what you do.
I've spent -- really, I mean, it's been a year, almost, as Second Gentleman. I've spent most of my time on the road. I've been to 30-plus states, basically doing things like this and meeting people like yourselves all over the country doing what you do when there's no cameras here. And you're doing it, as the Vice President said, for your community and for your neighbors and for people who are in need.
So, thank you so much for all you do. And everyone out there around the country: Thank you for what you do -- all the volunteers. I've seen it on food. I've also seen it on vaccinations, which we were talking about. Please get vaccinated, and please get boosted. And I know you're all pushing that as well.
So, thank you. Thank you so much. (Applause.)
  