
    DES MOINES, IA - Today, John Delaney announced an endorsement from St. Ambrose University constitutional law professor and candidate for the Muscatine County Board of Supervisors Henry Marquard.
Mr. Marquard serves as Vice President and General Counsel for Stanley Consultants, one of the largest consulting firms for engineering, construction and environmental services with 18 offices and operations in more than 100 countries. He also teaches part-time at St. Ambrose University in Davenport. He previously served on the Iowa District Export Council, appointed by United States Secretary of Commerce Pritzker. Marquard also previously served on the Iowa Environmental Protection Commission for four years, and served as its Chairman from 2008-09.
Mr. Marquard said the following:
"Like many Iowans, I've found it difficult to make my decision regarding the caucus because we've had great candidates. I've been waiting for someone to inspire me. When John Delaney spoke in Muscatine on December 14, I found that inspiration. I've had the opportunity to talk to John many times in the last year. I was impressed with his background as a business leader and Congressman. His ideas for creating market incentives to reduce carbon emissions, for national public service to strengthen the bonds to unite Americans and his health care plan which ensures all Americans and delivers quality local health care were sound, practical and innovative. His honesty and integrity are obvious. In the last few months, John's message has stressed that our policy and leadership choices are really moral choices, deeply based on our American values. John ties public policy, public service, and our moral beliefs together with his faith-based belief that these are things we must do. The message is inspiring and I know now how deeply committed John is to making these things happen, not just because they are good ideas but because they are moral imperatives. You can't ask for anymore, nor should you ask for any less from a President. That's why I'm endorsing John Delaney."
Delaney is currently in the midst of a 40 town tour of rural Iowa.
  