
    Over the Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Weekend, Edwards Will Outline Plans to Ensure All Americans Have Equal Opportunity to Achieve the Dream
Columbia, South Carolina – On Saturday, January 19, Senator John Edwards will return to the Palmetto State for a four-day "Achieving the Dream for Hard-Working Americans" tour leading up to the CNN/Congressional Black Caucus Institute debate on Monday, and concluding on Tuesday the 22nd. During the trip, Edwards will call for bold action to ensure that all South Carolinians - regardless of their background - have equal opportunity to get a great education, find a good paying job, support their families and have a secure retirement.
Edwards will meet with voters across his native South Carolina and will honor Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by addressing the NAACP's King Day at the Dome Rally on the Statehouse steps before attending the nationally televised debate co-sponsored by the Congressional Black Caucus Institute in Myrtle Beach.
Edwards will be accompanied to the debate by some members of his African American leadership team and advisors, including U.S Representatives and former Congressional Black Caucus Chairs Mel Watt and Eddie Bernice Johnson, and South Carolina State Representative Leon Howard, Chair of the Black Caucus in South Carolina.
Edwards has seen firsthand how far America has come towards the goal of equality, but still sees how far we have to go before all Americans have the same chances to get ahead. A radio actuality of Edwards' recent remarks in South Carolina about the legacy of Dr. King and our shared responsibility to fight for One America can be found online at: www.johnedwards.com/realchange.
The details of Edwards' three-day tour are below. Members of the media interested in traveling on the campaign press van should contact Audrey Waters at awaters@johnedwards.com.

SATURDAY, JANUARY 19TH, 2008
7:15 PM
Senator John Edwards to hold an "Achieving the Dream for Hard-Working Americans" event in Greenville
Greenville High School
1 Vardry Street
Greenville, South Carolina

SUNDAY, JANUARY 20, 2008
12:00 PM
Senator John Edwards to Greet Supporters and Undecided Voters
Steven W's Bistro
1100 Main Street
Newberry, South Carolina
2:00 PM
Senator John Edwards to Greet Supporters and Undecided Voters
Details TBA
Winnsboro, South Carolina

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2008
10:30 AM
Senator John Edwards to Address the NAACP's King Day at the Dome Rally
South Carolina State Capitol
State Capitol Steps
Columbia, South Carolina
8:00 PM
Senator John Edwards to attend the CNN/Congressional Black Caucus Institute Debate
Palace Theater
1420 Celebrity Circle
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina

TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2008
9:45 AM
Senator John Edwards to Hold a Town Hall Meeting in Conway
Peanut Warehouse
107 Main Street
Conway, South Carolina
  