
    The President today announced the selection of six persons to receive the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service, the highest award that can be granted to Federal civilian employees. The award was established in 1957 and is presented "with profound appreciation, highest esteem, and great personal satisfaction" to a small number of individuals each year.
The six recipients, and the citations from their awards, are:
Alfred L. Atherton, now U.S. Ambassador to Egypt, for his work on negotiation in the Middle East peace talks:
"A career diplomat, he served with distinction as principal negotiator in the'. Middle East Peace talks, complex and arduous missions following the Camp David Summit.
"Through his efforts, confidence in our objectivity and commitment to peace was enhanced and differences between the principals were significantly narrowed, representing a major contribution to negotiation of a peaceful settlement between Egypt and Israel."
Thomas S. Austin, former Director (now retired) of the Environmental Data and Information Service at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration:
"A recognized world authority on .marine science and scientific data management, he improved user services, reduced costs, and developed Federal capabilities responsive to critical national problems.
"He helped shape national and international policies in marine science and environmental information management and developed capabilities of our Government to help solve problems in the critical areas of energy, global food needs, environmental problems and the development of the coastal zone."
Sidney N. Graybeal, Director of Strategic Research at the Central Intelligence Agency:
"An acknowledged expert in the intelligence community, he has been instrumental in applying intelligence processes to vital national security issues and has played a central role in U.S. Arms Control policy.
"Through his leadership, perseverance, fairness, and negotiating skills in a series of assignments of critical importance to the United States, he has successfully advanced our national security interests at the highest levels."
Leonard Niederlehner, Deputy General Counsel at the Department of Defense:
"A legal administrator of the highest caliber, his advice on the multitude of complex issues in which the Department becomes involved has been of great significance to our Nation's defense.
"His ability to resolve disagreements and develop consistent positions on Department issues is a tribute to his skills as a lawyer and negotiator, and his analytical and managerial abilities and dedication represent the highest standards of performance."
Harold H. Saunders, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs:
"A distinguished diplomat, he has made a significant contribution to the cause of peace in the Middle East through his extensive knowledge and creative approaches.
"Successfully managing a widely divergent group of support personnel, he provided essential elements upon which the framework agreements reached at the Camp David Summit were based, thus making a major contribution to the success of these negotiations."
Dorothy L Starbuck, Chief Benefits Director of the Veterans Administration:
"An able administrator and inspiring leader in the Department of Veterans Benefits, she has shown dedication to and compassion for the welfare of all veterans and their families.
"Her outstanding leadership in implementing a computerized records system, administering an Outreach Program, and realigning the Department's geographical structure resulted in improved services at reduced costs and represents the highest degree of excellence in public administration."
  