
    By Mike Huckabee
Everyday on the campaign trail voters and reporters ask me all sorts of questions. Below are three that were asked of me by the Christian Post. As you consider who you will support for President, I hope you will take my answers to heart and strongly consider my campaign for President when it is time to vote.
If you have friends and/or family living in Iowa, please share this message with them today. Over 2/3rds of Iowa voters say they are still undecided about who to caucus for. Your personal email to one of these voters or perhaps someone who is wavering in their support of someone else can make a profound difference for our campaign.
Below are my answers to three questions from the Christian Post.
Christian Post (CP): Do you think President Obama and Washington are pushing us in the wrong direction morally?
Huckabee: Yes! America has witnessed the slaughter of over 55 million babies in the name of choice. Politicians and unelected judges threaten the foundation of religious liberty by criminalizing Christianity. We even have Republicans demanding that we abandon Biblical principles of natural marriage.
CP: What does judicial supremacy mean to you?
Huckabee: It's the Supreme Court, NOT the Supreme Branch and it's sure not the Supreme Being. Many politicians have surrendered to the false god of judicial supremacy. This is wrong. It leads to judicial tyranny. We should not allow black-robed and unelected judges the power to make law and enforce it-upending the equality of our three branches of government and the separation of powers so very central to our Constitution.
CP: In your "Pledge to the People," you promise to defend the "sanctity of all human life from the moment of conception until the grave" and to push to "defund Planned Parenthood". Is this critical to your campaign for President?
Huckabee: We've lost our way morally. I refuse to surrender on fundamental issues like life and marriage. As I have said, the Supreme Court is not the Supreme Being and that can't overturn the laws of nature or of nature's God.
  