
    
  National advisory board grows with members hailing from America's fastest-growing voter group

LAKE JACKSON, Texas- The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign announced today additional members of its "Hispanics for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
"We welcome the addition of these new members, whose compelling reasons for why they support Dr. Paul inspire many Americans, Hispanic and not. All Americans have a stake in restoring personal and economic liberty, but in particular many Hispanics trace their immigration heritage to nations where liberty and opportunity are denied them. Dr. Paul understands this," said Fernando Cortes, referring to the prolife congressman as "doctor" because Paul is by trade an OB/GYN who personally delivered more than 4,000 babies.
Mr. Cortes, for his part, serves as Deputy Controller and Hispanic Outreach Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign Committee, Inc.
Similar to those first joining the coalition during its launch in November, the new members being announced today are leaders in their community who are representative of the support Dr. Paul enjoys from America's fastest-growing population and voter segment.
A recent poll shows Dr. Paul faring better among nonwhite votes than any other Republican candidate when matched against incumbent President Barack Obama. "Hispanics for Ron Paul," then, offers the Ron Paul campaign the opportunity to form a larger winning coalition by sharing his message of personal and economic liberty among voters of Hispanic ancestry.
Dr. Hector Caballero, a neurologist from Tuscaloosa, Alabama, offered a personal endorsement of the 12-term Congressman from Texas, combining his admiration for Dr. Paul with a condemnation of the authoritarian regimes under which he lived while residing in Cuba and the Soviet Union.
"Dr. Paul's persistent fight for the cause of individual liberty and proven integrity attracted me to his message with open fervor and enthusiasm. After living in the Soviet Union and Cuba, you develop a strong understanding of what liberty is all about and you understand that liberty is very fragile and scarce. You understand that you are never free enough. Freedom is always lost in exchange for security and the falsehood of the common good. Liberty is the most important human currency and is only exchangeable for more of it. No other leader has a more profound understanding of this principle than Dr. Paul," said Dr. Caballero.
Also from Alabama and hailing from the Birmingham area, Senior SQA Engineer Marcelo Muñoz helped establish the largest Tea Party group in Alabama. He has led a number of small-government and anti-tax efforts in his home state, and was elected to serve as GOP vice-chair in his county.
Originally from Santiago, Chile, Mr. Muñoz's parents left their homeland in 1972 due to the rise of Salvador Allende and his Marxist regime. Their family settled in New Jersey, and from their struggle Mr. Muñoz has come to realize the unquestionable need to preserve freedom in his new homeland of America.
"Having served around the world as a member of the U.S. Air Force as well as having lived under both a left-wing Marxist regime and a right-wing military dictatorship, I'm acutely aware of the values and freedoms we currently enjoy and understand how fragile they are. As a veteran I took an oath to protect our Constitution. It is refreshing to see a fellow Air Force veteran honor that very same oath through his principled leadership," said Mr. Munoz.
Explaining the solution a Paul Presidency offers, Mr. Muñoz continued, "Our country is in need of a true statesman, not more of the same tired politicians that have almost destroyed our country. A sound monetary policy, a responsible fiscal policy, and a constitutional foreign policy implemented by a President Paul will ensure that the flame of liberty will continue to light the world."
Mr. Muñoz is the Alabama Campaign Chairman for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign and founder of the Tea Party Caucus while serving on Alabama's Republican State Executive Committee, a partisan governing body. Over the years Mr. Muñoz has been a member of and volunteered with many civic organizations, but he is most proud of his work with the American Legion, the Blue Star Mothers, and the Hale Empowerment and Revitalization Organization.
Emiliano Antunez of Miami, Florida has been active in his state and local Republican Party, serving in several leadership positions over the years. He characterized Dr. Paul as, "The only presidential candidate of any party that is addressing the issues that truly matter."
Mr. Antunez further explained why he selected Dr. Paul, saying that, "When it comes to important issues such as the national debt, federal government spending, monetary policy, and foreign policy, only Ron Paul is clear on what needs to be done. Most important to me is that Ron Paul's campaign is supported and funded by grassroots efforts, not special interest money from the actual source of our economic turmoil and foreign policy fiascos we are currently experiencing."
As a function of this announcement, Messrs. Caballero, Muñoz, and Antunez are all members of the "Hispanics for Ron Paul" national advisory board.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the active "Hispanics for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official web page by clicking here. Prospective members should also email Fernando Cortes, the Hispanic Outreach Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign, at fernandoc@ronpaul2012.com.
  