
    Pool Reports by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal



Sent:
Reports:




January 21, 20208:51

Travel pool report #1 — arrival in Zurich 
AF1 touched down at Zurich International Airport at 8:21 am local time after a largely uneventful flight. There were no visitors to the press cabin.
POTUS deplaned at 8:34 am. He was wearing a dark overcoat and red tie. He did not take questions and boarded Marine One at 8:35 pm.Switzerland is six hours ahead of Washington.
The pool then ran to nearby Swiss Air Force helicopters, which are carrying reporters and staff (POTUS is flying in his usual Marine One helicopter). We're told by the pilot we're riding in what he called a "Super Puma."
>From our seats in the helicopter we saw Marine One lift off at 8:51 am.
We're also lifting off now for an approximately 45-minute helicopter ride to Davos. We're told the flight will offer stunning views of the Alps.
We spotted Jared Kushner, Stephen Miller and Dan Scavino on the tarmac here.
Thanks to co-pooler Gabby Orr for helping.
PLEASE NOTE: Since it's a new day, I'm starting the numbering of the pool reports at #1 again. Yesterday's reports should have been labeled "Travel pool report," not "Foreign pool report." Apologies.



January 21, 20209:36

Travel pool report #2 — arrival in Davos 
We touched down at the Davos landing zone at 9:36 am.
About the flight:
The views throughout the helicopter ride were indeed stunning. Enormous mountains burst through the cloud cover. Many of the peaks were covered in snow, but the lower parts of the mountains were still green. From the air, we could see houses and chalets dotting the sides of the mountains. Flying above the clouds, the sky was a brilliant shade of blue. By the time we ventured further into the mountains, the clouds disappeared.
As we continued on, we flew closer to the mountains. At times, the peaks stretched into the air higher than the elevation of our helicopter. At some points, we were surrounded by mountains on all sides. The mountains were covered in thick patches of trees.
Right before we landed, we flew over a snow-covered frozen lake. People on the ground pointed up and took photos.
Here's a pic to give you a taste of the landscape:https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/32d2bec7-a725... 



January 21, 20209:49

Travel pool report #3 — motorcade rolling 
Marine One landed a few minutes after our helicopters did — at 9:40 am. POTUS exited Marine One at the Davos Landing Zone at 9:43 am.
Dan Scavino, Stephen Miller and Jared Kushner followed close behind him.
He shook hands with a small group of greeters. Names below. He did not take questions.
The motorcade was rolling at 9:48 am.
>From the White House:
THE PRESIDENT arrived at Davos, Switzerland, InterContinental Davos Landing Zone
Met By:
Ambassador Edward T. McMullen, Jr.Ambassador of the United States of America to Switzerland and Liechtenstein
Mayor Tarzisius CaviezelMayor of Davos



January 21, 202010:00

Travel report #4 — holding at hotel 
The motorcade pulled into the Intercontinental Hotel at 9:53 am. We did not see POTUS exit the motorcade.
Uneventful motorcade ride. People snapped photos as the motorcade passed. We didn't see any protesters.
The pool is now holding in a utility room/coat room. We should be here for another hour. We're then scheduled to go to the Congress Centre for Trump's remarks.
One other bit of color: co-pooler Gabby Orr spotted the words "ACT ON CLIMATE" carved into the snow on a hill near the helicopter landing zone.



January 21, 202011:30

Travel pool reports #5 — motorcade rolling 
The motorcade started rolling at 11:29 am
We did not see POTUS enter the motorcade. We're heading to the Davos Congress Centre, where Trump is scheduled to soon deliver remarks.
The event is open press and the remarks will be live streamed here:https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/ 
As a result, I won't be sending a detailed breakdown of his remarks. But I'll send color from the room.



January 21, 202011:42

Travel pool reports #6 — arrival at Congress Centre 
The motorcade arrived at the Davos Congress Centre at 11:37 am. Pool rushed through the cavernous facility.
We spotted Trump outside the event where he apparently made comments. But the pool was unable to hear him. There's a crush of reporters here.
The ride was largely uneventful. Groups of onlookers snapped photos with their phones. We spotted two men carrying skis outside an apartment building. The streets here are narrow, snowy and twisty, so it was a pretty slow-moving motorcade.



January 21, 202011:50

Travel pool report #7 -- Trump speech beginning 
POTUS took the stage at 11:49 after being introduced by World Economic Forum Executive Chairman Klaus Schwab
He's speaking in a large room with hundreds of people sitting in rows in front of the stage. The stage has a blue backdrop that says: "World Economic Forum -- 50 Years"
Our arrival at the Congress Centre was chaotic. As we ran down the stairs, hundreds of people were lined up snapping photos. The room where POTUS is speaking appears to be full and we're told there are overflow rooms where people are watching the remarks.
When we arrived outside the room where POTUS is speaking, we were met by a wall of other reporters who were apparently watching POTUS enter. He appeared to say something to the crowd, but the pool was behind the dozens of assembled reporters and we couldn't hear him.



January 21, 202012:22

Travel pool report #8 -- Trump wraps up 
POTUS wrapped up his speech at 12:20 p.m.
The crowd was largely quiet for most of the speech. They applauded when POTUS announced he the U.S. would join the Trillion Tree initiative. The crowd also applauded when he wrapped up his remarks.
The pool was seated at the very back of the room and we didn't have a great vantage point. I'm told Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were seated in the front.
Wer'e rolling out now



January 21, 202012:33

Travel pool reports #9 — trump speaks to reporters 
Pool was rushed out of the location of Trump's speech. We went up a set of stairs and observed him exiting the hall from above. POTUS spoke to other reporters gathered below. For the second time today, we weren't able to hear much of what he said because we were set up too far away.
Here's what we could make out, via Gabby Orr:
In response to question on how his speech went:
"Well, I thought it was very well-received. We had 200 of the biggest companies, plus numerous leaders of different countries. Many of those people will be coming to make investments in a very large number... We're doing very well."
On what his response is to Greta Thunberg:
"Well, we're doing very good things. I'm a very big believer in the environment... but what I want is the cleanest water, the cleanest air."
POTUS then walked up a set of stairs surrounded by a large group of people.



January 21, 202014:05

Travel Pool report #10 -- Grisham on impeachment trial 
Asked whether Mr. Trump is planning to watch the impeachment trial from Davos, White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham said, "He has a full day here in Davos, but will be briefed by staff periodically."
For now, the pool is holding at the Congress Centre while POTUS conducts two closed-press meetings.



January 21, 202016:08

Travel pool report #13 — readout of European Commission meeting 
From the White House:
Readout of President Donald J. Trump's Meeting with President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen
Today, President Donald J. Trump met with President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen. The two leaders agreed that the United States and the European Union need to work together to confront global challenges such as China's unfair trade practices and telecommunications and energy insecurity. President Trump reiterated the importance of free, fair, and reciprocal trade, and that the United States expects tangible progress toward a United States – European Union trade deal in the near future.



January 21, 202016:23

Travel pool report #14 — meeting with Swiss president 
w/ a big assist from co-pooler Gabby Orr
The pool was brought into Trump's bilateral meeting with Swiss President Simonetta Sommaruga at 4:14 pm.
Scavino, Kudlow, Grisham, Lighthizer, O'Brien, Mulvaney, Mnuchin and Ross were all present.
POTUS said the meeting would focus on trade. He said the Swiss want to make a trade agreement.
TRUMP: "We have a tremendous relationship. We're working on other matters also, but today we're going to be discussing largely trade with Switzerland. They want to do a deal and we'll see what we can do."
SWISS LEADER:
"Very glad" to have this bilat. "We agree about three main issues: bilateral engagement, economic ties and also global warming. I think it's worth it also to talk about that."
TRUMP: "Sure. We look forward to it."
Trump was asked what he agreed to with Macron on France's digital tax. He said he and Macron had a "good conversation."
"The US is very happy with the result."
"We appreciate very much what president macron did."
He did not say specifically what Macron did



January 21, 202017:47

Travel pool reports #15 — Pakistan bilat 
W/ an assist from Gabby Orr
Pool was brought into Trump's bilat with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan at 5:31 pm.
POTUS said they planned to talk about trade and Kashmir.
Re: Kashmir: "We've been watching that and following it very very closely."
TRUMP: "Trade is going to be of very, very paramount importance. We're doing more trade as it turns out, and we're working together on some borders and Kashmir..."
"It's an honor to be with my friend and thank you very much."
IMRAN KHAN: "Good to see you again. Yes there are issues we we are going to talk about. Main issue concerns the U.S. and Pakistan, and for it luckily we are on the same page..."
Khan said he wants "an orderly transition in Afghanistan and talks with taliban and the government and also India... is a big issue for us."
Re: India, Khan said:
"We hope the US will play its part in resolving it because no other country can."
(Q: Will you visit Pakistan during India trip?) Trump: "Well, we're visiting right now, so we won't have to. From the standpoint of our two countries, we're getting along very well... We are very close right now because of the relationship we have."
(Q: Will you impose tariffs on European automobiles?)
"We expect to be able make a deal with Europe."
If they can't make a deal, "we'll give that very strong consideration"
"If they're fair, we're not going to have a problem."



January 21, 202018:00

Travel pool report #16 — Swiss bilat readout 
From the WH:
Readout of President Donald J. Trump's Meeting with President of the Swiss Confederation Simonetta Sommaruga
Today, President Donald J. Trump met with President Simonetta Sommaruga of the Swiss Confederation and thanked Switzerland for graciously hosting the important World Economic Forum. President Trump also thanked President Sommaruga for Switzerland's strong support as the United States' Protecting Power in Iran. The two Presidents also discussed bilateral issues and reiterated their interest in boosting trade ties.



January 21, 202018:49

Travel pool report #17 —Trump's business dinner 
Pool entered at 6:39pm
W/ another big assist from Gabby Orr (see list of attendees below):
Gianno Infantino, FIFA president, gave Trump a soccer ball "just to remind everyone what the real priority is of life," and then spent several minutes introducing him.
INFANTINO: "It gives joy and it gives hope to millions and millions of people all over the world. That's all we have to do."
"Second reason is, the U.S. and soccer — I have to inform you that the U.S. is on the verge of becoming the soccer power of the world. And president Trump has been in this venture since the beginning (world cup planning). He wanted it to be organized with Canada and Mexico."
"The third reason... is yourself. President Trump is definitely a sports guy."
Infantino compared POTUS to the world-class athletes he often interacts with: "President Trump is made of the same sort of fiber. He is competitive... He wants to win."
TRUMP: "I really appreciate it and I appreciate your steadfast movement. I wanted to have it there and you wanted to have it there. But it's going to be very exciting," POTUS said of North America hosting the world cup in 2026.
Trump invited the business leaders to go around the table and "promote what you want to promote."
Trump sat across from Ivanka, who wore a satin midi dress in emerald green with matching pumps.
Mnuchin, Kushner, Kudlow, and Mulvaney were also in attendance.
From the WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump hosts a dinner with the American Delegation and global chief executive officers. This dinner is an opportunity to discuss America's thriving economy and highlight the sustained economic expansion that is possible when companies invest in American companies and its workforce.
The following individuals are expected to attend: 
The White House President Donald J. TrumpMick Mulvaney, Acting Chief of Staff Robert O'Brien, National Security Advisor Larry Kudlow, Director of the United States National Economic CouncilIvanka Trump, Advisor to the PresidentJared Kusher, Senior Advisor to the President Chris Liddell, Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Coordination
Trump AdministrationAmbassador McMullen, United States Ambassador to Switzerland and LiechtensteinSecretary Steve Mnuchin, Secretary of the TreasurySecretary Wilbur Ross, Secretary of CommerceSecretary Eugene Scalia, Secretary of LaborAmbassador Robert Lighthizer, United States Trade RepresentativeKeith Krach, Under Secretary of State for Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment
External ParticipantsDr. Patrice Motsepe, Founder & Executive Chairman, African Rainbow Minerals, South AfricaHiroshi Mikitani, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Rakuten Inc., Japan Dr. Joerg Reinhardt, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Novartis AG, SwitzerlandSergio P. Ermotti, Group Chief Executive Officer, UBS AG, SwitzerlandJoe Kaeser, President & Chief Executive Officer, Siemens AG, GermanyAmin H. Nasser, President & Chief Executive Officer, Saudi Aramco, Saudi ArabiaTidjane Thiam, Chief Executive Officer, Credit Suisse AG, SwitzerlandKenichiro Yoshida, President & Chief Executive Officer, Sony Corporation, JapanGianni Infantino, President, Fédération Internationale de Football Association, SwitzerlandJes Staley, Group Chief Executive Officer, Barclays, United KingdomRobert Dudley, Group Chief Executive, BP Plc, United KingdomBen van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer, Royal Dutch Shell Plc, NetherlandsBill Thomas, Global Chairman, KPMG, Canada Dr. Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer, Volkswagen AG, GermanyRajeev Suri, President and Chief Executive Officer, Nokia Corporation, Finland Farouk A Bastaki, Managing Director & Chairman of the Executive Committee, Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA), KuwaitLim Chow Kiat, Chief Executive Officer, GIC Private Limited (Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Private Limited), SingaporeDilhan Pillay Sandrasegara, Chief Executive Officer, Temasek International Pte Ltd, SingaporeBernard Arnault, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, LVMH Moët Hennessy, FranceBörje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer, Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson, SwedenMasayoshi Son, Chief Executive Officer, SoftBank, JapanRajeev Misra, Board Director & Executive Vice President, SoftBank, JapanAna Botin, Group Executive Chairman, Banco Santander, Spain Lakshmi Mittal, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ArcelorMittal, Luxembourg Mansoor Bin Ebrahim Al Mahmoud, Chief Executive Officer, Qatar Investment Authority, Qatar 



January 21, 202019:12

Travel pool report #19 — WH impeachment comment 
Response to House Democrats regarding White House Counsel Pat Cipollone:
"The Democrats are an utter joke - they have no case, and this latest political stunt proves it. The idea that the Counsel to the President has to turn over protected documents and confidential information is ludicrous, and to imply he can't represent the President of the United States in an impeachment proceeding is completely absurd."
"Further, the man Democrats appointed to lead these proceedings is Adam Schiff - who has been caught lying multiple times about Russia collusion evidence that didn't exist, made up a totally phony phone conversation about Ukraine that never happened, and lied that his staff didn't have contact with the whistleblower. If there's anyone who should be disqualified from leading this proceeding it's Mr. Schiff." Hogan Gidley.



January 21, 202019:53

Travel pool report #20 — Pakistan readout 
From the WH:
Readout of President Donald J. Trump's Meeting with Prime Minister Imran Khan of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
Today, President Donald J. Trump met with Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan. The two leaders agreed to continue efforts to seek a lasting political settlement in Afghanistan that would bring peace and ensure terrorists can no longer operate from the country. They also discussed ways to expand trade between the United States and Pakistan, and other bilateral and regional issues.



January 21, 202020:17

Travel pool report #21 — back to hotel/lid 
Motorcade started rolling from the conference center at 8:05 pm. We didn't see POTUS enter.
The ride was largely uneventful. We passed people lined up along the street with their phones in the air, as usual.
We arrived at the Intercontinental hotel at 8:13 pm. We didn't see POTUS exit the motorcade.
The press is now making the hourlong trek to our hotel.
After a very long pool stint, we have a travel/photo lid at 8:15 pm.
Good night everyone.




Pool Reports by Gabriella Orr, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




January 21, 202014:43

Travel Pool Report #11
At 2:31pm local, pool entered a narrow conference room for POTUS' bilat with the new European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.
POTUS was flanked by Wilbur Ross, Robert Lighthizer, Robert O'Brien and Larry Kudlow. He briefly thanked Von der Leyen, remarking at one point that he's heard she's "a very tough negotiator."
"We're going to talk about a good trade deal. We'll be discussing other things also," he said.
Von der Leyen said she was looking forward to getting to work with POTUS, and described Americans and Europeans as "good friends."
POTUS responded to one shouted question about supporting a motion to dismiss as his impeachment trial gets underway in the Senate: "That whole thing is a hoax."
Poop was ushered out at 2:36pm. Please check quotes against transcript.



January 21, 202015:08

Travel pool report #12 - Readout from first bilat
White House deputy press secretary Judd Deere passes along the following:
Readout of President Donald J. Trump's Meeting with World Economic Forum Founder and Executive Chairman Professor Klaus Schwab
Today, President Donald J. Trump met with Professor Klaus Schwab, the Founder and Executive Chairman of the World Economic Forum. President Trump expressed his appreciation for the Chairman having invited him and the United States delegation to the Forum. The President and Chairman discussed the value of empowering the private economy as an essential component of driving global growth. The President also congratulated Professor Schwab on his fiftieth year hosting the World Economic Forum.



January 21, 202019:00

Travel pool report #18 — Business dinner cont'd
Pool was escorted out at 6:53pm, while the business leaders were still going around the room introducing themselves.
At one point, POTUS became engaged in a conversation about 5G capabilities with a Swiss business leader at the table. He called 5G "very important militarily" and said the U.S. is working to accelerate its development of 5G technology.
"We're bringing down the time periods and spectrums, we're opening it up... I think we're far advanced, much further than people understand. We got off to a late start, but once I got here we caught up," he said.
Your poolers also spotted White House deputy chief of staff Chris Liddell at the end of table. He sat across from U.S. Ambassador to Switzerland and Lichtenstein Ed McMullen.




  