
    
  
  
  
  
 
Day 5 of Newt's Jobs and Growth bus tour brought him to Tish's Restaurant in Council Bluffs and the Atlantic Bottling Company in Atlantic, Iowa.  At both stops, Newt outlined his bold solutions to create jobs and maximize economic growth before large and enthusiastic crowds.  Here's a recap of the previous four days of Newt's bus tour:
Day Four: Newt stops in Des Moines, Creston, and Shenandoah
Day Three: Newt stops in Sioux City, Winterset, Storm Lake, Denison and Carroll
Day Two: Newt stops in Mason City, Algona, Spencer, and Le Mars
Day One: Newt stops in Dubuque, Dyersville, and Decorah
In Council Bluffs, Newt spoke to an overflow crowd of over 200 people at Tish's Restaurant about his plan to create jobs and economic growth.
He stopped by Tish's Restaurant for a two hour visit, which was packed with people. Gingrich focused his speech on creating jobs, reducing the national debt, and staying positive, despite the negative attack ads.
Then he spent time answering questions from the audience.
Diane Winkler sat in the front row and says on Tuesday Gingrich will have her vote.
"He's got all the ideas, he's got solutions, he's got gumption, and that's what we need."
...
Even voters who haven't made up their mind say they were surprised by how well Gingrich spoke.
"I was impressed with his knowledge and confidence, the fact that he had his wife with him, and he didn't hold anything back," says Jim Nelson.

While in Council Bluffs, Newt also received the endorsement of Jeff Jorgensen, chairman of the Pottawattamie County Republicans.
Gingrich picked up a big endorsement Saturday as Jeff Jorgensen, chairman of the Pottawattamie County Republicans, threw his hat into the former Congressman's campaign. Gingrich is his personal choice, Jorgensen said, and should not be taken as the choice of the county party.
"We'll support whoever is the nominee," Jorgensen said. "This happens to be my choice."
Jorgensen said his top priority is someone to stop the out-of-control federal spending and Gingrich has the background to do that.
"We need someone with experience. We need someone who understands the process," he said.

  