
    Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Rabin:
I am delighted to be here and to see so many, many of your friends. We, of course, are very pleased that you are in the United States. I feel, as you do, that the discussions we have had in the 3 days have been very meaningful. I believe they will be very productive. It has been a fine experience for me to renew our personal friendship that existed over a period of years when you were the Ambassador for Israel. It has been for you, I am sure, a great experience to renew your acquaintances with your many, many friends on Capitol Hill. And I am certain, from what I have heard from some of my old friends, your presentation to the Congress yesterday in joint session was outstanding. In fact, I heard it was so good that I am not sure I want to make a State of the Union up there. [Laughter]
But let me reiterate what we have said both privately and publicly. The United States, at the present time, as it has been under five previous Presidents, is dedicated to the survival and the security of Israel. We mean it. At the same time, we are dedicated to working with you in moving forward to real peace in the Middle East.
You have been staunch and steadfast in your dedication on behalf of your country and at the same time have shown great statesmanship and leadership in that very difficult area of the world. I can't thank you enough for the opportunity to work with you in the efforts that involve both your country and ours, aimed at the achievement of the kind of life that is needed and necessary for all peoples in the Middle East.
You have done an outstanding job as an Ambassador, and it is a great pleasure and privilege for me to work with you on behalf of what we all have to do in that very difficult area--the Middle East.
I thank you for the hospitality tonight. t hope and trust, as I am sure it will be, that as you travel around the United States in the next 7 days, you will receive as warm a welcome everywhere as you have received in our Nation's Capital.
Thank you very much.
  