
    Mitt Romney's West Virginia State Committee today delivered the necessary paperwork for him to appear on the ballot in West Virginia with the Secretary of State's office in Charleston. Appearing at the filing were State Chairman Bill Phillips and Co-Chairs RNC Committeewoman Donna Gosney, Delegate Bob Ashley, WVGOP Vice Chairman Thomas O'Neill, Romney 2008 West Virginia State Director Wendy McCuskey, and State Senator Donna Boley.
"My team is working hard in West Virginia to ensure that we are able to defeat President Obama and turn around our country," said Mitt Romney. "While the country is facing economic hardship and sluggish growth caused by President Obama's policies, few states have seen as direct an attack on their economy by this Administration as West Virginia. In order for our country, and West Virginia, to get back on a path to economic prosperity, I will make developing West Virginia's vast energy resources a part of my economic plan on day one."
"Getting our country's budget back in order is an important part of getting our economy back in order," said Delegate Bob Ashley. "Mitt Romney is a conservative businessman who used the principles from the private sector to balance the budget and create a rainy day fund when he was governor. His economic plan cuts spending and will put us on the path to fiscal health."
"Mitt Romney is the one conservative who can win the nomination and go up against President Obama," said RNC Committeewoman Donna Gosney. "He has a record of leadership and achievement that is unmatched. Republicans will face a tough battle campaigning against President Obama's $1 billion machine, but Mitt Romney has shown throughout his life that he doesn't back down from challenges."
"Mitt Romney has a conservative economic plan to get our economy working again," said State Senator Donna Boley. "Backing up this plan are four years of fiscal restraint, lower taxes, and job creation when Mitt Romney was governor. He has shown that conservative principles can be used to make government more accountable to taxpayers and make government less intrusive for small businesses. In addition, West Virginians are supporting him because he has pledged his support in developing West Virginia's vast energy resources."
  