
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 27
Togo Dennis West, Jr.,
of the District of Columbia, to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice Jesse Brown, resigned.
John D. Kelly,
of North Dakota, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, vice Frank J. Magill, retired.
Marsha L. Berzon, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice John T. Noonan, Jr., retired.
Kim McLane Wardlaw, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice J. Cliford Wallace, retired.
Judith M. Barzilay, of New Jersey, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Dominick L. DiCarlo, retired.
Delissa A. Ridgway,
of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Nicholas Tsoucalas, retired.
William P. Dimitrouleas, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Stanley Marcus, elevated.
Robert G. James, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, vice John M. Shaw, retired.
James W. Klein,
of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Stanley S. Harris, retired.
Steven W. Mickle, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Florida, vice Maurice M. Paul, retired.
Johnnie B. Rawlinson, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Lloyd D. George, retired.
Richard W. Roberts,
of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Charles R. Richey, deceased.
Gregory Moneta Sleet, of Delaware, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Delaware, vice Joseph J. Longobardi, retired.
Emilio W. Cividanes,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of 15 years, vice John Maxwell Ferren.
Submitted January 29
Rebecca T. Bingham, of Kentucky, to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2001, vice Carol K. DiPrete, term expired.
Charles H. Dolan, Jr., of Virginia, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2000 (reappointment).
Stuart E. Eizenstat, of Maryland, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 5 years; U.S. Alternate Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 5 years; U.S. Alternate Governor of the African Development Bank for a term of 5 years; U.S. Alternate Governor of the African Development Fund; U.S. Alternate Governor of the Asian Development Bank; and U.S. Alternate Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice Joan E. Spero, resigned.
Richard W. Fisher, of Texas, to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Charlene Barshefsky, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Scott Snyder Fleming, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs, Department of Education, vice Kay Casstevens.
Martha B. Gould, of Nevada, to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2002 (reappointment).
Margaret Hornbeck Greene, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Enrichment Corporation for a term expiring February 24, 2003 (reappointment).
Paul M. Igasaki, of California, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2002 (reappointment), to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Bill Lann Lee, of California, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Deval L. Patrick, resigned.
Kevin Emanuel Marchman, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Joseph Shuldiner, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Christine O.C. Miller,
of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years (reappointment), to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
David R. Oliver, of Indiana, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, vice R. Noel Longuemare, Jr.
Paul L. Seave, of California, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of California for a term of 4 years, vice Charles Joseph Stevens, resigned.
Nancy E. Soderberg,
of the District of Columbia, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Nancy E. Soderberg,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during her tenure of service as Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Orson Swindle, of Hawaii, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 1997, vice Roscoe Burton Starek III, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Cherryl T. Thomas, of Illinois, to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board for a term expiring August 28, 2002, vice Glen L. Bower, term expired.
Mozelle Willmont Thompson, of New York, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 1996, vice Christine A. Varney, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Withdrawn January 29
James Hudson Bailey, of Wisconsin, to be Deputy Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, vice Harvey G. Ryland, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on October 8, 1997.
Ronald Kent Burton, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2002 (reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 1997.
  