
    Newt Gingrich was one of Reagan's Young Lieutenants  "Newt Gingrich was very much present and accounted for on the Reagan team. To borrow from Reagan's farewell address to the nation and the men and women who served him, Newt Gingrich wasn't just marking time. He made a difference. He helped make that City on a Shining Hill stronger. He helped make the City freer.  Quite to the contrary of the Romney message, Newt Gingrich was in fact one of Reagan's Young Lieutenants."  (Jeffery Lord, "Reagan's Young Lieutenant; Gingrich a star on Reagan team," The American Spectator, 1/24/2012)
DeLay, Gingrich, Helms, and others dubbed "Reagan Robots"  "And a handful of incumbents ... like Tom DeLay, Newt Gingrich, and Jesse Helms, suddenly had enormous influence, key committee chairmanships, or both.  The new crop of lawmakers were so slavish in their devotion to Reagan's policies they were dubbed the "Reagan Robots".  (The Man Who Sold the World: Ronald Reagan and the Betrayal of Main Street America, By William Kleinknecht, 2009, pp 215)
Gingrich Was A Loyal Ally of President Reagan  "Being a loyal ally of President Reagan's has its rewards. One of those reaped by Rep. Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) was a weekend trip from him and his new wife to the tiny Caribbean island of Antigua.  The Gingrichs were among a delegation of about 20 Americans sent there by Reagan via a special Air Force jet to represent the United States at Antigua's Independence Day celebration last weekend.  (Gingrich Discovers His Loyalty to Reagan Has Certain Rewards,  Atlanta Journal, November 6, 1981, 10A)
Gingrich Supported Reagan's Efforts With Strong Action in the House
Since His Freshman Year, Newt Lead Efforts to Make Republicans the Majority Party  "In 1979, a newly elected freshman class of GOP Congressmen arrived on Capitol Hill.  They were members of a new breed of Republicans who were determined to make their party the majority party. ... Joined by militant senior conservative Republicans and like-minded newer members, the new breed quickly secured surprising strength.  The ringleader of this group of militants was Newton Leroy "Newt" Gingrich (R-GA)."  (John J. Rhodes: Man of the House, J. Brian Smith, 2006, pp 253-4)
 
Gingrich Was the Most Active Republican in the Conference at the Beginning of the Reagan Era  "[Gingrich] was, clearly, the most active person in the Republican Conference at a time when we were both very hopeful. We'd just elected a large number of new Republicans with Ronald Reagan in the election of 1980" (The Long March of Newt Gingrich, PBS Frontline, 1996, interview w. Hon. Vin Weber)
Newt Leads the Charge to Pass Reagan Tax Cuts
Reagan Supports Gingrich's Opposition to Taxes  "Rep. Newt Gingrich received word from the White House yesterday afternoon that President Reagan would support the Sixth District Congressman's opposition to taxes on fringe benefits."  (Reagan Backs Rep. Gingrich, Griffin Daily News, June 11, 1981, Front Page)
 
Gingrich Chairs Task Force to Push Through Reagan Tax Cuts  "Gingrich said he assumes he was chosen to represent the House because, "I'm a Reagan ally and a natural choice."  Gingrich chaired the Republican House task force to push the Reagan tax cut through the House last summer."  (Gingrich Discovers His Loyalty to Reagan Has Certain Rewards,  Atlanta Journal, November 6, 1981, 10A)
Gingrich Leads Republican Effort to Convince House to Support Reagan Tax Cuts  "The House Republican leadership appointed Gingrich to head a group of Congressmen seeking to pass a tax cut program that will help bring about economic recovery for the country, according to Gingrich.   "Our major concern," said Gingrich, "will be to convince the House to pass a long-term tax cut as proposed by President Reagan."  (Gingrich Working to Pass Tax Cut Program, Bremen Gateway, April 9, 1981)
Newt Carries the Reagan Mantle
Nancy Reagan: Ronnie Passed Conservative Torch to Newt  "The dramatic movement of 1995 is an outgrowth of a much earlier crusade that goes back half a century.  Barry Goldwater handed the torch to Ronnie, and in turn Ronnie turned that torch over to Newt and the Republican members of Congress to keep that dream alive.  I know that Ronnie believes they will succeed, and the American people support their efforts."  (Nancy Reagan, Speaking at the 1995 Goldwater Institute Dinner)
From 1974 Through the Present, Gingrich was Always a Reagan Man  "In fact, from 1974 up to today, Gingrich was always a Reagan man. In 1977, when Reagan was leading the national charge against the Panama Canal Treaties, Gingrich was leading the charge  in Georgia. In 1981, Gingrich was asked to lead a task force to get Reagan's tax cuts passed in the congress. In 1984, Gingrich was asked to be a member of the Platform Committee at the national convention in Dallas in part, to protect Reagan's interests there.  During that campaign, Reagan adopted Gingrich's notion of a "Conservative Opportunity Society" in his acceptance speech, calling for an American opportunity society."  (Gingrich a lot more like Reagan than Romney, Craig Shirley, Florida Sun Sentinel, Jan. 25, 2012)
Reagan and Newt saw Eye to Eye  "Asked how conservative he believes Gingrich truly is, Shirley said that back during the period he is mainly writing about he was a pure Reaganite.  "The time that I am writing about and I've explored he was called a ‘Reagan Robot' because he was a Reaganite, " Shirley said. "He and Reagan saw eye to eye. Reagan wrote favorably about Gingrich in his diary. They agreed on the great issues of the day."  (Gingrich's authorized biographer talks about forthcoming book, The Daily Caller, Dec 1, 2011)
  