
     Charleston, SC - Medal of Honor recipient Major General James E. Livingston, USMC (Ret) today endorsed Newt Gingrich's candidacy for president of the United States.
A South Carolina Lowcountry resident, decorated war hero, and prominent member of America's veterans community, General Livingston today withdrew his support of Texas Governor Rick Perry's candidacy and announced he intends to promptly begin campaigning for Speaker Newt Gingrich. "I appreciate Governor Perry's efforts, and adore him and his wife Anita. But I have come to the conclusion that Republicans need to get behind a conservative candidate who is developing the momentum needed to win in South Carolina and beyond," General Livingston explained.
Commenting on his decision to support Newt Gingrich, General Livingston stated:  "The 2012 election represents one of the most important events in the history of this country. I believe Newt Gingrich is the firewall Republicans can rely on to block a liberal agenda that will destroy America's position of strength in the world. It is imperative for Republicans in South Carolina and beyond to rally behind a conservative candidate who is capable of winning both the SCGOP and the national Republican primaries. Newt Gingrich has proven he is the strongest candidate among the conservative Republicans running for president. I look forward to helping Newt achieve a victory for all Americans who want to put our country back on the right track."
Responding to this unexpected news, Newt Gingrich expressed his gratitude for General Livingston's support. "I have known General Livingston for many years. He has been a friend and a trusted adviser. I am both honored to have him join our team and grateful for his support and confidence in my candidacy," the Speaker remarked. "We look forward to working with patriots like General Livingston, and to offering Republican voters the strongest possible alternative to the Obama agenda."
Aside from his work on numerous projects which benefit American combat veterans, General Livingston is a co-founder of The Charleston Meeting, an influential center-right political forum hosted in Charleston, S.C. He is also a frequent speaker at TEA Party events hosted in the Palmetto State.
General Livingston will introduce Gingrich at a special veterans town hall event hosted at Patriots Point in Mt. Pleasant, S.C. beginning at 8:00 p.m. on Friday, January 20.
  