
    In Jerusalem, Second Lady Karen Pence participated in a discussion with a group of creative arts therapists from across Israel, including representatives from YAHAT, the Israeli association of creative and expressive therapies. Mrs. Sara Netanyahu, wife of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, joined Mrs. Pence for the discussion. Six sections make up the association, which are art therapy, dance and movement therapy, drama therapy, music therapy, psychodrama, and bilio-therapy. The creative arts therapists work in a variety of capacities, including with children, Holocaust survivors, and Alzheimer's patients, and at academic institutions.
"The discussion provided me with tremendous insight and understanding of the critical role creative arts therapists play in the healing process of their clients," said Mrs. Pence. "I was encouraged to learn that the creative arts therapy profession is expanding in Israel, which means more people will have an opportunity to participate in creative arts therapy sessions. I commend all the therapists working hard to make a difference in the mental health profession."
Art therapy is a growing and established profession in Israel and a large number of art therapists work in health and education fields. Currently, there are eight master's programs in Israel where creative arts therapists can study.
To stay updated on the Second Lady's art therapy program visits and stories shared about the life changing treatment, follow the Second Lady's Blog Page. To stay updated on her events, follow her on Twitter at, @SecondLady.
About Art Therapy
Second Lady Karen Pence chose one initiative to champion, and it is art therapy. She calls her initiative, Art Therapy: Healing with the HeART. According to the American Art Therapy Association, art therapy is an integrative mental health and human services profession that enriches the lives of individuals, families, and communities through active art-making, creative process, applied psychological theory, and human experience within a psychotherapeutic relationship. Professional art therapists who are experts in human development, psychological, and counseling theories and techniques facilitate Art therapy. For more information about the art therapy profession, visit https://arttherapy.org/.
  