
    As part of three-day coast to coast tour, Edwards brings fight to the middle class to St. Louis
St. Louis, Missouri – Today, John Edwards visited Missouri as part of his three-day coast to coast tour and was greeted by more than 1,000 supporters at his event in St. Louis this morning. Speaking at the Carpenters District Council, Edwards called on voters to join him in his campaign to take our country back from powerful entrenched interests and make our government work for working families and the middle class.
"There's been a lot of talk about change," Edwards said. "But I don't believe you can get the change America needs by hoping for it or giving inspirational speeches about it. If we're going to reform our health care system so everyone can get quality, affordable care, if we're going work towards energy independence and get smart trade deals that help, instead of hurt, hard-working American families, then we don't need a paper-shuffler or a speechwriter in the White House -- we need a president who will fight for middle-class and working families and take on the special interests that stand in the way of change."
During the three-day, coast to coast tour, Edwards is outlining his plans to stand up for hard-working families like the ones he grew up with. From guaranteeing universal health care to creating well paying jobs and enacting trade policies that put the interests of workers, not multinational corporations first, Edwards will take on big corporate interests and help families get ahead. Born to a working class family and raised in small, rural towns, Edwards understands the struggles facing working families. He has spent his life standing up to powerful interests – and beating them.
Edwards is the first Democratic presidential candidate to visit Missouri this year. He enjoys strong grassroots support in the state, including the support more than 33,000 union members across Missouri. Edwards has also won the support of dozens of Democratic elected officials and party leaders from every region of the state including former Missouri Lt. Governor Joe Maxwell, Missouri Democratic House Whip Connie Johnson, and Missouri State Senator Wes Shoemeyer. As a sign of Edwards growing strength in Missouri, today he was also endorsed by State Senator Ryan McKenna, former Speaker Missouri House Jim Kreider, and former State Representative Wayne Henke.
"This morning we saw just how excited people in Missouri are for John Edwards message of fighting for change," said former Missouri Lt. Governor Joe Maxwell. "From now until the February 5th primary we are going to work to build that grassroots support throughout the state in small towns and big cities."
Over the past two days, Edwards has visited Nevada, California, and Oklahoma, and today, he is visiting Missouri, Georgia and South Carolina to demonstrate his broad, coast to coast strength and his advantage as the best candidate to win the general election. Edwards' message is resonating with voters in red states and blue states, in big cities and small towns. In addition to strong grassroots support in these states, Edwards also enjoys the support of numerous labor groups and state and local elected officials who know that he is the best candidate to win the White House and bring real change to our country. A recent CNN poll showed Edwards was the only Democrat to beat all four leading Republicans nationally, and state by state polls show even more conclusively that Edwards is the most electable democrat in key battleground states -- and even wins in states like Missouri and Oklahoma that have gone "red" in recent presidential elections.
  