
    By Jack Sisson, Director of Research and Rapid Response
From -20 degree lows in Iowa, to 65 degree highs in South Carolina, we're swapping our Soviet winter headware for Hawaiian t-shirts! We had a packed house in Davenport this morning, and then the governor flew to the Palmetto state, where he'll continue campaigning like a workhorse till Sunday. BIG debate tomorrow night, as our 150-stop Iowa schedule continues...Janet will be back in Iowa this weekend after great work in S.C….Got some solid clips below, and if you didn't follow the Governor on Twitter last night during Obama's speech, let me tell you...Rice Krispies were FLYING=>
Snap! "Is it true Obama almost did the State of the Union without Congress? After all, he does everything else without them!"…..Crackle! "Set aside the Union, Obama's mind is in a state of confusion, delusion & decay!"…..Pop! "Obama's speeches are like TSA pat downs, Arab relations & untreated rashes. Painfully bad and ALWAYS getting worse!"
Huckabee Responds to Obama's State of the Union
DES MOINES, Iowa — Gov. Mike Huckabee released the following statement in response to the President's State of the Union address: "Obama's endless excuses are out-of-control, and Americans have had enough. He pats himself on the back for giving us an Affordable Care Act no one can afford. He glows and grins about an economy that's punching millions of Americans in the gut. And he refuses to accept an ounce of responsibility for his epic foreign policy disasters… It's time we stop bankrupting Social Security, Medicare and our children's futures and start acting like the United States. It's time we quit making excuses for radical Islam, attacking Christians and apologizing for being Americans. I'm running for President to burn down the corrupt Washington political machine and put Americans first."
"Country Needs a 'Good Leader,' Not a Lawyer"- Des Moines Register & USA Today
WASHINGTON, Iowa — Mike Huckabee didn't shy away from an opportunity Tuesday to set himself apart from one of the Republican presidential front-runners. "Look, Ted's a great lawyer," Huckabee said Tuesday about Texas Sen. Ted Cruz. "But I don't think America needs a good lawyer right now, it needs a good leader...Brown, who caucused for Huckabee in 2008 said: "That's what I like about you — you've been an executive for 10 years."
"Would-be presidents tweet away during speech" -Politico
The candidates who hope to deliver the next State of the Union spent their time tweeting during President Barack Obama's final one. Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton posted tweets leveraging Obama's remarks to argue for another four years of a Democratic White House...On the Republican side, the Twitter rhetoric was sharply different. Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, like Paul, offered some live commentary too...Huckabee also criticized Obama for claiming his speech would be shorter than his past addresses...
"Huckabee on Iran & U.S. Sailors: 'What Happens When Your Enemies Don't Fear You'" Breitbart News
GOP presidential candidate former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee says President Obama "lacks the power and respect" to demand that Iran return the 10 U.S. sailors and two vessels it's currently detaining, and that "this is what happens when your enemies don't fear you." "Iran should immediately release our sailors or face serious consequences. Yet Obama lacks the power and respect to secure that demand," charged Huckabee. "The Iranians are yet again, publicly embarrassing America. This is what happens when your enemies don't fear you." Iran has reportedly promised to return the sailors, but there is no specific time yet known for their return. The two vessels with 10 U.S. Navy men drifted into Iranian water due to mechanical issues. Iran accused the sailors of trespassing.
"Critical Moment to Show All Who Is Qualified; Not Who Makes Speeches" Clinton Herald
CLINTON, Iowa — Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee came to Jenny's Diner on Tuesday as part of his effort to partake in 150 events before the upcoming February caucus. ... He's convincing himself that he has been to more counties in Iowa than most Iowans. "I'm doing 150 events in Iowa alone because I think this is a critical moment to show all who is qualified to be apart of this election; not who makes speeches," Huckabee said. Huckabee walked away from his income this year to do this presidential race, he said. Nobody is taking care of any of his expenses; he just had to save up enough with the hope he can make it through the elections. "I think a person who is going to run for office and hold an office should resign the job they have to focus on their election," Huckabee said. Huckabee offered many ideas on what a president's qualifications and skills should be before entering office. "Why would we put someone in the chief executive position of the United States who had never held a chief executive office before and hope he could learn it once he got there?" Huckabee said. "You hire people to do a job they are prepared to do and are qualified to do. To be president, I believe it's a tough job and needs skill to do the job." Huckabee also believes in rebuilding the military and the country's moral compass. "We have to rebuild this country morally as well," Huckabee said. "We came from the roots of people who believed in this country. We need to start rebuilding this country by stopping the uncivilized behavior of taking the lives of 4,000 unborn children in the mother's womb every day in this country."
Voters Crowd Davenport Restaurant to Meet Mike Huckabee- (ABC) — Davenport, Iowa
"Presidential candidate Mike Huckabee is in the Quad Cities today talking to voters. The event today was standing room only as Republican candidate Mike Huckabee told voters why he would make the best next president. Voters crowded inside the Machine Shed restaurant to hear the former Arkansas Governor speak. Huckabee talked about overcoming his political obstacles while in Arkansas office. He says if elected, he'll work to increase the size of the U.S. military and upgrade many of its weapons. He also agreed with President Barack Obama from last night's State of the Union address on the importance of curing cancer. Huckabee continues to point out how the polls can be misleading and that he's still in this race to win. ... At the end of the event today, Huckabee reminded voters of the caucus on February first and to make sure they vote for him."
Huckabee Continues 150-Stop Iowa Tour- (ABC)—Iowa City, Iowa
"Republican Mike Huckabee was also in Coralville. The former Arkansas Governor won the GOP caucuses in 2008, and he thinks he can do it again this year. ... 'We do five to six events a day; the shortest one is an hour, some of them last up to two hours, usually an hour and a half, town hall format.I take questions, chat with people, try to see what's on their mind.' Huckabee has already visited all of Iowa's 99 counties. He's currently making a 150-stop-tour across Iowa."
"Huckabee Campaigns in Waterloo"- Waterloo-Cedar Falls Courier
DES MOINES, Iowa — "If we were way down and just didn't get any traction here having given the effort, then we'd certainly have to reassess the whole situation," he said at a campaign event in Coralville. "But I don't anticipate that we are going to have to do that. Following the Iowa caucuses Feb. 1, Huckabee said his campaign has a full schedule in South Carolina, one of the other states with early presidential primaries. "We expect to go from here and keep moving," he said.
"Huckabee Implores Muscatine Audience to Caucus"- Muscatine Journal
MUSCATINE, Iowa — Touting his executive experience as governor of Arkansas, Mike Huckabee brought his Republican presidential campaign to Muscatine on Tuesday afternoon. ... The candidate didn't mention any of his Republican rivals by name but focused his criticism on the current occupant of the White House, President Barack Obama. Huckabee said Obama didn't have the experience to be president when he ran in 2008 after serving a short time in the U.S. Senate. "Our country is struggling, struggling monetarily. Our economy is in far more trouble than the President will admit when he gets to the State of the Union," Huckabee said. He also chided the president on issues of terrorism and immigration. "We pay the price for somebody so lacking in executive skills," Huckabee said. Huckabee talked about manufacturing as the backbone of the American economy. ... "One thing I'll say about Gov. Huckabee, he knows his principles and sticks with them. He doesn't care whether the talking heads on these shows say something about him. He knows where he stands," Lofgren said.
Radio Iowa "... Republican presidential candidates Jeb Bush, Mike Huckabee and Rick Santorum plan to campaign in Iowa this morning before leaving to prepare for Thursday night's debate on the FOX Business Network."
Governor Huckabee Visits South Carolina Ahead of Thursday Night Debate- (NBC)—Greenville, South Carolina "The race for President is heating up as more candidates make their way to South Carolina. ... Former Governor Mike Huckabee is expected to be at the First Baptist Church of Charleston on Church Street. ... Republican candidates debate tomorrow night at the North Charleston Performing Arts Center."
(ABC)—Charleston, South Carolina "Republican hopefuls are back in the Lowcountry today ... the former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee will host a huddle at the First Baptist Church of Charleston."
(ABC)—Columbia, South Carolina "When it comes to the next Commander in Chief, several of the GOP presidential hopefuls are making campaign stops in the Palmetto State this week. Ohio Governor John Kasich, former Governor Mike Huckabee, Senator Marco Rubio and Senator Ted Cruz will all be campaigning in the Low Country today. The stops come a day before the next Republican debate tomorrow in North Charleston."
Janet Huckabee Campaigns in Boiling Springs- Spartanburg Herald Journal
Janet Huckabee met with the Spartanburg County Republican Women in Boiling Springs on Tuesday afternoon...While taking questions from supporters, Huckabee talked about the United States relationships with Iran and North Korea. 'It could be any number of things that could happen,' she said. '(The next) president will be squeezed and tested. Will they be ready and prepared for it?' Huckabee said her husband, if elected, is prepared to handle any type of crisis. Other issues she addressed were the economy, the Second Amendment, and supporting the military. Mike Huckabee is scheduled to host a town hall campaign event at 7 p.m. Saturday at First Baptist Church in Union...
  