
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Thomas P. D'Agostino, of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs in the National Nuclear Security Administration at the Department of Energy. Mr. D'Agostino currently serves as Assistant Deputy Administrator for Program Integration in the Office of Defense Programs at the Department of Energy. Prior to this, he served as Assistant Deputy Administrator for Program Integration in the Office of Defense Programs at the Department of Energy. He has also served as Deputy Director for the Nuclear Weapons Research, Development and Simulation Program. Mr. D'Agostino is a Captain in the United States Naval Reserves. He received his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy. He also received master's degrees from Johns Hopkins University and the United States Naval War College.
The President intends to nominate Randall S. Kroszner, of New Jersey, to be a Member on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the 5th District, for the remainder of a fourteen year term expiring January 31, 2008. Dr. Kroszner is currently a Professor of Economics in the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago. In addition, he serves as Director for the George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy and the State. Dr. Kroszner is also a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Business Economists. Earlier in his career, he served as a Member on the Council of Economic Advisers. Dr. Kroszner received his bachelor's degree from Brown University and his master's degree from Harvard University. He went on to receive his PhD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Boyd Kevin Rutherford, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of Agriculture (Administration). Mr. Rutherford currently serves as Secretary for the Maryland Department of General Services. Prior to this, he served as Associate Administrator in the Offices of Performance Improvement and Small Business Utilization for the United States General Services Administration. Earlier in his career, he served as the Director of Business Development for the Kelly Law Registry. Mr. Rutherford received his bachelor's degree from Howard University. He went on to receive his master's degree and JD from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to nominate Kevin M. Warsh, of New York, to be a Member on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the 2nd District, for the remainder of a fourteen year term expiring January 31, 2018. Mr. Warsh currently serves as Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, managing domestic finance, capital markets and banking issues. He also serves as Executive Secretary for the National Economic Council. Prior to this, he served as Executive Director and Vice President for the Mergers and Acquisitions Department in the Investment Banking Division at Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated. Mr. Warsh received his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his JD from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to designate Mary M. Rose, of North Carolina, to be Vice Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board.
  