
    NEVADA: President Clinton met with supporters and undecided voters in Southern Nevada yesterday, while Chelsea Clinton visited young voters for several caucus information forums. Senior Advisor Ann Lewis, General Paul Eaton and organizing legend Dolores Huerta also fanned out across the state, getting Silver Staters energized and ready to caucus this Saturday.
SOUTH CAROLINA: Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones of Ohio spent the morning, Monday, talking to students at Benedict College about her support of Hillary and the importance of electing the right person to be our next President. The South Carolina Hillary campaign spread the news of Hillary's trip to Columbia yesterday with former DNC Chairman and former Assistant Secretary of Commerce Ray Vickery being interviewed by radio stations across the state. Campaign workers and volunteers continued phone banking and recruiting support for Hillary while the Women for Hillary organization planned its final push towards Primary Day, Saturday, January 26th. The campaign announced a policy forum tomorrow with national campaign advisory Leecia Eve in at Francis Burns Methodist Church in Richland County, SC.
ALABAMA: The Clinton campaign named Marion Steinfels, an aide to former Gov. Don Siegelman, as its Alabama Communications Director.
COLORADO: Coloradans for Hillary named Jessica Santillo as the state's Communications Director.
CONNECTICUT: On Saturday, over 100 enthusiastic campaign supporters gathered as Stamford Mayor and former Democratic Gubernatorial candidate Dan Malloy endorsed Hillary for President.
MISSOURI: More than 150 supporters joined Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II and Jackson County Executive Mike Sanders to open the campaign's Kansas City headquarters this weekend. Also, the campaign named Carly Lindauer as Missouri Communications Director yesterday.
NEW JERSEY: Yesterday in New Jersey, 28 elected officials from Hudson County announced their endorsement of Hillary Clinton at a press conference with Governor Corzine, Senator Menendez and Congressman Sires, who have previously endorsed Hillary.
NEW MEXICO: Lt. Governor Diane Denish announced her endorsement of Senator Hillary Clinton Monday.
NEW YORK: Hillary returned to New York where she joined with thousands of security officers, parishioners, community leaders and working men and women at an SEIU 32 BJ event honoring the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr.
CALIFORNIA: Gaining Momentum: Senator Clinton received yesterday the endorsements of U.S. Congressman Mike Thompson of California's First Congressional District and Alice Huffman, President of the California State Conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)... Chelsea Clinton attended church services and met with young people across California this weekend, impressing undecided voters...As a crucial voting bloc, Latino voters will play a major role in the upcoming primary elections in California and the Hillary Clinton Campaign is not taking any votes for granted...With the California primary now less than three weeks away, an exclusive abc7 poll conducted by Survey U.S.A shows Hillary Clinton maintaining a solid lead in the race for the White House... She leads Senator Obama 50-35.
  