
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Child Safety Partnership. These are all new positions.
William W. McConnell, of Connecticut, will be designated Chairman. He is president of Advo System, Inc., in Hartford. He was born October 20, 1948, in Darby, PA, and now resides in Glastonbury, CT.
Attorney General Edwin Meese III, of California.
Secretary of Education William J. Bennett, of New York.
Secretary of Health and Human Services Otis R. Bowen, of Indiana.
Bruce Atwater, Jr., of Minnesota, is chairman and chief executive officer of General Mills, Inc., in Minneapolis. He was born April 19, 1931, in Minneapolis and now resides in Wayzata, MN.
William R. Bricker, of New York, is national director of Boys Clubs of America in New York City. He was born May 5, 1923, in Reading, PA, and now resides in Scarsdale, NY.
Arthur C. Eads, of Texas, is district attorney for the 27th judicial district of Texas. He was born October 13, 1941, in Belton, TX, and now resides in Belton.
Kenneth O. Eickenberry, of Washington, is attorney general of the State of Washington. He was born June 29, 1932, in Wenatchee, WA, and now resides in Olympia, WA.
Richard J. Elrod, of Illinois, is sheriff of Cook County. He was born February 17, 1934, in Chicago, IL, and now resides in Lincolnwood, IL.
Evelyn Irazarry-Guardarramas, of New York, is an attorney in private practice in New York City. She was born October 9, 1948, in New York City and now resides in the Bronx, NY.
Senator Paula M. Hawkins, of Florida, has been serving as a United States Senator since January 1981. She was born January 24, 1927, in Salt Lake City, UT.
Carole Hillard, of South Dakota, is former president of the South Dakota Board of Charities and Corrections. She was born August 14, 1936, in Deadwood, SD, and now resides in Rapid City, SD.
Robert P. Keim, of New York, is president of Advertising Council, Inc., in New York City. He was born January 28, 1920, in Ridgewood, NY, and now resides in East Williston, NY.
U.S. Representative Thomas Lewis, of Florida, was elected a Member of Congress in 1982. He was born October 26, 1924, in Philadelphia, PA, and now resides in North Palm Beach, FL.
Mario J. Machado, of California, is president of MJM Communications, Inc., in Los Angeles. He was born April 22, 1935, in Shanghai, China, and now resides in Los Angeles.
Gov. James G. Martin, of North Carolina. Governor Martin served 6 terms in the United States House of Representatives prior to his election as Governor. He was born December 11, 1935, in Savannah, GA, and now resides in Raleigh.
Mary Ellen McCaffree, of Washington, was director of the Department of Budget and Program Development for King County. She was born February 25, 1918, in El Dorado, KS, and now resides in Hansville, WA.
Senator Addison Mitchell McConnell, of Kentucky, was elected to the United States Senate in 1984. He was born February 20, 1942, in Sheffield, AL.
Donna Mac Owens, of Ohio, is mayor of the city of Toledo. She was born August 24, 1936, in Toledo, where she currently resides.
Frederick J. Ryan, Jr., of California, is Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Presidential Scheduling and Private Sector Initiatives, the White House. He was born April 12, 1955, in Tampa, FL, and now resides in Washington, DC.
Lory Arana Stevenson, of Colorado, is active in political and community affairs in Colorado Springs. She was born November 8, 1950, in Richmond, VA, and now resides in Colorado Springs.
Joseph V Vittoria, of Connecticut, is president and chief executive officer of Avis, Inc. He was born May 9, 1935, in Sea Cliff, NY, and now resides in Greenwich, CT.
Robert G. Weeks, of Virginia, is executive vice president of Mobil Oil, marketing and refining division. He was born July 14, 1936, in Camden, NJ, and now resides in McLoan, VA.
Mary P. Whyte, of Connecticut, is vice president of the National Crime Prevention Council in Washington, DC. She was born October 1, 1919, in New York City and now resides in Greenwich, CT.
Judy Wiedemeier, of Colorado, is vice president for regulatory affairs of the Tobacco Institute, Inc., in Washington, DC. She was born March 18, 1949, in Durango, CO, and now resides in Potomac, MD.
Jeri J. Winger, of Utah, is president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs in Washington, DC. She was born June 6, 1922, in Alpine, UT, and now resides in Provo, UT.
  