
    (New York)—President-elect Donald J. Trump today announced his selection of Christopher P. Liddell as Assistant to the President and Director of Strategic Initiatives, and Reed S. Cordish as Assistant to the President for Intragovernmental and Technology Initiatives.
During the transition period, Chris Liddell has been the Special Adviser on Presidential Appointments and Reed Cordish has directed the Agency Beachhead teams for the President-elect.
In their new positions, Mr. Liddell will lead the Strategic Development Group, which will focus on priority projects. He will also interface with private sector forums. Mr. Cordish will be responsible for Presidential initiatives that require multi-agency collaboration. In addition Mr. Cordish will focus on technological innovation and modernization. Together Mr. Liddell and Cordish will form and oversee a series of high impact task forces.
"Chris Liddell and Reed Cordish have led large, complex companies in the private sector, and have played instrumental roles throughout the transition," said President-elect Trump. "Their skill sets are exactly what is needed to effect substantial change, including system wide improvement to the performance of the government. I am delighted that they will be part of my executive team."
"It is an honor to take on this role for the President-elect and the Country," Mr. Liddell said.
"I am humbled by the role and excited to work with the incredible people within the West Wing and the Agencies to effect change," stated Mr. Cordish.
Mr. Liddell has been the Chief Financial Officer of Microsoft, International Paper, WME-IMG and General Motors. At General Motors he was also Vice Chairman, and led the company's $23 Billion return to public market, which at the time was the largest in history. He has also been the Chief Executive Officer of an Asia-Pacific multinational public company, and was the Executive Director of the Romney campaign's transition planning team, where he authored a book on presidential transitions. He has a Bachelor of Engineering from the University of Auckland, and a Master of Philosophy from Oxford University.
Mr. Cordish is a Principal and Partner of The Cordish Companies, an international real estate development and entertainment company. He is also President of Entertainment Consulting International ("ECI"), a national entertainment and restaurant operating company he co-founded. Mr. Cordish has a Bachelor of Arts from Princeton University, where he was awarded the William Roper Award for scholastic and athletic excellence.
  