
    More Than 20 SC Leaders Join Women for Hillary Movement as Final Effort Begins and More SC Women Find Their Voice
(COLUMBIA) - As the South Carolina Democratic Primary draws closer, the South Carolina Women for Hillary movement grew again today as 23 more leaders from different areas of the state joined the movement and began working to make sure our next President has the experience to make real change. In conjunction with today's push by South Carolina Women for Hillary, the national campaign launched a campaign of women finding their voices for Hillary as she found hers in New Hampshire.
The new endorsees and members of the thousand-strong South Carolina Women for Hillary organization will be staffing phone banks, canvassing and working with the campaign this week to get South Carolinians to the polls on January 26.
Today's announcement includes:

County Council Member Jean Wallace McLean of Marlboro County
County Council Member Carolyn Prince of Marlboro County
County Council Member Kit Smith of Richland County
Charleston County Democratic Women President Jacquetta P. Jones
City Council Member Luester McCullough of Kingstree
City Council Member Deborah Morinelli of Charleston
City Council Member Eartha Rogers of New Ellenton
City Council Member Anne Sinclair of Columbia
Former Richland County Council Member Harriet G. Fields of Richland County
Former Columbia City Manager Leona Plaugh
Former Richland/Lexington County School Board Member Sandra Poliakoff
Wife of former Judge Alex Sanders and Activist Zoe Sanders of Charleston
Wife of former Sate Senator Marshall Williams, Margaret Williams, of Orangeburg County
Children's Advocate Sarah Shuptrine of Columbia
Business Owner and SC Board of Education Member Diane Sumpter of Columbia
Physician Dr. Lilly Filler of Columbia
Publisher of SKIRT! Magazine Nikki Hardin of Mt. Pleasant
Artist Susan Romaine of Charleston
Author and USC Professor Janette Turner-Hospital of Columbia
Former Executive Director of Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy Suzan Boyd of Columbia
Former Executive Director of Family Connection of SC Connie Ginsberg of Columbia
Social Worker and Professor Majorie Hammock of Columbia
Community Activist Jennet Robinson Alterman of Charleston

"As Democrats, as women and as South Carolinians, it's easy to see who is the best choice for the White House. It's the one candidate in the race with a 35-year record of making positive changes. It's Hillary Clinton," said Charleston County Democratic Women President Jacquetta Jones. "She's been fighting for our families, fighting for women and fighting for us for all these years."
South Carolina Women for Hillary's efforts today were in conjunction with a national effort by the Women for Hillary organization across the country dubbed "We Found Our Voice."
Ever since Hillary's historic victory in the New Hampshire Democratic primary, the Women for Hillary organization nationally has been hearing from women across the country who were energized by her win, and moved by her statement that she "found her voice."
Many voters wrote the campaign that these words resonated with them, that they were energized and that they felt that they too have found their voice.
This week, the Women for Hillary organizational nationally launched a new feature online for the words and stories of those who've found their voices and are putting them to use. People can post messages at www.wefoundourvoice.com -- from how and when they found their voices to how they are using their voices in this election.
  