
    BY VIRTUE of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States I have today awarded
THE PRESIDENTIAL UNIT CITATION (ARMY) FOR EXTRAORDINARY HEROISM
TO
THE 41ST REGIMENTAL HEADQUARTERS
1ST BATTALION, 41ST REGIMENT
3D BATTALION, 41ST REGIMENT
3D TROOP, 8TH RECONNAISSANCE SQUADRON
ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
The 41st Regimental Headquarters, 1st and 3d Battalions, 41st Regiment and the 3d Troop, 8th Reconnaissance Squadron, Army of the Republic of Vietnam, distinguished themselves by extraordinary heroism in action against a superior heavily armed enemy force in Van Dinh Thuong Hamlet, Binh Dinh Province, Republic of Vietnam on 23 September 1966. At 0300 hours on 23 September the Regiment was attacked by intense 82mm mortar, 60mm mortar, and 57mm recoilless rifle fire. Moments later the perimeter received a heavy volume of enemy small arms and automatic weapons fire. The enemy force, later determined to be a North Vietnam Army Battalion, attempted to penetrate the southern position of the perimeter only to be repelled by savage defensive fire. This same force mounted a second attack and again failed to penetrate the perimeter. With the 41st Regiment's attention attracted to the south, the northern portion of the perimeter was assaulted by human waves of another North Vietnam Army Battalion. This attack was successful and the perimeter was penetrated. Regimental forces became heavily engaged in hand to hand combat with the attack halted by the Regimental Reconnaissance Platoon within 30 meters of the Regimental Command Post. The perimeter was restored and the friendly forces held their positions until dawn. At this time the 41st Regimental Commander seized the initiative and counterattacked, with the 1st and 3d Battalions and the 3d Armored Personnel Carrier Troop, 8th Reconnaissance Squadron. The counterattack, in conjunction with air strikes, was successful and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy force. The action of the elements of the 41st Regiment in defeating the 7th and 8th Battalions of the 18th North Vietnam Army Regiment, a force equal to its own, ranks as one of the outstanding accomplishments in the Vietnamese conflict and is in the highest traditions of the Free World Forces.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
  