
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the Catastrophe Advisory Committee. This group will advise Mayor Giuliani on the needs of local communities in preparing for and responding to hurricanes and other natural disasters, in addition to the creation of a National Catastrophic Fund.
Joe M. Allbaugh, former Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, will serve as the National Chair of the committee.
"Every community in America must be prepared for natural disasters and terrorist attacks, which is why I support the creation of a National Catastrophe Insurance Fund and why I have made ensuring that every community in America is prepared for terrorist attacks and natural disasters one of my 12 Commitments to the American People," Mayor Giuliani said.
The Mayor added, "Right now, many people in states like Florida, California and Louisiana find it difficult to purchase insurance for catastrophic natural disasters like Hurricane Katrina. It's right for the government to play a role in seeing that fair, equitable and affordable private insurance markets are open for all our citizens."
"Mayor Giuliani continues to travel throughout the state, hearing both the successes and problems in the past response to disasters, and this committee will provide valuable insight as the Mayor develops the policies he will implement as the next President of the United States," said Attorney General Bill McCollum, Giuliani's Florida Campaign Chairman.
Mayor Giuliani's Catastrophe Advisory Committee:
Joe M. Allbaugh, former Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and National Chair
Bill McCollum, Florida Attorney General and National Co-Chair
Steven Abrams, Mayor of Boca Raton
J.C. Bermudez, Mayor of Doral
Jim Coats, Pinellas County Sheriff
Charlie Clary, Former Florida State Senator
Bill Donegan, Orange County Property Appraiser
Rose Ferlita, Hillsborough County Commissioner
Ben Johnson, Volusia County Sheriff
John Morroni, Pinellas County Commissioner
Robert Mosier, Retired FDNY Division Commander
Julio Robaina, Florida State Representative
Charlie Wells, Former Manatee County Sheriff
  