
    (FAIRFIELD, IA, January 29, 2020) — Native American tribal leader Susan Masten has declared her support for presidential candidate, Tom Steyer. Citing his commitment to environmental justice and addressing climate change, Masten endorsed Steyer at a town hall event in Fairfield, IA today.
A human rights advocate, staunch environmental activist, and former chairwoman of the Yurok Nation, Ms. Masten helped her tribe to formally gain legal recognition, and draft its first constitution. She is the second woman to be elected as president of the National Congress of American Indians. She served as the chairperson of the board of directors for the Indian Law Resource Center, and served in a leadership position with the National Center for American Indian Enterprise Development. She is the cofounder of Women Empowering Women for Indian Nations (WEWIN).
"I am honored to have the endorsement from a tribal leader of Susan's stature. We share a fierce commitment to environmental justice. Tribal and indigenous communities both within the United States and abroad are among the people that are harmed most by the climate crisis. Extreme weather compounds problems created by lack of adequate infrastructure, and by the ongoing legacies of genocide, colonialism, and resource theft perpetrated against native peoples," Steyer said. "My administration will take substantial steps to restore health to our planet and to protect native people from the worst impacts of climate change — and I will prioritize resilience and opportunity for all Native Americans."
Masten has led the Yurok Tribe's fight against water diversion on the Klamath River that has led to the decimation of salmon, which is vital to the Yurok people. Drought, disease, and water diversion have led to the deaths of nearly 80,000 salmon in Yurok communities.
"The salmon are as important to the Yurok people as the air we breathe. The health of the river is the health of the people," Masten said. "As stewards of the Earth, we need leadership that will put the needs of the planet and the people over profits. I am confident that Tom Steyer is that person. His commitment to addressing climate change, and to the inclusion and improvement of the lives of indigenous communities makes him the best choice for Native American people."
Masten's support comes on the heels of a Steyer surge in early voting states. Fox News polls place him in second place at 15% in South Carolina and third place at 12% in Nevada. The most recent Morning Consult poll has Tom at 15% across all four early states. These numbers only confirm the incredible resonance of Tom's message on the ground. 
  