
    "Newt Gingrich borrowed talking points from Barack Obama and the SEIU on illegal immigration and used them to attack Mitt Romney's conservative approach. He was rebuked by Marco Rubio for doing it, and had to retreat. Then he attacked his own position on immigration. This is who Newt Gingrich is: an unreliable leader who undermines conservatives, hurts our party, and emboldens President Obama and his liberal allies." —Albert Martinez, Romney for President spokesman
Gingrich Opposed An Immigration Position He Supports:
This Morning In Miami, Newt Gingrich Came Out Against Self-Deportation. "'How close were to breaking out and laughing out loud about this fantasy?' Newt said mockingly while discussing Mitt Romney's idea of 'self deportation' during his interview with Univision this morning." (Charlie Spiering, "Gingrich Mocks Romney's Wealth; Self-Deportation," The Washington Examiner, 12/25/12)
But Just 2 Months Ago, Gingrich's Spokesman Said Of Newt's Immigration Plan: "It's Likely The Vast Majority Of Them Would Self-Deport." "On the Gingrich campaign website, the top item in the 'solutions' section presents a 10-step plan for addressing illegal immigration. ... A spokesman for Gingrich said only a small percentage of current illegal immigrants would likely be allowed to stay. 'It's likely the vast majority of them would self-deport,' said spokesman R. C. Hammond." (The Concord Monitor, 11/29/11)
In December 2010, Gingrich Agreed With Radio Host Laura Ingraham That Self-Deportation Was The Right Choice. LAURA INGRAHAM: "We have to enforce this law. We have to do that first. No work, self deportation. Come back. We can figure out our immigration system after we enforce this border. You're not going to get the support of the people unless we really see that border enforced." GINGRICH: "I agree with you. I'm against comprehensive reform." ("The Laura Ingraham Show," 12/3/10)
In 2008, Gingrich's American Solutions Website Declared "Anything Less Than Requiring Those Who Are Here Illegally To Return Home To Apply For Legal Status Is Amnesty, Plain And Simple." "Everyone currently working in the United States illegally must return to their home country to apply for the worker visa program. Anything less than requiring those who are here illegally to return home to apply for legal status is amnesty, plain and simple." (American Solutions Website, www.americansolutions.com, Archived 10/22/08)
Gingrich Was Forced To Pull Down His False Anti-Romney Attack Ad:
Senator Marco Rubio Demanded That Gingrich Pull Down His "Inaccurate, Inflammatory" Anti-Romney Ad. "'Sen. Marco Rubio scolded Newt Gingrich's presidential campaign over a Spanish-language radio ad that accuses rival Mitt Romney of being 'anti-immigrant' 'This kind of language is more than just unfortunate. It's inaccurate, inflammatory, and doesn't belong in this campaign,' Rubio told The Miami Herald when asked about the ad." ("Rubio Scolds Gingrich Camp, Says Ad Bashing 'Anti-Immigrant' Romney Is 'Inaccurate, Inflammatory'," The Miami Herald, 1/25/12)
Gingrich Was Forced To Take Down His Ad. "In the wake of Sen. Marco Rubio's denunciation of Newt Gingrich's ad calling Mitt Romney 'anti-immigrant,' the Romney campaign's Hispanic leadership team — headlined by former Sen. Mel Martinez — is demanding that Gingrich pull down the radio spot. But Gingrich already plans to do it. 'We respect the senator's wishes,' said Gingrich's campaign chairman." ("Romney's Hispanic Leadership Team: Newt, Pull Down Your Ad. Gingrich: I Will," The Miami Herald, 1/25/12)
  