
    From the West Coast to the East Coast, Edwards is the best candidate to win the general election and bring real change to America
Atlanta, Georgia – Today, John Edwards visited Atlanta as part of a coast to coast tour and called on voters to join him to take our country back from powerful entrenched interests and make our government work for working families and the middle class. Speaking at the IBEW Local #613 hall, Edwards outlined his plans to guarantee universal health care, create well paying jobs and enact trade policies that put the interests of workers, not multinational corporations first. Born to a working class family and raised in small, rural towns, Edwards understands the struggles facing working families. He has spent his life standing up to powerful interests – and beating them. As president, Edwards will take on big corporate interests and stand up for hard-working families like the ones he grew up with.
"To get real change, we need a president who will stand up against the big corporations and powerful interests who control Washington," said Edwards. "The American people – whether they live in rural areas or urban areas, red states or blue states – need a President who will stand up for them. As President, I will make sure the voices of all Americans are heard in Washington. If we fight together, we can get the change we need and America will rise."
In Georgia, Edwards enjoys the support of former Georgia Governor Roy Barnes, former Georgia Lt. Governor Mark Taylor, Georgia Senate Democratic Leader Robert Brown, Georgia House Democratic Leader Dubose Porter, former U.S. Rep. Ben "Cooter" Jones, and former U.S. Representative Ed Jenkins. Edwards has also won the support of more than 10,000 union members all across Georgia.
"We need a candidate who can bring real change to America and who can win," said former Georgia Governor Roy Barnes. "That candidate is John Edwards. He can compete and win in every part of the country, including red states and battleground states because Americans identify with who he is and what he stands for – fairness and opportunity and making sure everyone has a chance."
"John Edwards is the change candidate in this campaign who can win in November, strengthen Democratic majorities in Congress and at the state level, and make his ideas a reality," said former Georgia Lt. Governor Mark Taylor. "John Edwards can go to any part of the country and help Democrats down-ballot. With John Edwards as our nominee, we can get the change we need."
From January 17th to January 19th, Edwards is visiting Nevada, California, Oklahoma, Missouri, Georgia and South Carolina to demonstrate his broad, coast to coast strength and his advantage as the best candidate to win the general election. Edwards' message is resonating with voters in red states and blue states, in big cities and small towns. In addition to strong grassroots support in these states, Edwards also enjoys the support of numerous labor groups and state and local elected officials who know that he is the best candidate to win the White House and bring real change to our country. A recent CNN poll showed Edwards was the only Democrat to beat all four leading Republicans nationally, and state by state polls show even more conclusively that Edwards is the most electable democrat in key battleground states -- and even wins in states like Missouri and Oklahoma that have gone "red" in recent presidential elections.
Edwards' supporters in Georgia include:
Former Governor Roy Barnes
Former Lt. Governor Mark Taylor
Former Georgia Congressman Ben "Cooter" Jones
Former Georgia Congressman Ed Jenkins
State Senate Democratic Leader Robert Brown
State House Democratic Leader Dubose Porter
State Senator Vincent D. Fort
State Senator Steve Henson
State Senator Valencia Seay
State Senator J.B. Powell
State Representative and Chief Deputy Whip Rob Teilhet
State Representative Stephanie Stuckey Benfield
State Representative Hugh Floyd
State Representative Gerald Greene
State Representative Michele Henson
State Representative Jeannette Jamieson
State Representative Charles Jenkins
State Representative Wade Starr
Former State Senator and Middle Georgia Attorney Michael Moore
Former State Senator Mell Traylor
Former State Representative Tom Bordeaux
Former State Representative; Former Chairman of the Polk County Party, John Moore
Former Judge of the Georgia Court of Appeals Marion T. Pope
Former Mayor of Albany Tommy Colmean
Former Taylor County Sheriff; Past President of the Georgia Sheriff Association, Nick Giles
Macon City Councilwoman, Macon Attorney and Democratic Activist Lauren Logan Benedict
Macon City Councilman, Mike Cranford
Macon City Councilman, Rick Hutto
Albany City Commissioner John Howard
Kerry Chair and Kerry-Edwards Chair in Georgia, Former Chair of Democratic Party in Georgia David Worley
Atlanta Businessman, The Shailendra Group; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist Shi Shailendra
Middle Georgia attorney Chuck Byrd
Atlanta Attorney, Democratic Fundraiser and Activist Stephen Leeds
Atlanta attorney and former Chief of Staff to Senate Democratic Caucus Amol Naik
Vice Chair Georgia's WIN list, Amy Morton
Co-Founding Chair of Georgia's WIN list , Melita Easters
Associate Director for the Conflict Resolution Program; Son of President Jimmy Carter, Jeff Carter
Former Executive Director of the Georgia Democratic Party Jeff DiSantis
Former Communications Director of the Georgia Democratic Party Emil Runge
Atlanta Businessman, The Shailendra Group; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist Sachin Shailendra
Former DNC Executive Committee Member; Former National President, College Democrats of America, Ashley Bell
Former Commissioner of Macon-Bibb County Planning and Zoning, Founding Member of Women's Political Network, Founder and Former Editor of Macon Magazine Joni Woolf
Former Bibb County School Board Member, Terry Tripp
Founder and President of Nannies + More , Sacha Taylor
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Fred Orr
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Martin Chitwood
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist ,Tim Morrison
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Tim Santelli
Columbus Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist, James Butler
Marietta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Ronald Lowry
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Adam Malone
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist Tommy Malone
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist Glenn Sturm
Columbus Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist, Trip Tomlinson
Columbus Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist, Teresa Tomlinson
Rome Attorney , Democratic Fundraiser and Activist, Robert Finnell
Democratic Fundraiser and Activist, Rob Lange
Macon attorney, democratic fundraiser and activist, Duke Groover
Macon attorney, 8th District Congressional Chair for the Democratic Party of Georgia, Daryl Morton
  