
    
  Stumping in Hudson, it's crunchtime for Kasich in N.H.
  By Cassidy Swanson

Note: "Attendees said they liked what they heard from Kasich. Londonderry, N.H. resident Holly Capobianco said she was set on casting her primary vote for New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. But after checking out Kasich at her son's suggestion and listening to him talk for an hour and a half, her mind had changed.
"'I was very impressed with the leadership I heard (him talk about) come out of Ohio — the job creation, the respect that he knows he needs to have with Congress going forward,' she said. '(He changed my mind) in one night.'"
The Lowell Sun
HUDSON, N.H. — The Republican presidential candidate field is chock full, and businessman Donald Trump has held a clear lead since the summer.
But Ohio Gov. John Kasich isn't going down without a fight — and he's banking on a surprise victory in the Granite State's first-in-the-nation primary Feb. 9.
"We have to do well here, and I'm counting on the people here to help me do well, and we expect to," Kasich told The Sun at a town-hall meeting in Hudson on Thursday night. "We're rising, and I feel good about it. We've just got to keep working all the way to touch the wall, but New Hampshire's very, very important to us, and I'm optimistic that we're gonna come out of here as a firecracker."
A poll released Wednesday by Public Policy Polling had Kasich tied for third in New Hampshire with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie at 11 percent. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio was second at 15 percent while businessman Donald Trump was first with 29 percent.
Kasich addressed a crowd of about 100 people at a Veterans of Foreign Wars hall as part of a week of stops in New Hampshire, leading up to the primary next month. Kasich, who also served nine terms in the House of Representatives and was chair of the House Budget Committee for six years, was introduced by former U.S. Senator from New Hampshire Gordon Humphrey as "the next president of the United States."
"He makes other competitors look like members of the J.V. team," Humphrey said, adding that one recent poll showed Kasich polling in third place in New Hampshire, and another showed him closing in on second. "We clearly have the best candidate."
— — — —
Attendees said they liked what they heard from Kasich. Londonderry, N.H. resident Holly Capobianco said she was set on casting her primary vote for New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. But after checking out Kasich at her son's suggestion and listening to him talk for an hour and a half, her mind had changed.
"I was very impressed with the leadership I heard (him talk about) come out of Ohio — the job creation, the respect that he knows he needs to have with Congress going forward," she said. "(He changed my mind) in one night."
To read the full story, click here.
  