
    AD FACT:
Voice Over: "El Presidente Reagan depositó su confianza en él para combatir el crimen."
English Translation: "President Reagan trusted him to combat crime."
BACKGROUND:
"In 1981, [Rudy] Giuliani Joined The Reagan Administration As An Associate Attorney General, The Third-Ranking Post In The Justice Department." (Josh Barbanel, "Reaganism Now Liability For Giuliani," The New York Times, 10/11/89)
Associate Attorney General Giuliani And Assistant Attorney General D. Lowell Jensen Proposed Creation Of Committee On Violent Crime To Make Specific Recommendations On Ways Federal Government Could "Assist In Controlling Violent Crime." Giuliani Oversaw The Creation Of Committee. (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And D. Lowell Jensen, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith, 2/24/81)
Giuliani Among "Chief Strategists" Of Reagan Administration's Effort Against Narcotics Trafficking. "At the Justice Department, Mr. Giuliani has been highly visible, particularly as one of the chief strategists of the Reagan Administration's stepped-up effort to combat narcotics trafficking. He was instrumental in devising the Reagan budget request of $130 million granted by Congress last year to finance 12 new investigative drug task forces across the nation." (Jane Perlez, "Giuliani Willing To Accept U.S. Attorney Job In State," The New York Times, 3/10/83)
Under President Reagan, Giuliani Sworn In As U.S. Attorney For The Southern District Of New York In June 1983. (Laurie Johnston and Suzanne Daley, "Camera Shy In Court House," The New York Times, 6/4/83)
"As U.S. Attorney For The Southern District Of New York, The Showcase Office Of The Federal Legal System, Rudolph Giuliani, 41, Has A Mission: 'To Make The Justice System A Reality For The Criminal.'" (Richard Stengel, "The Passionate Prosecutor," Time, 2/10/86)
"[I]n Areas Ranging From White-Collar Crime To The Mob, [Giuliani] Has Been The Most Effective Prosecutor In Recent Memory…" (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
"[Giuliani's] Office's Conviction Rate Of Better Than 90% — And Its Record Of Winning Many Big Ones — Speaks For Itself." (Stephen Adler et al., "Litigator's Legacy," The Wall Street Journal, 1/11/89)
AD FACT:
Voice Over: "El pueblo de Nueva York lo eligió su alcalde cuando esa ciudad se veía perdida y muchos pensaban era ingobernable."
English Translation: "The people of New York elected him mayor when their city seemed doomed (lost), and was viewed by many as ungovernable."
BACKGROUND:
"The City Felt Out Of Control And Unmanaged At The Close Of The David Dinkins Administration; Giuliani Was The Right Leader For The City When Chaos Needed To Be Tamed." (Jack Newfield, Op-Ed, "Giuliani's Eight Years," Newsday, 12/30/01)
· "[Giuliani] Will Become The 107th Mayor Of This Seemingly Ungovernable City." (Bruce Frankel and Keith Greenberg, "Giuliani Edges Dinkins In Bitter NYC Contest," USA Today, 11/3/93)
When Giuliani Took Office, New York Was Facing Its "Worst Fiscal Crisis Since The 1970's'." ("New York: Giuliani Seeks To Delay NYC Recycling Law," Greenwire, 3/29/94)
Giuliani Faced Fiscal Crisis When He Took Office In 1994. "Of all the problems Giuliani will face, none will loom larger – or sooner – than the question of what to do about the city's finances. Under a tough law passed after the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970s, he will be required to explain in January how he plans to close the gap in the current year's budget, estimated at about $400 million [and growing]. Soon after, he will be required to come up with the outline of his budget for the fiscal year starting next summer, which currently contains a projected $1.5-billion deficit [and growing]." (Karen Rothmyer, "Giuliani Seen As Good For Business," Newsday, 11/4/93)
When Giuliani Took Office, There Were 1,946 Murders In 1993 And 11,545 Major Crimes Per Week. ("1993 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area," 1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report, p. 139)
"[N]ew York City Is Reinforcing Its Reputation As The Crime Capital Of America. Every 44 Seconds A Crime Is Reported To The Police, Every Four Minutes A Car Is Stolen, Every Six Minutes There Is A Mugging, Every Three Hours There Is A Rape And Every Eight Hours A Murder" (Michelangelo Rucci, "Tales Of A Big, Rotten Apple," The Advertiser, 4/23/90)
When Giuliani Took Office, 1.1 Million People Were On Welfare, Nearly One Out Of Every Seven New Yorkers. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet)
New York Was Known As Welfare Capital Of The World. "At least a few New Yorkers have long despaired of making non-New Yorkers grasp the gargantuan perversity of the city's welfare system. Help has arrived. 'Hands to Work,' by Columbia journalism Prof. LynNell Hancock, purports to be an expose of welfare reform under Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. It is far more profitably read as a breathtaking tour of the mindset — supplied by the author and by those she writes about — that for decades made New York the welfare capital of the world." (Heather MacDonald, Op-Ed, "When Bad Habits Met A Mayor Who Wouldn't Put Up With Them," The Wall Street Journal, 1/23/02)
"'Ungovernable' Is The Adjective That Has Been Endlessly Applied To New York City, From The Tammany Hall Days To John Lindsay's Wobbly Vietnam-Era Mayoralty, Through Blackouts And Riots, From Son Of Sam To The Squeegee Guys." (Russell Shorto, Op-Ed, "All Political Ideas Are Local," The New York Times, 10/2/05)
George Will Said That New York Was Viewed As "Impossible To Govern." George Will: "[T]he wisdom of New York was … [t]hat it was impossible to govern the city. … When I say that being mayor of New York is demanding, I mean this. It has more people than do 39 other states. It is more difficult to govern than all 50 of the states. This for a reason — New York City has been liberalism's laboratory in the 20th century, which means it is a seriously troubled place, or was. It produced a culture of complaint, which led to the politics of victimhood, which led to government by grievance groups, and the learned dependency of an over-developed welfare state." (George Will, Remarks At CPAC, 3/2/07)
AD FACT:
Voice Over: "Rudy Giuliani. Redujo el crimen un 56%"
English Translation: "Rudy Giuliani. He cut down crime 56%."
BACKGROUND:
During Mayor Giuliani's Tenure, FBI Crime Index Dropped 56% Far Outpacing 16% Decline In National Crime Index. (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, www.fbi.gov/ucr/ucr.htm, Accessed 3/12/07)
New York Observer: "The Phenomenal Decline Under Mr. Giuliani Of Larger Crimes Such As Murder, Robbery And Rape Was Matched By A Reduction In Quality-Of-Life Offenses – Which In Turn Contributed To The Drop In Major Crime …" (Editorial, "Return Of The Squeegee?" New York Observer, 1/7/02)
FBI Statistics Established New York City As Safest Large City In America. "According to FBI statistics, New York is the safest large city in the nation. From July 1, 1996, through June 30, 1997, the graphs showed 44% fewer major felonies and 60% fewer murders." (John J. Goldman, "Giuliani's State Of Mind Goes From N.Y. To National," Los Angeles Times, 10/18/97)
Former NYPD Commissioner William Bratton Said Crime Drop "Could Not Have Been Done Without Giuliani." ANDREW MURR: "Crime dropped dramatically in NYC when you were there and when Giuliani was mayor. He's taking credit for part of that. What portion of the credit does the mayor deserve?" BRATTON: "[I]t could not have been done without Giuliani. In New York City, one of the great strengths of [the mayor's] position is you have ability to coordinate all elements of the criminal-justice system. … But he deserves significant credit. It could not have been done with the speed and the comprehensiveness and the ultimate impact without him." (Andrew Murr, "Bratton Hugs Back," Newsweek.com, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/20423719/site/newsweek/page/0/, 8/24/07, Accessed 8/24/07)
· Bratton Said Giuliani "Believed You Could Do Something About Crime" And Fought Political Battles Against Liberal Naysayers Who Said It Couldn't Be Done. BRATTON: "[Giuliani's] great strength was believing that you could do something about crime. … Giuliani basically fought all the political fights against all the naysayers who said it couldn't be done. So he provided the opportunity and the leadership and fought a lot of the political battles with what was at that time an extraordinarily liberal city." (Andrew Murr, "Bratton Hugs Back," Newsweek.com, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/20423719/site/newsweek/page/0/, 8/24/07, Accessed 8/24/07)
NYPD, Under Giuliani, Developed CompStat System That Revolutionized Tracking Crime. "The [Police] department under Mr. Giuliani created CompStat, which, as originally conceived, allowed precinct commanders to track and respond to major crime trends. The system was credited with helping drive down crime and was widely replicated in other cities." (Mike Mcintire, "New York's Falling Crime Rate Is A Potent Weapon For The Mayor," The New York Times, 10/5/05)
AD FACT:
Voice Over: "Rebajó los impuestos 23 veces ahorrándole más de $9,000 millones a los contribuyentes."
English Translation: "He lowered taxes 23 times, saving taxpayers more than $9 billion."
BACKGROUND:
Giuliani Worked With New York City's Democratic City Council To Reduce Taxes 23 Times. Giuliani: "We wanted to reduce taxes and be able to accomplish some of that with the Democratic City Council, overwhelmingly Democratic. We ended up reducing taxes … 23 times successfully …" (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Interview With WOKQ Radio's Don Brian, Portsmouth, NH, 3/12/07)
Giuliani Tax Cuts Saved Individuals And Businesses In New York Over $9 Billion. (City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1996; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1997; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1998; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 2002)
AD FACT:
Voice Over: "Creó nuevos empleos, recortó la burocracia …"
English Translation: "He created new jobs, slashed bureaucracy …"
BACKGROUND:
Under Mayor Giuliani, 423,000 New Private Sector Jobs Were Created. (New York State Department of Labor, New York State Workforce & Industry Private Employment Data, www.labor.state.ny.us/workforceindustrydata, Accessed 3/12/07)
New York City Unemployment Was Cut In Half From 10.4% In January 1994 To A Low Of 5.0% In May 2001. (New York State Department of Labor, New York State Workforce & Industry Employment And Unemployment Data, www.labor.state.ny.us/workforceindustrydata, Accessed 3/12/07)
Giuliani Cut Over 20,000 Full-Time City-Funded City Jobs (Nearly 20%) Excluding Teachers And Uniformed Police Officers. (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor: Appendix 5A, p. 276)
Giuliani Privatized City-Owned Businesses:
Sold WNYC Radio For $20 Million, WNYC-TV For $207 Million, And The 54th Street Municipal Garage For $14 Million. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
Divested The United Nations Plaza Hotel For $85 Million And Annual Property Taxes. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
Sold The New York Coliseum To Private Developers For $345 Million, Creating The Time-Warner Center And Spurring The Revitalization Of Columbus Circle. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
Sold City-Owned Vacant Lots To Private Benefactors To Convert Into Community Gardens. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
Oversaw 70% Drop In Number Of Housing Units Managed By Department Of Housing Preservation And Development. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
Contracted City Services From Building Inspections To Bail Processing, Saving Taxpayers Money And Creating Private Sector Jobs. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
AD FACT:
Voice Over: "Y Nueva York volvió a ser una de las grandes ciudades de los Estados Unidos y del mundo."
English Translation: "And New York again became one of the great cities of the United States and the world."
BACKGROUND:
"As For Rudolph W. Giuliani, He Has Had A Remarkable Run As Mayor. He Has Accomplished Things That Some Thought Impossible …" (James Ahearn, "Politically Correct But Unwarranted," The [Bergen County, NJ] Record, 12/30/01)
Stuart Rothenberg: "Remember, The Former New York Mayor Earned Raves For Cleaning Up New York City, Including The Once-Sleazy Times Square Area, An Accomplishment Once Considered Impossible By Most Americans, Certainly By Most New Yorkers." (Stuart Rothenberg, Op-Ed, "Is Rudy Likely To Be A Favorite Or A Flop?" Roll Call, 1/16/07)
Gov. Haley Barbour (R-MS): "And For Those Of Us Who Would Go To New York During That Period Of Time, The Change Was Breathtaking. It Was A Tremendous, Tremendous Difference That You Could See Even If You Only Went Up There Every Now And Then." (Gov. Haley Barbour, Remarks, Pearl, MS, 9/4/07)
AD FACT:
Voice Over: "Enfrentamos grandes retos. Necesitamos líderes probados."
English Translation: "We face great challenges. We need proven leaders."
BACKGROUND:
Mayor Giuliani: "T]his Is The Big Challenge Of Our Generation, We'll Hand Over A Country That Is Safer, That Is More Secure From The Terrorists Who Are At War With Us And Around The World." (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks, Tampa, FL, 12/15/07)
Mayor Giuliani Knows That One Of The Challenges America Faces Is That Americans Worry That They Won't Pass On A Better America To The Next Generation. Mayor Giuliani: "Middle class families feel that the American dream may be slipping away. They're worried about the future. They're Worried that the future may not be as bright as the past. They're worried that this may be the time where the next generation of Americans doesn't do as well as the last generation." (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks, Tampa, FL, 12/15/07)
Iran Is A Growing Threat And A President Giuliani Will Ensure That Iran Will Never Get Nuclear Weapons. Mayor Giuliani: "As we all know, Iran is seeking nuclear weapons and they're threatening to use them. And through Iran's proxy, Hezbollah, Iran has become the leading state sponsor of terrorism in the world. … So this is a group that operates as a terrorist group all over the world. They seek out Americans, they seek out Israelis, they seek out those who are allied to us. Now, Iran, this nation that's been a rogue or run by a rogue regime now for several decades, is assisting terrorists who are killing American troops. We've seen what Iran will do with ordinary weapons. If I'm president of the United States, I guarantee you we will never find out what they will do if they get nuclear weapons, because they're not going to get nuclear weapons." (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks To The Republican Jewish Coalition, Washington, D.C., 10/16/07)
Mayor Giuliani Recognizes The Threat That Chavez Is To The Americas. Mayor Giuliani: "Chavez is acting like a dictator. and he should be treated that way. … I think the people in Mexico were sending a signal, that's not the direction they want to go in. They don't want to go in the direction that Castro wanted to take Latin America. They don't want to go toward socialism and communism. They want to go to free markets, they want to go to freedom. I think it's the essential nature of the people of Latin America, and I think Chavez is going in actually the opposite direction, kind of a repeat of what Castro tried to do, and it's a disgrace, and we should stand against it." (Mayor Giuliani, Univision Debate, Miami, FL, 12/10/07)
Mayor Giuliani: "I Think [Hugo] Chavez Presents A Challenge, A Very Dangerous Challenge." (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks, Orlando, FL, 5/18/07)
Mayor Giuliani Knows That The Castros Are Brutal Dictators. Mayor Giuliani: "Americans can't get themselves into this false sense of there's going to be some big change when we go from Fidel to Raul. Raul Castro's been involved in just about everything his brother has done. The allegations are that he's involved in that case [Brothers to the Rescue]. There's a lot more that he's involved in. That should all be fleshed out and maybe it'll act as a warning to some Americans who romanticize the Castro's. They don't seem to want to accept the fact that they are brutal dictators, that they have done so much damage to your people …" (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks, Miami, FL, 10/19/07)
AD FACT:
Voice Over: "Rudy Giuliani. Se pudo en Nueva York y se puede en Washington. Rudy Giuliani: Experiencia, Resultado, Liderazgo. Rudy Giuliani Presidente."
English Translation: "Rudy Giuliani. It was done in New York. It can be done in Washington. Rudy Giuliani: Experience, Results, Leadership. Rudy Giuliani President."
Mayor Giuliani: "Soy Rudy Giuliani y apruebo este mensaje."
English Translation: "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approved this message."
Voice Over: "Pagado por the Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee Incorporated."
English Translation: "Paid for by the Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee Incorporated."
BACKGROUND:
The Washington Post's Mark Shields Cited Then-U.S. Attorney Giuliani's Accomplishments In New York City As Reason He Should Be George H.W. Bush's Running Mate In 1988. "As the 1988 Republican nominee, Vice President George Bush will lug with him a long list of political liabilities. … But with the right choice [for Vice President] … Bush could simultaneously turn disadvantage to advantage and the political world on its ear. … Now admittedly Rudolph Giuliani is not a household name, but if you need references … [G]iuliani led the prosecution of the 'pizza connection' in which eight New York Mafia chiefs were convicted and jailed. Who put corrupt executives from Wedtech … behind bars? It was the same man who put Bronx Democratic boss Stanley Friedman away and the prosecutor who risked the wrath of editorial writers, organized labor and politicians by moving for a takeover of the corruption-ridden Teamsters' union. There is a strong argument against putting any first-time candidate on a national ticket. Nobody, it's argued, is prepared for the scalding scrutiny. But you know that Rudolph Giuliani, who has terrorized dirty cops, sleazy politicians and criminals on Wall Street, has been investigated by all of them in an effort to discredit him. Death threats have not slowed him down. He's clean as a hound's tooth; he's gone after all the big boys; he's tough as nails, incorruptible and as untouchable as Eliot Ness. How about it, Mr. Vice President?" (Mark Shields, Op-Ed, "A Prosecutor For VP," The Washington Post, 7/12/88)
Former New York City Deputy Mayor Joe Lhota: "Mayor Giuliani Also Proved That Fiscally Conservative Policies Of Cutting Taxes, Ending Wasteful Government Spending And Stimulating Private Sector Job Growth Are Achievable, Even When Facing Overwhelming Obstacles. As President, He Will Bring That Same Fiscal Conservative Leadership To Washington." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "Campaign Kicks Off 'Rudy Gets Results' In New York City's Times Square," Press Release, 10/15/07)
National Review's Deroy Murdock Said Giuliani Could Bring Fiscal Discipline To Washington Because He Had Successfully Done It In New York. "As the Washington spending juggernaut steams furiously ahead, Rudy Giuliani has offered to toss several monkey wrenches into its gears. Wednesday in Des Moines, Iowa, the Republican presidential frontrunner unveiled several attractive ideas to 'restore fiscal discipline and cut wasteful Washington spending.' … Why should anyone believe Giuliani ever would implement such clever plans? Well, he already has. As mayor of New York, Giuliani used similar reforms to reverse the city's decline and rejuvenate its finances." (Deroy Murdock, Op-Ed, "Rudy's Fiscal Roadmap," National Review, 6/22/07)
Steve Forbes Said Washington Could "Use A Dose" Of The Leadership Giuliani Exhibited In "One Of The Most Liberal Big Spending Cities" In The Country. "[Steve] Forbes concurs, saying that [Giuliani] 'demonstrated in New York, one of the most liberal big spending cities and largest cities, that he could do the right thing fiscally' by restraining spending and by reducing or cutting 23 taxes. Forbes believes that "we could use a dose in Washington D.C." of what Giuliani did in New York" (Jennifer Rubin, "Rudy's Financial Team," Human Events Online, 7/11/07)
  