
    Governor Romney On Victory In Michigan (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 1/16/08):
MSNBC's Joe Scarborough: "We wake up this morning you're ahead in the vote total. We wake up this morning you're ahead in the delegate count. Talk about how big the win was last night in Michigan for you and the campaign."
Governor Romney: "It really was huge, I got to tell you. One, I wanted those delegates. I wanted the support of those new voters. But also there was an emotional tie, this is where I was born and raised. My Dad was governor here. I knew I was up against it because Senator McCain had won here handily against George Bush in 2000, so I figured he had a solid lead here. Actually, only a week ago in the polls, he was so far ahead it didn't look possible for us to catch him. But we ended up winning and winning by a pretty substantial margin. And I think it's that people here were tired of the Washington-style pessimism that nothing can get better, that they're not going to make any effort to try and get things better. And I came in and said, 'Look, I'm going to fight like the dickens to try and help this industry and turn this state around, and frankly, I'm going to try to turn the nation's economy around as well. I don't want to see any jobs leave this great country.'"
To watch Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tGJ69Oecth8
Governor Romney: Victory For Optimism Over Washington-Style Pessimism (Fox News' "Fox & Friends," 1/16/08):
Governor Romney: "You know, I think our message saying that Washington is fundamentally broken, that it has not been able to deal with the problems we face, that connected with people. They recognize that an insider is never going to be able to turn Washington inside out. And so when I said, 'Look, I'm going to fight for every job. I'm going to fight for every industry. I'm going to fight to get America back on top again,' they said, 'Look, that kind of optimism is something we prefer over the kind of Washington-style pessimism we've heard for so many years.'"
To watch Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tpLH8l7m9q0
Governor Romney On Strengthening The Economy (CBS' "Early Show," 1/16/08):
CBS' Harry Smith: "We were with you over the weekend on the campaign trail, and you told me that day that the issues in Michigan were the economy, the economy, and the economy. That's what voters said in our exit poll, too. Do you think what the lesson of today – or, rather, yesterday was – translates to the rest of the country?"
Governor Romney: "I really do. I think you're seeing people across the country very concerned about the economy, concerned about their jobs, about whether they're going to keep their health care or not. They want somebody who understands how the economy works, who knows why jobs come, why they go. I spent 25 years in the private sector. Then went off to the Olympics, and of course, I've been a governor as well. But, they want that firsthand knowledge of how it is that jobs come and go."
To watch Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gyQ3kILIKmQ
Governor Romney: A Workout For Government (Fox News' "Fox & Friends," 1/16/08):
Governor Romney: "Well, I actually think that the government's very badly out of shape and duplicative and excessive and we really should have the kind of head-to-toe review of government – eliminating programs and agencies that just don't make sense anymore. That'll save a lot of money. But number two, in a setting like this, the key is to strengthen certain sectors of the economy that are struggling. Frankly, I've spent my life in the private sector. I know how jobs come. I know why they go. I know how we compete around the world. I've competed around the world. I think that kind of hands on business experience will be helpful in a setting where the economy is as fragile as it is right now."
To watch Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wgylUi_jm18
  