
    Stay Tuned: Hillary will continue the conversation she started about making a real difference in people's lives with a big announcement later this morning.
A Significant Victory: By a nearly 17 point margin, Hillary won the highest turnout Democratic primary in Florida history. More than 1.5 million Democrats voted - more than cast votes in Iowa, Nevada, South Carolina, and New Hampshire combined. "Hillary's victory... gives her the bragging rights that come with winning the biggest, most diverse state to vote so far."
Broad Support: Hillary won voters who decided on Election Day; women and men; urban, suburban and rural voters; and just about every income group, education level and age category - including 18-29 year-olds. Hillary won nearly 6 in 10 Latinos and nearly 3 in 10 African Americas.
Did You Know? Hillary received more votes in Florida than Sen. McCain, the winner of the Republican primary. Hillary also received more votes in Florida alone that Sen. Obama received in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina combined.
In Case You Missed It: Florida Sen. Bill Nelson became the latest Senator to endorse, bringing Hillary's total to 11. "Too many Americans have been invisible to their own government. In this primary, some even tried to silence our state. Hillary will never let that happen," said Sen. Nelson.
Endorsement Watch: California Rep. Maxine Waters, founder and Chair of the Out of Iraq Caucus, endorsed Hillary. Rep. Waters became the 17th member of the Congressional Black Caucus to join the campaign.
New Ads: The campaign began airing a new television ad, a new Spanish language television ad, and two new radio ads in February 5th states. "Nuestra Amiga" focuses on Hillary's respect and support for the Latino community and her real solutions to the challenges Latinos face. In "My Girl," Dr. Maya Angelou talks about Hillary's experience as an advocate for families. In "Experience," Earvin "Magic" Johnson focuses on Hillary's ability to lead on day one. Watch and Listen.
If You Read One Thing Today: "Why Clinton can count on Latinos" in the Los Angeles Times. Read more.
Polling Prowess: In Oklahoma, a new SurveyUSA poll has Hillary up by 17 points over Sen. Obama (44-27)... In Tennessee, a new Public Policy Polling survey has Hillary up by 11 points over Sen. Obama (43-32)... In California, a new Los Angeles Times/CNN/Politico poll has Hillary up by 17 points over Sen. Obama (49-32).
Previewing Today: In Arkansas, Hillary attends a "Solutions for the American Economy" town hall... In Georgia, Hillary speaks to the National Baptist Convention of America and the Georgia Democratic Party's Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner... In Illinois, Oklahoma and Colorado, President Bill Clinton attends "Solutions for America" events.
  