
    Final 2-minute appeal to air on every 6pm newscast across Iowa tonight
After nearly a year of criss-crossing the state and talking with Iowans about her vision for change, Hillary Clinton tonight makes her closing argument in a televised appeal that directly addresses the central question on the minds of caucus-goers.
"After all the town meetings, the pie and coffee, it comes down to this: Who is ready to be president and ready to start solving the big challenges we face on day one?" Clinton asks.
Clinton's message will run during every 6:00pm newscast across Iowa this evening. In her message, she calls for an end to the Iraq war, a new energy policy, rebuilding our middle class, and affordable quality health care for all Americans.
"I'm not running for President to put band-aids on our problems," she says. "I'm running to solve them."
Hillary closes with a direct appeal to Iowans to caucus for her. "So I ask you to caucus for me tomorrow. Put on your coats and call up a friend and help me change America," she says. "If you stand with me for one night, I will stand up for you every day as your President."
The ad can be seen online at: http://youtube.com/watch?v=v0hyVSmVVBU.
"CROSSROADS"
TV: 2 Min
Hillary Clinton: Good evening,
As we start this New Year, America is at a crossroads.
We're a nation at war in a dangerous world.
We have a faltering economy, an energy crisis and 47 million people without health care.
But after seven long years of this administration, we finally have the opportunity for a new beginning.
Tomorrow, you can take the first step.
After all the town meetings, the pie and coffee.it comes down to this: Who is ready to be president and ready to start solving the big challenges we face on day one? And we can solve them.
We can end the era of cowboy diplomacy and bring our sons and daughters home from Iraq.
We can make a new beginning for our economy and rebuild our great middle class. We can reform our government and transform our energy future.
We can make a new beginning on health care- cut costs, improve quality and cover every American.
I'm not running for President to put band-aids on our problems. I'm running to solve them.
You have welcomed me into your hearts and your homes. And I thank you. The stories you have shared will always stay with me.
Parents juggling jobs to pay for college for their kids, soldiers' families praying for a safe return. All the men and women across this state who have whispered their health care problems to me - bills they can't pay, parents they can't afford to care for, insurance companies who refuse to help.
I know you have waited a long time for a president who could hear you and see you. I would like to be that president.
So I ask you to caucus for me tomorrow. Put on your coats and call up a friend and help me change America.
If you stand with me for one night, I will stand up for you every day as your President.
I'll work my heart out to bring the country we love the new beginning it needs, and I will be ready to start on day one. Thank you.
I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
  