
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 14
In the afternoon, the President met with a group of writers, professors, and political scientists at Camp David, MD, to discuss the future role of Government.
January 16
In the morning, the President returned to Andrews Air Force Base, MD, and then traveled to Denver, CO. Following his arrival, he met with a group of officials from the natural gas industry at the Denver Stapleton International Airport.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA.
January 17
In the late morning, the President met with rescue workers at the Swift Water Rescue Unit at Fire Station 88 to discuss the recent flooding in southern California. Following the meeting, he traveled to Roseville, CA, where he toured flood damage and visited with victims.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas L. Soto, Kathleen Marr, Dan Eckstrom, Sandra Ferniza, Travis Johnson, and Cynthia Ann Miscikowski as members of the Advisory Council Border Environment Cooperation Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint John J. Sweeney to the National Commission for Employment Policy.
The White Hose announced that Richard Schifter will assume a broader assignment at the National Security Council as Special Assistant to the President and Counselor. Daniel Fried will succeed Mr. Schifter as Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Senior Director for Central and Eastern Europe.
The White House announced the appointment of Coit D. Blacker as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Russian, Ukrainian, and Eurasian Affairs, National Security Council.
January 19
The President announced his intention to appoint Wayne Cranford to be Chair and the following individuals to be members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: John C. Barsness, Kathie Bartlett, Anne Boyle, Diana Carlin, Arthur Chapa, Bethine Church, Leon Cohan, Darrell Dorgan, Pamela Eakes, Sim Farar, Hartina Flournoy, Joseph Fuchs, John Grisham, Mary Gail Gwaltney, Sharon Harrington, Margaret Dunne Hartigan, Steve Hicks, Kenneth Jacobsen, Susan Roach Kelly, Zina Kramer, Betty Oxendine-Mangum, Bonnie Milenthal, Sandra Montrone, Leslie Moonves, Kenneth Pentony, Deborah Dozier Potter, John Raffaelli, Mary Stoner Rauh, Mary Lou Reed, Alice Richmond, Susan Roberts, Linda Kapuniai Rosehill, Elaine Schuster, Diane Meyer Simon, Gary Smith, Sally Troyer, Michael Turpen, Joseph Walsh, Donna Axum Whitworth, Caryl Yontz, Robert P. Zimmerman.
The White House announced the President will attend a ceremony in San Francisco, CA, in June and a special commemorative meeting of the U.N. General Assembly in New York City in October to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations.
The White House announced the President has invited Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan to Washington, DC, for an official working visit on April 11.
January 20
The President announced his intention to appoint Harriet Mayor Fulbright, Alan H. Schechter, and Caroline A. Matano Yang to the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint George Ariyoshi; W.L. Lyons Brown, Jr.; Ralph Gerson; Dean R. Kleckner; Lewis E. Platt; and Jeannette S. Wagner to the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
The President announced his intention to appoint Harriett Woods to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Clifford Gregory Stewart to be General Counsel of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunities Commission.
  