
    In Case You Missed It: Hillary hears all the time from Democrats in Florida and Michigan that they want their voices heard. Yesterday, Hillary announced that she will ask her Democratic convention delegates to support seating the delegations from Florida and Michigan. "I hope to be President of all 50 states and U.S. territories, and that we have all 50 states represented and counted at the Democratic convention," Hillary said.
If You Read One Thing Today: The Amsterdam News, one of America's oldest African-American newspapers, endorsed Hillary. "Our endorsement... could perhaps be viewed as the best and most difficult decision that many of us will make in our lives. Hillary Rodham Clinton is wise, competent and strong enough to lead America with dignity, forthrightness, anger when it has to be, love as it must always be, temperance as required and justice with everything." Read more.
Making News: Skyrocketing tuition costs and predatory student lenders are putting college out of reach for millions of students. At Benedict College, a historically black college and university in Columbia, South Carolina, Hillary detailed her plan to make college affordable again and protect students and families from being exploited by abusive student lenders. Read more.
Economic Focus: The Los Angeles Times writes that Hillary continues to focus, "like a laser beam," on the economy. Hillary has been "echoing complaints of everyday folks: How can you afford to put kids through college? What about paying that inflated adjustable-rate home loan? Or holding onto a job in a teetering economy?" Read more.
Strength in the States: In Tennessee, a new poll from NBC affiliate WSMV-TV has Hillary up by 14 points over Sen. Obama (34-20)... In Missouri, a new Rasmussen poll has Hillary up by 19 points over Sen. Obama (43-24)... In Arizona, a new Behavior Research Center poll has Hillary up by 10 points over Sen. Obama (37-27)... In Alabama, a new Rasmussen poll has Hillary up 15 points over Sen. Obama (43-28)...In California, a new Public Policy Institute of California poll has Hillary up by 15 points over Sen. Obama (43-28).
Get Out The Vote: Up for grabs today in South Carolina are forty-five of the Democratic Party's 4,049 convention delegates. The Clinton campaign will work hard throughout the day to appeal for each and every vote across the state.
Previewing Today: Hillary will campaign in South Carolina. Next, Hillary will host a "Solutions for America" town hall in Nashville, Tennessee. President Bill Clinton will speak about the economy in Independence, Missouri.
  