
    Governor Chris Christie, Governor Tim Pawlenty, Congressman Connie Mack, and former Chairman of the National Council of Economic Advisers Glenn Hubbard made the following statements on Mitt Romney's tax returns:
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie
"I congratulate Mitt Romney on releasing such extensive tax returns. It is now time that we get back to the issues of fixing our economy and helping the middle class. Throughout this entire campaign, Mitt Romney has been focused on one thing: creating jobs for the American people. Democrats and some in our party can still try and distract from the most pressing issues facing our country, but Mitt Romney is going to spend every day working on issues that matter like growing the economy, cutting spending and taxes, and strengthening America's place in the world."
Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty
"With the release of Mitt Romney's tax returns, it is time to focus again on the real issues facing American families. Instead of focusing on distractions created by the Obama campaign and some in our party, we need to work to reverse the President's failed policies and help the middle class. That is what Mitt Romney is focused on every day."
Florida Congressman Connie Mack
"I'm happy that we can finally get back to the issues that matter. For too long, Democrats and even some in our party, have used this to hide from their own record. Now that this is out of the way, we can now get back to focusing on President Obama and his failure to create jobs."
Former Chairman of the National Council of Economic Advisers Glenn Hubbard
"The current tax code is biased against saving and investment and risk-taking. It is for that reason that economists have urged and policymakers have legislated lower tax rates on dividends and capital gains — already taxed once at the corporate rate. Maintaining a low capital gains tax rate and low dividend tax rate also allows capital to be unlocked and allocated toward its most productive uses, while reducing the tax bite on savings for tens of millions of Americans for retirement and other purposes. Raising tax rates on dividends and capital gains hurts investment and growth, while increasing incentives for leverage."
  