
    Edwards will bring his fight for the middle class to red states and blue states from the West Coast to the East Coast
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, John Edwards will launch a three-day tour to bring his fight for the middle class to states from the West Coast to the Heartland to the East Coast. Over the course of the next three days, Edwards will visit Nevada, four February 5th states and his native state of South Carolina to share with voters his detailed plans to stand up to the powerful interests and make sure hard-working families can get ahead.
"For too long, powerful entrenched interests have gotten every break imaginable from Washington, while middle class families have struggled," said Edwards. "I have spent my entire life standing up and fighting for regular Americans against these interests – and beating them. I know that if we fight together we can get the change we need and take our country back -- because every time we fight for jobs, for families, for the middle class, for universal health care, America rises."
As a sign of his commitment to making sure the voices of all Americans are heard in Washington, Edwards will travel to red states and blue states from the West Coast to the East Coast. Born to a working class family and raised in small, rural mill towns, Edwards understands the struggles facing hard-working families. His message of change is resonating with voters in red states and blue states, in big cities and small towns.
During the tour, Edwards will visit Nevada, California, Oklahoma, Missouri, Georgia and South Carolina to demonstrate his broad, coast to coast strength and his advantage as the best candidate to win the general election. In addition to strong grassroots support in these states, Edwards also enjoys the support of numerous labor groups and state and local elected officials. A recent CNN poll showed Edwards was the only Democrat to beat all four leading Republicans nationally, and state by state polls show even more conclusively that Edwards is the most electable democrat in key battleground states -- and even wins in states like Missouri and Oklahoma that have gone "red" in recent presidential elections. As former Georgia Governor Roy Barnes has said: "John Edwards is the best positioned to win all across the country—not just part of it."
Details of Edwards' events are included below. To attend these free events, the public should RSVP on the John Edwards for President website at: www.JohnEdwards.com.

THURSDAY, JANUARY 17TH, 2008
9:00AM PST
John Edwards to hold a community event
Henderson Convention Center
200 Water Street
Henderson, Nevada
12:30PM PST
John Edwards to hold a community event
SEIU Local 721
Office of Southern CA Public Service Workers
1015 Wilshire Blvd
Los Angeles, California
6:15 PM PST
John Edwards to hold a Countdown to Caucus event
Carpenters Hall
1150 Terminal Way
Reno, Nevada
8:30 PM PST
John Edwards to hold a Countdown to Caucus event
Highland Manor of Elko
2850 Ruby Vista Dr.
Elko, Nevada

FRIDAY, JANUARY 18TH, 2008
9:00 AM PST
John Edwards to hold a community event
John Edwards for President Nevada headquarters
4160 Pecos Road
Las Vegas, Nevada
6:15 PM CST
John Edwards to hold a community event
Oklahoma City Teamsters Local 886
3528 W Reno Avenue
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

SATURDAY, JANUARY 19TH, 2008
9:15AM CST
John Edwards to hold a community event
Carpenters' District Council of Greater St. Louis and Vicinity (CDC) Union Hall
1401 Hampton Avenue
St. Louis, Missouri
2:30PM EST
John Edwards to hold a community event
IBEW Local Union 613
501 Pulliam Street
Atlanta, Georgia
7:15 PM EST
John Edwards to hold a community event
Greenville High School Cafeteria
1 Vardy Street
Greenville, South Carolina
  