
    "By the way, saying that Newt Gingrich is a lobbyist is just a matter of fact. He indicates that he doesn't fall within the narrow definition of lobbyists that he might have in mind. But if you're working for a company, getting paid for a company through one of your many entities and then you're speaking with Congressmen in a way that would help that company, that's lobbying. If it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's a duck." — Mitt Romney
Romney National Campaign Co-Chairman Tim Pawlenty: "To Say That [Gingrich] Wasn't A Lobbyist Is An Incredible Hair-Splitting." PAWLENTY: "Newt Gingrich has represented hundreds of clients and interest groups in Washington, DC since he left the speakership. We have very little insight and transparency as to what exactly he did for many for those clients, in many cases, for huge sums of money. To say that he wasn't a lobbyist is an incredible hair-splitting. He's been an advocate to the Congress trying to push influence in Washington, DC. In the case of Freddie Mac, he was lobbying Republican members or advocating with Republican members against Republican interests on one of the most difficult and unfortunate behaviors by the federal government in modern history, and that is their activities in the housing market." (Romney Campaign Conference Call, 1/23/12)
Gingrich Campaign Surrogate J.C. Watts: "If Someone Wants To Split Hairs Over Consulting And Lobbying, As The Romney Folks Want To Do..." "Watts played down the charge from Romney that Gingrich was a lobbyist, calling it 'splitting hairs.' 'If someone wants to split hairs over consulting and lobbying, as the Romney folks want to do, then anybody who's been associated with Fannie or Freddie, or if they've ever taken any money from Fannie and Freddie in terms of campaign contributions — was that legal bribery?' Watts said." (Michael Warren, "Watts Defends Gingrich's Freddie Work," The Weekly Standard, 1/23/12)
(Michael Warren, "Watts Defends Gingrich's Freddie Work," The Weekly Standard, 1/23/12)
  