
    (LOS ANGELES, JANUARY 20, 2020) — Today, Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer announced a quartet of powerful Southern California endorsements: former State Senator Fran Pavley, Assemblyman Eduardo Garcia, Los Angeles Second District Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas, and former State Senator Josh Newman. This exciting news comes the day after the Steyer campaign office grand opening in Fullerton, where Tom's son, Sam, kicked off festivities joined by local residents, business leaders, elected officials, and campaign staffers.
In announcing her endorsement, former State Senator Fran Pavley (Ventura/Los Angeles Counties) stated:

"Globally speaking, California has set the gold standard in terms of passing and protecting legislation that aggressively tackles climate change, and Tom has played an integral role in making that happen. Climate change cannot wait. The impacts to California's health, water supply, drought, wildfires, and our economy need a strong leader to make climate change one of their highest priorities. That's why I'm voting for Tom Steyer for president, and I urge all Californians to do the same."
In announcing his endorsement, Assemblyman Garcia (Riverside/Imperial Counties) stated:

"Tom Steyer has been a tireless advocate for all Californians. I see first hand the disastrous effects of climate change in the communities in my district. Tom is the only candidate with a Justice-Centered Climate Plan who will declare a national emergency on day one of his administration to address this crisis with the urgency it deserves. I am proud to stand with Tom Steyer, because he stands with hard-working middle class families in my community, throughout California, and across our nation. I ask all of my fellow Californians to stand with Tom Steyer. "
In announcing his endorsement, Supervisor Ridley-Thomas (Los Angeles County) stated:

"I support Tom Steyer for President because he sides with the people. Everybody knows that he's a forward-thinking leader on climate change. They know he led the charge to defend Californians against a hostile President. What Californians may not know is that time after time, Tom Steyer has stepped forward and partnered with community efforts to protect our air and water, expand access to parks and open space for everybody including communities that have the greatest need, and, most significant to me, help pass groundbreaking measures to tackle the homelessness crisis. That's the kind of leadership we need. I'm honored to work with Tom, and I'm proud to support him for President."
In announcing his endorsement, Josh Newman (Los Angeles/Orange/San Bernardino Counties) stated:

"Californians live day-to-day with the effects of climate change and understand that as a country we need to view this issue as a top priority. Tom Steyer knows that supporting and enhancing renewable technology through legislation will not only curb the effects of climate change, but also add millions of jobs and greatly benefit the economy. He plans to invest $2 trillion in federal funding over ten years to transform the infrastructure of this country, as well as triple federal funding for climate research. His administration also plans to work with Congress to fund and create the Civilian Climate Corps, giving power back to the American people and creating 4.6 million long-term jobs. Tom Steyer embodies the values that Californians, and Americans at large, are ready to bring back into the White House. I am proud to endorse his campaign for president, and I look forward to seeing all that he achieves."
Tom Steyer said of these high profile endorsements:
"From day one, this has been a people-powered campaign. Assemblyman Eduardo Garcia, Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas, and former State Senators Josh Newman and Fran Pavley are respected as dedicated, experienced community leaders and advocates — and I'm honored to have their support. I look forward to fighting with them, my fellow Californians, to take on Donald Trump and to ensure that our Golden State continues to lead the way to a brighter and more inclusive future for every American."
This exciting news comes on the heels of the latest presidential debate where Steyer participated in Iowa and a full weekend of Tom Steyer 2020 campaign events throughout California as the energy and momentum continues building to Super Tuesday.
  