
    Robert E. Bacharach, of Oklahoma, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Robert Harlan Henry, resigned.
Caitlin Joan Halligan, of New York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice John G. Roberts, Jr., elevated.
William J. Kayatta, Jr., of Maine, to be United States Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Kermit Lipez, retired.
Jill A. Pryor, of Georgia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Stanley F. Birch, Jr., retired.
Patty Shwartz, of New Jersey, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Maryanne Trump Barry, retired.
Srikanth Srinivasan, of Virginia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice A. Raymond Randolph, retired.
Richard Gary Taranto, of Maryland, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Paul R. Michel, retired.
Elissa F. Cadish, of Nevada, to be United States District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Philip M. Pro, retired.
Valerie E. Caproni, of the District of Columbia, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Richard J. Holwell, resigned.
Sheri Polster Chappell, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Gregory A. Presnell, retired.
Pamela Ki Mai Chen, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Raymond J. Dearie, retired.
Brian J. Davis, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Richard A. Lazzara, retired.
Shelly Deckert Dick, of Louisiana, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Louisiana, vice Ralph E. Tyson, deceased.
Jennifer A. Dorsey, of Nevada, to be United States District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Larry R. Hicks, retired.
Katherine Polk Failla, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Denise Cote, retired.
Kenneth John Gonzales, of New Mexico, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Mexico, vice Bruce D. Black, retired.
Andrew Patrick Gordon, of Nevada, to be United States District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Kent J. Dawson, retired.
Ketanji Brown Jackson, of Maryland, to be United States District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Henry Harold Kennedy, retired.
Rosemary Márquez, of Arizona, to be United States District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Frank R. Zapata, retired.
Michael J. McShane, of Oregon, to be United States District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Michael R. Hogan, retired.
Raymond P. Moore, of Colorado, to be United States District Judge for the District of Colorado, vice Wiley Y. Daniel, retired.
Troy L. Nunley, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of California, vice Garland E. Burrell, Jr., retired.
Beverly Reid O'Connell, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Valerie L. Baker, retired.
William H. Orrick, III, of the District of Columbia, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Charles R. Breyer, retired.
Nitza I. Quiñones Alejandro, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Richard Barclay Surrick, retired.
Luis Felipe Restrepo, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Anita B. Brody, retired.
Nelson Stephen Román, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Richard M. Berman, retired.
Jeffrey L. Schmehl, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Thomas M. Golden, deceased.
William L. Thomas, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Adalberto Jose Jordan, elevated.
Analisa Torres, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Naomi Reice Buchwald, retired.
Derrick Kahala Watson, of Hawaii, to be United States District Judge for the District of Hawaii, vice David A. Ezra, retired.
Mark A. Barnett, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of International Trade, vice Judith M. Barzilay, retired.
Claire R. Kelly, of New York, to be a Judge of the United States Court of International Trade, vice Evan J. Wallach, elevated.
  