
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments, Commissions, and Agencies:
The American Red Cross during the five years of World War II gave a full measure of devotion to the relief of human suffering and the welfare of our countrymen and allies in all parts of the world. In the past year the immense activities of this agency have been rechanneled from demands of war to the complex problems of peace and our great responsibilities in binding up the wounds of war.
During the coming year the war-related activities of the Red Cross will continue to be very extensive. Large numbers of men will still be in uniform. There are millions of veterans to whom the Red Cross has an obligation. Tens of thousands will be in Army, Navy and Veterans' hospitals for a long time to come. The Red Cross is trained and equipped through its thousands of Home Service workers to give the service needed, but it is imperative that the necessary funds be obtained to continue Red Cross operations on behalf of the Army, Navy and the Veterans.
In communities of all sizes the health and educational services of the Red Cross reaching millions of homes with projects in first Aid, Water Safety, Accident Prevention, Home Nursing and Nutrition for the welfare and conservation of life are greatly needed. When disasters threaten the neighborhood or the nation as a whole we look to the American Red Cross for prompt and effective emergency help.
To help raise the funds essential to finance this vast program, I desire that all departments of the Government cooperate wholeheartedly through the creation of an effective organization for the solicitation of their gifts. I have designated the Secretary of the Interior, The Honorable Julius A. Krug as Chairman of the Government Unit for the Metropolitan Area of Washington.
The American people during the war years have given to the American Red Cross the largest sums ever entrusted to any humanitarian agency. Our gifts in this 1947 Red Cross fund I am confident will continue this magnificent support. I assure you that the Red Cross will continue to discharge with fidelity and integrity those responsibilities to which it is committed. The cooperation of all citizens of goodwill will fully guarantee success of this great cause.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
  