
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced its Maine Leadership Team. Leading Rudy's efforts in the state is State Senator Kevin Raye.
Joining Raye are First Congressional District Co-Chairs former State Senate GOP Leader Jane Amero and former State Senator Linda Curtis Brawn. Serving as the Second Congressional District Co-Chairs are State Senator Peter Mills and former State House Assistant GOP Leader Dick Campbell.
In addition, Maine's Republican National Committeewoman Karen Raye will serve as State Chair of Women for Rudy, State Representative Bob Walker is Giuliani's liaison to the Maine House of Representatives and Senator Raye is liaison to the Maine Senate.
"Mayor Giuliani is the leader America needs because his proven leadership rejuvenated our nation's largest city," said Senator Raye. "He cut taxes, created jobs and reduced crime, and Rudy offers America the best hope for strength in confronting the challenges ahead. I am proud to be working with our Maine Leadership Team to spread his vision for our country."
"Mayor Giuliani's leadership and record of real results resonates with Maine voters," said Giuliani's National Deputy Political Director Rick Wiley. "We are honored to have a strong leadership team in Maine led by Senator Raye."
About Rudy's Maine Leadership Team:
Senator Kevin Raye
Raye is currently serving his second term in the Maine Senate representing the state's Down East region after a 17-year career as a top aide and Chief of Staff to U.S. Senator Olympia Snowe. As the Republican nominee for Maine's 2nd Congressional District seat in 2002, Raye won 48% of the vote – the highest percentage of any 2nd District GOP candidate in the past 15 years. He co-owns and operates Raye's Mustard Mill in Eastport along with his wife Karen.
Senator Jane Amero
Amero, of South Portland, is the Director of Governmental Relations at Pierce Atwood Consulting. She is a former Republican Leader of the Maine Senate, serving from 1992-2000. She was also the Republican nominee for Maine's 1st Congressional District in 2000 and is a former Chair of the State Board of Education. She is active in community and civic affairs and presently serves on the Board of Goodwill of Northern New England and the Board of Visitors of the Muskie School of Public Policy.
Senator Linda Curtis Brawn
Brawn, of Camden, served in the Maine Senate from 1986 to 1991, when she accepted a position with the U.S. Department of Education for President George H.W. Bush. Long active in GOP politics, she is the immediate past president of the Maine Federation of Republican Women. A breast cancer survivor, she and her husband William have two grown sons and three grandchildren.
Senator Peter Mills Mills, of Cornville, comes from a family with a long history of public service in Maine. Now in his sixth term in the Maine Senate, he is the state's longest-serving Republican State Senator currently in office, and he previously served one term in the Maine House of Representatives. An attorney with a practice in Skowhegan, Mills is a veteran of the U.S. Navy and served in the Vietnam War. He was a candidate for Governor in 2006.
Representative Richard Campbell
Campbell is a former four-term State Representative, and served two terms as Assistant House Republican Leader. He was a candidate for Maine's 2nd Congressional District seat in 2000 and 2002, and served in the Maine Air National Guard for nine years. A businessman with more than 35 years of experience in design and development, he owns and operates Dick Campbell LLC, a development and construction management firm.
Karen Raye
Karen Raye, Maine's Republican National Committeewoman, will serve as Women for Rudy State Chair. She is a small businesswoman who co-owns and operates Raye's Mustard Mill in Eastport along with her husband Kevin. She serves on the National Advisory Council of the Small Business Administration and is active in an array of civic and community affairs.
Representative Bob Walker
Walker is a medical doctor specializing in diagnostic imaging at Waldo County General Hospital. He is currently serving his first term in the Maine House of Representatives. He is a former Chairman of the Waldo County Republican Committee, a former School Board member, a former commercial radio announcer and is an FAA-certified flight instructor in helicopters. He and his wife Yvonne have two children.
  