
    Previewing Today: "Hillary will be a president who will take the voice of all Americans - and all Floridians - to the White House," said Florida Sen. Bill Nelson. Tonight, after polls close in the Sunshine State, Hillary will visit Florida and thank her supporters. The Florida Democratic Party estimates that close to 500,000 Democrats voted early in advance of today's primary.
Boosting the Economy: "For too many American families, the true '˜state of their lives' is one of economic anxiety," said Hillary in her response to President George Bush's State of the Union. "As President, I will work to create good high-paying jobs that can't be outsourced, restore fairness to our economy... and restore real fiscal responsibility to Washington."
Recapping Yesterday: "I believe health care is a moral right.. I believe our tax code should [be] fair to the middle class... I believe every child needs a chance to make it in life," said Hillary to a "packed gymnasium" in Hartford... "Although [Hillary's] visit to Springfield was announced less than 24 hours in advance, more than 3,000 people squeezed into Blake Arena, filling the gymnasium beyond capacity."
Facts are Facts: The Rapid Responders, elected officials and community leaders in all 22 of the February 5th states, will respond to inaccurate attacks directed at Hillary and President Bill Clinton.
All in the Family:Former Maryland Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, environmental advocate Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and human rights activist Kerry Kennedy praise Hillary in a Los Angeles Times op-ed. Read more.
Newspapers Agree: The Jersey Journal endorsed Hillary. "Clinton has the qualifications to navigate through the Washington power riptide that has drowned many a president's agenda." ... The Salt Lake Tribune endorsed Hillary. "With this country bogged down in two wars, burdened by a crushing deficit and hurtling toward recession, experience and sheer toughness are essential in a presidential nominee... Hillary has an abundance of both."
  