
    Actors Tamblyn and Ferrera to serve as national co-chairs of HillBlazers
Young actors America Ferrera and Amber Tamblyn, today announced their endorsement of Hillary Clinton. They will serve as national co-chairs of "HillBlazers," the campaign's youth outreach program and will campaign on behalf of Hillary in key states, including Nevada. Both Amber and America are expected to campaign in Las Vegas this week.
"This election is too important to stand on the sidelines, especially for my generation. I look forward to rallying young people to use their voices and get involved. I believe that Hillary Clinton can turn this country around," said Ferrera. "I am confident she will be a champion for young women and men across the country."
"I'm concerned about the direction of our country and young Americans need to think about which candidate can make the most positive impact for our nation's future," said Tamblyn. "Young voters know that Hillary Clinton is the only candidate who has the experience to bring about change, and I'm excited to campaign for her wherever and whenever I can."
The Clinton campaign had been aggressively reaching out to young voters and they turned out in record numbers for the New Hampshire primary. According to the CIRCLE, the Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement, the turnout rate for voters under age 30 in New Hampshire rose sharply to 43 percent in 2008 compared to 18 percent in 2004 and 28 percent in 2000. Hillary Clinton won a key segment of the youth vote in New Hampshire, capturing 37 percent support among voters ages 25-29. The Clinton campaign will continue its outreach efforts to young voters in Nevada, South Carolina, and February 5th states.
"I am honored to receive America and Amber's support," said Clinton. "They are great role models for so many young women in our nation. I'm delighted that they will be joining us to help bring change to our nation."
Best known for her role as Betty Suarez on the ABC television comedy-drama series "Ugly Betty," Ferrera has won the Golden Globe Award, Screen Actors Guild Award, the Primetime Emmy Award, and the ALMA Award for her performance -- securing herself as one of Hollywood's most vibrant young talents. In July 2007, America Ferrera also won the Imagen Foundation's Creative Achievement Award. She first gained attention for her work in the film, "Real Women Have Curves." In October 2007, The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard named Ferrera as Hispanic Woman of The Year.
In 2003, Amber starred in the critically-acclaimed CBS drama "Joan of Arcadia" for which she received both Golden Globe and Emmy nominations. She earned an Indie Spirit Award nomination for "Best Supporting Actress" for her wrenching turn in the critically-acclaimed "Stephanie Daley" opposite Tilda Swinton. The film also won her a Best Actress award at the Locarno Film Festival. Her other feature film credits include the starring role in "Grudge II" and "The Ring." Amber's first book of poems, "Free Stallion", was published by Simon & Schuster in the fall of 2005.
Amber and America both starred in the hit move, "Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants."
  