
    "We are absolutely committed to the principle nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine, just as we are fully committed to the principle nothing about Europe without Europe."Secretary of State Tony Blinken, January 7, 2022
The United States, along with its Allies and partners, has underscored its readiness to impose significant costs on Russia if it takes further military action against Ukraine. At the same time, we have stressed our preference for de-escalation through diplomacy. The United States laid out clear principles ahead of talks with Russia. First, we will not commit to anything about Europe without Europe. Second, any discussions must be reciprocal. Third, genuine progress can only take place in a climate of de-escalation.
The United States has approached this week's diplomatic engagements with Russia – in the bilateral Strategic Stability Dialogue, the NATO-Russia Council, and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) – closely aligned with our European Allies and partners, including Ukraine, after extensive consultations. In recent weeks, President Biden has spoken to leaders across Europe. Officials across the U.S. government – including at the National Security Council, State Department, Defense Department, Treasury Department, Energy Department, and U.S. Agency for International Development – have engaged frequently with their European counterparts.
Highlights of the Biden Administration's close coordination with Allies and partners in recent weeks include:

President Biden has spoken with 16 European leaders to discuss European security issues and to develop a coordinated and comprehensive transatlantic approach.
Secretary Blinken has held more than two dozen calls and meetings with foreign leaders and foreign ministers to discuss our coordinated response to Russia's military buildup along Ukraine's border. In addition, he has participated in ministerial meetings at the G7, NATO, and the OSCE as well as engaged with the EU and Ukrainian leadership. 
Secretary Austin has spoken with eight of his European counterparts about security issues in Europe and Russia's destabilizing actions in the region. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley has similarly engaged military leaders across Europe.
National Security Advisor Sullivan has coordinated extensively with his European counterparts, having made dozens of calls to bilateral counterparts across Europe from the EU and Turkey to Finland and Romania. He has also convened calls in multilateral formats, including with the Nordic countries, eastern flank Allies, and France, Germany, Italy, Poland, and the UK. He has also been in regular contact with his Ukrainian counterpart.
The Biden Administration is in constant contact with Ukrainian officials. In the last few weeks, President Biden has spoken twice to President Zelenskyy. Secretary Blinken has spoken twice with President Zelenskyy and twice with Foreign Minister Kuleba. National Security Advisor Sullivan has spoken seven times with Head of Presidential Administration Yermak. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley has spoken four times with Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Lt. Gen. Zaluzhny. In addition, senior officials at the State Department and Defense Department engage regularly with their Ukrainian counterparts.
The Biden Administration has sought close consultations with NATO's eastern flank Allies given their security concerns, including calls both bilaterally and in the Bucharest Nine (B9) format by President Biden, Secretary Blinken, National Security Advisor Sullivan, and other Administration officials. 
The Biden Administration continues to work closely with the European Union. President Biden hosted EU Commission President von der Leyen. Secretary Blinken spoke with European Council President Michel and High Representative Borrell. Senior officials in the State Department and National Security Council have held numerous calls and meetings with their EU counterparts, including in Brussels. The Administration welcomed the December 2021 European Council Conclusions that expressed the EU's readiness to impose severe economic consequences if Russia further invades Ukraine. Officials from the Treasury Department, State Department, and National Security Council continue to engage with EU counterparts to coordinate our sanctions response.
In addition to extensive consultations at NATO, the Biden Administration has engaged with NATO partners – including Georgia, also a victim of Russian aggression, as well as Sweden and Finland – to discuss their views on European security.
Senior Administration officials remain in regular contact with their counterparts. In addition to the interactions listed below, scores of calls have also been made by Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer, Under Secretary of State Victoria Nuland, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Karen Donfried, and other officials across the U.S. government. Our recently confirmed ambassadors to NATO and the OSCE, Julianne Smith and Michael Carpenter, have also worked closely with their counterparts.

OVERVIEW OF DIPLOMATIC ENGAGEMENTS
Below is an illustrative list of consultations undertaken by the Biden Administration in advance of talks with Russia. This list is not exhaustive or comprehensive, as there have been extensive calls and meetings at all levels of governments and across numerous agencies, but it demonstrates the Administration's commitment to remain in lockstep with Allies and partners.
Engagements with Ukraine

November 10: National Security Advisor Sullivan's meeting with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Kuleba and Head of Presidential Administration Yermak
November 10: Strategic Partnership Commission meeting in Washington, including Secretary Blinken and Foreign Minister Kuleba 
November 18: Secretary of Defense Austin's Meeting with Ukraine's Minister of Defense Reznikov
November 19: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's call with Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Lt. Gen. Zaluzhny
November 22: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's call with Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Lt. Gen. Zaluzhny
November 26: National Security Advisor Sullivan's call with Ukraine Head of Presidential Administration Yermak 
December 2: Secretary Blinken's meeting with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Kuleba
December 2: National Security Advisor Sullivan's call with Ukraine Head of Presidential Administration Yermak
December 6: Secretary Blinken's call with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy
December 9: President Biden's call with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy
December 11: Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Karen Donfried travels to Ukraine
December 13: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's call with Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Lt. Gen. Zaluzhny
December 17: National Security Advisor Sullivan's call with Ukraine Head of Presidential Administration Yermak
December 23: National Security Advisor Sullivan's call with Ukraine Head of Presidential Administration Yermak
December 30: National Security Advisor Sullivan's call with Ukraine Head of Presidential Administration Yermak
December 29: Secretary Blinken's call with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy
January 2: President Biden's call with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy
January 5: Assistant Secretary Donfried's call with Ukraine Head of Presidential Administration Yermak
January 7: Secretary Blinken's call with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Kuleba
January 10: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's call with Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Lt. Gen. Zaluzhny

Engagements with NATO

November 16: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's call with the Chair of the NATO Military Committee Adm. Bauer
November 17: Director of National Intelligence Haines meets with NATO Allies in Brussels
November 30 - December 1: Secretary Blinken attends NATO Ministerial meeting
November 30: Secretary Blinken's meeting with NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg
December 6: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's virtual meeting with NATO Military Committee
December 8: Secretary Blinken's call with NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg
December 16: North Atlantic Council meeting and statement on Ukraine
December 15-16: Assistant Secretary Donfried consults with NATO Allies in Brussels
December 23: Secretary Blinken's call with NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg
December 31: Secretary Blinken's call with NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg
January 6: Deputy Secretary Sherman's call with NATO Deputy Secretary General Geoana
January 7: Secretary Blinken participates in NATO Foreign Ministerial meeting

Engagements with the European Union

November 10: President Biden's meeting in Washington with European Commission President von der Leyen
November 17: Director of National Intelligence Haines' meetings with EU officials in Brussels
December 1: Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Finer's meeting with European External Action Service Secretary General Sannino
December 2: Deputy Secretary Sherman's meeting with European External Action Service Secretary General Sannino
December 8: Secretary Blinken's call with President of the European Council Michel
December 15-16: Assistant Secretary Donfried consults EU partners in Brussels
December 22: Secretary Blinken's call with EU High Representative Borrell
January 6: Deputy Secretary Sherman's call with European External Action Service Secretary General Sannino
January 8: Secretary Blinken's call with EU High Representative Borrell

Engagements with the OSCE

December 2: Secretary Blinken joins OSCE ministerial meeting in Stockholm, Sweden
December 30: Deputy Secretary Sherman's call with OSCE Secretary General Schmid
January 7: Deputy Secretary Sherman's call with OSCE Secretary General Schmid

Engagements with Bucharest Nine (B9) and NATO Eastern Flank Allies

November 24: National Security Advisor Sullivan's Call with Polish National Security Bureau Chief Soloch
November 25: Deputy Secretary of Defense Hicks addresses the B9 Defense Ministerial
November 30: Secretary Blinken's meeting with  Latvian President Levits; Latvian Foreign Minister Rinkevics;  Latvian Prime Minister Karins
November 30: Secretary of Defense Austin's Call with Polish Minister of National Defense B?aszczak
November 30: National Security Advisor Sullivan's Call with Romanian Presidential Security Advisor Oprisor
December 8: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's meeting with Polish Chief of the General Staff Gen. Andrzejczak
December 9: President Biden's Call with B9 leaders
December 13: Secretary of Defense Austin's Meeting with Lithuanian Minister of National Defense Dr. Anušauskas; Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Finer also met with Dr. Anušauskas
December 16: National Security Advisor Sullivan's Call with B9 Counterparts
December 17: Secretary Blinken's call with Bulgarian Prime Minister Petkov
December 21: Secretary Blinken's call with Lithuanian Prime Minister Simonyte
December 27: National Security Advisor Sullivan's call with Polish National Security Bureau Chief Soloch and Head of the International Policy Bureau Kumoch
December 28: Secretary Blinken's call with Polish Foreign Minister Rau
January 3: Secretary Blinken's call with B9 Foreign Ministers
January 7: Secretary of Defense Austin's call with Latvian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Pabriks

Engagements with Transatlantic Allies and partners

November 9-13: Vice President Harris traveled to France to meet with President Macron; she also engaged with other European leaders, including European Council President Michel, German Chancellor Merkel, Italian Prime Minister Draghi, Greek Prime Minister Mitsotakis, and Spanish President Sanchez
November 29: Secretary Blinken's call with Austrian Foreign Minister Linhart
November 30: Secretary Blinken's meeting with Transatlantic Quad Foreign Ministers
December 1: Secretary Blinken's meeting with Turkish Foreign Minister Cavusoglu
December 6: President Biden's call with President Macron of France, then-Chancellor Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Draghi of Italy, Prime Minister Johnson of the United Kingdom
December 6: Secretary Blinken's call with Greek Prime Minister Mitsotakis
December 7: President Biden's Call with President Macron of France, then-Chancellor Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Draghi of Italy, Prime Minister Johnson of the United Kingdom
December 7: Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Finer call with Ambassadors of European Allies and Partners following President Biden's call with President Putin
December 8: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's call with French Chief of the Defense Staff Gen. Burkhard
December 9: Secretary Blinken's meeting with Norwegian Foreign Minister Huitfeldt
December 10: President Biden's Call with Chancellor Scholz of Germany
December 11: Secretary Blinken's meeting with Italian Foreign Minister Di Maio
December 11: Secretary Blinken's meeting with German Foreign Minister Baerbock
December 11: Secretary Blinken's meeting with UK Foreign Secretary Truss
December 13: Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Finer, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Adeyemo, and Deputy Secretary of State Sherman virtual meeting with Quint counterparts
December 14: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's call with UK Chief of the Defense Staff Adm. Sir Radakin
December 15: Secretary of Defense Austin's Bilateral meeting with Canadian Minister of National Defense Anand
December 17: Secretary of Defense Austin's call with German Federal Minister of Defense Lambrecht
December 20: Secretary Blinken's meeting with Slovenian Foreign Minister Logar
December 22: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's call with French Chief of the Defense Staff Gen. Burkhard
December 23: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's call with UK Chief of the Defense Staff Adm. Sir Radakin
December 23: Secretary Blinken's call with UK Foreign Secretary Truss
December 29: Secretary Blinken's call with French, German, and UK Foreign Ministers
December 30: Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Finer call with Ambassadors of European Allies and Partners following President Biden's call with President Putin
December 31: Secretary Blinken's call with Italian Foreign Minister Di Maio
December 31: Secretary Blinken's call with Canadian Foreign Minister Joly
January 3: Secretary Blinken's call with Turkish Foreign Minister Cavusoglu
January 4: Deputy Secretary Sherman's call with Greek Foreign Minister Dendias
January 5: Secretary Blinken's meeting with German Foreign Minister Baerbock
January 5: Secretary of Defense Austin's call with UK Secretary of State for Defense Wallace
January 5: Deputy Secretary Sherman's call with Spanish State Secretary for Foreign and Global Affairs Bau
January 6: Deputy Secretary Sherman's call with French, German, Italian, and UK Counterparts
January 7: Under Secretary of State Nuland's call with Dutch Director General for Political Affairs van der Plas

Engagement with NATO partners (Georgia, Finland, Sweden)

December 1-2: Secretary Blinken's meeting with Swedish Prime Minister Andersson and Swedish Foreign Minister Linde
December 9: Deputy Secretary Sherman's meeting with Finnish MFA Permanent State Secretary Anttonen
December 13: President Biden's call with President of Finland Niinistö
December 15: Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley's meeting with Swedish Supreme Commander Gen. Bydén
January 4: National Security Advisor Sullivan's call with Nordic Counterparts
January 5: Deputy Secretary Sherman's call with Georgian Foreign Minister Zalkaliani
January 7: Deputy Secretary Sherman's meeting with Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs Linde, Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Finer also met with Minister Linde

Upcoming Consultations with Transatlantic Allies and Partners

January 10: USNATO Ambassador Smith will participate with Allies and Ukraine in NATO-Ukraine Commission
January 11: Deputy Secretary Sherman will meet with NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg
January 11: Deputy Secretary Sherman will brief NATO Allies at a North Atlantic Council meeting about Strategic Stability Dialogue in Geneva
January 11: Deputy Secretary Sherman will brief EU member states' ambassadors at the Council of the EU's Political and Security Committee
January 11: Deputy Secretary Sherman will meet with Head of Cabinet of the President of the European Commission Seibert and European External Action Service Secretary General Sannino
January 12: Deputy Secretary Sherman will lead the U.S. Delegation to the NATO-Russia Council
January 13: USOSCE Ambassador Carpenter will participate in OSCE Permanent Council meeting on Russia-Ukraine

  