
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390

Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Republican State Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos, Jr., will serve as New Jersey Chairman of the Romney for President Exploratory Committee. Governor Romney also named Republican National Committeeman David Norcross as a State Co-Chair.
"Senator Kyrillos and David Norcross are proven leaders with distinguished careers of public service. Their experience and determination will help ensure a strong statewide organization," said Governor Romney. "They will be powerful voices for our optimistic vision of the future. It is great to have them as part of our growing team."
Background On Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos, Jr.:
Senator Joe Kyrillos Represents The 13th Legislative District Of New Jersey Where He Has Spearheaded Initiatives Promoting Job Creation, Economic Growth And Fiscal Responsibility. First elected at age 27, Kyrillos has served two terms in the General Assembly and five terms as Senator, including a term as Senate Majority Conference Leader. From 2001 to 2004, Kyrillos served as Chairman of the New Jersey Republican State Committee and was a Bush-Cheney Pioneer.
Earlier in his career, Kyrillos served as a Special Assistant to U.S. Secretary of the Interior Donald Hodel and with Vice President George Bush's staff during the 1984 Reagan-Bush campaign.
Background On David Norcross:
David Norcross Is A Longtime Republican National Committee (RNC) Official. A Republican National Committeeman for New Jersey, Norcross also was Chairman of the 2004 Republican National Convention Committee on Arrangements. In addition, Norcross formerly served as RNC General Counsel, International Republican Institute General Counsel and Board Member, a Board Member for the Center for Democracy, Vice Chairman for the Bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates, and Secretary for the Burlington County (NJ) Board of Elections. He currently serves as a partner in Blank Rome LLP.
  