
    [Music: Lee Greenwood, "God Bless the U.S.A."]
Crowd. [chanting] USA! USA! USA! USA!
The President. Well, I wanna thank you very much. Hello, Georgia. By the way, there's no way we lost Georgia. There's no way. [cheers and applause] Rigged—that was a rigged, that was a rigged election, but we're still fighting it and you'll see what's gonna happen. We'll talk about it. And I just wanna thank you. This is some crowd. You know, Biden was here today, also. [booing] They had 14 people in three cars. No, there was no way. And I just wanna thank you. You know, I've had two elections. I won both of them. It's amazing. [cheers and applause] And I actually did much better on the second one. It's great to be back in this incredible state, the home of hardworking patriots who believe in God, family and country. [cheers and applause] Tomorrow, each of you is gonna vote in one of the most important runoff elections of the history of our country. We're—frankly, forget about runoff. One of the most important elections, really. It's really not runoff. It's elections because it's a biggie. Our country's depending on you. The whole world is watching the people of Georgia tomorrow. And you've gotta swamp them because everything's so crooked around. I mean not, and not here. They were saying, "Oh, he's complaining about Georgia." No, no. I'm complaining about eight different states, uh, and I think we're gonna win them all. You're gonna get everyone you know. You're gonna show up at the polls in record numbers. You gotta swamp 'em and together we're gonna defeat the Democrat extremists and deliver a thundering victory to David Perdue. And where's David? David, David. He—we love our David. I know David so well. He's respected and loved by everyone. And someone that has really been a star in Washington, Kelly Loeffler. Where is Kelly? [cheers and applause] Where is our Kelly? What a job you've done. Thank you. And we'll tell you about Kelly.
Crowd. [chanting] Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump!
The President. Kelly fights for me. David fights for me, that I can tell you. And I will also say, you know, the Republicans, you have to understand, for the people that don't fight, not for me, fighting for us because we have a lot of corrupt things that happen when they don't fight. One thing I've learned about Republicans, they have some difficulties, but you know a difficulty that they don't have? They never forget. They never forget. And people are gonna find that out because, uh, we have to go and we have to go all the way and that's what's happening. You watch what happens over the next couple of weeks. You watch what's gonna come out. Watch what's gonna be revealed. You watch. [cheers and applause]
And I have to tell you that the stakes of this election could not be higher. You vote tomorrow. You wanna go out tomorrow. People wanna go out. They don't wanna do the ballot thing. Don't wanna do it unless it's the other side, in which case they just print them out. They don't wanna do it. They wanna go and vote and make sure your vote is counted. Make sure they don't let you say, "I'm sorry, somebody else has already voted for you." Your vote tomorrow will decide which party controls the United States Senate. The radical Democrats are trying to capture Georgia's Senate seats so they can wield unchecked, unrestrained, absolute power over every aspect of your lives. [booing] If the liberal Democrats take the Senate and the White House–and they're not taking this White House. We're gonna fight like hell, I'll tell you right now. [cheers and applause]
You know, I was telling Kelly before, you can lose and that's acceptable. You lose, you lose. You go, and you go wherever you're going, and you go and say, "Maybe I'll do it again sometime, or maybe I won't or I'll get back to life." But when you win in a landslide, and they steal it, and it's rigged, it's not acceptable. Not acceptable. Then you have a, a country that would be run, if these two don't win, and if we don't take the presidency, you have a country that would be run by Schumer, Pelosi, and Biden. [booing] The people of Georgia will be at the mercy of the left wing, socialist, communist, Marxists. And that's where it's going. You know, we don't like to use the word communist. How about the press? Look at 'em back there. Look at all of 'em. How about the press? [booing] That's a lot of press. Oh, boy. That's a lot of press. But, you know, they've gone silent now. They have a new thing. They used to fight me left, right. I'd go, they'd go. You know, you'd fight. I'd win. They'd win. Who knows who wins? But people would hear. Now they don't wanna talk about it. Unless they can say something bad about you, they don't wanna talk about it. So, if we talk about certain subjects, that you've been watching over the last six months, all of a sudden, they were getting clobbered, so they went tone—stone cold silent. Big tech, the fake news media, they go silent anymore. They don't talk about it, and that is the beginning of communism. That's exactly what happens.
Because I think they hate our country, and they despise Georgia values. And I think a lot of you despise them. As you know there's nothing the radical Democrats will not do to get power that they so desperately crave. Even the outright stealing of elections, like they're trying to do with us. We're not gonna let it happen over the past.
And I hope Mike Pence comes through for us, I have to tell you. [cheers and applause] I hope that our great Vice President, our great Vice President comes through for us. He's a great guy. Of course, if he doesn't come through, I won't like him quite as much. [laughter] No, Mike is a great guy. He's a, he's a, he's a wonderful man and a smart man and a man that I like a lot, but he's gonna have a lot to say about it. And he, one thing with him, you're gonna get straight shots. He's gonna call it straight.
Over the past few weeks, we've demonstrated that we won the election in a landslide. Almost 75 million people voted for me—[cheers and applause]—the most of any incumbent president in the history of our country. We won over 11 million, close to 12 million, more votes than 2016. One of the largest–actually–the single largest increase in the history of our country. No person that won, went to a second term, or went through an election where he got nearly 12 million votes. Nope. It never happened before. Never happened before. We made historic gains among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, and we won the largest share of non-white vote of any Republican president in 60 years. We also won 18 out of 19 bellwether counties. Now, when you win just a few bellwether counties, you always win the election. We won 18 out of 19. That's a record, and they said we didn't win. We won 25 of 26 toss-up House races. And I think we have one that we're waiting for, right? Did you see the one in–hello, Mike. How are you, Mike? Did you see the one in New York where Claudia, good woman–they keep finding votes. They keep finding votes. "She's up by 18. Oh, we just found 19 votes." That's ahhh— same kind of stuff. Democrats were projected to gain 15 House seats and instead–and Kevin McCarthy gives us the credit. Good man. Very good man. My coattails, we swept our Republican House candidates to victory, we have a couple of great ones with us tonight, and the Democrats lost 14 seats. It was supposed to be the other way around. [cheers and applause]
And when that happens, no president loses unless they play games. You don't lose. They play games. The fact is we won the presidential election. We won it big, and we're gonna win tomorrow. We're gonna win it really big. We have to. [applause] We have to. People have no idea how important that is.
Tonight, our mission here in Georgia is to make sure the radical left cannot rob you of your voice and your votes in Washington. You can't lose these two people. And I really know 'em well. They're the most respected people. They're great people, and they really do have a voice and they love their state, and they love their country. The Democrats are trying to steal the White House. You cannot let them. You just can't let them steal the U.S. Senate. You can't let it happen. You can't let it happen. David and Kelly are running against the most extreme liberal candidates in the history of your state, probably in the history of our country, Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock. [booing]
Well, you know, I beat Ossoff once running against a very fine woman, Karen, who you know, and, ah, he was at 57 and I got involved, and we drove him down to 49 and then he ended up in a runoff, and she ended up winning. Now I have to beat him a second time. And this is gonna be, hopefully, easy because when you know what he stands for, when you know what Warnock stands for, it really should be easy. Cast deciding votes to rubber stamp the agenda of AOC and Bernie Sanders. Crazy Bernie. Stacey Abrams. What's with this Stacey Abrams? [booing]
You know, your Governor and your Secretary of State, they're petrified of Stacey Abrams. [booing] What's that all about? Did you see this consent decree they signed with signature verification? You can forget about it. What they have done to your state. I think most people have no idea what they've done to your state. That consent decree and these two people. I don't know. They say they're–they say they're Republicans. I really don't think they are. They can't be. Like if we wanna have a special session, because your legislature's excellent, they wanna have a spec–why wouldn't they let us have a special session? If they wanna check signatures in Fulton County, not in Cobb County. We didn't ask for Cobb County. They said, "We'll do Cobb first and then we'll do Fulton." They do Cobb. Then they never get to Fulton. Why wouldn't they do that? Why wouldn't they do that? That's a positive thing.
Anyway, the Democrats wanna turn America. I'll be here in about a year and a half campaigning against your Governor, I guarantee you that. [cheers and applause] I shouldn't say this. I shouldn't say this because, I just don't want you to tell anybody outside of this room, other than the millions of people [pointing to media]—naw, but, you know, I endorsed him. He was in last place, and I endorsed him. He went to first place, very, like immediately, and then he won the primary, and then I gave him a couple of rallies, which I don't like doing for other people. I was telling Kelly, "I don't do rallies for other people. I do them for me, right?" Not that easy, a crowd like this. They say over 25,000 people. Over what? Over a couple of days' notice. And—is everybody glad you're here, right? [cheers and applause] I think so.
There is no place like a Trump rally, but you know what? This is a Kelly rally and a David rally. And I wouldn't do it unless I loved 'em both. I wouldn't do it. But I'm gonna be here in a year and a half and I'm gonna be campaigning against your Governor and your crazy Secretary of State, that I can tell you. [cheers and applause] And you have great candidates.
They wanna turn, the Democrats do, America into Venezuela with no jobs, no prosperity, no rights, no freedom, no future for you and your family. Here is exactly what the radical left will do if they win this runoff election, which we can't let them do tomorrow. Tomorrow's a big day. I guess we have to get over a million votes tomorrow, right, Kelly? Over a million. Alright. That's a lot of votes, Kelly, but we'll do it. And the one thing I know, if they win, I'll get no credit, and if they lose they're gonna blame Trump, these people [gestures to media]. And Kelly won't let that happen. Please win tomorrow. You're gonna win so big it's gonna be—great story. It's a great story, a very important story for our country, long beyond Georgia for our country. It's such a big story. They'll massively raise your taxes on the middle class to pay for socialism.
The U.S. military, which we rebuilt. We've totally rebuilt the U.S. military, much of it coming right out of Georgia. [cheers and applause] We built it right out of Georgia, a lot of it. You have incredible contractors in Georgia, military contractors, and they got plenty of our money. Spent $2.5 trillion. When I took over the military, it was absolutely a mess. It was depleted. Now it's the opposite of depleted. The U.S. military will be gutted and military families across the street and all over the state will be betrayed. Their benefits and opportunities will be slashed. Fort Benning, Fort Gordon and other Georgia military institutions will be the first on the chopping block. And by the way, they'll be forced to change the names of the bases where generations of American patriots—[booing]—trained to win two World Wars. I don't know. Fort Benning. Let's see. Give me a couple of names. I could give you some. I don't wanna give 'em the credit, but you'll name 'em. You'll name 'em after other people. [points toward crowd member] Fort Trump. Yeah. How about that? I like that. [cheers and applause] Yeah, let's change the name. Let's change it. Kelly let's change it. If they name it Trump, let's change it. No. Now they're gonna go back and say, "He wants to have Fort Benning changed to Trump." Watch, they'll say, "He's asking, he's begging for Fort Benning to be changed to Trump." No, no. I don't want that.
The Democrats will surrender the entire U.S. manufacturing industry to China. You notice they never criticize China, right? They never criti–it's Russia, Russia, Russia. I saw it today again. Russia, Russia. Oh, Russia. Here we go. That was another great scam. I've been involved in the two greatest scams in American history, the Russian hoax, and now they are trying to steal an election from us. And we won not by a little bit. We won in numbers like nobody's seen before. [cheers and applause] If Ossoff and Warnock are elected, they will immediately threeall [sic], and you know what's gonna happen. They'll throw open American borders and allow tens of millions of illegal immigrants to pour into our country from every corner of the globe. Your schools, your hospitals and your communities will be overwhelmed. And the wall, the wall, the wall. Remember, we'll build a wall. We're gonna build a wall. And that's right, Mexico is paying for the wall. If I were here, they would be, because we were gonna charge them a nice fee, right at the entry points. And they were paying for the wall. They paid for 28,000 troops along the wall and along the border, which we don't need so much anymore, but we built almost 500 miles of wall, and they wanna rip down the wall. They wanna rip down. It's why the numbers have been so great. But now everyone's coming back up because they think this guy's gonna win. And if he wins, it's gonna be everything that they could dream for, dream up. And you know, we wanna help other people, but we can't afford to do it. We can't afford to do it. So, they're coming up now, the caravans. Remember the caravans? The caravans are starting to form. Here they come. But uh, let's, uh, let's keep this thing going. We have great support in Congress. We have good support in the Senate. I wouldn't say great. Could be better. But people will remember the people that don't support us.
If they win this race, Democrats will implement nationwide catch-and-release. You know what that is? You catch a criminal, and you take his name. You say, "You're released into our country." I ended it.
You're released. Come back in four years. We're gonna take you to court. So far nobody's ever shown up. I mean, literally, they almost don't show up. And turn our–that's when I had the big debate with Biden. They come back for court. I said, "No, they don't." I turned out to be right. Did they apologize? I don't think so. And turn our entire country into one giant sanctuary for criminal aliens, setting loose tens of thousands of dangerous offenders, and putting MS-13 gang members straight into your children's schools. And you know, we've removed thousands and thousands of MS-13 gang members. And I wanna thank ICE and I wanna thank Border Patrol, and I wanna thank our great law enforcement. Incredible people. They're incredible. [cheers and applause]
And the people that understand those values are Kelly and David. They understand those values. And, you're with our law enforcement, right? A hundred percent. I don't have to ask her that. They'll allow heroin, cocaine, fentanyl, and other deadly drugs to flood across our borders again and poison our youth. They'll take away your healthcare. They'll eliminate private insurance. We have 180 million people that love their private insurance. You can forget about it. And you'll lose your doctor. Remember President Obama said, "You can keep your doctor. You can keep your plan." Guess what? He said it 28 times. That was a lie. That was a lie. That turned out to be a big, great scam lie. And remember, I got rid of the individual mandate, the most unpopular thing in Obamacare, [cheers] fighting a lot of different fronts, which really doesn't make it Obamacare anymore, by the way.
They'll resume the war on Christians and attack Catholic organizations like Little Sisters of the Poor.
They will ban voter ID. We want voter ID. Is that so much to ask? [cheers and applause] And institute universal, unsolicited mail-in balloting in every state. They will never be—I'll tell you this. If we don't do something fast, there will never be another fair election in America. You know, we're known for elections, and now we're being laughed at all over the world about this last election. And you've gotta swarm it tomorrow. Now, the good thing about tomorrow, it's one state so you have a lot of eyeballs watching. It's tougher than when you have 50 states ,and they do it to various, various states.
I've never seen anything like it. You know, I was leading in Pennsylvania by hundreds of thousands of votes. All of a sudden, I was tied. I said, "What happened?" They'll make Washington DC and other liberal places the 51st, 52nd, 53rd States of the Union guaranteeing the radical left a permanent majority of the U.S. Senate and the House and the electoral college. It will make it, really, a one-party country, and the party will be the wrong party.
They will pack the Supreme Court with crazed extremists, and I'm not happy with the Supreme Court. They are not stepping up to the plate. They're not stepping up. [booing] How 'bout that? We don't have—look at the Supreme Court. President of the United States. I wanna file suit. I wanna do—And they say, "Sir, you can't, you really can't do that." Why? So, they have legal reasons, complex legal reasons. It's wrong. If you're the President of the United States, and you get defrauded out of an election, you should be able to file a suit, but we can't do that. [cheers and applause] They say, "Sir, you don't have standing." How about that? I'm the President, seven states, you know, I was winning by a lot. And then all of a sudden, I was losing by a little, tiny bit, just a little, they could only go so far. They had no idea we were gonna do the kind of numbers, so that printing press was really moving. And they say, I don't have standing to bring a suit. What kind of a legal system is that? But the Supreme Court has let us down so far. Who knows? Maybe they'll come back. Maybe they'll come back.
They'll pack the Supreme Court with crazed extremists. Then they'll be saying, "You know, I should have done something about this." When they start having 24, 25, 26 justices, and they wanna have the justices rotate to the lowest courts. So, they'll rotate. These nine justices will have a great time rotating, but they're bent on destroying our Constitution and overthrowing America's founding.
If the left wins these Senate seats, they will abolish the Senate--you know this. The filibuster, they will knock it out. Well, I've been saying, to be honest with you for a long time, they're gonna do that, at some point, they're gonna do that. And why don't we do it first? I said it. If they're gonna do it, you might as well do it first. And now everybody said, "You were right." But you know what? I wanna be wrong, because I want these two to win. Because if they win, we don't wanna do it. It's a bad thing for our country. But that would give them the power to ram through every deluded piece of left-wing legislation that they've ever wanted, that they've ever dreamt up. Your religious liberty will be gone. Your Second Amendment will be gone. Your borders and great new world will be gone. Your police departments will be gone as we know them, and your life savings will be gone. We'll be like a large-scale version of so many other countries that you look at. That are poverty. America as you know it will be over. And it will never, I believe, be able to come back again. It will be too far gone.
Your vote tomorrow could lose, and it could be your last chance to save the America that we love. That's why I'm here. I don't wanna do rallies for other people. I told you. I'm here because of that. Because of David and Kelly. The far left wants to destroy our country, demolish our history, and erase everything that we hold dear. This could be the most important vote you will ever cast for the rest of your life. It really could be. This is so important. I mean, think of it. It's so important. It's amazing actually, that in one state you have two races simultaneously. I don't think a thing like that's ever happened before. If you don't show up, the radical Democrats will win. A lot of people say, "Oh, well, Trump, maybe he wants it that way." No. You know what I want? I want a great country. I want these two very special people to be elected.
And I wanna be clear. You know, if those of you that know how badly screwed, we got, I wanna be clear that we can't let that happen again. We can't let that happen again. We're gonna come back, and I really believe we're gonna take what they did to us on November 3rd. We're gonna take it back. But these two people, they can't go through this. They can't go through it. [cheers and applause]
If you don't go and vote, the socialists, the Marxists, will be in charge of our country. If you don't fight to save your country with everything you have, you're not gonna have a country left. I love this state. This state's been very good to me. We've had a lot of victories in this state, just had one on November 3rd actually. And, I love the people of this state. We can't let that happen. The damage they do will be permanent and will be irreversible. Can't let it happen. Nothing and no one will be able to stop them. These Senate seats are truly the last line of defense. Now I must preface that by saying, because they'll say [gestures to media], "He just conceded." No, no, I don't concede. [cheers and applause] So, Kelly, if I might add, I think we're gonna win, in which case we'll be the last line of defense, it's called veto, veto, veto. Veto.
So tomorrow, you must get out and vote for David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler. Over the last four years, David Purdue has been one of our greatest allies and strongest defenders in Washington. He's a great gentlemen. David was a critical vote in the right to pass the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We did that together—we got it done—launching an incredible economic boom. The greatest tax cuts in the history of our country, think of it. And the greatest restrictions, we were so restricted we couldn't breathe in this country. That's one of the big, I think it might've been more important in many ways than the tax cuts. You would know that [gestures toward Perdue] being one of the great businessmen of our world, right. I think it was maybe more important.
When Georgia needed a strong voice in Washington after Hurricane Michael, remember Hurricane Michael? And I was down here with David, but David Purdue led the charge to get the workers and farmers of your state the relief you deserved. He said, "Sir, can we get a billion dollars?" And I said, "We're gonna get it David." And we got it very fast. And there was no mechanism to get it. You got hit with a hurricane the—like you have never seen before, came in from a location that is just very unique. It was a horrible thing. I was here for a long time with David, and he worked and he, and his uh, his kin, you know, his kin, the great Sonny Perdue, our Department of Agriculture, our Secretary of Agriculture was fantastic also. But we worked very hard, and we got the farmers and the businesses the money that they had to have. And now they're thriving. David has also been one of the most courageous advocates fighting for an immigration system that defends American workers, American wages, American families, and American jobs. He led the effort in Congress to build the wall. That's right. And Kelly helped on that she's a little bit newer to the Senate, but she helped a lot. Those last moments you were there, without you it wouldn't 've happened, actually. Cracked down on deadly sanctuary cities, and chain migration and institute on parallel protection for our great citizens. He fought to help us replaced NAFTA disaster with the brand new USMCA, they said it couldn't be done. A giant victory for Georgia, for workers, and for farmers all over our country. NAFTA was the worst trade deal probably ever signed. And that maybe has to exclude some of the crazy deals and things they did with China. We voted to confirm nearly 300 federal judges. We have a record on federal judges, and three Supreme Court justices, which is a tremendous thing. We have almost 300 federal judges committed to interpreting our Constitution as written. No one fights harder for the people of Georgia than David Purdue.
David's opponent, Jon Ossoff is an unhinged radical leftist. He's not a Senator. He's not a Senator. That's, that's not a Senator. Ossoff said that he's very proud to be endorsed by socialist crazy Bernie Sanders. He's weak on China. He promoted Chinese propaganda, and then he failed to disclose his business ties to the Chinese communist party. Other than that, he's a wonderful guy, right? Ossoff supports the largest tax hike in American history. If they get in, Warnock and Ossoff, if they get in, you're gonna have the largest tax increase that you've ever had. It'll be the largest tax increase in the history of our country. For what? The Green New Deal. Let's rip down a building because its windows are too big. Let's build a building with no windows. Among many other things. He supports the insane Green New Deal, which would crush middle-class parents trying to raise a family. He will support the socialist takeover of American healthcare, which will lead to rationing poverty and death. Ossoff also backed the radical left-wing crusade to defund police. The last summer, he proudly joined the anti-police mob, he didn't like the police. He doesn't like our police. We love our police. [cheers and applause] Slandering our brave men and women in blue. If you vote for Jon Ossoff, he will attack our heroes. He will destroy our economy, and he will betray you and your family. And it'll happen very quickly. That's why you must vote. And really importantly, get out tomorrow. Vote for David Perdue. He's a great gentleman. He loves you.
Georgia has another fantastic champion in Senator Kelly Loeffler. Kelly is a staunch defender of our incredible military. I'm so proud of our military. She supports the wall, and she always stands with the heroes of law enforcement, ICE, and border patrol. I hated it, Kelly, when we got ballots in from the military with Trump all over it, and they got thrown into a river, you saw that. They threw ballots into a river from the military with my name all over it. We want Trump. Boom goes into the river. That was just one of many instances of problem. Kelly is also a committed protector of your second amendment rights. With Kelly's vote, we confirmed our third new Supreme Court justice Amy Coney Barrett. [applause]
Working with David, Kelly helped rescue the US economy from the China virus, passing nearly $4 trillion in economic relief, saving over 1.5 million Georgia jobs, and rescuing countless small businesses all across your state—businesses that now are doing really well. And you know, we also came up with a vaccine. Nobody else would have done that. They would have done that in 10 years. Kelly and David also both strongly support my efforts to provide $2,000 stimulus checks to hardworking Americans across Georgia, and across the nation. And my reasoning is simple. I mean, we're conservative with money, but my reasoning is simple. You didn't cause this problem; this problem was caused by China.
Kelly is running against a hard left extremist named Raphael Warnock. [booing] Warnock is the most radical and dangerous left-wing candidate ever to seek this office, and certainly in the state of Georgia, and he does not have your values. Warnock has publicly declared his support for socialism, and he once welcomed the anti-American communist dictator, Fidel Castro to his church. He wanted him here. He liked Castro. Thought Castro was a nice guy. Warnock said that quote, "Nobody can serve both God and the military." [booing] A vicious smear against thousands of patriotic service members across the state of Georgia. He wants to abolish cash bail. You see how that's working in New York City, right? Not working too well. He has called for quote, "opening up the jails," and he slandered our police offices as gangsters, thugs, and bullies. The choice for the voters of Georgia could not be more clear. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock are fringe extremists, who would wreck everything Georgia patriots hold dear to their hearts. Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue share your values, and you know that. They share your values like nobody shares your values. I can tell you; they share your values. They wanna defend your interest. And they will always put America first.
Did you see the other day? What a great name, America First. They announced they don't wanna do the America First policy. How crazy? Even if you're not gonna do it, which is basically protect us. We come first, right. But even, and that includes financially in every other way. Even if you don't believe it, you don't say we're gonna end America First. They want to end America First. Kelly, I'd love you to just come up and say a few words. Would that be, okay? Kelly. [cheers and applause]
Crowd. [chanting] Kelly! Kelly! Kelly!
Senator Kelly Loeffler. Hello, Georgia. Woo! Thank you, Georgia. I have an announcement, Georgia. On January 6th, I will object to the electoral college vote. [cheers and applause] That's right. That's right. Thank you. We're gonna get this done. All right, Georgia. But I have a very important question for you. Are you ready to show America that Georgia's a red state? [cheers and applause] That's right. That's right. Look, this President fought for us, we're fighting for him. He put America first. He put the American worker first. Thank you, Mr. President. He stood with our men and women of law enforcement. He restored our military. My opponent, radical liberal Raphael Warnock, he attacked, [booing] yeah, our police, our military. He spoke out against Israel, evangelicals, small businesses. Georgia, we have to hold the line. You have to get out and vote. Tomorrow. [cheers and applause] Georgia, we are the firewall to socialism. We have to get it done. I love you guys. Thank you. God bless you. God bless Georgia. [cheers and applause]
The President. Thank you. Thank you, Kelly. That was nice. I'm glad I invited her up. Kelly, I'm glad I invited you up. That was great. Thank you, darlin'.
Crowd. [chanting] Stop the steal! Stop the steal! Stop the steal!
The President. That was so great.
Crowd. [chanting] Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump!
The President. Thank you. Thank you. You know, it really is—it's fight for our country. It's really fight for our country, not fight for Trump. It's fight for our country, 'cause that's what we're fighting for. Also joining us tonight are Georgia representatives, Marjorie Taylor Greene. I love Marjorie Taylor too. [cheers and applause] Where are you? Come up here. Kelly wants you to come up here. Come up. Don't mess with her. Don't mess with her. [cheers and applause]
Marjorie Taylor Greene. Hello, Northwest Georgia. All right. Let me tell you something. I'm so fired up to hear Senator Kelly Loeffler. She's going to object on January 6th. [cheers and applause] Yeah! This is, this is why I believe in her. You see, when you have a strong Senator Kelly Loeffler from Georgia fighting for you, and fighting for your President, and protecting your vote, this is why you have to turn out tomorrow, right? [cheers and applause] Yes. We have to save our Senate sets—Senate seats. We have to save America and stop socialism. This is the last line. We aren't gonna hand over our Senate seats to a pastor who preaches abortion from the pulpit. [booing] No. He's, he's preaching murder of God's creation in the womb, holding a Bible in his hand.
If anything, go out there and vote for the unborn tomorrow. [cheers and applause] Right. We've had enough. We're not gonna let Georgia go to two radical socialists. No. I need you all to go out there and vote. Our district has to show up. We've gotta stop this attack. Stop our Senate seats from being hand over to these radicals. And we're gonna fight for President Trump on January 6th. [cheers and applause] God bless Georgia, God bless America. Let's do this. [cheers and applause]
Crowd. [chanting] USA! USA! USA! USA!
The President. I also wanna introduce two great warriors, friends of mine, Andrew Clyde and Jody Hice. Jody, thank you. Thank you, Andrew. Thank you very much. Great job. We have another friend of ours, South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham. [cheers and applause] And Mike Lee is here too, but I'm a little angry at him today. Where's Mike Lee, where is he? I'm a little angry at you today, but that's okay. State representative Vernon Jones. What a great guy he is. [applause] A great man. And an early supporter of mine who's also on the ballot tomorrow, Public Service Commissioner Bubba McDonald. Bubba. [cheers and applause] Good. You're gonna do great.
Crowd. [chanting] Bubba! Bubba! Bubba! Bubba!
The President. Great guy. Thank you, Bubba. Thank you. Good luck tomorrow. You'll do well. Georgia Republican Party Chairman David Schaefer, and he's fighting. He's out there. He is fighting. He is fighting. By the way, I also wanna say hello to, Kelly's husband is one of the great entrepreneurs in our country. He's respected by everybody. He's a tough guy, but he is a sweetheart, and he loves your state. I just wanna say hello. Do you mind? Okay. He doesn't want that. He doesn't want it, but I will tell, you he's respected as a businessman, respected by everybody, and gives tremendous amounts of money to charity and everything else. Thank you very much.
Also, uh, a friend of mine, and you know, I don't know what it is. I'm not so good with the bikes. You know, I sort of say, maybe I stay away from it a little bit, but Chris Cox is Bikers for Trump. And he's the founder, and he had more people show up for me. Whenever I saw, I'd go to places, I'd have two, three, 4,000 bikes, and Secret Service would go crazy. I'd say, "No, I'm so happy." And they wouldn't do it for any other reason. They just wanted to protect their future President. This was before I won, they were with me for whatever reason, bikers like me. And I like them. Chris Cox, wherever you are Chris Cox. [cheers and applause] Where is Chris? Right? I don't know why the bikers like me, Chris, but they do. But I like you guys a lot, and you're great. We go to speeches, and we'd be packed, and we couldn't even get them, they didn't even wanna be inside. They stood outside. And they were protecting their President when I became President, I never felt safer in my life. Thank you. True. That's true.
Another man who's, uh, respected by everybody, a friend of mine. David McIntosh, Club for Growth. David, David. Thank you, David. Respected by everybody. And I wanna thank Don Jr. Did he do a good job tonight? I watched. [cheers and applause] Where is Don? Don is great. I love Don. He sorta has—they love our Don, but he's, uh, he's working hard, and I wanna thank Don and Kimberly Guilfoyle, who has been incredible. And I also, uh, came with somebody who people like a lot, people like her a lot. I don't know. She doesn't really like the concept of running for office. She says, "What do I need it for, Dad?" Ivanka. Where's Ivanka? [cheers and applause] Come on, come, come. Should we get Ivanka up yes, right? [cheers and applause] Come on up here, honey.
Ivanka Trump. Hello Georgia. It is so incredible to be back here with so many amazing, hardworking Georgia families who are fighting for our children's future. Each one of you. And it's so great to be back in Georgia with this warrior, my father, the people's President. [cheers and applause] He is a tireless, a tireless champion for all of you, and he will never stop fighting. And by his side are two amazing Senators that we have to send back to the Senate and send a resounding message that patriotism is alive and well in Georgia. [cheers and applause] And Georgia is gonna keep freedom alive in America. Please vote. Thank you. God bless you. God bless Georgia, and God bless America. And God bless our President. [cheers and applause]
The President. Thank you, Ivanka. Thanks, Don. Kimberly, everybody. Thank you all. Tomorrow our entire nation is counting on the people of Georgia. In a way, the world is counting on the people of Georgia. The fate of our country is at stake. It's in your hands. You must deliver a Republican victory so big that the Democrats can't steal it or cheat it away. We have all [laughs; points to individual on his left]– he goes—they'll be trying though, I'll tell you that. We have all seen what our opponents are capable of doing. I ran two elections. I won both of them. [cheers] Second one, much more successful than the first. But we can't let this happen any longer. On election night, we were leading by so much. We're not gonna have that tomorrow. We're not gonna have that tomorrow night, where you're leading and then all of a sudden, boom, it's gone like magic. We won Florida and Ohio in record numbers. We won Iowa by 8.2%. Nobody's ever won those three States and lost. Never happened before. It's almost impossible unless people do a lot of–either get very lucky or they cheat. We're up 293,000 votes in Michigan, 112,000 votes in Washington. In Wisconsin we were way up, 356,000 votes, in Georgia, 356,000. And 700,000 votes in Pennsylvania. It was over. I should have run up to the podium and said, thank you very much for this wonderful victory. Then maybe they wouldn't have had time to close those booths, right, the counting rooms, and do what they did. But then it all started to disappear. And I tell this story because we can't let this happen tomorrow, Kelly. So, keep your eyes open. Since the election, we have put forth indisputable evidence documenting the rampant fraud, which will be announced on Wednesday as you know. [cheers and applause]
And I wanna thank Senator Josh Hawley and Ted Cruz and all of the incredible senators that have stepped up to fight, because they've seen what happens. They know it's a fraud and not just here. You know, I watched some of the people on Fox. I had no choice. I had no choice. I had to. [booing] I didn't have enough channels. And they said, "Why is he fighting for Georgia? It's not enough." No, I need three. I'm fighting in eight, actually, but six, and we're gonna win 'em all. [cheering] But they said, "Why?" So, one of the people, a very fine woman actually, but she said, "Why is he fighting Georgia? It doesn't get him there." I said, "No, but Georgia and Pennsylvania and one other get me there. And we have six and maybe eight, if you look at 'em and we were leading all of them by a lot, until, like a miracle, it started to quickly disappear." Right here in Georgia there were tens of thousands of illegal votes cast and counted. You know that. And here are just a few examples. Watch this for tomorrow. We were up 10,315 ballots were cast by individuals whose name and date of birth matches a Georgia resident who died in 2020 prior to the election. Then your wacky Secretary of State said two people, two people. Now, I don't know how many people are on that list, but it's a lot of people. Two thousand, five hundred and six ballots were cast by individuals whose name and date of birth matches an incarcerated felon in a Georgia prison. Maybe they aren't all there, but they did a lot of work. I paid a lot of money to a lot of people. I can tell you that. Four thousand five hundred and two illegal ballots were cast by individuals who do not appear on the state's voter rolls. Well, that's sort of strange. Eighteen thousand three hundred and twenty-five illegal ballots were cast by individuals who registered to vote using an address listed as vacant according to the postal service. At least 86,880 ballots were cast by people whose registrations were illegally backdated. Oh, I can't believe that happened. Sixty-six thousand votes—you have to understand, we're down by a little more than 11,000. So, every one of these is determinative. Sixty-six thousand votes in Georgia were cast by people under the legal voting age. At least 15,000 ballots were cast by individuals who moved out of the state prior to the November 3rd election, or maybe they moved back in. I don't know. I mean, I can't tell. They moved out, ah, let's go back. Usually takes a little time, right? You know. We moved out. Let's go back, darling.
Georgia's absentee ballot rejection rate went from an average of 3% in 2016, and then went down very low to almost zero now. Think of it, almost zero. If you multiply that out. And this is with many, many more ballots pouring in. Went to almost zero. Forty-eight out of 159 counties in Georgia rejected no ballots at all. These absentee ballot rejection rates prove that the tens of thousands of illegitimate ballots were counted. There were more absentee ballots in 2020 than ever before by for [sic]. But magically far fewer ballots were rejected. This alone is more than enough to swing the election to us. This one thing. I'm going over individual. In all of the swing states. Now they'll check this out and that's fine, but you take a look at it. Officials, egregiously violated state laws in order to solicit, facilitate and promote cheating and theft on a scale never seen before. These crooked and incompetent officials suspended signature verification. I said, I want you to go to Fulton County to check the signatures, because hundreds of thousands of ballots came in. I want you to check the signature to see if it compares to somebody that lived there two years, four years or six years ago. They don't wanna do it. The Secretary of State and your incompetent Governor. Although he thinks I've been a great President. [booing]
They illegally flooded their States with absentee ballots, and they deployed hundreds of elicit ballot drop boxes in corrupt Democrat-run cities, among many other flagrant violations of law. They put these drop boxes there. And in a number of cases, they'd be gone for three days. They'd take them up, and where are they? Where are they? They were gone. Georgia Secretary of State agreed to a litigation settlement, which is something that nobody's ever seen one like this. I want, I wanna just tell you that Stacey Abrams took him to the cleaners. [booing] That drastically and illegally changed the states election procedures. They never got the mandated approval from your state legislature, who by the way, you have some great people in your legislature. Some great, great people who agree with what we're saying and even more so.
But think of it. They never got the approval. You have to by law, under the Constitution, you can't just do these deals and not get the approval. And your Secretary of State or whoever it was, made this horrible consent decree, horrible, which got rid of so much safety. It's a disgraceful thing. And it was only approved by your local politicians, him, and local judges. You can't do that. You have to have your state legislatures do it. That's true with all States. Tens of thousands of votes are missing. We go all over the world telling people how to run their elections, and we don't even know how to run ours. The most unhappy person right now, anywhere in the United States is Hillary Clinton. Because she's asking the Democrat party, why the hell didn't you do this for me? [laughter] True. Why didn't you do it for me
Crowd. [chanting] Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
The President. Why the hell didn't you? You notice how quiet she's been? I shouldn't have said that, now tonight she'll–but you notice how quiet–she's furious, because she said, "Don't forget, I won Michigan by 10,000 votes." We did much better. As I said, this time. Much, much better, but I won Michigan from her by 10,000 votes. I won Wisconsin by a small, you know—I mean, they couldda done that one and not get caught. We caught 'em, we caught 'em. And I say to people like Mike Lee, that are here and Lindsey, I say, if they got approved and verified, they use the word verified, votes that are fraudulent. And then we find out after, 'cause you can't do it that quickly. It doesn't go that quickly. It's a lot of work and a lot of votes and a lot of people. And then we find out that they were frauds like in one state where you had, let's say you lost by 25,000 votes. They verify it. And that's supposed to be the end. But shortly thereafter, we find out that we actually won the state by 250,000 votes. Does that mean that that state plus others adds up to being your President? I don't think it should. I don't think it should. I don't think that Kelly feels it should. I don't think that Marjorie feels it should. In Wisconsin over 90,000 ballots were illegally harvested. Can't do that. Not allowed to.
Through so-called human drop boxes and over 500 illegal unmanned drop boxes were put out statewide. In addition, over 170,000 absentee votes were counted that are blatantly illegal under Wisconsin law and should never have been included in the tally. By the way, I lost the–it was razor thin. There's 170,000 votes. The margin in Wisconsin is only 20,000 votes. So, this issue alone would have won that state for us many times over, we were leading at 10 o'clock in the evening by a lot.
In Pennsylvania, there were 205,000 more ballots cast than there were voters. How do you get around that one? Which remains completely unexplained. You have great senators and representatives there and nobody can explain it but think of that. And in other places too, you had more ballots than you had voters. You had more votes, think of it, then you had voters by a lot. In addition, Democrat state Supreme Court judges and Democrat Secretary of State effectively abolished the signature verification process right here. They counted ballots cast after deadlines, and they allowed ballots to be illegally fixed in Democrat-controlled areas. And I say this because you can't let this happen tomorrow. And I hope all the politicians are listening. There's an unexplained 400,000 vote discrepancy between the number of mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania sent out reported on November 2nd, 2020. And the number reported on November 4th. They can't explain it. Four hundred thousand previously unreported mail-in ballots magically appeared. They couldn't explain it. And all of a sudden, they just happened to find 400,000. That's a lot of people. Amazing. [booing]
And the Pennsylvania legislature is not happy. Pennsylvania also had an estimated 8,000 dead voters, 55,000 ballots received back before they were even sent. How about that? The ballots were received, but they weren't sent yet. Oh, get them out fast please. Many more with no mail date and 14,000 ballots illegally cast by out-of-state voters. Those are numbers, and those are numbers we got from them. So, they can't say, oh, the numbers aren't so good. In Clark County, Nevada, over 130,000 ballots, this is far, just so you know, all these numbers, these are far more than we need, were processed on machines where the signature matching threshold was intentionally lowered to a level that you could sign your name, Santa Clause, and it wouldn't pick it up. Didn't pick up anything. More than 42,000 people in Nevada double voted. That's more than we needed, by far.
In Arizona more than 36,000 votes were cast by non-citizens. And there were 11,000 more ballots than there were voters. It seems to be a trait, doesn't it? This was like at the Super Bowl, where you have 15 cameras and they'd say camera number four, you're on. Camera number three, you're on.
In Michigan, according to one analyst, over 35,000 ballots listed no address, over 13 ballots were cast by non-residents and an estimated 17,000 ballots were cast by dead people. Some dead people, by the way, also requested an application it's true. Those are the ones that really bothered me. They not only vote, but they request an application. That's a double. In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion voting machines. [booing]
And I want you to watch this very carefully tomorrow everybody, you have to watch it carefully. I wanna read you from a letter from Georgia state Senator William Ligon. You know who he is, right? Highly respected guy. "Dear Mr. President, as chairman of the Georgia Senate Judiciary Committee on elections. I request that you immediately send an outside team of cyber experts to investigate potential hacking and other irregularities associated with Dominion voting systems, scanners, ballot marking devices, ballots, polling pads used in the 2020 general election in Georgia."
You don't hear this from your Secretary of State, and you don't hear this from your Governor, and you do have a great legislature. I have to tell you. But the Governor won't let 'em hold the session to decertify. On December 30th, 2020, the committee held a hearing investigating potential fraud and other irregularities during Georgia's 2020 general election. The Committee first unanimously approved a report dated December 17th, 2020, discussing a myriad of voting irregularities and potential fraud in Georgia 2020 general election, discussed in an earlier hearing held on December 3rd. Notably the Committee stated in the executive summary that the November 3rd, 2020, general election was chaotic and reported results must be viewed as untrustworthy. They are untrustworthy, despite the line of crap that you hear from these people that represent you. I don't know where they come from.
The Committee then heard—and this is from one of your most highly respected political representatives—the Committee then heard additional testimony concerning voting irregularities during the 2020 general election, including testimony and a real time test demonstrating serious irregularities with Dominion's voting machines. Three events discussed at this hearing stand out and require a forensic audor [sic] of the Dominion voting machines in Georgia to be immediately conducted. The Governor will not let us do it. We've been asking them now since November 4th, the day after the election. He won't let us do it. Why won't he let us do it? There's only one reason I can think of. First, the Dominion voting machines employed in Fulton County. That's the home of Stacey. Had an astounding 93.67 error rate. 93.67 error rate in the scanning of ballots requiring a review panel to adjudicate or determine the voter's intent. So, they're going to a voter intent. What did the voter mean by this vote? Somebody votes for Trump. I, you know, I think that voter meant something other. He doesn't want Trump. Let's just switch it around. Think of that. They're trying to determine the voter's intent in over 106,000 ballots out of a total of 113,000 ballots. This is from your representative, highly respected. The national average for such an error rate is far less than 1.2%. So, that was 93%. The source of this astronomical error rate must be identified to determine if these machines were set up or designated to allow for a third party to disregard the actual ballot cast by the registered voter. This is what I have. There was no way. Look at this crowd we have here. Biden came here. He had nobody. [cheers and applause]
Gallup, Gallup. You know, the Gallup poll. They did a–I don't say this braggingly, the most admired man in the world or the country. [cheers and applause] I don't say it. I say it for a different reason. So, I came in first. Obama came in second, and Biden came in waaaay low. Then I say, and they say, and people have said, how is it possible that a guy who got 80 million votes can't get any votes for the most admired man. You know why? Because he didn't come in first. That's why.
Second, again from this very respected political leader, "Second, there is clear evidence that tens of thousands of votes were switched from President Trump to former Vice President Biden in several counties throughout Georgia. For example, in Bibb County," anybody live in Bibb County? Bibb, Bibb, B-I-B-B. "President Trump was reported to have 29,391 votes at 9:11 PM, while simultaneously former Vice President Joe Biden was reported to have 17,218. Minutes later at the next update these vote numbers switched with President Trump now having 17,000. And Biden now having 29,391." [booing] That was a switch of over 12,000 votes. It was like a miracle. Third, "During this hearing, a presenter demonstrated that a Dominion Poll could be hacked into in real time because it was connected to the internet." Now, anything connected to the internet, that's not good. But this demonstration proved that these machines could allow votes to be siphoned off or added during the voting process because they're connected to the internet. Cybersecurity experts agree that voting machines should not be connected to the internet at any time, in any way, shape or form. Did you see that during the hearing? This guy sitting there. Well, can you connect into the machines? Yes. How do you do that? Within about 25 seconds, he controlled the internet. Former Vice President Biden led Georgia by only 11,779 votes. Every one of the things I told you about almost is more votes than what we're talking about. The crime that was committed in this state is immeasurable. An immediate forensic audit of an appropriate sampling of Dominion's voting machines and related equipment is critical to determine the level of illegal fraudulent ballots, improperly counted in Georgia during the 2020 general election and during tomorrow's race. You've gotta be very careful. [cheers and applause]
And, let me also quickly read a letter from Mark Finchem, Chairman of the Arizona House, a very respected man, Federal Relations Committee. "Dear Mr. President, subsequent to the election, members of the legislature were inundated with complaints from constituents relating to the intensity of the general election, and the integrity, more important than anything else, and the accuracy of canvassed results. In many instances, constituents reported that their earlier in-person ballots may not have been correctly processed or tabulated in Maricopa County officials. Members of the legislature have conducted two public hearings in recent weeks during which significant evidence of fraudulent and illegal voting in Arizona has been demonstrated through expert and eyewitness testimony. For example, in Pima County and Maricopa County, it appears that 143,000 illegal votes were actually injected into the ballot system." Think of that. No, but think of this.
Also, and you know, the press won't report this, they probably turn it off, oh, we don't like this. They don't like this. They don't wanna talk about numbers. They talked about my phone call. They don't like my phone call; everyone loved my phone call. They don't like talking about numbers, because nobody knew the numbers were so egregious. Also, an expert mathematician concluded that the only explanation for the actual voting results in Arizona is that 100%–think of this, 130% of Democrats voted for candidate Biden, and a negative 30% voted for President Trump. Now, think of that. In order to get to the numbers 130% of the voters, that's a little tough to get, okay, had to vote for him, and minus 30 had to vote for me, and that gets you to a 100%. And nobody has a 100% voting.
For all of these people who think it's too late, does that mean that we're forced to approve a fraudulent election or an election with massive irregularities?
Crowd. No!!!!!
The President. I don't think so. I don't think so. I wanna thank those two great political leaders. And, but we have many other letters just like that. Same thing. Hundreds of thousands of votes are missing. The only way to combat the Democrat fraud is to flood your polling places with a historic tidal wave of Republican voters tomorrow. [cheers and applause] Because at a certain point, the machines are gonna explode. They almost did with me, unfortunately they didn't quite get there, but we'll figure that out. And I just want Mike Lee to listen to this when I'm talking, because you know what? We need his vote. This election is your chance to stand up to the corrupt Democrat machine and show them that the American people are still in charge. [cheers and applause]
With your help over the last four years, we built the greatest political movement in the history of our country. There's never been anything like this. Kelly, when did I say, we'll do this, like two days ago, three days ago, right? And look at this, and we love you all for being here, we really do. [cheers and applause] I'm glad the weather's good, we love you all. But there's never been a movement like this. I say it all the time, and the politicians, the lame stream medias, I call them affectionately, if that weren't true, they'd say, "That's wrong." There's never been a movement like this. I mean, you have people that won one state, and they become world-famous for the rest of their lives. You have people that came in second in New Hampshire and their world–we won everything, and we won it now a second time. Hate to bore you with that expression. But we won it now a second time. And I don't wanna win it a third time, I really wanna win it the second time—it's a lot easier[?]. [cheers and applause] Somebody came up to me today, Kelly, and they said, "Sir, you're way up in four years, nobody can come close to me." I said, "I'm not interested in four years, I'm interested in like eight weeks ago." [cheers and applause] Four years. Four years is a long time. It's actually two and two, you know, we'll take back the House for Kevin—and Marjorie. Jodi. We'll bring back the House, right? We'll bring back the House.
Crowd. [chanting] Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
The President. Now, if we didn't win, I'd be all upset. Of course, If I didn't win, you probably wouldn't want me, you know in all fairness. A big difference between losing and winning and having it stolen. No, but they talk about four years, Sir, you have it made, nobody can come close, and I say, "Nope, we're gonna—we go this way first." And I think we're gonna do it. I really believe, because there's no way we could have won every single state, and for Fox, not one state, this is one of many. We win every state, and they're gonna have this guy be president and he can't speak, he can't talk.
Already, we've achieved more than anyone thought possible. And we are just getting started. And, and honestly, it's you, it's amazing what happened. I don't even know why the hell I say let's have a rally. We have a rally and thousands and thousands of people. [cheers and applause] Honestly, there's never been—I'll go out on the extreme—there's never been anything like this in the history of our country. And, the election is over, the presidential election, and we have a big one tomorrow, but there's never been anything like this in the history of our country. Our economy is coming back. It's roaring back. Our stock market is an all-time high. Who would have thought that? We're rounding the turn because of, the turn because of what we did with the vaccines. And nobody else would have done it, it would have taken so long. The economy boomed at 33.4% last quarter, that's the fastest rate ever recorded. And we're talking about pandemic, during a pandemic. We've already slashed the unemployment rate in half. And for decades, our politicians spend trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars, and defending foreign borders. You know, we're bringing many of our great troops home. I mean, I hate to say it, [cheers] but—gotta do it. We've been in Afghanistan for 19 years; I think that's enough. I think that's enough. We've got um a lot of—very few left and, uh, very proud. Nothing worse than going to Dover and meeting the parents of our great warriors that have fallen, our great warriors coming home so badly wounded or dead. And, on countries that many of you have never even heard about. So, we bring our soldiers home. We've been incredible warriors; we can beat anybody. Nobody has our equipment, nobody has our military, nobody has our people, but we aren't over there to be policemen. We're not over there to be policing, they're warriors, they're fighters, and that's what we want them for. That's what we have to have them for. But we brought a lot of 'em home. We are finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities, and we're bringing our jobs, our factories and our troops back to the USA where they belong. [cheers and applause]
But everything that we've achieved together is on the line tomorrow. Our fight to take back our country from the big donors, the big media, and the horrendous big tech giants that our politicians, not these two politicians, are afraid to attack. Section 230, we have to get rid of Section 230, politicians—[cheers and applause]—or you're not gonna have a country very long, taking away all your rights. If you wanna send a message to the powerful forces that are trying to control your country, you must get out and vote tomorrow for David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler. [cheers and applause] With your help, we're gonna continue our mission to save America, and we're gonna continue our mission of America first. It's very simple. [cheers and applause]
Each of us here tonight is united by the same core vision, and the same timeless American values. We love our country. Together, we believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the center of American life. We will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms, which they wanna take away from you. [cheers and applause] And, we will always support the heroes of law enforcement. [cheers and applause] We will maintain America's unrivaled military might, and we will preserve peace through strength.
You know when I first got elected, and before I got elected, in 2015 and 2016, before they were in debates and everyone said, "Oh, he's gonna cause Wars, he's gonna cause wars." I think I'm the only president in many, many decades that didn't get into a war, right. [cheers and applause] Remember North Korea was gonna be a tremendous nuclear fight, and all this, what happened with that? I got along very well with Kim Jong-un. I don't think that Joe's going to based on what I've heard, but, but I got along very well with him. And, you know, people say, "Whatever happened with North Korea," we got along well. But, you know, they all said that, with my personality, I'll be in a big war very soon within the first two weeks. What happened? What happened? And they don't wanna mess with us either, that I can tell you.
David and Kelly will protect Social Security and Medicare, and they will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. [cheers and applause] We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. [cheers and applause] And, we will live by the words of our national motto, In God We Trust, and it'll stay that way. [cheers and applause] From Atlanta to Augusta, to Savannah, to Columbus, from Athens—And, I wanna say hello to Herschel Walker, Athens. [cheers and applause] Herschel. 10.2 yards a carry for a while, he made a lot of quarterbacks look very good. We love Herschel. To right here in Dalton, Georgia, we inherit the legacy of generations of American Patriots who gave their blood, sweat and tears to defend our country and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, and won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and the best is yet to come. [cheers and applause] And proud citizens like you helped build this country. And together we are taking back our country, our fight to drain the Washington swamp and reclaim America's destiny and dignity has only just begun. We will not bend, we will not break, we will not yield. We will never give in, we will never give up, we will never back down. We will never, ever surrender. [cheers and applause] Because we are Americans, and we are from Georgia—[cheers and applause]—and our hearts bleed red, white and blue. [cheers and applause] We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Georgia, we have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again, our stock market. We have made America strong again, look at that arm, look at that. We have made America proud again, we're proud of our country. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Go get 'em, David, go get 'em, Kelly, go get 'emm tomorrow. [cheers and applause]
[Music: Village People "YMCA"]
  