
    Manchester, NH — Today, U.S. Representative Annie Kuster announced her endorsement of Pete Buttigieg for president of the United States, citing Pete's ability to unify the country and his bold solutions to our greatest challenges.
Rep. Kuster, who was an early backer of then-Senator Barack Obama in 2007, will also serve as a national campaign co-chair of Pete For America.
"With our country so consumed by division, Pete Buttigieg is the leader who can finally turn the page on the Trump presidency and bring our nation together to usher in a new era where we finally solve our most urgent problems," said Rep. Kuster. "We need a leader who recognizes that the office of the presidency has the power to bridge our differences — and Pete Buttigieg is that leader. Like Barack Obama before him, Pete is young, inspiring, brings fresh ideas to the table, and is motivated to win. Pete has the courage to lead us to a better future. By building a coalition of progressive Democrats, independents, and disaffected Republicans, Pete will win next November and lead our country to a brighter future for every American."
"From working to tackle the opioid epidemic and increasing access to health care to honoring our pledge to our veterans and their families when they return home, Rep. Kuster has spent her career delivering results for New Hampshire families," said Buttigieg. "At a time of so much dysfunction in Washington, Rep. Kuster has brought Americans together to improve the lives of her constituents. She represents the best of our politics and I'm honored to have her serve as our co-chair."
Rep. Kuster represents New Hampshire's second congressional district, which includes much of western New Hampshire as well as the northern portion of the state, stretching from Nashua to Berlin. In 2012, she defeated a Republican incumbent to turn the district blue.
On Friday morning, Rep. Kuster will introduce Buttigieg at a town hall in Concord. Rep. Kuster first joined Buttigieg in April at Gibson's Bookstore, where she helped introduce him to Granite Staters. This fall in New London, she joined Buttigieg for an armchair discussion on his policy to empower women and break down the systemic barriers that have held women back. And during his four-day, all-access bus tour across New Hampshire, Rep. Kuster introduced Buttigieg at a canvass kickoff in Claremont.
Rep. Kuster was first elected to the House of Representatives in November 2012. Prior to taking office, she served as a longtime community activist and adoption attorney. Kuster is the daughter of a WWII veteran and prisoner of war. She is currently a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, where she is working to improve access to affordable, quality health care, address climate change, protect our environment, and expand access to broadband internet.
Rep. Kuster joins 12-Term State Representative Susan Almy (Lebanon), Cheshire County Sheriff Eli Rivera, former Lebanon Mayor and current City Councilor Suzanne Prentiss, former New Hampshire Democratic House Leader and NEA-NH Executive Director Rick Trombly, and 15 New Hampshire state representatives in backing Pete Buttigieg for president.
  