
    If You Read One Thing Today: The Washington Post's Anne Kornblut writes about a "newly confident" Hillary "shifting into a full-throttle emphasis on the economy" with "a heavy emphasis on policy details." Read it here.
Endorsement Watch: The Las Vegas Sun endorsed Hillary today, writing that "On domestic issues, such as the economy and health care, Clinton clearly has the best command of the issues, as was witnessed in Tuesday's debate in Las Vegas." Read it here.
Polls in Nevada: A new Mason-Dixon poll for the Las Vegas Review-Journal shows Hillary increasing her lead over Sen. Obama to nine. She's up 41 to 32 percent. A majority of voters whose primary concern is the economy support Hillary, as do a majority whose top issue is health care. A new Zogby poll has Hillary up five over Sen. Obama, 42 to 37 percent. Let's see what happens tomorrow.
Previewing Today: In Las Vegas, Hillary will hold a roundtable on the economy. New signs of economic weakness led Hillary to make immediate her stimulus package's $40 billion in tax rebates for working families. Later in the day, the Clintons will hold "Get Out the Caucus" rallies in Elko, Reno and Henderson.
Recapping Yesterday: In Compton, NBC reports that Hillary's speech about the legacy of Dr. King's fight for economic justice received a "warm" welcome from an "enthusiastic" crowd. In Santa Barbara, thousands of students turned out to hear Hillary. One student offered freshman Kristie O'Quinn $25 for her spot in line. "I wouldn't leave for $1,000. I wouldn't miss this for the world," she replied according to the Ventura County Star.
If You Watch One Thing Today: Hillary appears on the Tyra Banks Show. Check your local listings.
In Case You Missed It: In the same interview in which he praised Ronald Reagan, Sen. Obama criticized a generation of Democrats nationwide: "I think it's fair to say that the Republicans were the party of ideas for a pretty long chunk of time there over the last 10-15 years in the sense that they were challenging conventional wisdom."
In Case He Missed It: After loudly condemning labor unions for independently praising Hillary in Iowa ads, Sen. Obama remained silent about "the harshest ad of the cycle on the Democratic side" - a labor union ad attacking Hillary in Nevada.
  