
    Manchester, NH – Today, Democratic leader and Former Speaker of the New Hampshire House of Representatives Terie Norelli is endorsing Elizabeth Warren for president. Over the final days until New Hampshire's First In The Nation primary, Norelli will speak to Granite State voters about Elizabeth's plans for big, structural change and why she's the best candidate to defeat Donald Trump.
Norelli is a longstanding leader in New Hampshire politics, a nine-term State Representative who served as Speaker of the House from 2006 to 2010 and 2012 to 2014. Norelli was the second woman and first Democrat in 84 years to serve as Speaker of the House. She ushered through important legislation including marriage equality, expanding state Medicaid coverage, and critical environmental legislation. Over her tenure, she both built a strong Democratic caucus in the House and managed bipartisan successes, such as passing Medicaid expansion to cover more Granite Staters under the Affordable Care Act and championing pay equity.
"The proof for me was right there: Elizabeth is the only candidate who has already demonstrated that she can build consensus and fight for structural change. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was opposed by an army of banking lobbyists, but Elizabeth formed a winning coalition to make the government work for regular people – and I'm confident she'll do the same as president. Her own pursuit of the American Dream gave her a fierce drive to fight so other families can do the same; her commitment to the people is evident in how she interacts with Granite Staters every time she's here," says Terie Norelli.
"If our country has a shot at undoing the corruption and harm incited by the Trump administration, we need a leader who is committed to Democrats winning up and down the ticket; has a record of fighting the system for regular people and winning; and is focused enough to get the work done. Elizabeth is that leader. "
This endorsement caps off a week of support from Former Chair of the New Hampshire Democratic Party and DNC Committeewoman Kathy Sullivan, New Hampshire State Senator Kevin Cavanaugh and more than 55 New Hampshire State Legislators.
In 2018, Elizabeth gave or raised $11 million for Democrats down ballot; the NH Dem party credited her for her "significant support" in helping flip the State Senate and House of Representatives.
"Terie has long been a leader for Democrats in New Hampshire, and I'm grateful for her support. She fought to take on the problems of Granite Staters, and just like she did as Speaker of the House, we're going to work together for a progressive agenda that starts with making government work for everyone," said Elizabeth about the endorsement.
  