
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, California Assembly Republican Caucus Chairman Bob Huff announced his endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney. He joins previously announced California Romney for President Team Members Tony Strickland, Republican Leader Dick Ackerman, Congressman McKeon, Congressman Campbell, Congressman Herger, and Congressman Rohrabacher.
"Chairman Huff and I both believe that we must keep taxes low, cut wasteful government spending and reverse the current housing crisis facing families in California and throughout the country," said Governor Romney. "I am optimistic we can keep our economy strong and ensure a prosperous future for our children and grandchildren. I look forward to working with Chairman Huff to implement my optimistic vision as President."
Upon the announcement, Chairman Huff said, "There is one candidate with the experience and determination to strengthen our economy and promote job growth in California and across the country and that is Governor Mitt Romney. Throughout his time in the private sector, at the 2002 Winter Olympics and as Governor, he led using fiscally conservative principles, and he will do the same as President. Governor Romney will bring real conservative change to Washington, and I encourage others to join me in supporting his candidacy."
Background On Assembly Republican Caucus Chairman Bob Huff:
Bob Huff Has Served In The Assembly Since December 2004. A resident of Diamond Bar, he served on the City Council from 1995-2004, and as Mayor in 1997 and 2001. As a proponent of reform within California's school system, Huff has had legislation signed into law guaranteeing more funding for public charter schools. Most of Huff's professional and business experience has been in the agricultural industry. Working through the ranks to become the youngest vice president in a grain handling corporation, he became manager-owner of the Ray S. French Company, an independent commodity wholesaler, shortly after he moved his family to Diamond Bar in 1983. Huff and his wife, Mei Mei, have three sons, a daughter and two granddaughters.
  