
    AD FACT:
VOICEOVER: "An enemy without borders. Hate without boundaries."
BACKGROUND:
Then-Australian Prime Minister John Howard: "International Terrorism Knows No Borders." (John Howard, Address To The Australian People, 3/20/03)
Former European Commissioner For Foreign Relations Chris Patten: "Terrorist Groups Spread Their Tentacles Across Borders And Their Attacks Know No Boundaries." (Chris Patten, Op-Ed, "Together, Asia And Europe Can Effect Change," The [Singapore] Strait Times, 7/10/03)
"'[Al-Qaeda] Has Given Rise To A 'Virtual Network' That Is Extremely Adaptable,' Said Jonathan Stevenson, Of The International Institute For Strategic Studies' Washington Office." (Charles J. Hanley, "When Will The Terror Attacks End?" The Associated Press, 7/9/05)
Al Qaeda Has Cells In 100 Countries. "Where does al-Qaeda operate? There is no single headquarters. From 1991 to 1996, al-Qaeda worked out of Pakistan along the Afghan border, or inside Pakistani cities. Al-Qaeda has autonomous underground cells in some 100 countries, including the United States, officials say." (Council For Foreign Relations Website, http://www.cfr.org/publication/9126/, Accessed 1/1/08)
Al-Qaeda Has Helped Other Terrorist Groups. "Al-Qaeda is suspected of carrying out or directing sympathetic groups to carry out the May 2003 suicide attacks on Western interests in Casablanca, Morocco; the October 2002 nightclub bombing in Bali, Indonesia; and the 1993 World Trade Center bombing." (Council For Foreign Relations Website, http://www.cfr.org/publication/9126/, Accessed1/1/08)
Al Qaeda Has Attacked Targets In United States, Europe, Middle East, And Africa. "What major attacks has al-Qaeda been responsible for? The group has targeted American and other Western interests as well as Jewish targets and Muslim governments it sees as corrupt or impious—above all, the Saudi monarchy. Al-Qaeda linked attacks include:
The March 2004 bomb attacks on Madrid commuter trains, which killed nearly 200 people and left more than 1,800 injured. The May 2003 car bomb attacks on three residential compounds in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The November 2002 car bomb attack and a failed attempt to shoot down an Israeli jetliner with shoulder-fired missiles, both in Mombasa, Kenya. The October 2002 attack on a French tanker off the coast of Yemen. Several spring 2002 bombings in Pakistan. The April 2002 explosion of a fuel tanker outside a synagogue in Tunisia. The September 11, 2001, hijacking attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The October 2000 U.S.S. Cole bombing. The August 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania." (Council For Foreign Relations Website, http://www.cfr.org/publication/9126/, Accessed 1/1/08)
AD FACT:
VOICEOVER: "A people perverted. A religion betrayed."
BACKGROUND:
Mayor Giuliani: Islam Is "A Religion That Many People Follow And They Follow Faithfully And It Leads To Good Lives," Though "There Is A Small Group Of People Who Have Misused It And Turned It Into A Political Ideology." (Celeste Katz, "Rudy Swoops In And Zooms Out," Daily News, 12/30/07)
Mayor Giuliani Said Islamic Terrorists Have Defiled A Great Religion. Mayor Giuliani: "Well, the most important thing to do is to make certain we remain on offense against Islamic terrorism. And then make it clear that what that means is this is a small group of people, Islamic terrorists, who have defiled a great religion, that the vast majority of people who are Islamic, the vast majority of people who are Arabs, the vast majority of people living in these countries are good people." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Republican Presidential Debate, St. Petersburg, FL, 11/28/07)
King Abdullah II Of Jordan Said Terrorists Do "Violence To Islamic Teachings." "The truth is that from its very earliest days, Islam has called on its believers to lead lives of peace and tolerance. The very name of Islam is rooted in the word for peace, al salaam. Far from sanctioning the killing of innocents, our faith prohibits it. … When extremists commit atrocities, they are also doing violence to Islamic teachings." (King Abdullah II Of Jordan, Op-Ed, "Terrorists Betray Our Values," Los Angeles Times, 9/14/03)
In 2002, Group Of American Muslims, Scholars And Organizations Denounced Terrorism In Name Of Islam, Saying It "Abused Islam In Order To Fit Their Own Radical" Agenda. "Several prominent American Muslims, organizations, and scholars issued the following statement denouncing violence and terrorism, especially in the name of Islam, a religion of peace and justice. … 'As American Muslims and scholars of Islam, we wish to restate our conviction that peace and justice constitute the basic principles of the Muslim faith. We wish again to state unequivocally that neither the al-Qaeda organization nor Usama bin Laden represents Islam or reflects Muslim beliefs and practice. Rather, groups like al-Qaeda have misused and abused Islam in order to fit their own radical and indeed anti-Islamic agenda.'" (Center For The Study Of Islam & Democracy, "American Muslims And Scholars Denounce Terrorism," Press Release, 9/9/02)
AD FACT:
VOICEOVER: "A nuclear power in chaos."
BACKGROUND:
"Pakistan Is One Of The World's Eight Nuclear Powers And The First To Be Categorized As A Failing State." (Arnaud de Borchgrave, Op-Ed, "Pakistan In A Vortex," The Washington Times, 12/31/07)
Former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's Assassination Led To Rioting And "Possibility Of Lasting Chaos" In Nuclear-Armed Pakistan. "[Benazir Bhutto's] death ignited rioting across Pakistan, dashed hopes for a smooth transition from a military dictatorship to democracy and raised the possibility of lasting chaos in a nuclear-armed Muslim nation that is on the front lines of the U.S. war on terror." (Zafar M. Sheikh and Paul Wiseman, "Bhutto's Death Thrusts Pakistan Into Chaos," USA Today, 12/28/07)
"Opposition Leader Benazir Bhutto's Assassination Deals A Stunning Blow To Liberal Political Forces In Pakistan And Gathering Unrest By Her Supporters Risks Tipping The Volatile Country Into Chaos." (Matthew Pennington, "Pakistan Faces Chaos After Bhutto Assassination," The Associated Press, 12/28/07)
Seattle Post-Intelligencer Called Pakistan A "Nation In Chaos." "Violence on the streets of multiple cities in Pakistan will no doubt make some rethink the negative views of the state of emergency Musharraf had imposed along with his crackdown on the judiciary. That would be a mistake. Even given the current chaos, those measures limit people's rights rather than protect them as the terrorists lie in wait." (Editorial, "Pakistan: Nation In Chaos," Seattle Post-Intelligencer, 12/27/07)
AD FACT:
VOICEOVER: "Madmen bent on creating it."
BACKGROUND:
KIM JONG IL HAS NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY HE COULD SELL TO TERRORISTS
Ambassador John Bolton Said Kim Jong Il And The North Koreas Would Sell Al-Qaeda A Nuclear Weapon. "The North Koreans will sell anything to anybody for hard currency. If Al Queda [sic] came up with enough dollars to buy a nuclear weapon from North Korea I don't have any doubt that the North Koreans would sell it to them." ("Ambassador John Bolton: An Interview," Human Events, 10/31/07)
General B. B. Bell, Commander Of United Nations Command and U.S. Forces Korea: "North Korea Continues To Challenge International Conventions And Presents A Clear Threat To The Region And The World." (General B. B. Bell, Committee On Armed Services, U.S. Senate, Testimony, 4/24/07)
Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Said U.S. Must Eliminate Possibility That Kim Jong Il Will Sell Nuclear Weapons To Terrorists. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen: "In addition to ending the direct threat to the U.S. from North Korea, our goal must be to eliminate the possibility North Korea will sell nuclear weapons to rogue regimes and terrorists. That may be just what Pyongyang is doing with the Syrians." (Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Op-Ed, "Verification Holds The Key," The Washington Times, 10/7/07)
Council On Foreign Relations Vice President Gary Samore Warned Of Risks To International And U.S. Security Surrounding North Korea's Nuclear Weapons. Samore: "If you think about the risks that a nuclear armed North Korea poses to us, whether it's use of nuclear weapons that might arise out of a crisis on the Korean Peninsula, whether it's the risk that North Korea might share or sell nuclear technology weapons to other countries or terrorist groups, or there are risks that a nuclear armed North Korea might pressure other countries like Japan or South Korea to develop nuclear weapons." (Gary Samore, Remarks At Council On Foreign Relations Press Conference, Washington , D.C. 12/15/06)
IRAN FUNDS ISLAMIC TERRORISM
Iran Is State Sponsor Of Terrorism. "Iran remained the most active state sponsor of terrorism. Its Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) were directly involved in the planning and support of terrorist acts and continued to exhort a variety of groups, especially Palestinian groups with leadership cadres in Syria and Lebanese Hizballah, to use terrorism in pursuit of their goals." (U.S. State Department, "Country Reports On Terrorism," Report, 4/30/07)
Iran Provided Funding To Palestinian Terrorist Organizations. "Iran maintained a high-profile role in encouraging anti-Israeli terrorist activity, rhetorically, operationally, and financially. Supreme Leader Khamenei and President Ahmadi-Nejad praised Palestinian terrorist operations, and Iran provided Lebanese Hizballah and Palestinian terrorist groups – notably HAMAS, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command – with extensive funding, training, and weapons." (U.S. State Department, "Country Reports On Terrorism," Report, 4/30/07)
Iran Has Trained And Armed Militants In Iraq. "Iran continued to play a destabilizing role in Iraq, which appeared to be inconsistent with its stated objectives regarding stability in Iraq. Iran provided guidance and training to select Iraqi Shia political groups, and weapons and training to Shia militant groups to enable anti-Coalition attacks. Iranian government forces have been responsible for at least some of the increasing lethality of anti-Coalition attacks by providing Shia militants with the capability to build IEDs with explosively formed projectiles similar to those developed by Iran and Lebanese Hizballah. The Iranian Revolutionary Guard was linked to armor-piercing explosives that resulted in the deaths of Coalition Forces. The Revolutionary Guard, along with Lebanese Hizballah, implemented training programs for Iraqi militants in the construction and use of sophisticated IED technology. These individuals then passed on this training to additional militants in Iraq." (U.S. State Department, "Country Reports On Terrorism," Report, 4/30/07)
Iran Has Provided Safe Haven For Al Qaida Members. "Iran remained unwilling to bring to justice senior AQ members it detained in 2003, and it has refused to publicly identify these senior members in its custody. Iran has repeatedly resisted numerous calls to transfer custody of its AQ detainees to their countries of origin or third countries for interrogation or trial. Iran also continued to fail to control the activities of some al-Qaida members who fled to Iran following the fall of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan." (U.S. State Department, "Country Reports On Terrorism," Report, 4/30/07)
UNDER AHMADINEJAD, IRAN IS DEVELOPING NUCLEAR CAPABILITIES
"Iran Has No Brake And No Reverse Gear In Its Nuclear Programme, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad Said On Sunday, While A Deputy Foreign Minister Vowed Tehran Was Prepared For Any Eventuality, 'Even For War'." (Parisa Hafezi, "Iran's Atomic Work Has 'No Reverse Gear'," Reuters, 2/25/07)
"'Iran Has Obtained The Technology To Produce Nuclear Fuel And Iran's Move Is Like A Train … Which Has No Brake And No Reverse Gear,' Ahmadinejad Said, ISNA News Agency Reported." (Parisa Hafezi, "Iran's Atomic Work Has 'No Reverse Gear'," Reuters, 2/25/07)
Ahmadinejad: "The Hue And Cry By Some Western Countries Is Just A Proof That We Have Made Great (Nuclear) Achievements And The Job (Access To Nuclear Know-How) Is Accomplished …" (Ahmadinejad Sticks To Iran's Nuclear Right," Indo-Asian News Services, 10/5/07)
Ahmadinejad Said Iran Is Not Willing To Discuss Their Right To Nuclear Power. "'Iran just wants to realize its rights in accordance with internationally acknowledged rules and regulations and as active member of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),' Ahmadinejad said in a speech at Tehran University. 'As far as we are concerned, the nuclear dossier is closed and we are not willing to put our irrevocable (nuclear) right to discussion,' he added." (Ahmadinejad Sticks To Iran's Nuclear Right," Indo-Asian News Services, 10/5/07)
"[Ahmadinejad] Also Insisted That Iran Now Has 3,000 Centrifuges, Used To Enrich Uranium, In Its Underground Natanz Nuclear Plant. Enriched Uranium Can Fuel Power Plants But Also, If Refined Further, Provide Material For Bombs." (Reza Derakhshi, "Iran's Nuclear Program 'Irreversible': President," Reuters, 11/7/07)
2007 NIE Noted That Only Covert Military Weapons Program Was Halted, But Not Overt Uranium Enrichment. "The crucial decision, hidden in a footnote, was to define the 'nuclear weapons program' which had been halted to mean only 'Iran's weapon design and weaponization work and covert … uranium enrichment-related work.' Thus it excludes Iran's overt enrichment program monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency." (James Schlesinger, Op-Ed, "Stupid Intelligence On Iran," The Wall Street Journal, 12/19/07)
Enriched Uranium, Produced Either Overtly Or Covertly, Can Be Used In Nuclear Weapons. "We have long understood that the production of fissile material, whether overt or covert, remains 'the long pole in the tent' in the development of a nuclear capability. Thus the NIE defines away what has been the main element stirring international alarm regarding Iran's nuclear activity." (James Schlesinger, Op-Ed, "Stupid Intelligence On Iran," The Wall Street Journal, 12/19/07)
After NIE Was Published, Iran Confirmed Continued Enrichment Efforts. "But the suggestion that Iran reconsider its stand on enrichment was quickly rejected by officials there. 'There is no talk of halting enrichment,' a senior Iranian official told the Reuters news agency in Tehran. 'Nothing is related to freezing enrichment.' Also Monday, Iranian Vice President Gholam Reza Aghazadeh said construction had begun on a nuclear reactor in Darkhovin, southwestern Iran, that the government had previously said was only in the planning stages. 'We are currently constructing a 360-megawatt nuclear power plant in Darkhovin,' Aghazadeh was quoted by the Associated Press as saying on state television." (Peter Finn, "Russia Ships First Lot Of Nuclear Fuel To Iran," The Washington Post, 12/18/07)
IRANIAN PRESIDENT HAS CALLED FOR ISRAEL'S DESTRUCTION
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad: "The Annihilation Of The Zionist Regime Will Come… Israel Must Be Wiped Off The Map… And God Willing, With The Force Of God Behind It, We Shall Soon Experience A World Without The United States And Zionism." (Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence, "Recognizing Iran As A Strategic Threat," U.S. House Of Representatives, p. 3, 8/23/06)
In June 2007, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad Said World Would Soon "Witness The Destruction" Of Israel. "Iran's hard-line President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Sunday said the world would witness the destruction of Israel soon, the official Islamic Republic News Agency reported. … 'God willing, in the near future we will witness the destruction of the corrupt occupier regime,' Ahmadinejad was quoted as saying during a speech to foreign guests who attended ceremonies marking the 18th anniversary of the death of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who is known as the father of Iran's 1979 Islamic Revolution." ("Ahmadinejad Says Destruction Of Israel Is Close, Agency Reports," The Associated Press, 6/3/07)
AD FACT:
VOICEOVER: "Leaders assassinated. Democracy attacked."
BACKGROUND:
In December 2007, Pakistan Opposition Leader Benazir Bhutto Was Assassinated. "Pakistan opposition leader Benazir Bhutto was assassinated Thursday in a suicide attack that also killed at least 20 others at a campaign rally, aides said." (Sadaqat Jan and Zarar Khan, "Pakistani Opposition Leader Bhutto Killed In Suicide Attack On Campaign Rally," The Associated Press, 12/27/07)
Lebanese General Francois El-Hajj Was Assassinated In December 2007. "A top Lebanese army officer and his bodyguard were killed on Wednesday in a powerful car bomb that further destabilised the country as it grapples with a presidential vacuum. A military spokesman told AFP that Brigadier General Francois El-Hajj, head of army operations, and his bodyguard were killed in the blast as their car drove through the suburb of Baabda, where the presidential palace and several embassies are located. Officials said Hajj, 54, was targeted because he was tipped to become the new army commander-in-chief, replacing General Michel Sleiman, frontrunner to become the next president." (Jocelyne Zablit, "Top General Assassinated In Crisis-Hit Lebanon," Agence France Presse, 12/12/07)
Pakistani Politician Sher Jan Marri Was Assassinated In October 2007. "Unknown gunmen Wednesday shot dead a prominent politician belonging to the ruling Pakistan Muslim League in southwestern Pakistan, police said. Unidentified attackers on a motorbike ambushed the car of Sher Jan Marri, 32, and fled after shooting him in Quetta, the provincial capital, senior police official Qazi Abdul Wahid told AFP." ("Ruling Party Figure Dead In Southwest Pakistan," Agence France Presse, 10/10/07)
Lebanese Parliament Members Walid Eido And Antoine Ghanem Were Assassinated In 2007. "[Lebanese] MPs Walid Eido and Antoine Ghanem were killed in car bombs in June and September, in what many saw as attempts to chip away at the slim majority the ruling coalition holds in parliament. Syria has been accused of orchestrating the killings but has denied involvement." (Jocelyne Zablit, "Lebanon: No Leader, Little Hope," Agence France Presse, 12/17/07)
In August 2007, Governor Of Muthana Province In Iraq Was Assassinated. "The governor, Mohammed Ali al-Hasani, was killed when the bomb exploded next to his convoy as it drove through [Muthana's] capital, Samawa, police say. Several bodyguards were also injured in the explosion, which happened at 0800 local time (0400 GMT). Mr Hasani belonged to the largest Shia party in Iraq, the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council (SiiC). He is the second Shia governor killed this month." ("Roadside Bomb Kills Iraq Governor," BBC News, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/6954467.stm, 8/20/07, Accessed 1/1/08)
In August 2007, Governor Of Diwaniya Province In Iraq Was Assassinated. "[Mohammed Ali al-Hasani] is the second Shia governor killed this month. On 11 August the governor of Diwaniya, Khalil Jalil Hamza, was killed by a roadside bomb along with police chief Maj-Gen Khaled Hassan." ("Roadside Bomb Kills Iraq Governor," BBC News, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/6954467.stm, 8/20/07, Accessed 1/1/08)
In November 2006, Lebanese Politician Pierre Gemayel Was Assassinated In Beirut. "Prominent anti-Syrian Christian politician Pierre Gemayel was assassinated in a suburb of Beirut on Tuesday, his party's radio station and Lebanon's official news agency reported. His fatal shooting will certainly heighten the political tension in Lebanon, where the leading Muslim Shiite party Hezbollah has threatened to topple the government if it does not get a bigger say in Cabinet decision making." (Sam Ghattas, "Christian Political Leader Shot Dead," The Associated Press, 11/21/06)
In January 2005, Governor Of Baghdad Was Assassinated. "The governor of Baghdad province was assassinated Tuesday morning in the Iraqi capital, an Iraq Interior Ministry official said. A bodyguard for Gov. Ali Al-Haidri also was killed and two other guards wounded in the road ambush, officials said." ("Baghdad Governor Assassinated," CNN.com, http://www.cnn.com/2005/WORLD/meast/01/04/iraq.main/index.html, 1/4/05, Accessed 1/1/08)
In 2004, Iraq's Deputy Foreign Minister Was Assassinated. "Gunmen killed a top Iraqi diplomat as he traveled to work yesterday morning, in the first assassination of an official in the interim government that took office June 1. Bassam Salih Kubba, 60, the deputy foreign minister in charge of Iraq's diplomatic service, was shot in his car about 7:30 in the Aadhamiya neighborhood, a stronghold of Sunni resistance to the occupation. The attackers then circled and fired again, witnesses said." (Thanassis Cambanis, "Gunmen Kill A Top Iraqi Diplomat," The Boston Globe, 6/13/04)
In 2004, President Of Iraq's Governing Council Was Assassinated. "A powerful suicide bomb in the heart of Baghdad killed the president of Iraq's Governing Council and six civilians yesterday morning in a high-profile assassination that threatened to further destabilize the country six weeks before the end of American civilian authority. A group called the Arab Resistance Movement claimed responsibility last night for assassinating Izzadine Saleem as he traveled to the council's headquarters in the heavily fortified 'green zone' in central Baghdad." (Vivienne Walt, "Suicide Car Bomb Kills Iraqi Leader," The Boston Globe, 5/18/04)
AD FACT:
VOICEOVER: "And Osama bin Laden still making threats."
BACKGROUND:
Mayor Giuliani: We Should "Re-Energize Our Efforts To Catch Bin Laden Which To Me Is More Than A Symbolic Act. It Is Something That Would Be A Real Strategic Advantage For Us In Bringing Him To Justice." (CNN's "The Situation Room," 12/27/07)
On December 29, 2007, Osama Bin Laden Released Videotaped Message Warning Iraqis Not To Fight Al-Qaeda. "Al-Qaeda chief Osama Bin Laden warned Sunni Muslims in Iraq not to take up arms against the terror network and promised the 'liberation of Palestine,' in a new online message. In the 56-minute tape released late [December 29], the Western world's most wanted man also accused the United States of seeking to control the region through the Iraqi government, according to SITE, a US-based institute that monitors extremist web forums. He singled out Iraqis fighting against Al-Qaeda, and the Islamic Party of Iraq, a political group allied with the government, saying their supporters are traitors to Islam, SITE said." (Laith Abou-Ragheb, "Bin Laden Warns Iraqis Not To Fight Al-Qaeda," Agence France Presse, 12/30/07)
Bin Laden Has Threatened "Another Manhattan." "In the tape, Bin Laden speaks directly to the camera in a quiet, calm voice, making small gestures with his right hand. He appears in good health. 'Oh American people,' the video begins, 'my talk to you is about the best way to avoid another Manhattan; about the war, its causes and results.'" ("Bin Laden Video Threatens America," BBC.com, 10/30/04)
Osama Bin Laden Has Threatened To Destroy Israel. "Osama bin Laden vowed to destroy Israel. The fugitive Al-Qaida leader issued an audio recording Saturday in which he came out against Palestinian and other Arab leaders who have recognized the Jewish state. 'I would like to assure our people in Palestine that we will expand our jihad there,' Bin Laden said. 'We intend to liberate Palestine, the whole of Palestine, from the river to the sea.' 'We will not recognize even one inch for Jews in the land of Palestine as other Muslim leaders have,' he said." ("Bin Laden Vows To Destroy Israel," Jewish Telegraphic Agency, 12/30/07)
Bin Laden: "The Killing Of The Russians Was After Their Invasion Of Afghanistan And Chechnya." ("Full Text: 'Bin Laden Tape'," BBC.com, 4/15/04)
Bin Laden: "The Killing Of Europeans Was After Their Invasion Of Iraq And Afghanistan." ("Full Text: 'Bin Laden Tape'," BBC.com, 4/15/04)
Bin Laden: "And The Killing Of Americans On The Day Of New York [Reference To 11 September] Was After Their Support Of The Jews In Palestine And Their Invasion Of The Arabian Peninsula." ("Full Text: 'Bin Laden Tape'," BBC.com, 4/15/04)
AD FACT:
VOICEOVER: "In a world where the next crisis is a moment away… America needs a leader who's ready."
MAYOR GIULIANI: "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approved this message."
BACKGROUND:
The Foster's Daily Democrat Endorsed Mayor Giuliani For Republican Nomination Because He Is A Leader Who "Understands The Threat To Our Way of Life." "[T]here is at least one [candidate] who stands out among the rest — a candidate who is not afraid to lead; a candidate who understands the threat to our way of life … Rudy Giuliani is our choice for the Republican nomination for president. … Giuliani knows America must fight the war against 'Islamic terrorism' to a victorious conclusion. … Giuliani sums up the war in clear terms. 'As soon as they stop trying to kill us, then we'll make peace with them,' the former mayor of New York told a meeting with executives and editors of Foster's Daily Democrat." (Editorial, "Rudy Giuliani is our choice in the GOP," Foster's Daily Democrat, 12/20/07)
Hoover Institution Scholar And Yale University Lecturer Charles Hill: "Rudy Giuliani Is The Only Candidate With The Tested National And International Executive Experience Needed To Turn This Calamitous International Situation Around." (Charles Hill, Op-Ed, "Giuliani, My Giuliani," New York Sun, 12/12/07)
MSNBC's Joe Scarborough Said Americans Trust Leaders Like Rudy Giuliani To Keep Them Safe. Scarborough: "The bottom line is … people are comfortable with Rudy Giuliani and leaders like Rudy Giuliani… that don't sit around wringing their hands asking the question what will Switzerland think about us what will the United Nations think about us if we move forward aggressively to protect our national interests? To keep America safe? It's so interesting, Mika, I'm so glad that I've been spending all the time I've been spending at home, and talking to people and that I was here when this incident happened because I was in several homes yesterday visiting friends and family members and to a person they were all talking about the same thing. They were talking about how dangerous the world was. They were talking about Rudy Giuliani. … And the sentiment was a very simple sentiment and that was 'keep us safe.'" (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 12/28/07)
  