
    By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including section 8(a) of the International Investment Survey Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 2064, 22 U.S.C. 3107), and as President of the United States of America, in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby established the President's Advisory Board on International Investment, hereinafter referred to as the Board, which shall be composed of not more than fifteen members who shall be appointed by the President. Each member shall serve for a term limited to the remaining life of the Board as determined at the time of appointment.
(b) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members.
SEC. 2. (a) Whenever requested, the Board shall advise the Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy, hereinafter referred to as the Executive Director, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the heads of other agencies, with respect to matters relating to the performance of their functions under the International Investment Survey Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 2059, 22 U.S.C. 3101).
(b) In making its recommendations, the Board shall give due consideration to the usefulness of data to be collected as compared to the burden imposed on those who are to furnish the data.
SEC. 3. (a) The Executive Director shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide administrative and staff services, support, and facilities for the Board.
(b) The Executive Director shall appoint an Executive Secretary for the Board.
SEC. 4. Members of the Board may be compensated for their services in accord with 5 U.S.C. 3109, and may, to the extent permitted by law, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703) for persons in the government service employed intermittently.
SEC. 5. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Board, shall be performed by the Executive Director in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Office of Management and Budget.
SEC. 6. The Board shall terminate on December 31, 1978, unless sooner extended.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
January 19, 1977.
  