
    Pool Reports by Myah Ward, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




January 9, 202308:53 CST

Out-of-town pool report #1: Checking in
Good morning from Mexico City, where it's mostly Sunny with a high of 71. I'll be your print pooler, so please feel free to reach out with any questions.
Pool call time isn't until later this afternoon, but reminder that Mexico City is 1 hour behind Washington. And here's a general run down of the president's schedule later today:
Monday, January 9, 2023
The President and the First Lady will participate in an official welcome ceremony hosted by President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador and Dr. Beatriz Gutiérrez Müller of Mexico.
The President will participate in a bilateral meeting with President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, where they will discuss strengthening our supply chains to make our hemisphere even more competitive, discuss our shared security, including our joint actions to address fentanyl, and how we can continue to tackle irregular migration together.
The President and the First Lady will participate in a trilateral dinner with President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, Dr. Beatriz Gutiérrez Müller, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, and Mrs. Sophie Grégoire Trudeau.



January 9, 202310:12 CST

Out-of-two pool report #2: Gaggle with Sullivan
The pool is gaggling with White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan. Gaggle started at 10:10 local time, and I'll send highlights and an audio feed after it wraps.



January 9, 202310:54 CST

Out-of-town pool report #3: Gaggle audio
Sullivan gaggled with reporters for roughly 30 minutes.
He covered a range of topics, including Brazil, migration/the border, fentanyl, energy, Ukraine, Iran etc., ahead of this afternoon's events. Here's an audio file, I'll send out a few too:
https://otter.ai/u/Yd_gT66kmq-4xmXTxF-nPEFLTn4



January 9, 202316:01 CST

Out-of-town pool report #4: Rolling
Motorcade is rolling to the National Palace at 4:00 pm local time for the welcome ceremony and President Biden's bilateral meeting with Mexican President Lopez Obrador.
Pool did not see the president.



January 9, 202316:20 CST

Out-of-town pool report #5: Arrival
The motorcade has arrived at the National Palace.



January 9, 202316:24 CST

Out-of-town pool report #6: Ceremony begins
President López Obrador’s welcome ceremony for President Joe Biden is starting now. It's being live streamed here, according to the White House: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
More from WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route the National Palace:
Ambassador Ken Salazar, Ambassador of the United States to MexicoSecretary Antony Blinken, U.S. Department of StateAttorney General Merrick Garland, U.S. Department of JusticeSecretary Gina Raimondo, U.S. Department of CommerceSecretary Alejandro Mayorkas, U.S. Department of Homeland SecurityJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsJen O’Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryFormer Senator Chris Dodd, Special Presidential Advisor for the Americas, U.S. Department of StateRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff and Executive SecretaryMala Adiga, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Policy & Projects for the First LadyBrian Nichols, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs, U.S. Department of StateJohn Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, U.S. Department of StateAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsJuan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Western HemisphereKatie Tobin, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Transborder SecurityCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAdrienne Watson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Press & NSC SpokespersonAmbassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol, U.S. Department of StateCharles Fromstein, NSC Director of Visits and Diplomatic AffairsAriana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security AdvisorMaxwell Hamilton, NSC Director for North America



January 9, 202316:32 CST

Out-of-town pool report #7: Ceremony color
Hearing the live stream isn't up on the WH page yet. Here's some color so far:
POTUS, FLOTUS, and President López Obrador, Dr. Beatriz Gutiérrez Müller just posed for group photos after both National anthems were played. You can also find a photo of the set up on my Twitter: @MyahWard
First Lady Biden and Dr. Beatriz Gutiérrez Müller are now delivering a message about the countries' relationship in both English and Spanish. There was a bit of a scramble at first while someone retrieved the First Lady's glasses.



January 9, 202316:39 CST

Out-of-town pool report #8: Ceremony concludes
POTUS, FLOTUS, President Lopez Obrador and Dr. Gutierrez Muller just exited the small, internal courtyard of the National Palace, chatting while walking up the steps.
FLOTUS hugged Gutierrez Muller before pulling Presidents Biden and Lopez Obrador into a brief group hug.
Next on Biden's schedule is the bilat with Lopez Obrador. Pool spray is expected at top of the meeting.



January 9, 202317:13 CST

Out-of town pool report #9: Awaiting bilat spray
There was delay getting the US press to the bilat location because Mexican officials were not letting a secret service agent through. Pool had to move, and it’s not clear officials let the agent enter.
We’re in the room now awaiting the bilat. A large table is set up with administration officials including Merrick Garland, Alejandro Mayorkas, Ambassador Salazar and John Kerry. Photo attached. [APP Note: The image noted here was not included in the report received by the APP.]



January 9, 202317:51 CST

Out-of-town pool report #10: 2-mins on pool spray
Sorry for the double send on #9, phone signal is spotty. 2 min warning for pool spray at top of bilat between Biden and Lopez Obrador



January 9, 202317:55 CST

Out-of-town pool report #11: Bilat spray begins
The leaders entered the room at 5:50, and Lopez Obrador is speaking first. Biden is seated across from Lopez Obrador, both leaders at the center of the long table.
This is not being live streamed, but I'll send an audio feed and highlights once it wraps.



January 9, 202318:13 CST

Out-of-town pool report #12: Pool spray ends
Lopez-Obrador spoke for roughly 8 minutes, but the English translation audio was not working for your poolers.
Biden spoke for about 4 minutes. His sound was also very muffled and difficult to hear, so please check quotes against transcript.
"We have to continue to build and contribute to democratic institutions in the hemisphere."
"We're at one of those inflection points"
Noted the leaders will discuss migration, fentanyl, supply chains etc. Said he's looking forward to the discussions.
The pool was escorted out at 6:04 pm, and both leaders ignored shouted questions. Biden and Lopez Obrador will now participate in a closed-door meeting. Pool is on the move to holding location, and I'll do my best to get fuller quotes/ an audio as soon as I can.



January 9, 202318:19 CST

Out-of-town pool report #13: Audio bilat spray
Here's an otter audio file, not sure how great the quality is: https://otter.ai/u/D_PkxXEmem-uTWweSs4fKbI4nuo
Will send along more detail if I get it.



January 9, 202318:36 CST

Out-of-town pool report #14: Better audio
Here's some better audio. Big thanks to radio pooler Anita Powell for sharing her feed: https://otter.ai/u/puTinVkVDbsS_QCtqRXAuOklUwk



January 9, 202319:07 CST

Out-of-town pool report #15: Bilat participants
Passing along from the White House:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico.
U.S. Manifest:The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Merrick Garland, Attorney GeneralT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland SecurityT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Ken Salazar, Ambassador of the United States to MexicoT.H. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateT.H. Chris Dodd, Special Presidential Advisor for the AmericasT.H. Brian Nichols, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere AffairsT.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Western Hemisphere, National Security CouncilT.H. Katie Tobin, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Transborder Security, National Security CouncilMr. Maxwell Hamilton, Director for North America, National Security Council
Mexico Manifest:H.E. Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican StatesH.E. Marcelo Ebrard Casaubon, Secretary of Foreign AffairsGen. Luis Cresencio Sandoval González, Secretary of National DefenseAdm. José Rafael Ojeda Durán, Secretary of the NavyH.E. Adán Augusto López Hernández, Secretary of the InteriorH.E. Rosa Icela Rodríguez Velázquez, Secretary of Security and Citizens ProtectionH.E. Rogelio Ramírez de la O, Secretary of Finances and Public CreditH.E. María Luisa Albores González, Secretary of Environment and Natural ResourcesH.E. Raquel Buenrostro Sánchez, Secretary of EconomyH.E. Esteban Moctezuma Barragán, Mexican Ambassador to the United States of AmericaMr. Roberto Velasco Álvarez, Chief of Unit for North AmericaMr. Alfonso Carlos Romo Garza, Honorary CounselorMr. Francisco Garduño Yáñez, Commissioner of the National Migration InstituteMs. Laura Elena Carrillo Cubillas, Executive Director of the Mexican Agency



January 9, 202319:47 CST

Out-of-town pool report #16: Bilat ends, dinner
The bilat has ended, and the White House just released a readout of Biden's meeting with Lopez Obrador.
And the closed-press, private dinner with POTUS, FlOTUS, President Lopez Obrador, Dr. Beatriz Gutiérrez Müller, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mrs. Sophie Gregoire Trudeau has begun, per the White House.



January 9, 202321:04 CST

Out-of-town pool report #17: Rolling
At 9:04 pm local time, the motorcade is rolling from the National Palace back to the hotel. Pool did not see POTUS.



January 9, 202321:20 CST

Out-of-town pool report #18: Arrival/lid
Motorcade arrived at the hotel at 9:18, and the White House called a lid.
Thanks all!




  