
    Orange County Congressman Who Flipped Deep Red Seat is Third U.S. Representative to Endorse Bloomberg
NEW YORK, NEW YORK — U.S. Representative Harley Rouda (CA-48) endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, praising Mike's proven record on issues that matter to Californians, citing his work fighting climate change and leadership on the economy.
"Washington's been a disaster for decades, but 2020 is a year when all the problems our leaders have failed to solve over the years are coming to a head. And the fact is, we're never getting out of this mess until we have leadership that can actually bring people together, no matter where they're from or what party they belong to, and unite them behind the values we all share. That's second nature to someone who's run a business, but it's like speaking a foreign language in DC. That is why I am endorsing Mike Bloomberg for president," said Congressman Harley Rouda. "Mike Bloomberg is an incredible leader. He's a legendary businessman who also ran one of the nation's largest and most complex cities, a city with a population larger than 39 states. He's met payrolls, knows how to balance budgets, and understands the intricacies of our economy. Like myself, Mike Bloomberg believes in smart capitalism coupled with good government. He has the ability to not only beat Donald Trump but, more importantly, to bring our country together, and restore America to its place as the leader of the free world."
"I was proud to support Harley Rouda in his first-time bid for Congress, when he was part of a wave of community leaders who understood the urgency of the moment and stepped up fight to bring balance to our national politics and rebuild the damage that has been done by the Trump administration by committing to public service," said Mike Bloomberg. "I am honored to have him as part of our team as we work to ensure that every Californian understands my campaign's vision on issues we know matter most to the state, such as strengthening our economy and protecting our environment."
Congressman Rouda represents CA-48, a district that he flipped blue in 2018 for the first time in the district's history. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Rouda was a business owner and entrepreneur.
  