
    Young people across the Middle East are ready for a more hopeful future. Governments throughout the region are realizing that terrorism is everyone's common enemy. And Palestinians and Israelis alike deserve a future of peace and prosperity.
This week, President Trump brought together Israeli political rivals in support of a detailed vision for peace. For the first time in this conflict, the President has reached an understanding with Israel on a map that sets forth real borders for a two-state solution.
Within 24 hours of its release, the Peace to Prosperity Vision drew positive responses worldwide, including from leaders across the Arab world:

U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Jim Risch statement:
"The search for peace between Israelis and Palestinians has been elusive… I applaud the president and his team for injecting new thinking and momentum into a process that has stalled over many years. This plan seeks to secure the sovereignty of Israel's borders, provides a pathway to a long-awaited state for Palestinians, and has the potential to open the door to economic prosperity in exchange for a departure from violence. I encourage Israel to embrace its Palestinian neighbor. I encourage the Palestinian people to look toward a brighter future and abandon the failed policies of the past. Only together can we achieve an enduring peace."

UAE Ambassador Yousef Al Otaiba statement:
"The United Arab Emirates appreciates continued US efforts to reach a Palestine-Israel peace agreement. This plan is a serious initiative that addresses many issues raised over the years. The only way to guarantee a lasting solution is to reach an agreement between all concerned parties. The UAE believes that Palestinians and Israelis can achieve lasting peace and genuine coexistence with the support of the international community. The plan announced today offers an important starting point for a return to negotiations within a US-led international framework."

UK's Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab statement:
"We welcome the release of the United States' proposal for peace between Israelis and Palestinians. This is clearly a serious proposal, reflecting extensive time and effort. A peace agreement between Israelis and Palestinians that leads to peaceful coexistence could unlock the potential of the entire region, and provide both sides with the opportunity for a brighter future. Only the leaders of Israel and the Palestinian territories can determine whether these proposals can meet the needs and aspirations of the people they represent. We encourage them to give these plans genuine and fair consideration, and explore whether they might prove a first step on the road back to negotiations."

Statement from The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia:
"The kingdom appreciates the efforts of President Trump's Administration to develop a comprehensive peace plan between the Palestinian and the Israeli sides, and encourages the start of direct peace negotiations between the Palestinian and Israeli sides, under the auspices of the United States, and to resolve any disagreements with aspects of the plan through negotiations…"

Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz on Twitter:
"I welcome the release of the #US plan which hopefully brings new momentum to the #MEPP having been in a deadlock for far too long. We call on the parties to start negotiations on the basis of this plan under #US leadership with a view to achieving a two-state-solution."

Statement from Nasser Bourita, Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Kingdom of Morocco:
"Morocco appreciates the peace efforts of the Trump Administration and wishes that a constructive peace process be launched . . . Already, Morocco has noted elements of convergence with the principles and options that it has always defended in this matter: These include the two-state solution."

Qatar statement:
"The State of Qatar welcomes all efforts aiming towards a longstanding and just peace in the occupied Palestinian territories. It also appreciates the endeavors of President Trump and the current US administration to find solutions for the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, all solutions should be consistent with international law and the relevant UN resolutions…"

Kingdom of Bahrain statement:
"With reference to the announcement by the President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump, of the 'Peace to Prosperity' plan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs affirms the Kingdom's position on the Palestinian issue and its support for all efforts aimed at reaching a just and comprehensive solution to the conflict, which leads to the restoration of all the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state that affords the Palestinian people the same rights enjoyed by their counterparts across the globe.?
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs commends the United States of America for its determined efforts to advance the peace process, and expresses its aspiration for the parties concerned to study the plan put forward by the United States of America, and to begin direct negotiations under the auspices of the United States of America to reach an agreement that meets the aspirations of the Palestinian and Israeli people in achieving a comprehensive and just peace between them, which leads to the establishment of an independent Palestinian state and supports security and peace that benefits all states in the region and their people."

Statement from the French Foreign Ministry:
"France welcomes President Trump's efforts and will study closely the peace programme he has presented."

Estonian Prime Minister Jüri Ratas on Twitter:
"US initiative gives an opportunity to relaunch the #MEPP and bring the resumption for both sides of meaningful negotiations, in the spirit of internationally agreed parameters, to achieve lasting peace."

Statement from Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs Jacek Czaputowicz:
"I commend the efforts of President Donald Trumps's administration aimed at resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I took note of the unveiling of the political part of the peace plan. Together with its economic component it constitutes a valuable basis for an in-depth discussion between two parties of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict."

Statement from Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs Marise Payne:
"Australia welcomes the release of the US 'Vision for Peace' by President Trump today. We welcome any initiative that can assist the resumption of direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians for an end to this conflict, and the agreement of a durable and resilient peace settlement."

Press conference by Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga:
"We expect that concrete movement will develop to achieve peace soon by this US proposal . . . We take this opportunity of US proposal of vision for peace and we expect that direct bilateral negotiations between Israel and Palestine would re-start."

Statement from the Republic of Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
"The government of the Republic of Korea appreciates the efforts of the international community, including the United States, to establish peace in the Middle East, and hopes that the Israeli-Palestinian issue will be resolved peacefully through dialogue and compromise among concerned parties on the basis of the 'two-state solution.'"

Statement from Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó:
"Hungary supports all efforts aimed at resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We trust that, as a result of the proposal of the United States, direct negotiations between the parties may begin as soon as possible, as only these can lead to sustainable peace in the Middle East."

Statement from President of Kosovo Hashim Thaçi:
"I welcome President Trump's leadership and I endorse his plan for the Middle East. Peace is the ultimate goal and leaders of both sides must show leadership and vision and make it happen. The world is watching and all will be encouraged to follow suit."

American Jewish Committee statement:
"President Trump released his long-anticipated plan for Israeli-Palestinian peace. We welcome the years-long effort to create a detailed vision for the path forward. The fact that both major political parties in Israel support the plan says something about a broad Israeli consensus. So, too, the striking presence at today's announcement of ambassadors from three Arab countries — Bahrain, Oman, and United Arab Emirates – as well as encouraging statements from a few other Arab nations. 'Clearly, the yearning for an end to the conflict, after seven decades and repeated rejections of previous plans by the Palestinian leadership, is growing ever stronger in the region, but time isn't necessarily on the Palestinians' side, as they always assumed,' said American Jewish Committee (AJC) CEO David Harris. 'No one expects the parties to endorse every proposed element with equal enthusiasm. But there's a potential basis here for starting talks in earnest and with the knowledge that there are important provisions — and, yes, painful concessions — for both sides. Accordingly, this ought to be a time for quiet exploration, discussion, and restraint in seeking to start the process of direct negotiations.'"

Heritage Foundation President Kay Coles James on Twitter:
"I was honored to witness the rollout of the Trump Peace Plan with @RealDonaldTrump & @netanyahu. I'm hopeful that it jump-starts long-stalled peace negotiations, bringing an end to conflict & a path to peace and prosperity for Israelis and Palestinians."

Americans Against Antisemitism:
"PRESIDENT TRUMP MAKES HISTORY AGAIN AS THE MOST 'PRO ISRAEL' PRESIDENT; ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN 'DEAL OF THE CENTURY' PAVES PATH FOR PALESTINIAN STATEHOOD WITHOUT SACRIFICING ISRAEL'S SECURITY. 'It's another bold and courageous move that demonstrates the president's understanding of the complicated reality on the ground,' said Dov Hikind. 'Most important is that this plan makes it clear to the Palestinians that terrorism doesn't and won't pay off. It must end, entirely.' […]"

AIPAC on Twitter:
"Today, the Trump administration released its framework to help achieve peace between Israelis and Palestinians. We appreciate the efforts of @POTUS Trump and his administration to work in consultation with the leaders of the two major Israeli political parties to set forth ideas to resolve the conflict in a way that recognizes our ally's critical security needs. Indeed, both Israeli political leaders view this framework as the basis to restart negotiations with the Palestinians. We have long believed that direct Israeli-Palestinian diplomacy is essential to create a durable peace and lasting two-state agreement that effectively addresses the concerns of both sides. Unfortunately, the Palestinian leadership has continually refused direct talks with Israel for the last several years. It is now essential that Palestinians both forego the path of violence, boycotts, and the criminalization of differences at international forums and return to peace talks with Israel. We were encouraged to see that the ambassadors from Oman, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates attended the announcement, and we call on the Arab states to play a constructive role in urging the Palestinians to resume negotiations with Israelis. While all parties will have their differences with this framework, it is time for Palestinians to rejoin Israelis at the negotiating table. A lasting, genuine peace will inevitably require agreement between the parties themselves and tough compromises from both sides."
Learn more about President Trump's bold plan for a two-state solution and Middle East peace.
  