
    Building on momentum in Iowa and New Hampshire, former Governor Roy Barnes, State Senate Democratic Leader Robert Brown and former Lt. Governor Mark Taylor to host organizing call with Edwards' Georgia leadership team
Will discuss plans for supporters and volunteers to visit South Carolina in advance of January 26th primary
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, as Iowa caucus goers prepare to hold the nation's first Democratic presidential contest, former Georgia Governor Roy Barnes will host a call with Edwards' Georgia state leadership team to discuss the campaign's increased activity in the state leading up to the February 5th primary. Gov. Barnes, who campaigned for Edwards in New Hampshire yesterday along with former Governor Richard Codey of New Jersey, will discuss the growing momentum he is seeing for Edwards on the ground in the Granite State.
"Talking to voters here in New Hampshire, one thing is very clear – people want change and they like what they're hearing from John Edwards," said Gov. Barnes. "Georgia voters do too. Some pundits say that a Democrat can't win in places like Georgia. But they're wrong. The right Democratic presidential nominee – one who shares our values, understands our issues and offers bold and specific solutions – can compete anywhere in America and win. That candidate is John Edwards – he's the only candidate with the vision and leadership needed to win both the primary and the general election."
On the call, Barnes will be joined by Georgia State Senate Democratic Leader Robert Brown and former Lt. Governor Mark Taylor, who have also endorsed Edwards, along with Georgia State House Democratic Leader DuBose Porter. The members of the campaign's Georgia leadership team will discuss plans for an upcoming press conference they will host to highlight Edwards' strength in the state. In the coming weeks, teams of Georgia supporters will also be making trips to South Carolina to campaign for Edwards in advance of the January 26th South Carolina Democratic primary.
Edwards has a wide network of support in Georgia. In addition to Gov. Barnes, former U.S. Congressman Ben "Cooter" Jones has campaigned extensively for Edwards in Iowa and New Hampshire. Edwards has also earned the endorsement of former U.S. Congressman Ed Jenkins.
Earlier this week, the Edwards campaign announced a list of current and former elected officials in Georgia and eight other February 5th states who were joining the campaign's team of advisors in all 22 February 5th states. The campaign highlighted the strength of its organization in February 5th states all across the country, including:

State advisors in all 22 February 5th states
Endorsements from seven labor unions that together represent more than 1.5 million members in February 5th states
Endorsements from a majority of State House and Senate Democratic legislators in North Dakota and Oklahoma
706 One Corps chapters, the local service arm of the Edwards campaign, in February 5th states
Statewide grassroots organizing calls held with advisors and supporters in all 22 February 5th states this month.

  