
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




January 20, 202107:28

Trump intown pool report #1: no changes, COVID test
Good morning from the White House on Inauguration Day.
President Donald Trump is scheduled to depart from the White House for the final time in his term with first lady Melania Trump at 8 am today. The press office advises that there are currently no adjustments or changes to his schedule.
Reporters traveling with President Trump and those in the pool this morning were COVID tested at the White House early this am before the sun came out.
For your awareness, there will be multiple print poolers sending reports today. I'll be handing the baton to the out-of-town pooler who is traveling today on Air Force One once President Trump is aboard Marine One.



January 20, 202107:57

Trump intown pool report #2: gather
Intown pool is gathered outside the White House residence for departure. Marine One just landed, sending gusts of chilly wind in the direction of assembled press. We are now awaiting the president.



January 20, 2021
[APP Note: Report #3 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


January 20, 202109:05

Trump intown pool report #4: one last report/more color
President Trump stood further away from pool than usual making his remarks extra hard to hear.
Here's the key line (please check against video) of President Trump on the South Lawn per the AP:
"It has been something very special. And I just want to say goodbye, but hopefully it's not a long-term goodbye. We'll see each other again."
Per the AP's Darlene Superville, as pool walked back through the Palm Room Doors, Keith Kellogg was seen standing in the colonnade, giving the West Wing one last look.
Pool also observed Robert O'Brien through the window of the Oval Office after Trump had already departed.
Color that Judd Deere asked me to share with you, attributable to him:
The president and first lady were greeted when they came downstairs by White House residence staff. The president and first lady thanked them all and wished them farewell.In the Diplomatic Reception room before they walked out, the president and first lady thanked and said farewell to White House staff, including counsel Pat Cipollone, deputy counsel Pat Philbin, General Keith Kellogg, Robert O'Brien, Judd Deere.Dan Scavino and Nick Luna were also present.
On the helicopter, also per Deere: Dan Scavino, Beau Harrison and Hayley D'Antuono.
That's all from me today on the Trump administration. See you on the other side.




  