
    Presidential Determination No. 93-12
Memorandum for the Secretary of States
Pursuant to the authority vested in me by Section 503(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 22 U.S.C. and Section 3(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2753(a)(1), I hereby find that the furnishing, sale, and/or lease of defense articles and services to the Government of Vanuatu will strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.
You are directed to report this finding to Congress and to publish it in the Federal Register.
GEORGE BUSH
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, January 6, 1993.

Justification for Presidential Determination of Eligibility of Vanuatu To Be Furnished Defense Articles and Services Under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control Act
Section 503 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and Section 3(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act (the Act) require, as a condition of eligibility to acquire defense articles and services from the United States, that the President find that the furnishings of such articles to and services to the country concerned will strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.
U.S. relations with Vanuatu have improved markedly since the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1986. A functioning democracy since independence 1980, Vanuatu initially followed a rigorous non-aligned policy which entailed maintaining arms-length relations with the United States. More recently, however, Vanuatu has assumed a more Western-oriented stance, showing interest in developing closer relations with the United States. The first Peace Corps volunteers arrived in Vanuatu in January 1990. Also in 1990, Vanuatu formally accepted a Memorandum of Understanding which laid the basis for establishment of an International Military Education and Training (IMET) program. The United States budgeted a modest IMET program for Vanuatu in FY 92. Access to the Foreign Military Sales system (FMS) would provide an effective vehicle by which the Vanuatu Government can purchase educational and other materials related to the IMET program.
In addition, Vanuatu recently established a maritime guard. This service will help the country monitor fishing activities in its waters. Secondary functions will be disaster relief, search and rescue, medical evacuation, and environmental pollution control. This improved capability will enable the Vanuatu better to control its resources and thus will contribute to its development. We anticipate that the Vanuatu will look to the U.S. and other friendly countries as potential sources for the procurement of defense articles and services to sustain that capability.
Providing defense articles and services to the Vanuatu will further our long-term goals of promoting democracy, stability, and economic development in the Vanuatu, and will thereby strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.
  