
    ALABAMA: In Mobile, U.S. Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones attended worship services and made several campaign stops for Hillary.
ARIZONA: Hillary supporters and volunteers made over 100,000 phone calls at 33 "Call Parties for Hillary" across the state.
ARKANSAS: The campaign announced that Hillary will visit Arkansas on Wednesday... In Jonesboro, Chelsea met with students, faculty members, and people throughout the Jonesboro community at Arkansas State University. [Read More Here] and here.
CALIFORNIA: A new USA TODAY/Gallup poll has Hillary up by 12 points over Sen. Obama (47-35). Read more... In Los Angeles, the campaign held "Generations for Hillary" phone banks. Fathers and mothers came to campaign offices with their young daughters and called voters... In Monterey Park, several Asian American elected officials including State Board of Equalization Vice Chair Judy Chu and State Assemblymember Mike Eng held a press conference in which they announced their support for Hillary. Vice Chair Chu and Assemblymember Eng also discussed the campaign's efforts to organize and mobilize Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in Southern California.
COLORADO: Dolores Huerta, one of America's most powerful and respected labor movement leaders, launched the Hispanic Leadership Council's week-long organizing tour, "Juntos con Hilary, Una Vida Mejor" at a rally in Pueblo. Read more... The Denver Post released a Mason-Dixon poll showing Clinton running a competitive campaign in the state. Read More.
CONNECTICUT: In Stamford, supporters held a sign-making party in advance of Hillary's visit.
GEORGIA: State Representative Calvin Smyre, the president of the National Black Caucus of State Legislators, explained why he supports Hillary. Listen or read more.
ILLINOIS: Hillary supporters held phone banks throughout the state... In Chicago, U.S. Rep. Tammy Baldwin mobilized LGBT supporters for Hillary.
MARYLAND: Former Lt. Governor Kathleen Kennedy Townsend issued a statement urging Americans to support Hillary. Read more.
MISSOURI: In Cape Girardeau, Chelsea met with more than 130 voters at a local coffee shop. Read more.
NEW JERSEY: The campaign announced that President Bill Clinton will on Tuesday hold a "Solutions for America" rally at Camden County College in Blackwood.
NEW MEXICO: In Albuquerque, Santa Fe, and Las Cruces, Hillary supporters reached out to voters across the state during volunteer phone banks.
NEW YORK: A new USA TODAY/Gallup poll has Hillary up by 28 points over Sen. Obama (56-28). Read more... In Rockland County, U.S. Rep. Jose Serrano, Bronx Borough President Adolfo Carrión and hundreds of grassroots supporters gathered and celebrated Hillary's historic campaign for the presidency. [Read More Here] and here.
OKLAHOMA: In Oklahoma City, Tulsa, Norman, Muskogee, Bokoshe, and Stillwater, Hillary supporters participated in woman to woman phone banks.
TENNESSEE: In Memphis, Hillary attended worship services at Monumental Baptist Church. "She received a standing ovation as she entered the pulpit and stood smiling for several minutes as people whipped out cell phones and cameras -- many rushing to the front of the church -- to snap her picture. She was swarmed again before she exited." Read more.
  