
    Previewing Today: With our economy in real trouble, Americans are struggling and need a President who can deliver real solutions. In South Carolina, Hillary will deliver a major speech addressing the economic challenges facing America in Greenville and host a "Solutions for America" town hall in Anderson.
New Ads: The campaign launched two new television ads in seven states that make clear that when Hillary is President, she will stand up for families who are being left behind in this economy. "Warned," is running in Connecticut, Missouri, New Mexico and Utah. Watch it. "Falling Through" is running in Massachusetts, Missouri, Oklahoma and Tennessee. Watch it.
More Endorsements: In Pennsylvania Gov. Ed Rendell endorsed Hillary, becoming the 10th Governor to join the campaign... In California, Rep. Joe Baca became the latest Member of Congress to endorse, bringing Hillary's total to 84... In South Carolina, former NFL wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson endorsed Hillary and joined Chelsea to launch "Our Voice, Our Future," a two-week tour to encourage young voters to support Hillary and make their voices heard.
Nationwide Momentum: In Arizona, a new Arizona State University/Channel Eight poll has Hillary up by 21 points over Sen. Obama (45-24)... In New Jersey, a new Quinnipiac University poll shows Hillary up by 17 points over Sen. Obama (49-32)... Nationwide, a new Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll has Hillary leading Sen. Obama by nine points (42 to 33).
In Case You Missed It: "A review by the Los Angeles Times shows that [Antoin "Tony"] Rezko...played a deeper role in Obama's political and financial biography than the candidate has acknowledged." Sen. Obama yesterday claimed that "no one had an inkling" of Mr. Rezko's troubles during their relationship. But there were many media reports about Mr. Rezko's legal and ethical problems. [Read More Here] and get the facts here.
FactCheck: The Wall Street Journal writes that Sen. Obama made an inaccurate statement about his record on single-payer universal health care during Monday's debate. Read more. In South Carolina, Sen. Obama suggested that he "never said that we should try to go ahead and get single payer." The truth is that in 2003, Sen. Obama said: "I happen to be a proponent of a single-payer universal health care plan." Watch him.
  