
    I HAVE signed today an Executive order which delegates certain authority vested in me by S.J. Res. 167 which I signed on December 30.
Responsibility for consulting with representatives of industry, business, and agriculture in reaching voluntary agreements has been delegated to those departments and agencies whose functions are most closely related to the commodities concerned. The Secretary of the Interior will be responsible for agreements relating to priorities, allocations, and inventory control of coal, coke, petroleum and petroleum products, and natural and manufactured gas. The Secretary of Agriculture will be similarly concerned with agreements relating to agricultural commodities and with respect to speculative trading on commodity exchanges. Agreements involving allocation of transportation facilities and equipment are made the responsibility of the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation. Responsibility for all other agreements authorized by the resolution is assigned to the Secretary of Commerce. The order provides that prior to final approval all such agreements must be submitted to and approved by the Attorney General.
The Secretary of Commerce will continue his present responsibility for the administration of export controls, as will the Director of the Office of Defense Transportation for controls with respect to the use of transportation equipment and facilities by rail carriers. The Secretary of Agriculture, in carrying out the food and feed conservation program authorized by the resolution, will work in close collaboration with, and utilize the facilities of, the Cabinet Food Committee, which continues to be responsible for carrying on the consumers' food conservation program.
The order provides that each agency concerned shall establish such committees and other working groups as may be appropriate to consult with and obtain the advice of other agencies and, to this end, I have addressed the attached letter to the heads of the agencies concerned requesting that they establish a suitable interagency working committee to promote close working relations and to make recommendations with respect to common policies and procedures in the administration of the program.
  