
    COMMENTATORS AND EDITORIAL BOARDS APPLAUD PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
Today, opinion writers and editorial boards are lauding President Trump's first State of the Union Address as "a bravura performance," "uplifting," and "a strong call for unity."
CNN CONTRIBUTOR SCOTT JENNINGS: Trump Was the Grown-Up in the Room
"Overall, I give the President high marks for a speech well-crafted and well-delivered. It hit the right notes on the economy and used invited guests to effectively to tell the story that Republicans want to tell -- this presidency is keeping promises, revving up the economy, and keeping us safe."
FOX NEWS' LIZ PEEK: Trump's State of the Union Delivered More Drama, Passion, Patriotism than His Hollywood Critics Have All Year
"President Trump's first-ever State of the Union Address delivered more drama, passion and feel-good patriotism than his critics in Tinseltown delivered all year.... His strong, clear-eyed message of American empowerment appeals. It is hard to deny that our government should put our people first. It is tough to argue that the bureaucracy functions as well as it should, or that security should not be the uppermost concern of our leaders. Most important, Trump has a good story to tell. A story of accomplishment, of lower taxes, better jobs and higher wages."
THE WASHINGTON POST COLUMNIST AND FORMER SPEECHWRITER TO PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH MARC THIESSEN: Trump's Speech Nailed It. Let's See What He Does Now
"His speech was moving. It was reasonable. It was bipartisan. And it worked. A CBS News-YouGov instant poll found that 75 percent of viewers approved of Trump's speech while only 25 percent disapproved. Those who approved included 97 percent of Republicans, 72 percent of independents and even 43 percent of Democrats."
FOX NEWS COMMENTATOR GARY SHAPIRO: Trump's State of the Union Spoke to America's Innovative, Entrepreneurial Spirit. Carpe Diem, Everyone
"...President Trump issued a strong call for unity Tuesday night in his State of the Union address, urging all Americans to partner with him in celebrating a 'new American moment.'... Overall, President Trump's first State of the Union address spoke to America's innovative, entrepreneurial spirit."
THE HILL COMMENTATOR BUCK SEXTON: Trump's Powerful State of the Union Laid Out 2018 Vision: Prosperity, Borders, Security
"This State of the Union was a celebration, and a mission statement. Trump's opening litany of economic accomplishments set the tone for the rest of the speech. Stock market highs, record low unemployment, repatriation of overseas cash, massive investment from multinational corporations in U.S.-based jobs — these are all objective and powerful indicators of what the president has been able to achieve thus far for the American people."
WASHINGTON EXAMINER'S TOM ROGAN: With 56 Words, Trump Confronted the Evil of International Terrorism
"In his first State of the Union address on Tuesday evening, President Trump announced that he has ordered Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis to maintain the terrorist detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay. He is right to do so. Yet Trump also hit the right note when he articulated the moral imperative of countering terrorist groups. It took him just 56 words to do so....Those words were apt for two reasons. Their truth and their simplicity."
INVESTOR'S BUSINESS DAILY EDITORIAL BOARD: Speaking from the Heart, Trump's Speech Was All Democrats Feared It Would Be
"It was a bravura performance, one of the best in recent history. In one of the better State of the Union speeches in recent memory, the first-time politician Trump pushed all the right buttons, and probably reminded a lot of people why they voted for him instead of his supposedly invincible opponent."
WASHINGTON EXAMINER EDITORIAL BOARD: Making America Strong Again
"It was uplifting in his State of the Union address when Trump used the word strong and strength, 13 times combined, in a quintessentially American way....He referred to America showing 'steel in its spine' and and [sic] also said there would be no more 'surrender.' These usages evoked several ideas deftly — a return to greatness, a contrast with the weakness and failure of the Obama years, and a firm foundation in the unquenchable American ideals embodied in its striving people."
THE BLADE (TOLEDO, OHIO) EDITORIAL BOARD: Trump's State of the Union: A Speech of Choices
"The President gave a good speech tonight. It touched on many things, and many things that need to be done, including an infrastructure bill and a Dreamers bill.... it celebrated what the President accomplished — tax cuts, a booming Wall Street, ballooning 401Ks, and an ISIS that is held in check. Not to mention Apple's return of funds and reinvestment to America, and Chrysler's move of a plant from Mexico to Michigan."
  