
    SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS (January 12, 2019) — Following today's announcement from former U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and San Antonio Mayor, Julián Castro that he is running for President of the United States, media coverage and social media conversations recapped the day as follows:
"In his speech on Saturday, Mr. Castro emphasized education, calling for a national version of the universal prekindergarten program he established in San Antonio when he was mayor. To fund the program there, he increased the city's sales tax — a politically risky proposition, especially in Texas, but San Antonio voters approved it. His message was firmly progressive. He called for a higher minimum wage, denounced police killings of African-Americans, which he described as "state violence," and embraced the Black Lives Matter movement. He also condemned President Trump's immigration policy, including the practice of family separation and the proposed border wall, and declared that his first executive order if elected would be to rejoin the Paris climate accords, which Mr. Trump left." - By Maggie Astor, New York Times, January 12, 2018
"On a stage with his family, including his twin brother Rep. Joaquin Castro, in his hometown of San Antonio, the Texas Democrat declared his bid to try and take the White House from President Donald Trump in 2020 and fulfill a destiny that Democrats have projected since he was elected San Antonio mayor at 34." - Christal Hayes, USA TODAY, January 12, 2018
"Castro's entrance makes him the only declared Latino in the Democratic field, a relatively powerful position given how the party has leaned on Latino voters and turnout efforts to tilt states like Nevada, Arizona and Texas their direction in recent years...Castro and his team have signaled in the lead up to Saturday's announcement that he will lean into his Mexican-American heritage in a presidential run...Evidence of this strategy peppered the plaza on San Antonio's West Side where Castro announced on Saturday…" - By Dan Merica, CNN, January 12, 2018
"...he has all the makings of an inspirational candidate — he's young and ambitious, he overcame a childhood of poverty to attend Stanford and Harvard Law, and if he wins the nomination, would be the first Latino presidential nominee on a major-party ticket." - By Geoffrey Skelley, FiveThirtyEight, January 12, 2018
"Castro promised that if elected he would push for Medicare for all, universal prekindergarten instruction, changes to the cash-bail system and an end to police violence against African Americans. Calling climate change a mortal threat to humanity, Castro said his first presidential action would be to issue an executive order recommitting the U.S. to the Paris climate accord, a multinational effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions." - Robert T. Garrett Gromer Jeffers Jr., Dallas Morning News, January 12, 2018
Nicholas Kristof - @NickKristof: "He's a smart guy with strong policy credentials and a compelling life story. If you think of "antonym of Trump" it may be "Julián Castro."
Shaun King - @ShaunKing: WOW! @JulianCastro just announced the most diverse campaign team ever. Brilliant Black woman as campaign manager! -Campaign manager: @MayaRupert -Campaign chairman: @JoaquinCastrotx -Deputy campaign manager: @Derek_Eadon -Senior adviser for comms and digital: @Jennifer_Fiore
Adrian Carrasquillo - @Carrasquillo: .@JulianCastro and @JoaquinCastrotx on the bus in San Antonio on the way to Castro's announcement for president at Plaza Guadalupe near where they grew up feels like something new. https://www.facebook.com/97458155742/videos/822633254751908/ …
Adam Best - @adamcbest: Julian Castro is officially running for president. Hunch: He's being underestimated. Given his family's immigration story he's a compelling antidote to Trump. Running progressive campaign. M4A, Green New Deal, high marginal tax rates for super rich, etc.
Jenna Johnson? - @wpjenna: A looooong line of people are waiting to get into Julián Castro's big announcement event in San Antonio this morning…
Thor Benson -? @thor_benson: Julian Castro is going to do really well with young people. He's from an immigrant family, and he's talking about equality, fairness and opportunity. All of those things really work for young voters if you seem genuine, and he does.
Patti Solis Doyle - @PattiSolisDoyle: "I'm excited that @JulianCastro is running! "With big dreams and hard work ANYTHING is possible in this country." #Julian2020 Dems will have a lot of talent in the primary
Dustin Lance Black - @DLanceBlack: "So inspiring to witness the heartfelt message of fellow San Antonio son @JulianCastro announcing his run for the Presidency in the bright daylight of our shared hometown. A message of hope, inclusion & progress for all. Damn refreshing in this era of division. Thank you, Julian."
  