
    "I'm the candidate who can actually beat Trump… I'm experienced enough to know how to get the job done, and I'm the right generation to do it."
Watch the ad here
MANCHESTER — Michael Bennet today launched a new television ad, making his final pitch to New Hampshire voters ahead of the First in the Nation primary. The ad will run beginning today, including a spot on the night of the upcoming February 7th debate.
In the ad, Bennet demonstrates—through his experience, agenda, and generation—why he is the best candidate to beat Donald Trump and start governing the country again.
"I've won two hard Senate races in Colorado, a state a lot like New Hampshire—not much like Massachusetts or Vermont," Bennet says in the ad. "...I'm experienced enough to know how to get the job done, and I'm the right generation to do it."
"In Michael's final pitch to New Hampshire, he makes clear why he is the best candidate to beat Donald Trump—the number one question voters are asking ahead of the primary," Bennet for America spokesperson Shannon Beckham said. "Michael draws a direct contrast with Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, who unlike him, have never won in a swing state, and outlines why he has the right experience and is of the right generation—unlike Pete Buttigieg and Joe Biden—to lead the country."
Bennet for America has run two previous ads in New Hampshire, "Opposite of Trump" and "Two Weeks at a Time." The campaign's New Hampshire digital ad series, "Just the Truth," illustrates Bennet's personal story, experiences in leadership and service, and motivations underlying his run for president.
In December, Bennet announced his commitment to hold 50 town halls in New Hampshire during the final 10 weeks before the First in the Nation primary. He is scheduled to hold his 50th town hall in Manchester on Monday, while other candidates are in Iowa.
Watch the ad here.

Read a transcript of the ad below.
I'm the candidate who can actually beat Trump.
I've won two hard Senate races in Colorado, a state a lot like New Hampshire—not much like Massachusetts or Vermont.
I have the policies to beat Trump. An achievable healthcare plan to cover everyone and lower costs. A real economic plan to boost both the middle class and those struggling to get there.
I'm experienced enough to know how to get the job done, and I'm the right generation to do it.
I'm Michael Bennet, and I approve this message.
  