
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
January 20
While in Atlanta, Ga., the President met with a group of Southern State Governors at the Omni International Hotel.
January 21
The President attended funeral services for his uncle, Alton Carter, in Plains, Ga.
January 23
The President returned to the White House following a weekend stay at St. Simons Island, Ga.
January 24
The President telephoned Canadian • Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau to discuss joint U.S.-Canadian efforts to locate and assess the effects of a Soviet nuclear-powered Cosmos satellite which had reentered the Earth's atmosphere over northern Canada that morning.
The President met at the White House with: —Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—members of the bipartisan congressional leadership;
—Senator Warren G. Magnuson of Washington;
—Representative Harold T. Johnson of California;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President attended a briefing on the Panama Canal treaties, given for business and political leaders from Iowa, Kansas, and Michigan. January 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator James B. Pearson of Kansas;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum of Ohio and Dennis J. Kucinich, mayor of Cleveland;
—Senator Paul G. Hatfield, newly appointed Senator from Montana, and members of his family.
The President hosted a White House reception for the executive council and national planning committee of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO.
January 26
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representatives Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts and Don Bonker of Washington, who reported on their factfinding trip to the Horn of Africa;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown and Gen. Daniel "Chappie" James, Jr., who is retiring from the Air Force;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Senator Richard Stone of Florida to discuss the Panama Canal treaties;
—Representative Robert N. Giaimo of Connecticut.
The President attended a briefing on the Panama Canal treaties, given for representatives of the business community.
The President hosted a White House reception for members of the National Council of Mayors.
Democratic National Chairman Kenneth M. Curtis and Mrs. Curtis had dinner with the President at the White House.
The President declared an emergency for the State of Ohio because of the impact of an abnormal accumulation of snow on vital transportation arteries within the State.
January 27
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative Ray Roberts of Texas;
—members of the American Press Institute (transcript will be printed next week);
—Coleman Young, mayor of Detroit, and Jesse Hill, president of the Atlanta Insurance Co.
The President declared an emergency for the State of Indiana because of the impact of an abnormal accumulation of snow on vital transportation arteries within the State.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1976 annual report on special international exhibitions conducted under the authority of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961.
  