
    NEVADA: Hillary continued her "Delivering Real Change" tour with community forums at both ends of the state. In Las Vegas, leaders in education and the environment joined Hillary for a discussion about the proposed Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository. Clinton has been a consistent and outspoken opponent of the Yucca project. Later in Reno, Hillary hosted a roundtable on the economy with northern Nevadans struggling with foreclosures and the high cost of health care and education. Also in Reno, "Ugly Betty" star America Ferrera and Chelsea Clinton met with young voters. Finally, the campaign continued to air a Spanish-language ad focused on Hillary's commitment to giving a voice to the voiceless and putting an end to the politics of divisiveness.Watch it.
SOUTH CAROLINA: Yesterday, the thousand strong South Carolina Women for Hillary organization kicked off its final push to Primary Day, organizing phone banks across the state and encouraging South Carolina women to find their voices for Hillary. The campaign also announced the endorsement of 23 additional South Carolina women leaders.
ARIZONA: The campaign announced its 48-member statewide steering committee at a press conference at the State Capitol. The committee includes leaders from communities across Arizona, including leaders of labor unions, women's groups, and tribal organizations. Senate Minority Leader Marcia Arzberger joined State Representative Robert Meza and Maricopa County District 5 Supervisor Mary Rose Wilcox at the event and all three praised Hillary Clinton's leadership and economic stimulus plan.
ARKANSAS: Hillary won the Washington County Senior Democrats' mock primary. She received 56 votes to Obama's 13. Read more in the Northwest Arkansas Times.
CALIFORNIA: President Bill Clinton yesterday continued his tour of Northern California, stopping in Oakland, Napa Valley and Eureka to talk with young voters about the economy and the mortgage crisis. Read more in the ANG Newspapers. In Los Angeles and San Francisco, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Hillary supporters and volunteers also gathered at Bring Your Own Phone (BYOP) parties and called area voters in support of Hillary Clinton.
COLORADO: Colorado for Hillary introduced 25 members as leaders of the Colorado Veterans for Hillary Steering Committee. The steering committee will organize veterans' support for Hillary by emphasizing her strong record of delivering results for veterans, troops, and military families.
CONNECTICUT: The campaign announced the hiring Bryan DeAngelis as Communications Director and Addisu Demissie as Political Director.
MARYLAND: Former Lt. Gov Kathleen Kennedy Townsend joined Clinton Deputy Economic Advisor Larry Benn yesterday on a conference call with Maryland reporters to discuss Hillary's plan for stemming the tide of foreclosures throughout the state. During the call, Lt. Governor Townsend highlighted Hillary's plan for dealing with the foreclosure crisis, stating, "This is just an example of why I think she would be such a strong president." Read about it in the Washington Examiner.
MASSACHUSETTS: A new State House News poll shows Hillary Clinton leading Barack Obama and John Edwards in Massachusetts 37 to 25 percent and 14 percent.
MINNESOTA: Hillary's Minnesota Facebook supporters gathered at the campaign's Minneapolis headquarters last night for a young voter phone bank. The campaign also named Hubert "Buck" Humphrey its State Director and Jonathan Beeton its Communications Director.
MISSOURI: The campaign held a conference call with Senior Adviser Ann Lewis, State Director Rep. Rachel Storch, Rep. Esther Haywood and former Secretary of State Bekki Cook to discuss its outreach to women voters who made up 53 percent of the state's electorate in 2004. In St. Louis, former Secretary of State Madeline Albright also explained why Hillary Clinton should be the next President. Listen.
NEW JERSEY: Governor Jon Corzine and Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm yesterday praised Hillary's economic stimulus package during a conference call with reporters. A new Monmouth University poll also showed Clinton ahead of Obama 42 to 30 percent.
NEW MEXICO: Albuquerque Mayor Martin Chavez endorsed Senator Clinton. A former Richardson supporter, Chavez is serving his third term as Mayor. He said: "New Mexico is ready for change and I know Hilary Clinton is ready to lead on day one. I am proud to support her because I believe she will be the best President for New Mexico and the working families that make this country great. She has a 35-year-record of delivering results. I am going to do everything I can to help her."
NEW YORK: Assemblyman Darryl Towns discussed the campaign's strength in Brooklyn with local media while dozens of volunteers in the Manhattan office made phone calls to potential voters, leafleted, and spread the word for Hillary. Read and watch.
  