
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, former U.S. Congressman David McIntosh (R-IN) endorsed Governor Mitt Romney and his candidacy for President of the United States. McIntosh most recently served as a senior policy adviser to former Republican presidential candidate Senator Fred Thompson. He is a co-founder of the Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy Studies.
"I am proud to make today's endorsement. Governor Romney has the vision to bring true conservative change to Washington and strengthen our economy. As President, he will advance a pro-growth agenda that strengthens our economy, encourages innovation and creates jobs. From business and the Olympics to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Governor Romney is the proven leader we need in Washington today. I also am convinced that Governor Romney will appoint judges who will exercise judicial restraint, respect the rule of law and appreciate the Constitution as written," said David McIntosh.
McIntosh will serve as a Co-Chair of the Romney for President Advisory Committee on the Constitution and the Courts with Professor Douglas W. Kmiec, former constitutional legal counsel to President Ronald Reagan. He replaces Professor Mary Ann Glendon who was recently appointed to be U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See.
Announcing McIntosh's support, Governor Romney said, "As a founder of the Federalist Society, David McIntosh is a highly respected conservative leader with an extensive career of public service. It is an honor that he has joined our campaign to strengthen America. As a valuable addition to our legal advisory committee, I look forward to working with him and having his counsel on the important judicial issues confronting our country today."
Background On Former U.S. Congressman David McIntosh:
Former Congressman David McIntosh Is A Co-Founder Of The Federalist Society And Has An Extensive Career Of Public Service. During the Reagan administration, McIntosh served as special assistant to the Attorney General and special assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs. During the first Bush administration, he served as executive director of the President's Council on Competitiveness and assistant to the Vice President. In Congress, he represented Indiana's Second Congressional District from 1995 until January 2001. He served as chairman of the Subcommittee on Regulatory Relief.
*Organization names are listed for identification purposes only and should not be construed as endorsements by such organizations.
  