
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research:
George R. Dunlop would succeed Donald N. Medearis for a term expiring July 18, 1985. Dr. Dunlop is attending surgeon at the University Hospital in Worcester, Mass. He is consulting surgeon at the Memorial Hospital and professor of surgery at the University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester. Previously he was consulting surgeon at the U.S. Naval Hospital in Chelsea, Mass., and the U.S. Veterans Hospital in Rutland, Mass. He was chief of surgical service, the Memorial Hospital, in 1959-66. Dr. Dunlop is past president of the American Cancer Society and continues to serve as a member of the board of directors. Dr. Dunlop graduated from the University of Cincinnati (B.S., 1927) and Harvard Medical School (M.D., 1931). He is married, has two children, and resides in Worcester. He was born March 31, 1906, in St. Peter, Minn.
Daher B. Rahi would succeed Renee Claire Fox for a term expiring July 18, 1985. Dr. Rahi is an osteopathic physician and surgeon in St. Clair Shores, Mich. Previously he was deputy medical examiner for Macomb County. He was president of the Macomb County Society of Osteopathic Physicians and Surgeons and president of the Michigan Association of Osteopathic Physicians and Surgeons. He was appointed in 1979 to the Michigan Health Occupations Council, and later director of Michigan Statewide Professional Standard Review Council, Michigan Department of Human Services. His humanitarian endeavors include his service as chairman of the United Foundation Torch Drive for 2 consecutive years, and as a leading physician in the polio and measles immunization drive. Dr. Rahi graduated from the University of Detroit (B.S., 1953) and the College of Osteopathic Medicine and Surgery of Des Moines, Iowa. He is married, has three children, and resides in St. Clair Shores, Mich. He was born July 11, 1930, in Lebanon.
Seymour Siegel would succeed Frances K. Graham for a term expiring July 18, 1985. Dr. Siegel is professor of ethics and theology at the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York, N.Y. He was chairman of the Department of Philosophies of Judaism, the Jewish Theological Seminary, in 1960-80. Dr. Siegel was senior research fellow, the Kennedy Institute of Bioethics, Georgetown University, in 1976-77. He was chairman, Committee on Jewish Law and Standards, the Rabbinical Assembly, in 1973-80. He was a member of the United States Delegation to the World Population Year Conference sponsored by the United Nations in Bucharest, Romania, in 1974. Dr. Siegel graduated from the University of Chicago (B.A.) and the Jewish Theological Seminary (M.A., Ph.D.). He resides in New York, N.Y., and was born September 12, 1927, in Chicago, Ill.
Lynda Smith would succeed Mathilde Krim for the remainder of the term expiring July 18, 1983. Mrs. Smith is a member of the University of Colorado Medical Center Advisory Committee in Denver, Colo. She is also a volunteer counselor and a volunteer for newborn aural testing at Penrose Hospital in Colorado Springs, Colo. In addition to these activities, Mrs. Smith is a member of the advisory board to the chancellor of the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs. She was active in raising funds for the Newborn Care Unit at the Children's Hospital, Denver, in 1975-76. Mrs. Smith graduated from the University of Texas (B.S., 1962). She is married, has three children, and resides in Colorado Springs, Colo. She was born August 1, 1940, in Tyler, Tex.
  