
    (Washington, DC)-President Trump announced today that as part of his overall job creation agenda he will launch a Manufacturing Jobs Initiative.
The President will be meeting with some of the world's most successful and creative business leaders to share their experiences and gain their insights. President Trump plans to continually seek information and perspectives from a diverse range of business leaders, including those listed below and others, on how best to promote job growth and get Americans back to work again.
The first series of meetings were organized by Andrew Liveris, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Dow Chemical Company. The President has expressed his appreciation to Mr. Liveris for his ongoing efforts in this regard.
Initial business leaders assisting with the Manufacturing Jobs Initiative include:
Andrew Liveris, The Dow Chemical Company Bill Brown, Harris Corporation Michael Dell, Dell Technologies John Ferriola, Nucor Corporation Jeff Fettig, Whirlpool Corporation Mark Fields, Ford Motor Company Ken Frazier, Merck & Co., Inc. Alex Gorsky, Johnson & Johnson Greg Hayes, United Technologies Corp. Marilynn Hewson, Lockheed Martin Corporation Jeff Immelt, General Electric Jim Kamsickas, Dana Inc. Klaus Kleinfeld, Arconic Brian Krzanich, Intel Corporation Rich Kyle, The Timken Company Thea Lee, AFL-CIO Mario Longhi, U.S. Steel Denise Morrison, Campbell Soup Company Dennis Muilenburg, Boeing Elon Musk, Tesla Doug Oberhelman, Caterpillar Scott Paul, Alliance for American Manufacturing Kevin Plank, Under Armour Mike Polk, Newell Brands Mark Sutton, International Paper Inge Thulin, 3M Richard Tumka, AFL-CIOWendell Weeks, Corning
The attendees may or may not change from session to session, but the specific agenda subjects will likely change because of the importance of this issue to the American economy and its workers. No consensus advice or recommendations resulting from group deliberations or interaction is expected or will be solicited.
  