
    Huffman Supports Clinton as "staunch advocate for rights of all Americans"
LOS ANGELES, CA - The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of Alice Huffman, President of the California State Conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP.) The endorsement comes on the anniversary of Martin Luther King's birthday. Senator Clinton delivered a speech in honor of the national holiday today at an SEIU celebration in New York City.
"Over the years, Hillary Clinton has earned my respect as a staunch advocate for the rights of people invisible to our nation's government, including women, minorities, children, and seniors," said Huffman. "Hillary shares my commitment to children, and has been a lifelong advocate for improving childhood education and health care. As President, I feel strongly that Hillary will create an atmosphere in this country that accepts and promotes the rights of all Americans."
Huffman has a distinguished career in public advocacy. Since 1999, she has been president of the California State Conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the nation's oldest civil rights organization. In 2002, Huffman was elected to the NAACP's National Board of Directors were she currently serves as Region I Board Member. Huffman has previously served as associate executive director for politics for the California Teachers Association and state president of the Black American Political Association of California.
"It is wrong that that Americans still face discrimination in the workplace - that children still attend schools that are separate and unequal, and that schools don't prepare them for the jobs of the 21st century," said Senator Clinton. "Alice and I have long shared the same cause of fighting to right those wrongs and I am both honored and humbled to have her support."
Senator Hillary Clinton's speech at the SEIU birthday celebration can be viewed in its entirety here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNB3EHA5_k0.
  