
    Pool Reports by Eugene Daniels, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




January 27, 202204:00 EST

VP Supplemental Pool #1 - Checking In from JBA 
Why yes this a 4 AM pool email. I'm your Pooler for VP Harris' day trip to the inauguration of the new president of Honduras. The pool was tested yesterday and have gone through security and are waiting on Air Force Two for The arrival of Marine Two.
We just spotted Samantha Power, USAID Administrator who walked into the lounge alone, said hello and walked into the area where the delegation is hanging out after we pointed her there.
Below is the schedule from the guidance:
At 4:25AM EST, the Vice President will depart Washington, DC en route Palmerola, Honduras. The departure from Joint Base Andrews and arrival at Soto Cano Air Base will be covered by the travel pool.
At 11:00AM CST, the Vice President will attend the Inauguration Ceremony for President-elect Xiomara Castro of the Republic of Honduras. The Inauguration Ceremony at the National Stadium of Tegucigalpa will be open press.
At 2:05PM CST, the Vice President will hold a bilateral meeting with President Xiomara Castro of the Republic of Honduras. There will be a pool spray at the top of this meeting in the Presidential Palace.
At 5:20PM CST, the Vice President will depart Palmerola, Honduras en route Washington, DC.The departure from Soto Cano Air Base and arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be covered by the travel pool



January 27, 202204:35 EST

VP Supplemental Pool #2 — wheels Up 
The Vice President landed at 4:16 at JBA. She waved to press under the info of the plane as she got on the plane at 4:21. We took off at 4:34.
On background from WH official:The Vice President of the United States arrived at Joint Base Andrews for her visit to Honduras. Upon arrival, she was greeted by a Presidential Delegation including Lt. Col. Tom Fritz, Director Flight Line Protocol, C-40B Pilot, Congressman Raul Ruiz (D-CA-36), Ambassador Samantha Power, USAID Administrator, Jose Fernandez, Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs Ambassador Giffords, Chief of Protocol and Brian Nichols, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs.



January 27, 202207:57 CST

VP Supplemental Pool #3 — landed in Honduras 
Air Force Two landed at 7:52 in Honduras after a pretty uneventful ride.



January 27, 202208:14 CST

VP Supplemental Pool #4 — getting in Helos 
Vice President Harris walked off the plane around 8:08. We are taking helicopters to the next stop. Below is from a WH official.
Greeters:- Ambassador Vania Garcia Morales, Ministerial Advisor, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Honduras- Colonel Chris Pateras, U.S. Senior Defense Official, Defense Attaché, U.S. Embassy Tegucigalpa



January 27, 202209:03 CST

VP Supplemental Pool #5 - Ceremonial arrival 
Press and staff helos landed at 8:36. Vice President Harris landed at 8:44. We are at theHernán Acosta Meijía Air Force Base (Base HAM) Tegucigalpa, Honduras. It’s a military school.
There are members of the military dressed in the dress blues with what blue and red hats. A red carpet was unfurled for the VP when the helicopters landed.
When she walked out she was greeted (names below) and put her hand on her heart and nodded her head as she was introduced to each person.
She walked down the red carpet with Amb Ramon Valladares between military students and waved to the crowd of press and other students. She did answer shouted questions we couldn’t hear a word of it since a helicopter was circling overhead. Checking with the TV folks to try and get some of the audio.
Harris got into a Chevy with the American and Honduran flags on them.
From the WH: Vice President Harris exits helicopter for a ceremonial greet by Amb. Ramon Valladares, Honduras Chief of Protocol.Greeters:- Mr. Eduardo Enrique Reina, Foreign Minister Designate & Representative of President-Elect Xiomara Castro- Mr. Héctor Zelaya Castro, Representative of President-Elect Xiomara Castro- Mr. Jose Manuel Zelaya Castro, Representative of President-Elect Xiomara Castro- Colonel Marco Tulio Gonzales, Base HAM Base Commander, Honduras



January 27, 202209:29 CST

VP Travel Pool #6 — holding at hotel 
People lined the streets with their cameras out as the motorcade drove through the streets, including one man who was in the bed of a moving truck with a handheld camera.
It was about a twenty minute ride to the hotel where we’ll hold for about 30 minutes. Arrived at 9:19.



January 27, 202211:33 CST

VP Travel Pool #6 — still holding, running late 
Just wanted to check in. The inauguration has not started and was scheduled to start at 11. We are still holding at the hotel.



January 27, 202212:01 CST

VP Travel Pool 7 - loaded up 
We just loaded up into vans to head to the inauguration.Started moving at 11:57.



January 27, 202212:12 CST

VP travel pool #8 - arrival at stadium 
People lining the streets, some waving and cheering. One woman had her hand on her heart. People selling different trinkets and food
We arrived at 12:04 to the stadium. There are thousands of people. Those on the grass are seated on chairs draped in white cloth. The majority are on the stadium.
As Vice President was announced, there were cheers and a chant of Viva Honduras! We cannot see the VP from the press risers. The event is underway.



January 27, 202212:25 CST

VP travel pool #9 - run of show
A cannon went off a few times times and then a chant in Spanish after. A band played the Honduran anthem while the crowd put their fists in the air aimed toward the stage.
Then the president-elect began to speak. She shouted out VP Harris as a representative of the United States in the speech. The crowd cheered.
Some run of show from a WH official:BEFORE POOL ARRIVED

President-Elect Castro entered stadium and proceeded to dais.
Deputy President of Sovereign National Congress gave remarks
President-Elect Castro takes oath of office

- Military ceremony occurredo Presentation of the Presidential Sasho National Anthem of the Republic of Honduras o Salute of Military Troopso Artillery Saluteo Honduran Air Force Fly Overo Color Guard Presentation
POOL ARRIVEDPresidential designates take oath of office- President Castro gives inaugural speech at podium- President of Sovereign National Congress gives closing remarks- President Castro swears-in Government Cabinet.



January 27, 202213:09 CST

VP travel #10 corrected — CORRECTED STATEMENT ON REASON FOR LATE DEPARTURE 
we had some email service problems so here is the correct statement bout departure.
Attributed to a WH official:
There was a delay in departing the hotel to allow motorcade routes to be cleared.



January 27, 202213:23 CST

VP travel pool #11 - back to the hotel
We left the stadium at 1:11 after the president’s speech wrapped. We are headed back to the hotel for lunch before the bilat.
We got back to the hotel at 1:23.



January 27, 202214:46 CST

VP travel pool #12 — presidential palace
Arrived at the presidential palace at 2:36. VP Harris greeted the new president with a "Congratulations!"
They spoke for a few minutes but it was unclear what was said. An interpreter was with the two. We are now awaiting the arrival of both Harris and Castro to the meeting room. It's large with a huge mahogany table, three chandeliers and their staffs are on either side. There are mostly paintings of former presidents on the walls according to Wh official.



January 27, 202215:13 CST

VP travel pool #13 - bilateral notes and announcements
The women sat down at 2:52. We could not really make out what was said from the president.
Notes from what Harris said:"I'd like to publicly congratulate you on your election. We've been watching the election process closely."
"We appreciate that your election was a democratic election."
"I look forward to … the partnership."
She talked about wanting to make sure they focus on economic prosperity and also laid out the reasons people leave the country and that they don't want to.
Announced that the administration is sending "several hundred thousand more doses of vaccines, 500,000 pediatric syringes and $1.35 million dollars" to help health and educational facilities. The announcements are new.
"Looking forward to this partnership."
Pool was ushered out at 2:58.



January 27, 202215:38 CST

VP Travel Pool #14 — bilat over, Meeting attendees,
Bilat ended just before 3:30. We are now headed back to the military school from this morning for a departure ceremony where we’ll get on helicopters and head back to the AFB to head out.
U.S. Delegation:- T.H. Raul Ruiz, U.S. Member of Congress (D-CA-36)- T.H. Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President- T.H. Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President- T.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development- T.H. Jose W. Fernandez, Under Secretary for Economic Growth,Energy, and the Environment, U.S. Department of State- T.H. Brian A. Nichols, Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs, U.S. Department of State- T.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President andSenior Director for the Western Hemisphere, National SecurityCouncil
U.S. Backbench:- Mr. Mazin Alfaqih, Special Advisor to the Vice President- Mr. Dean Lieberman, Director of Strategic Communications and Assistant Press Secretary, National Security Council- Mr. Gordon Wood, Political Officer, U.S. Embassy Tegucigalpa
Honduras Delegation:- President Xiomara Castro- Mr. Enrique Reina, Foreign Minister of Honduras- Mr. Héctor Zelaya, Personal Advisor to President of Honduras- Forthcoming, Security Minister of Honduras



January 27, 202215:56 CST

VP Travel Pool #14 - arrival at AFB, Dais greeting
Pool is holding a the AFB. Got here around 3:50. VP and US delegation are in another room. The WH sends the below info about who VP Harris spoke to while on the stage at the inauguration.
From WH officialWhile on stage at the inauguration of President Castro of Honduras, Vice President Harris briefly greeted:
King Felipe VI of SpainPresident Carlos Andres Alvarado Quesada of Costa RicaPrime Minister John Briceño of BelizeVice President Raquel Peña of the Dominican RepublicVice President William Lai of Taiwan



January 27, 202216:13 CST

VP Travel Pool #15 - audio from Bilat
Thanks to a recording angel, we have the bilat audio. It was very hard to hear in the room so this is the best we have.
We are still holding at military school.



January 27, 202216:33 CST

VP travel pool #16 — leaving military school/Gaggle Link
https://otter.ai/u/UlNqCij-lRG8YC0sQS3oqlghcYw
Moving fast so don’t have time to write quotes. Otter link above. She took 3 questions on trip and one on Breyer.
VP Harris got on her helo at 4:28. We are getting on ours now and lifting off to AFB.



January 27, 202217:18 CST

VP travel pool 17 - Arrival at AFB, lifting off 
Landed at 4:56 at the AFB. The VP’s helicopter landed at 5:04. She took picture with 38 members of the military from Joint Task Force Bravo and advance staff.
When Harris walked up she clapped for her staff and thanked them. She walked over to the military members, asked them to get closer to her and had a conversation. Could not hear what was said but the members nodded along with her as she spoke.
They took a photo and she got on the plane around 5:14. Lifting off soon.
Greeters:- Colonel Steven E. Gventer, Commander, Joint Task Force - Bravo, U.S. Southern Command- ~38 Joint Task Force-Bravo Members



January 27, 202222:23 EST

VP Travel Pool #18 - Landed 
Landed at 10:13 At Andrews after our quick trip to Honduras. Flight was uneventful.
VP deplaned at 10:18. Marine 2 took off at 10:23.
Good night y’all.




  