
    In the States: Today in Arizona, volunteers will call 100,000 voters during 33 statewide "Call Parties for Hillary."... In Oklahoma, the campaign hosts six woman to woman phone banks in Oklahoma City, Tulsa, Norman, Muskogee, Bokoshe, and Stillwater... Yesterday in California, Hillary supporters participated in more than 250 "Bring Your Own Phone" (BYOP) parties and called undecided voters.
If You Read One Thing Today: Nearly 350,000 Florida Democrats have already cast early votes, almost four times as many as voted early in the 2004 presidential primary. "The level of interest... could make the results in Florida more important for Democrats than they had assumed," writes Adam Nagourney in the New York Times. "The Florida results could help set the stage for the almost nationwide primary battle on Feb. 5." Read more.
Devoted to Stumping for Hillary: Today in Chicago, Illinois, Rep. Tammy Baldwin reaches out to the LGBT community on Hillary's behalf... In Mobile, Alabama, Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones attends worship services and campaigns for Hillary... In Pueblo, Colorado, United Farm Workers co-founder Dolores Huerta kick-offs off a week-long organizing tour, "Juntos con Hilary, Una Vida Mejor."
Making News: In Tennessee, the Memphis Commercial Appeal endorsed Hillary. "Clinton has the experience needed to step into the Oval Office at this critical time."... In Connecticut, the Hartford Courant endorsed Hillary... In Massachusetts, the Worcester Telegram & Gazette endorsed Hillary. "The next president will face considerable domestic challenges, in health care, the economy, [and] education...Overcoming the challenges will require steadfast leadership - with no time for on-the-job training."... In Alabama, the Montgomery Advertiser endorsed Hillary, "based on her grasp of issues, her impressive work ethic and her personality."
On the Trail: Today in Memphis, Tennessee, Hillary attends worship services at Monumental Baptist Church... Yesterday in Nashville, Hillary spoke about the future and took questions from an "energized" crowd of thousands at Tennessee State University... In Independence, Missouri, President Bill Clinton was "frequently interrupted by applause" while talking about the economy, health care and Iraq.
  