
    Gunn and Mizrahi join newly formed Mike Bloomberg 2020 National LGBTQ+ Americans Leadership Council
Campaign also launches Proud with Mike, nationwide LGBTQ+ Americans outreach program
NEW YORK — Today, fashion industry leaders Tim Gunn and Isaac Mizrahi endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg for president, touting his long-standing commitment to the LGBTQ+ community and his bold plan to advance equality. Later today, Mike will unveil a comprehensive policy to ensure equal treatment of all LGBTQ+ Americans in the workplace and their communities, address disparities in health care and treatment, protect LGBTQ+ youth and families, and end violence against LGBTQ+ people.
"The fight for LGBTQ+ rights didn't end with our marriage equality victory in the Supreme Court," said Tim Gunn, host of the upcoming Amazon series "Making the Cut" and former "Project Runway" host. "Five years later, it's still legal in many states for an employer to fire an LGBTQ+ person based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. Mike Bloomberg knows this runs counter to America's fundamental values of equality, liberty, and justice. And he has the compassion and courage of his convictions to fight for what's right."
Gunn and Mizrahi have joined the Bloomberg campaign's National LGBTQ+ Leadership Council ("Leadership Council"), a group of national leaders who will provide strategic counsel in reaching all parts of the LGBTQ+ community. The Leadership Council will also spearhead "Proud with Mike," the national outreach program to engage LGBTQ+ voters and share Mike's agenda for equal rights. Later today, members of the Proud with Mike coalition will host organizing events in several states to brief local supporters on the policy agenda and have community discussions on the impact that Mike's policies will have on their lives.
"Our country has come a long way since my days as a young boy afraid to come out of the closet, but there's still so much more we need to do to create a safe and inclusive environment for all of our LGBTQ+ youth," said designer and performer Isaac Mizrahi. "No LGBTQ+ young person should ever have to worry about whether they'll get bullied at school just for being who they are or, even worse, end up homeless because their family doesn't accept them. I'm proud to support Mike Bloomberg because he's been a faithful friend to the LGBTQ+ community for many years and will fight for our safety and equal rights as president. As mayor, Mike created the 'Respect for All' initiative to stop bullying in New York City's public schools. As president, he'll launch a national 'Respect for All' program to keep LGBTQ+ young people safe in schools across America. Mike knows we shouldn't have to tell young people it gets better. He'll make sure it's better for all of us from his first day in the White House."
In addition to the "Respect for All" initiative, as mayor, Mike worked hard to promote equality for LGBTQ+ New Yorkers. He extended anti-discrimination laws to include gender identity and launched programs to reduce homelessness for at-risk LGBTQ+ youth. During Mike's tenure, New York City's public hospital system became the first public healthcare system nationally to mandate comprehensive training to address LGBTQ+ health disparities.
Mike has supported marriage equality since 2005 and supported the fight for same-sex marriage in New York State, Maryland, Washington State, and Maine.
"I'm confident Mike will pass the Equality Act to protect LGBTQ+ Americans from discrimination in employment, housing, and other important areas that affect our daily lives," said Tim Gunn. "He's committed to end the harmful practice of conversion therapy, make investigating hate crimes a top federal priority, and protect LGBTQ+ refugees and those seeking asylum in our country. I'm voting for Mike because he will make it work, and get it done, for the LGBTQ+ community and all Americans."
Members of the Leadership Council include, in alphabetical order by first name:
Chris Svoboda, producer and former president, Virginia Equality Bar Association
Danielle Yoo, Alumni Talent Executive at mthree
Gail Marquis, U.S. Olympian and basketball player
Isaac Mizrahi, designer and performer
Jon Barrett, former Editor in Chief of The Advocate
Jonathan Mintz, Founding President and Chief Executive Officer of the Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund
Jorge Mursuli, former Executive Director of Save Dade
Mathew Shurka, Co-Founder of Born Perfect, a program of the National Center of Lesbian Rights to end conversion therapy
Michael Michaud, Maine State Co-Chair Mike Bloomberg 2020, former Congressman
Rev. Dr. Paula Stone Williams, Teaching Pastor, RLT Pathways
Tim Gunn, "Making the Cut" host and executive producer, former "Project Runway" host
  