
    During final day of "Standing with Working Families" tour, Edwards discusses his plan to make sure every American has quality, affordable health care
Henderson, Nevada – At a town hall in Henderson this morning, John Edwards outlined his bold plan to take on the drug and insurance companies and guarantee quality, affordable health care to every man, woman and child in America. Edwards has been traveling across Nevada as part of his "Standing with Working Families" tour to rally Nevadans to stand with him in his fight to give working and middle class families a voice in Washington. In February, Edwards became the first candidate to propose a plan for universal health care.
"In the richest country in the world, it's just wrong that we have 47 million Americans without health care and millions more worried about losing the care they have," said Edwards. "Most families are one bad break, such as a lost job or a serious illness, away from going right off a cliff. Our health care system is rigged by the big drug companies and insurance companies to benefit themselves at the expense of the American people. As President, I'll take on the entrenched interests standing in the way of change and make sure every person in America gets the care they need."
Edwards' universal health care plan not only covers everyone, but it also reduces costs throughout the system so that middle class families and businesses can actually afford insurance. His plan will save an average family up to $2,500 a year and eliminate $130 billion of wasted health care spending each year. Edwards is honest about what his plan will cost – $90 to $120 billion – and he will pay for it primarily by rolling back President Bush's tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans.
Born to a working class family, Edwards understands the struggles facing working families today. From guaranteeing universal health care to creating good paying jobs and enacting trade policies that put the interests of workers, not multinational corporations first, Edwards will take on powerful entrenched interests and fight for families like the ones he grew up with.
Edwards heads into the Nevada caucus with growing support. Polls show Edwards in a dead heat, and he has seen unexpectedly large crowds at his events this week. The campaign has added experienced field staff in Nevada. Additionally, supporters and volunteers, along with the Carpenters, Steelworkers, Transport Workers and Communication Workers, have been hard at work making phone calls and knocking on doors to spread Edwards' message.
Edwards will return to Nevada this evening and tomorrow, including a just-announced event in Elko today, as part of a three-day coast to coast tour to share with voters his plans to take our country back from powerful entrenched interests and make our government work for working families and the middle class. From January 17th to January 19th, Edwards will visit Nevada, California, Oklahoma, Missouri, Georgia and South Carolina to demonstrate his broad, coast to coast strength and his advantage as the best candidate to win the general election.
The details of Edwards' events are below:
 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 17TH, 2008
6:15 PM PSTCountdown to Caucus EventCarpenters Hall1150 Terminal WayReno, Nevada
8:30 PM PSTCountdown to Caucus EventHighland Manor of Elko2850 Ruby Vista Dr.Elko, Nevada
 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 18TH, 2008
9:00 AM PSTCountdown to Caucus EventJohn Edwards for President Nevada headquarters4160 Pecos RoadLas Vegas, Nevada
  