
    Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) "His stellar record as a Marine speaks for itself but I was particularly impressed with his intellect and strong commitment to safeguarding our nation's vital interests and supporting service-members and their families." (Sen. Mike Lee, Instagram, 1/3/17)
Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) "I was impressed by General Mattis' comments on a number of specific issues that I raised with him – including cybersecurity, Russian aggression, veterans' healthcare and other benefits, and sexual assault in the military.'' (Daniela Altimari, "Blumenthal Meets with Gen. Mattis, Trump Pick for Defense Secretary," Hartford Courant, 1/3/17)
Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) "There is no question that he [General Mattis] has served as an extraordinary leader in our military in the United States Marine Corps, and as the former Commander of U.S. Central Command and coauthor of the Counterinsurgency Field Manual." (Press Release, "Ernst Meets with Secretary of Defense Nominee General James Mattis," Office of Sen. Joni Ernst, 1/3/17)
Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD) "Gen. Mattis understands the need to wisely invest more in our defense and has a keen geostrategic awareness that is crucial to rebuilding our armed forces. I look forward to working with him to provide our armed forces with the tools they need to succeed and keep us safe." (Press Release, "Rounds Statement on meeting with General James Mattis," Office of Sen. Mike Rounds, 1/5/17)
Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) "It's not every day that I get to have another Marine Corps infantry officer in my office discussing national security issues…I look forward to General Mattis's swift confirmation so that he may begin his work restoring the focus of our nation's military on their primary mission..." (Press Release, "Sullivan Meets with Secretary of Defense Designee General Mattis," Office of Dan Sullivan, 1/5/17)
Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) "General James Mattis is a revered Marine, among the most dedicated and patriotic of his generation…Under General Mattis, I'm confident a new era is upon us. His concern is for the lethality and the safety of our military forces, who risk their lives on our behalf. I share these concerns, and believe General Mattis is the right person for the job. I look forward to supporting his nomination." (Press Release, "Cotton Meets with Secretary of Defense Nominee General James Mattis," Office of Tom Cotton, 1/5/17)
Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) "General Mattis is an extraordinarily accomplished Marine officer of great intellect. His selfless service to the nation has made a lasting contribution." (Kirstin Downey, "What Would 'Mad Dog' Mattis Mean For Military-Heavy Hawaii?" Honolulu Civil Beat, 1/6/17)
  