
    For more information on Mike's record of supporting women and plans for the future, visit here.
NEW YORK, NEW YORK — The Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign launched "Women for Mike" — a groundswell movement to energize women across the country who support Bloomberg's efforts to defeat Donald Trump, unite the country, and rebuild America. Women for Mike will organize in communities across the country to amplify women's voices on the issues that matter most. Before Super Tuesday, supporters will host 100 locally-organized Women for Mike events nationwide.
Tonight, more than 1,000 supporters gathered in New York as Mike delivered his vision for the country and his promise of an inclusive agenda that supports and advances all women.
"On all of our most urgent challenges, women are leading the way — from the moms demanding an end to gun violence to all of the women who ran for and won seats in Congress in 2018, whom I was glad to support. And when we defeat President Trump in November, I know it will be because women rose up to say: 'Enough,'" said Mike. "I am so grateful to have the support of Women for Mike. And I hope they know they will always have mine."
In his remarks, Mike shared lessons from the strong women who have shaped his life, like his mother Charlotte, and championed causes he has long supported, from maternal health and reproductive rights to climate change and gun safety. Women have been at the core of every team Mike has ever built, and they're leading the way on every issue he's involved in — and as president he will continue to build on that work.
At this critical moment for the country and for the Democratic Party, women will be instrumental in selecting the party's nominee and defeating President Trump in November. In 2016, 58% of Democratic primary voters were women. Many women view Trump as an existential threat to decency, and the safety and security of the nation. Bloomberg has vowed to beat Trump and restore calm, reasoned, and experienced leadership to the White House.
Other speakers at the event included award-winning actress Lorraine Bracco, the first person to endorse Bloomberg during his first mayoral run in 2001; former Manhattan Borough president C. Virginia Fields; gun violence survivor Shenee Johnson; and student climate activist Amee Kapadia.
As Mayor, entrepreneur, and philanthropist, Mike has long supported advancing gender equality, maternal and reproductive health, and women's economic development both in the U.S. and around the world.
"Working alongside Mike Bloomberg for twenty-five years, I've seen the depth of his commitment to creating opportunities for women in the workforce and promoting the health, safety, and wellbeing of women, children, and families in New York and beyond," said Patti Harris, Mike Bloomberg 2020 Campaign Chair. "I'm proud to help lead Mike's campaign because I know he will bring that same commitment, integrity, and laser focus on getting things done to Washington."
Earlier this month, Mike Bloomberg 2020 launched "Veterans and Military Families for Mike" in Fayetteville, North Carolina.
For more information on Mike's record of supporting women and plans for the future, visit here.
More information about tonight's Women for Mike speakers are below.
Audrey Smaltz, Model and Personality
Fashion show manager Audrey Lavinia Smaltz was born on June 2, 1937 in New York City. Growing up in the Harlem River Houses with neighbors such as Dr. Alvin Poussaint, Bob Moses, and David Scott, Smaltz attended P.S. 46, the Harriet Beecher Stowe Girls Junior High School, the High School of Music & Art, and CCNY. In 1977, Smaltz organized her Ground Crew team, a backstage management group which has staffed many fashion shows including those by Donna Karen, Vera Wang, Giorgio Armani, Betsey Johnson, Oscar de la Renta, Bill Blass, Alice Roi, Michael Kors, Luca Luca, Nanette Lepore, Kenneth Cole, and Ralph Rucci. Smaltz has also worked with corporations like Nike, Vogue, Saks Fifth Avenue, Macy's, and J. Crew. A contributing editor to Vogue, Mirabella, and Mode magazines, Smaltz appears frequently on QVC and the Oprah Winfrey Show. She has served on numerous boards, including Black Fashion Museum, Dress for Success, the Gracie Mansion Conservancy, and Fashion Group International.
Lorraine Bracco, Actress
Lorraine Bracco is an American actress. She is best known for her performances as Karen Friedman Hill in the 1990 Martin Scorsese film Goodfellas, for which she was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. She is a native of Brooklyn, New York.
C. Virginia Fields, Former Manhattan Borough President
C. Virginia Fields is the President and CEO of the National Black Leadership Commission on Health Inc., (NBLCH), formerly known as the National Black Leadership Commission on AIDS. Her expertise in government and politics has led to the successful implementation of noteworthy public policy achievements in health promotion and disease prevention, including HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care. Ms. Fields is the former President of the Borough of Manhattan, a position to which she was elected in 1997 and reelected in 2001. She served as a member of the New York City Council from 1989-1997. Prior to elected office, Ms. Fields established a distinguished career in her professional field of social work. Born in Birmingham, Alabama, Ms. Fields was active in the Civil Rights Movement as a teenager, marched with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. where she spent six days in jail. She received a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Knoxville College in Tennessee and a master's degree in Social Work from Indiana University. In addition to her political career, Fields continues to be active in her community.
Shenee Johnson, Gun Violence Survivor, Everytown Survivor Fellow, Moms Demand Action volunteer leader
Shenee's first experience with gun violence was in 2003 when her fiance, Shonnon Kittrell Day, was murdered in Far Rockaway, New York. At the time, Shenee was two months pregnant with her now 15-year-old son. In May of 2010, Shenee's 17-year-old son, Kedrick Ali Morrow Jr., was murdered in Queens, New York, just weeks before his high school graduation.
Amee Kapadia, Climate Activist and Student
Amee is a climate activist and student at Johns Hopkins University studying biomedical engineering. Amee grew up near Virginia a coal plant which wreaked havoc on her health contributing to severe skin-based and respiratory environmental allergies. Through this experience, Amee was driven to support action to end our reliance on coal and combat the climate crisis.
Diana Taylor
Diana Taylor, partner to Mike Bloomberg for the last two decades, grew up in Connecticut in a close-knit family that emphasized hard work and the value of a great education. She was in the second-ever class of women who graduated from Dartmouth College. Armed with an economics degree, Diana launched her career in New York City working in the state's department of social services. Soon after, she received graduate degrees in public health and business administration from Columbia University. Diana began a career in finance and co-founded a small business before switching to public service and working again for the state. And in recent years, Diana has worked closely with a handful of organizations to generate opportunities and advocate for health, including the New York-based Hot Bread Kitchen, the International Women's Health Coalition, the financially inclusive non-profit Accion, the Mailman School of Public Health, Cold Spring Harbor Labs, the behavioral sciences non-profit Ideas42, and the Girls Education and Mentoring Services.
  