
    In a message to the Congress on 'July 18, 1969, I stated that "One of the most serious challenges to human destiny in the last third of this century will be the growth of the population. Whether man's response to that challenge will be a cause for pride or for despair in the year 2000 will depend very much on what we do today. If we now begin our work in an appropriate manner, and if we continue to devote a considerable amount of attention and energy to this problem, then mankind will be able to surmount this challenge as it has surmounted so many during the long march of civilization".
The General Assembly of the United Nations, by a resolution approved at its twenty-fifth session, has designated the year 1974 as World Population Year. This action was designed to focus international attention on various aspects of the population problem and to encourage appropriate and relevant cooperative activity in this field. In the same resolution, the General Assembly called upon member states and international organizations to participate fully in the World Population Year and to devote the year 1974 to appropriate efforts and undertakings concerning the population question. The Secretary General of the United Nations has called upon member states to begin preparatory work immediately.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of Commission. (a) There is hereby established a National Commission for the Observance of World Population Year, 1974.
(b) The Commission shall consist of not more than twenty members to be appointed by the President from among citizens in private life. The President shall designate the Chairman and two Vice Chairmen of the Commission from among its members.
(c) The members shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703).
SEC. 2. Functions of the Commission. (a) The Commission shall promote the appropriate observance in the United States of 1974 as World Population Year. To this end, the Commission shall seek to create within the United States a better understanding of the causes, nature, scope, and consequences of the problem of population growth, both national and international, and the relationship of this problem to the quality of human life.
(b) The Commission shall keep itself informed of activities undertaken or planned by various organizations and groups in the United States in observance of the Year and shall seek to consult with such groups and to stimulate such activities.
(c) The Commission shall hold meetings, public or private, at such times and places as the Chairman shall determine. It may assemble and disseminate information, issue reports and other publications, and conduct such other activities as it may deem appropriate to provide for the effective participation of the United States in the observance of World Population Year.
(d) The Commission may establish such subcommittees or working groups, the membership of which may include persons not members of the Commission, as it may deem necessary for the fulfillment of its tasks.
(e) The Commission shall conclude its work by the end of the year 1974 and shall make a report to the President on its work within thirty days thereafter, at which time the Commission shall be deemed to be terminated.
SEC. 3. Assistance and Cooperation. (a) The Commission is authorized to request any agency of the executive branch of the Government to furnish the Commission with such information and advice and services as may be useful to it for the fulfillment of its functions under this Order. Each such agency is authorized, to the extent permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to furnish such information, advice, and services to the Commission upon request of the Chairman or Executive Secretary of the Commission.
(b) Subject to the availability of funds, the Commission may procure the temporary services of experts to assist it in its work, in accordance with the provisions of section 3109 of title 5 of the United States Code.
(c) The Departments of State and of Health, Education, and Welfare shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission with administrative services, facilities, and funds necessary for its activities. The Department of State shall provide an Executive Secretary for the Commission.
(d) The Secretaries of State and Health, Education, and Welfare shall participate with the Commission in order that activities which may be undertaken by the executive branch of the United States Government in observance of World Population Year and those undertaken by the Commission may be properly coordinated.
(e) The President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall be invited to designate two Members of each House to participate with the Commission in order that activities which may be undertaken by the Congress in observance of World Population Year and those undertaken by the Commission may be properly coordinated.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
January 17, 1974.
  