
    
  Respected Veterans, Law Enforcement Officers, and Community Leaders Support Christie

For Immediate Release:
Wednesday, January 20, 2016
MORRISTOWN, NJ - As Governor Christie returns to New Hampshire today for a packed six-day trip, State Representative and former Assistant Attorney General David Hess (R-Hooksett) joined twenty well-respected community leaders in announcing their endorsement of Governor Chris Christie for President.
"As a former federal prosecutor and an executive leading a state, Governor Chris Christie has the experience making tough decisions we need in our next commander-in-chief," said Hess, a 13-term state representative and chairman of the House Special Committee on Public Employee Pension Reform. "Governor Christie set an example for governors across America when he was the first one to take on public employee unions and special interests to pass historic reforms that will save taxpayers $120 billion. Confronted with a Democrat-controlled legislature, he has vetoed more tax increases than any governor in American history and passed six budgets without raising taxes or shutting down the government. Governor Christie has the strength and experience needed to actually change Washington."
In addition to chairing the Special Committee on Public Employee Pension Reform, Hess is a member of the Ways and Means Committee. He was a delegate to the 1984 New Hampshire Constitutional Convention. Hess is a retired attorney and a former instructor at Saint Anselm College. From 1972 to 1975, he served as Assistant Attorney General for the State of New Hampshire. He served in the United States Air Force from 1968 to 1972. Hess received his law degree from Yale Law School (1967), his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College (1964) and was a fellow at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University (1996).
The twenty elected officials, veterans, and community leaders endorsing Governor Christie today are:
Conservative Activist Elena Ball (Gilmanton)
NCIS Special Agent (Ret.) Jack Ball (Gilmanton)
Former City Councilor Jake Collins (Rochester)
School Board Member Jacqueline (Jaye) Dimaido (Hampstead)
Portsmouth GOP Chair John Formella (Portsmouth)
Small Business Owner Ray Goulet & Community Leader Pam Puleo (Concord)
Former Salem GOP Chairman Jeff Hatch (Salem)
US Air Force Veteran Ray Hayes (Milford)
State Representative David Hess (Hooksett)
Former School Board Chairman Ed Huminick (Salem)
Small Business Owner Scott Lawson (Concord)
Community Leader Daniel Lyons (Milton Mills)
Police Chief James McTague (Greenville)
GOP Activist John O'Brien (Hudson)
US Air Force Veteran Don Padgett (Danbury)
School Board Member David Sacks (Hollis)
Community Leader Ann Savastano (Keene)
Community Leader Thomas Savastano (Keene)
Community Leader Marjorie Taylor (Alton)
View the full New Hampshire endorsement list here.
  