
    A Code of Labor Provisions for the Wholesale Food and Grocery Trade was approved by me November 15, 1933. Application is now made, pursuant to and in full compliance with the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, for my approval of further provisions for the Wholesale Food and Grocery Trade and for the incorporation of said provisions with provisions heretofore approved into a single Code of Fair Competition for the Wholesale Food and Grocery Trade, to become effective in place of the Code of Labor Provisions heretofore approved. Hearings having been held and the Administrator having rendered his report on said Code of Fair Competition together with his recommendations and findings with respect thereto, and the Administrator having found that said Code of Fair Competition complies in all respects with the pertinent provisions of Title I of said Act and that the requirements of clauses (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of Section 3 of said Act have been met:
Now, Therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States, pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, and otherwise, do adopt and approve the report, recommendations and findings of the Administrator and do hereby approve said further provisions for the Wholesale Food and Grocery Trade and do order that said Code of Fair Competition as submitted be and it is hereby approved, to become effective in place of said Code of Fabor Provisions heretofore approved, subject to the following conditions:
(1) Section 13 of Article VII shall not be effective until 30 days after the date fhis code becomes effective.
(2) Paragraph 4 of Section 12 of Article VII shall not be effective until 30 days ater the date this code becomes effective.
(3) The Administrator shall consider the right of the United States Wholesale Boeers Association to representation on the code authority.
(4) A hearing shall be called as soon as practicable for the consideration and determination of the questions referred to in the conditions hereinbefore stated.
(5) Section 10 of Article VII is eliminated from the code.
(6) The Administrator shall have power, upon review, to disapprove any act of the code authority.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
Approval Recommended:     Hugh S Johnson          Administrator.
The White House,Jan 4, 1934.
  