
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that U.S. Congressman Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Congressman Crenshaw will serve as a Chair of Governor Romney's Florida Statewide Steering Committee and as a campaign surrogate to help communicate Governor Romney's message of conservative change in Washington.
"Congressman Crenshaw has spent his tenure in Washington fighting for a stronger military, lower taxes, reduced federal spending and more accountability in our schools," said Governor Romney. "I am honored Congressman Crenshaw has joined our strong team in the Sunshine State, and I look forward to campaigning with him in the days leading to the Florida primary."
"Throughout this campaign, Governor Romney has shown that he is the only candidate who can bring broad-based conservative change to Washington," said Congressman Crenshaw. "This election is about the future, not the past, and Floridians are demanding change. Governor Romney has the experience, vision and values to strengthen our economy, strengthen America and secure a brighter future for our children and grandchildren."
Congressman Crenshaw joins former Lieutenant Governor Toni Jennings, former Speakers of the House Allan Bense and John Thrasher, Florida Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Charles Bronson, former Chairman of the Florida Republican Party Al Cardenas and U.S. Congressmen Tom Feeney (R-FL) and Connie Mack (R-FL) as a leader of Governor Romney's Florida Steering Committee. U.S. Congresswoman Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL) serves as a member of Governor Romney's Congressional Whip Team.
Additional Northeast Floridians leading Governor Romney's campaign in the state include Florida Steering Committee Co-Chair State Legislator Jennifer Carroll, Jacksonville Mayor John Peyton, former Ambassador John Rood, State Legislators Don Davis, Dick Kravitz and Stephen Wise, Jacksonville City Councilman Art Shad and former Jacksonville City Councilman Lake Ray. Jacksonville Sheriff John H. Rutherford, Nassau County Sheriff T.L. "Tommy" Seagraves and St. Johns County Sheriff David Shoar have also endorsed Governor Romney.
Background On U.S. Congressman Ander Crenshaw:
Ander Crenshaw Currently Represents Florida's Fourth Congressional District In The United States House of Representatives. Congressman Crenshaw was first elected to Congress on November 7, 2000. Since his election, he has worked hard to make Northeast Florida neighborhoods safer, strengthen our military, improve education and provide tax relief.
In the 110th Congress, Congressman Crenshaw serves on the House Appropriations Committee. As a member of Appropriations, he serves on two subcommittees: the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations.
In January of 2003, Congressman Crenshaw was tapped by leadership to serve as a Deputy Whip, and he continues his service in that capacity in the 110th Congress. As a Deputy Whip, Congressman Crenshaw works closely with the Republican Conference to help mobilize Members of Congress for key legislative votes.
A third generation resident of Northeast Florida, Congressman Crenshaw was born on September 1, 1944 in Jacksonville, Florida. The son of an attorney and grandson of a cracker factory owner, he attended Robert E. Lee High School, the University of Georgia on a basketball scholarship, and later received his law degree from the University of Florida.
  