
    Stephanie Murphy is the Second Member of Congress to Endorse Bloomberg for President
ORLANDO, FLORIDA – U.S. Representative Stephanie Murphy (FL-7) announced her support for Democratic Presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, praising Mike's commitment to combating gun violence, fixing the country's broken immigration system, and fighting climate change.
Congresswoman Murphy was also named a national co-chair for the Bloomberg campaign, where she will partner with and advise the campaign on a variety of issues and policies including foreign policy, equal rights, gun reform, good government and immigration, and serve as a national surrogate.
"Congresswoman Murphy understands that the dysfunction in Washington is holding our country back and has dedicated her time in office to standing up for American values and ideals – and I'm honored to have her support," said Mike Bloomberg. "We share a vision for breaking the gridlock in Congress, ensuring the safety of all Americans and giving them a larger voice in our future. After the Pulse nightclub shooting, she ran for office to bring change to Washington, including common sense gun laws – and as president, I will work closely with her to get it done."
"As an immigrant and refugee, I know my story could only happen here in America, and I'm so grateful for the opportunities that allowed my family and me to pursue the American dream. Unfortunately, President Trump and his administration are denying future generations these same opportunities," said Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy. "I got into politics to change the way Washington works and help put an end to gun violence. I am excited to endorse Mayor Bloomberg for President because he has a plan to keep our nation safe, restore American values, and get our government serving its people again. He will take on the big fights, like gun violence and climate change, and is the most experienced and visionary candidate in this race."
Congresswoman Murphy was the first Vietnamese-American woman to be elected to Congress in 2016, and has prioritized a number of key issues including jobs, LGBTQ rights, common sense gun reform, and security and opportunity for every American. Murphy currently serves on the House Ways and Means Committee, where she is a member of the Subcommittee on Trade and the Subcommittee on Worker and Family Support.
Before becoming a Congresswoman, Murphy was a businesswoman and college instructor after serving as a national security specialist in the Office of the U.S. Secretary of Defense, where she received numerous awards for her distinguished service, including the Secretary of Defense Medal for Exceptional Civilian Service. She worked on a wide range of security issues from counterterrorism to foreign military relations to strategic planning for the Department. Murphy serves as co-chair of the Blue Dog Coalition, an influential group of pragmatic Democrats who believe in fiscal responsibility and a strong national security. She also serves as chair of Future Forum, which is a group of 50 young Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives who advocate for issues important to younger Americans.
Prior to her public service, Murphy was a strategy consultant at Deloitte Consulting. Murphy holds an M.S. in Foreign Service from Georgetown University and a B.A. in Economics from the College of William and Mary.
  