
    Jacksonville, FL - Tonight Rick Santorum was not only the adult in the room, but he stood tall as the full spectrum, consistent conservative who can take on Barack Obama.
Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director, said: "A top-down government run health care system that ruins our economy, will increase healthcare cost and is detremental to every American is a central issue in this campaign.  And with Newt Gingrich or Mitt Romney as a nominee we take that issue right off the table in a general election.  In fact, Speaker Gingrich and Mitt Romney have shared many of the same views as the President Obama on the Obamacare, the big bank bailout, cap and tax and immigration.    This election is about a clear contrast to the President and Rick Santorum is the only true conservative in the race who offers that contrast.   The reason the other candidates on the stage bickered over stock portfolios and negative attack ads, is because they don't have a true conservative record to discuss. Rick Santorum focused on his conservative record of results and the issues Americans are worried about.  Most importantly, Rick Santorum provided real solutions to those issues and how his policies would make the lives of everyday Americans better."
Santorum SAID:
On Illegal Immigration:
"We are a nation of laws and my grandfather came to this country because it was a country that respected him. And when your first act is to disobey a law is not a particularly welcome way to enter a country."
On Central America:
"This Administration's Central and South America policy has been abysmal... it's been Obama, Chavez, and Castro. This is a consistent policy of siding with the Leftists."
On Newt and Mitt's Relationship With Freddie and Fannie:
"Focus on the issues!"
On The Budget:
"We need leaders who will be honest with the American people about the tough decisions that we face."
On Why Romney And Newt's Support For Individual Mandates Hurts The GOP Against Obama:
"Folks, we cannot give this issue away, it's too fundamental."
On Cuba:
"The idea that the President would reward the heart of this cancer... that he would reward this thuggary... so we are going to reward this behavior is exactly the wrong message at exactly the wrong time."
On Why Faith Is Key To America:
"The why of America is in the Declaration of Independence. The Constitution is there to do one thing, protect God given rights. That's what makes America different than any other country in the world."
  