
    First Lady Melania Trump is today announcing the addition of three new positions to her East Wing staff, including Director of Policy, Director of Operations and Communications Coordinator.
Reagan Thompson has been hired as Director of Policy and will focus on the First Lady's policies and initiatives. She formerly worked in the National Security Council's (NSC) Middle East Directorate. Prior to the NSC, Reagan served as Congressman Mike Pompeo's Policy and Communications Advisor. Ms. Thompson has also worked at Facebook and on various national and state-wide political campaigns. She graduated with honors from Stanford University and received two Rotary Foundation Fellowships to complete her master's degrees from Peking University in Beijing and the London School of Economics.
Justin Caporale has accepted the position of Director of Operations. His duties include managing the day-to-day logistical operations of the East Wing, focusing on events, and planning foreign and domestic travel. Justin previously worked as a Lead Advance Representative in the White House Office of Presidential Advance. He also worked for the Donald J. Trump for President Campaign as the Senior Lead Representative for Advance and Operations. In 2015, Justin started a consulting firm that focused on advocacy efforts, event management, and strategy solutions. Prior to starting his own firm, he served as the national director of operations for Concerned Veterans for America.
Annie LeHardy has been hired as Communications Coordinator within the East Wing press team. Her duties will include assisting the Director of Communications with a variety of press and communications efforts, and media outreach on behalf of the First Lady and her chosen initiatives. Annie previously worked as a White House Press Assistant in the West Wing. Prior to joining the Trump Administration, she worked in production and holds a B.A. in public relations from the University of North Carolina.
"I am very excited to add these quality professionals to my already stellar team," said First Lady Melania Trump. "Each person filling their respective and vital role has shown true professionalism in their chosen career, and I am confident they will enhance my work on behalf of children everywhere, while helping me further expand my role as First Lady of the United States."
  