
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Romney for President launched its newest web ad, "Full-Spectrum Conservative." The ad highlights Governor Romney's conservative platform to build a stronger America. Unlike Senator John McCain (R-AZ), Governor Romney supports the President's tax cuts, opposes the McCain-Feingold bill that limited free speech and opposes any amnesty immigration plans. As the National Review wrote, Governor Romney is "a full-spectrum conservative." Script and viewing links are below.
Script For "Full-Spectrum Conservative" (WEB:30):
ANNOUNCER 1: "The National Review had it right."
ANNOUNCER 2: "Senator McCain is 'a hero' and a strong supporter of the war in Iraq."
ANNOUNCER 1: "But McCain 'is not as conservative as Romney.'"
ANNOUNCER 2: "He opposed the Bush tax cuts – twice."
ANNOUNCER 1: "His campaign finance law limits free speech."
ANNOUNCER 2: "He pushed a plan to keep illegal immigrants here permanently.
ANNOUNCER 1: "Mitt Romney, 'a full-spectrum conservative.'"
ANNOUNCER 2: "A supporter of 'limited government.'"
ANNOUNCER 1: "'The preservation of marriage.'"
ANNOUNCER 2: "And a 'foreign policy based on the national interest.'"
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
To watch "Full-Spectrum Conservative," please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a9r6xgw9FFw
AD FACTS For "Full-Spectrum Conservative" (WEB:30):
ANNOUNCER 1: "The National Review had it right." ANNOUNCER 2: "Senator McCain is 'a hero' and a strong supporter of the war in Iraq."
- National Review: "Despite all that and more, he is a hero with a record that is far more good than bad. He has been a strong and farsighted supporter of the Iraq War, and, in a trying political season for him, he has preserved and even enhanced his reputation for dignity and seriousness." (Editorial, "Romney for President," National Review, 12/11/07)

ANNOUNCER 1: "But McCain 'is not as conservative as Romney.'" ANNOUNCER 2: "He opposed the Bush tax cuts – twice." ANNOUNCER 1: "His campaign finance law limits free speech." ANNOUNCER 2: "He pushed a plan to keep illegal immigrants here permanently."
- National Review: "John McCain is not as conservative as Romney. He sponsored and still champions a campaign-finance law that impinged on fundamental rights of political speech; he voted against the Bush tax cuts; he supported this year's amnesty bill, although he now says he understands the need to control the border before doing anything else." (Editorial, "Romney for President," National Review, 12/11/07)

ANNOUNCER 1: "Mitt Romney, 'a full-spectrum conservative.'" ANNOUNCER 2: "A supporter of 'limited government.'" ANNOUNCER 1: "'The preservation of marriage.'" ANNOUNCER 2: "And a 'foreign policy based on the national interest.'" GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
- National Review: "Our guiding principle has always been to select the most conservative viable candidate. In our judgment, that candidate is Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts. Unlike some other candidates in the race, Romney is a full-spectrum conservative: a supporter of free-market economics and limited government, moral causes such as the right to life and the preservation of marriage, and a foreign policy based on the national interest." (Editorial, "Romney for President," National Review, 12/11/07)

To watch "Full-Spectrum Conservative," please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a9r6xgw9FFw
  