
    From West Coast to the East Coast, Edwards is the best candidate to win the general election and bring real change to America
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma – Today, John Edwards visited Oklahoma City as part of his three-day coast to coast tour, and called on voters to join him in his campaign to take our country back from powerful entrenched interests and make our government work for working families and the middle class. Yesterday, Edwards visited Nevada and California, and over the next two days, he is visiting Oklahoma, Missouri, Georgia and South Carolina to demonstrate his broad, coast to coast strength and his advantage as the best candidate to win the general election.
"To get real change, we need a president who will stand up against the big corporations and powerful interests who control Washington," said Edwards. "The American people – whether they live in rural areas or urban areas, red states or blue states – need a President who will stand up for them. As President, I will make sure the voices of all Americans are heard in Washington. If we fight together, we can get the change we need and America will rise."
Speaking at the Teamsters Local #886 union hall, Edwards outlined his plans to stand up for hard-working families, like the ones he grew up with. From guaranteeing universal health care to creating good paying jobs and enacting trade policies that put the interests of workers, not multinational corporations first, Edwards will take on big corporate interests and help families get ahead. Born to a working class family and raised in small, rural towns, Edwards understands the struggles facing working families. He has spent his life standing up to powerful interests – and beating them.
Edwards' message is resonating with voters in red states and blue states, in big cities and small towns. In addition to strong grassroots support in these states, Edwards also enjoys the support of numerous labor groups and state and local elected officials who know that he is the best candidate to win the White House and bring real change to our country. A recent CNN poll showed Edwards was the only Democrat to beat all four leading Republicans nationally, and state by state polls show even more conclusively that Edwards is the most electable democrat in key battleground states -- and even wins in states like Missouri and Oklahoma that have gone "red" in recent presidential elections.
Edwards is the first Democratic presidential candidate to visit Oklahoma this year, and has won the endorsement of dozens of Oklahoma state legislators, including the highest-ranking Democrats in the Oklahoma State House and Senate - Oklahoma Senate President Pro-Tem Mike Morgan and Oklahoma House Democratic Leader Danny Morgan. Edwards also enjoys the support of more than 13,000 union families in Oklahoma, including the endorsement of the largest labor union in state, the Transport Workers Union. He has also won the support of Oklahoma Labor Commissioner Lloyd Fields.
"John Edwards can compete and win in Oklahoma and in every part of the country," said Oklahoma Labor Commissioner Lloyd Fields. "All Americans identify with John Edwards and what he stands for – fairness and opportunity and making sure everyone has a chance."
"John Edwards can go to any part of the country and help Democrats down-ballot," said Oklahoma Senate President Pro-Tem Mike Morgan. "With John Edwards as our nominee, we can get the change we need in Oklahoma and across the country."
"I'm proud to support John Edwards because he understands, better than any other candidate, the challenges facing rural Americans," said Oklahoma House Democratic Leader Danny Morgan. "John Edwards is determined to be a voice for regular people."
Edwards' supporters in Oklahoma include:
OK Labor Commissioner Lloyd Fields
State Senate President Pro-Tempore Mike Morgan
State House Democratic Leader Danny Morgan
Democratic National Committeemember and Former State Party Chair Jim Frasier
State Senate President Pro Tempore-elect, Co-Floor Leader Charlie Laster
State Senate Co-Assistant Floor Leader, Energy Committee Co-Chair Jay Paul Gumm
State Senate Co-Assistant Floor Leader, Transportation Committee Co-Chair Jeff Rabon
State Senate Democratic Whip, Agriculture and Rural Development Committee Co-Chair Charles Wyrick
State Senate Democratic Caucus Chairman Kenneth Corn
State Senate Rules Committee Co-Chair Sean Burrage
State Senate Education Committee Co-Chair Judy Eason McIntyre
State Senate Judiciary Committee Co-Chair Richard Lerblance
State Senate Finance Committee Co-Chair Jim Wilson
State Senator Debbe Leftwich
State House Democratic Floor Leader James Covey
State House Deputy Democratic Floor Leader David Braddock
State House Asst. Democratic Floor Leader Wallace Collins
State House Asst. Democratic Floor Leader Wes Hilliard
State House Asst. Democratic Floor Leader Jerry McPeak
State House Asst. Democratic Floor Leader Wade Rousselot
State House Democratic Whip Terry Harrison
State House Democratic Caucus Secretary Eric Proctor
State Representative John Auffet
State Representative Scott BigHorse
State Representative Neil Brannon
State Representative Ed Cannady
State Representative John Carey
State Representative Jerry Ellis
State Representative Larry Glenn
State Representative Darrell Gilbert
State Representative Richard Morrissette
State Representative Brian Renegar
State Representative Paul Roan
State Representative Glen Bud Smithson
Teamster Local #886 President Randall Loewenkamp
  