
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Richard M. Mills, Jr. of Texas, to be Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the Rank and Status of Ambassador, and Deputy Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations, and Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations. 
Richard M. Mills, Jr., a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the U.S. Embassy to Canada. Prior to that, Mr. Mills was the U.S. Ambassador to Armenia. He also served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon and the U.S. Embassy in Valetta, Malta. Other assignments include service as the Senior Democracy Advisor at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, a Political Officer at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations and in various diplomatic roles at U.S. Embassies in the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, and Pakistan. Mr. Mills earned his B.S. from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service, his J.D. from the University of Texas School of Law, and an M.A. from the National Defense University in Washington, D.C.
C. J. Mahoney of Kansas, to be Legal Adviser at the Department of State. 
Ambassador Mahoney has served as Deputy United States Trade Representative, Investment, Services, Labor, Environment, Africa, China, and the Western Hemisphere since March 2018. Before joining the Office of the United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Mahoney was a partner at Williams & Connolly LLP, where his practice focused on international disputes and arbitration. Before joining Williams & Connolly, he served as a law clerk to Associate Justice Anthony M. Kennedy at the Supreme Court of the United States. A native of Russell, Kansas, Ambassador Mahoney holds an A.B. in Government from Harvard College and a J.D. from Yale Law School, where he was Editor-in-Chief of the Yale Law Journal.
  