
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Exploratory Committee announced today that Ed Goeas, Dave Sackett and Brian Tringali from The Tarrance Group, a prominent research and strategic consulting firm, are joining the committee as its pollsters.
Goeas and partners Sackett and Tringali currently also serve as pollster to five Republican Governors, ten U.S. Senators, and forty-two Republican Members of Congress.
"We're thrilled The Tarrance Group has come on board and will lead our polling efforts. Ed Goeas, Dave Sackett and Brian Tringali are truly superior in their field, have stellar reputations and make an outstanding addition to our team," said Brent Seaborn, Strategy Director to the Exploratory Committee.
Ed Goeas said, "Following an election where the question on many voters' mind was 'can Republicans govern,' I am excited about working with a man that has such a strong record of conservative governance and leadership with results."
Ed Goeas is President and CEO of The Tarrance Group. He is perhaps best known as the Republican pollster for the "Battleground Poll," which, of the national public polls, has come the closest in three of the last four presidential elections in matching the actual election results. He has been widely published in professional and academic journals, including the Yale Law and Policy Review, on a variety of public policy issues based on his national research. In 1994, he was recognized by Democrat and Republican members of the American Association of Political Consultants as "Pollster of the Year."
Dave Sackett has an extensive background in campaign strategy, political media and message development, and demographic targeting. He currently serves as the pollster and strategic consultant for over fifty Republican Governors, U.S. Senators, Members of Congress, and State leaders, and served as member of the Bush-Cheney '04 polling team.
Brian Tringali has been a senior advisor to many successful statewide and congressional Republican campaigns throughout the country. During the 2004 presidential campaign, he conducted tracking in key Midwest states including Minnesota, Michigan and Ohio.
  