
    By Jack Sisson, Director of Research and Rapid Response
Team,
Hang-on to your fedoras and artificial furs! The snow is falling fast here in Des Moines, the center of the political universe, as we approach the BIG DAY in less than two weeks. Iowa is the "Field of Dreams," where anything is possible. Exhibit (a)=> SHOCK POLL from Quinnipiac today. It has Bernie (the Santa Sanders) beating Hillary by 4 percent! Gov. Huckabee is hustling across the state, with a six-day whirlwind schedule, and Ms. Janet is working even harder. Keep up the fantastic work everyone. The energy is contagious!
And a Team HUCK prayer request today for Bonnie Brezina and her family. She's our Iowa heart, staffer-extrodinaire, mentor and friend. We are all praying for her today. Some clips from the road below…….
Sincerely,
Jack Sisson
Director of Rapid Response and Research
--------------------------------
CLASSIC HUCK on social media=> …Some say, 'We can't have religion in politics,' but that's nonsense! I never exchanged the Capitol dome for the steeple. I never deployed the National Guard to build alters. But I did bring my faith with me…We cannot function as a society divorced from our fundamental Judeo-Christian values…And I tell this to atheists…The BEST way to have small government and hard workers is with moral, virtuous people who follow their faith. God can keep people accountable in ways government simply cannot!
COMING ATTRACTIONS -- "Huckabee & Josh Turner performance & rally in Des Moines"—Politico….Next Monday: "Grammy Award nominee and multi-platinum selling country music star Josh Turner will join Gov. Mike Huckabee for a rally and special performance in Des Moines ... Tickets are ... free at MikeHuckabee.com/JoshTurner."
HUCK Des Moines Register editorial board Twitter quick hits=>
"The whole government in Washington is well...pretty much screwed-up."
"Obama should NOT have sat down with Iranians while American hostages sat behind bars. We should have tightened the screws."
"The people don't need protection from farmers—our farmers need protection from government."
"It's not America's role to determine dictators in the Middle East. We have enough trouble picking our own President!"
"My mother-in-law died of Alzheimer 1.5 years ago. It's horrible and devastating. It's very expensive. We must find a cure."
"States are the laboratories for democracy. If ideas don't work, we save ourselves from a 50-state nightmare like ObamaCare."
"I don't want to go to Congress or the Senate. I'm not a process person. I'm a product person. That's what America needs."
"Huckabee 6-day Iowa campaign blast, 'I'll never say one thing for votes & another for campaign contributions"'...DES MOINES, Iowa—Gov. Mike Huckabee will campaign across Iowa Tuesday-Saturday of this week, with 21 additional campaign events. "While some politicians pander on marriage and believe moral issues are 'not a priority,' I disagree 110 percent. I will never apologize for my faith or say one thing for votes and another for campaign contributions," said Gov. Huckabee. "Iowa matters because Iowa conservatives are not for sale, and our honest, authentic, consistent conservative message is resonating across the state," said Huckabee. The campaign completed a "Full Grassley," with stops in all 99 counties, earlier this month. Huckabee's team will complete 150 Iowa events this January, before the February 1 caucuses.
"COUNTRY MUSIC STAR JOSH TURNER JOINS MIKE HUCKABEE ON THE TRAIL"—ABC News, The Note….Grammy Award nominee and multi-platinum selling country music star Josh Turner will join Mike Huckabee for a rally and special performance in Des Moines on Monday, Jan. 25, according to the Huckabee campaign. "Josh is an amazing talent and a great performer with one of the most unique voices in the business," Huckabee said in a statement. "But more important than his musical accomplishments, Josh is a strong Christian who loves the Lord and loves his family. I'm excited to join him in Iowa for a fantastic event." The event takes place at Wooly's in Des Moines at 6 PM CT.
"Huckabee back in North Iowa this week"—Mason City Globe Gazette….Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee is planning three more campaign stops in North Iowa on Friday. The GOP presidential hopeful will be in Algona, Thompson and Garner, his campaign staff announced on Tuesday. The scheduled stops on Friday are: 1:15-2:45 p.m. — PMC Advantage Insurance Services, 808 Highway 18, Algona. 3:45-5:15 p.m. — The Branding Iron, 135 Jackson St., Thompson. 5:30-7 p.m. — VFW Post 5515, 315 Center Ave., Garner.
CNN National…..Eagle's Greatest Hits…selling more copies than the Beatles or Michael Jackson. Frey's loss is immeasurable to his family, the industry and his fans. Everyone from Stevie Nicks to Presidential candidate Mike Huckabee, to his Eagle's bandmate Don Henley are playing tribute.
"Huckabee touts experience against Clinton in Chester campaign stop"—Rock Hill Herald, SC….The former Arkansas governor stopped at the Waterside Pavilion on Saturday...Chester County was one of 46 stops he plans to make as he visits every South Carolina county ahead of primary day. He started the day on Pawley's Island and planned to finish in Union….Delleney said Huckabee is a man who "loves his state, loves his country, and stands up for traditional values." "He knows how to battle the Clintons," Delleney said. "And he knows the Second Amendment is about more than hunting and sport shooting"…"Some of the others say they can't wait to take on Hillary," he said. "They obviously haven't done it before." In a year where "outsider" candidates top the polls for the GOP nomination, Huckabee argued experience matters in a presidential campaign. "It doesn't make sense to elect someone who has never governed before"...
Huckabee has directed his pitch to evangelical voters - part of his stump speech was asking how God can bless America "until we put a stop to the savagery, the uncivilized action of destroying the next generation" through abortion - but also argued for the importance of protecting programs such as Social Security...His "fair tax" plan - a national consumption tax that would replace most federal taxes on income - would bring trillions of dollars in offshore investment back to the U.S. and regenerate manufacturing jobs in this country, Huckabee said…."How many people in America have voted? Nobody," he said.
"Huckabee sets 7 Siouxland campaign events"—Sioux City Journal...SIOUX CITY—Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee will return to campaign in Northwest Iowa in seven events over two days. Huckabee is a former Arkansas governor. He won the 2008 Iowa caucuses in a prior run for president, and the upcoming events are in his final push toward the Feb. 1 caucuses. On Wednesday, Huckabee will speak at 2 p.m. at the Wall Lake Community Center, 209 West Second St., in Wall Lake, and at 4:15 p.m. at the Cherokee train depot renovation, at 119 S. Fourth St., in Cherokee. Thursday, Huckabee will speak at 8 a.m. at Siouxland Center for Active Generations, 313 Cook St., in Sioux City; at 10:15 a.m. at Living Center and Habitue Coffeehouse, 112 Central Ave. Northwest, in Le Mars; at 12:30 p.m. at Interstates Companies, 1520 N. Main Ave., in Sioux Center; at 3 p.m. at Valley Machine Co., 1250 22nd Avenue, Rock Valley; and at 5 p.m. at JARD, Inc., 3149 Nest Ave., in Sheldon.
"Huckabee: U.S. Basically Paid Iran Billions in Ransom"—Fox News Channel...Gov. Mike Huckabee (R-AR) said while the release of the U.S. hostages form Iran was good news, the United States "basically paid Iran billions in ransom." Huckabee said, "I am delighted they are going to be released. I mean there is no other way to express any other emotion for the hostages and their families, but that's just it, they were hostages, they were not prisoners, they were not there because they had committed some international crime for which they had been justly tried. They were being held hostages by a government that we just made a deal with and just released $100 billion, maybe up to $150 billion. This is not a good deal because this wasn't a deal. We were basically paying ransom is what it really came down to." He continued, "This is an invitation to go and find an American, hold him hostage, come up with phony charges, hold him a few years, humiliate the United States of America and then demand something of ridiculously high value and know that as long as this administration is in power, you're going to get it. Because they're so anxious to make a deal with the Iranians and for what reason, I've never been able to understand it."
"Huckabee plans Reinbeck stop on Saturday"—Waterloo Cedar Falls Courier…Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee will conclude another six-day swing through Iowa with a stop in Reinbeck on Saturday. Huckabee will hold a "moral clarity matters" town hall event from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday at Jack and Arnie's Steakhouse, 24735 U Ave., in Reinbeck. Throughout the week, Huckabee will make a total of 21 stops. He promised at the outset of the month to hold 150 events in the state in the last 31 days before the Iowa caucuses. He completed a tour of all 99 counties earlier this month."
"Iran, U.S. exchange detainees," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette
...event in South Carolina, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee questioned why the Obama administration agreed to talks with a country that was holding U.S. citizens. "It's great that these prisoners have been released," the Washington Post quoted Huckabee as telling reporters. "They should have been released before we ever sat down at the negotiating table"…
"Cruz Supporting Pastor Unable to Cite Any Evidence Cruz Would be a Good Executive"—Caffeinated Thoughts...Huckabee pointed out that there was a difference: Cruz would leave the issue to the states while Huckabee supported a Federal Marriage Amendment...This is embarrassing to the Cruz campaign. However, it points to a larger problem….Governor Huckabee got a lot of conservative, pro-life, pro-family, and conservative legislation passed through an overwhelming Democratic legislature from banning partial birth abortion and human cloning to a broad-based tax cut and charter school legislation….
NBC—Des Moines, Iowa…"Donald trump, Carly Fiorina, Mike Huckabee...share their ideas for the future of the renewable fuels industry. Governor Terry Branstad and Tom Vilsack are also attending. Our political director Dave Price is there. This morning, he asked Governor Branstad if he wants Cruz defeated in Iowa. Governor Branstad said "yes." He then called Cruz quote, "very dangerous."
CBS—Des Moines, Iowa…"Donald Trump and Mike Huckabee will all be in Altoona early this afternoon for the 10th annual Renewable Fuels Summit."
CBS—Des Moines, Iowa… "A busy week in Iowa, presidential hopefuls are making stops throughout the state. Let's take a look at some more candidates, Starting with Republicans…. On Wednesday morning, governor Huckabee is holding a meet and greet.."
ABC—Quad Cities, Iowa…"Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee and his wife were in Des Moines to promote the cause. An annual event that's meant to honor the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King"…
Fox News—Des Moines, Iowa…"Mike Huckabee speaking today on the Sunday shows…Huckabee says: "This is an invitation to go find an American, hold him hostage, come up with some phony charges, hold him for a few years, humiliate the United State of America, and then demand something of ridiculously high value...as long as this administration is in power, you're going to get it!"
ABC News—Des Moines, Iowa…"Huckabee's team said, 'Hey, we've got the governor in the state and we want him to do an event with you guys.' And we were happy to have him. It was a little short notice but we had a great crowd today."
NBC—Des Moines, Iowa…"Trump is giving it to Cruz on this 'born in Canada thing.' He's got Huckabee's SuperPAC, Huckabee personally. Got Santorum doing it. Governor branstad doing it...hitting him on ethanol and immigration."
NBC—Sioux City, Iowa…"Republican Mike Huckabee starts a two day swing through Northwest Iowa tomorrow. He'll host "Huckabee Huddles" in Cherokee Wednesday Afternoon, then in Sioux City, Le Mars, Sioux Center, Rock Valley and Sheldon on Thursday."
CBS—Sioux City, Iowa…"campaign stops in Siouxland. The list includes Former Arkansas Governor and 2008 Iowa Caucus winner Mike Huckabee. He'll be in northwest Iowa Wednesday and Thursday this week... With stops in Cherokee, Sioux City, Le Mars, Sioux Center, Rock Valley and Sheldon. For a full list of where he'll be and when, check on our website at SiouxlandNews.com
NBC—Davenport, Iowa…"Trump spoke at the South Carolina Tea Party Convention in Myrtle Beach yesterday. He joined other candidates at the event, including former arkansas governor Mike Huckabee and Ted Cruz."
  