
    
  New Jersey Man Driving Trailer Through New Hampshire to Campaign for John Kasich
  By Matt Arco

Note: "In my humble opinion, this guy Kasich is the most genuine guy in the field," said Turkavage, arguing Kasich is "the most experienced" candidate in the GOP race. "And more importantly, the guy has done what he said he would do," he said. "We need to start holding public officials accountable."Christie dropped the ball in New Jersey when he didn't do enough to fix the state's pension crisis, Turkavage said.
NJ.com-The Star Ledger
TRENTON—Just outside of one of Gov. Chris Christie's latest New Hampshire town hall meetings Wednesday, a New Jersey man was handing out flyers in support of his favorite governor in the GOP presidential race.
But unfortunately for Christie, the volunteer is backing someone else.
Robert Turkavage, a former FBI agent who ran an unsuccessful bid for U.S. Senate in New Jersey in 2014, plans to spend weeks in New Hampshire campaigning for Ohio Gov. John Kasich as the Feb. 9 primary there approaches.
Turkavage already spent nearly a week in New Hampshire knocking on doors and making phone calls for Kasich. But more recently, he took the campaign directly to potential Christie supporters.
"(I) attended a few Christie events today," he told NJ Advance Media from New Hampshire. "I just wanted to give the people that were coming to them some perspective."
The perspective came in the form of flyers that detailed Kasich's record on jobs and the economy in Ohio, and highlighted Christie's shortcomings on both areas in New Jersey.
"In my humble opinion, this guy Kasich is the most genuine guy in the field," said Turkavage, arguing Kasich is "the most experienced" candidate in the GOP race.
"And more importantly, the guy has done what he said he would do," he said. "We need to start holding public officials accountable."
———
Kasich has pulled ahead of Christie in the latest New Hampshire polls, ranking third in the early-voting state behind businessman Donald Trump and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, according to a Real Clear Politics average. Christie, who made big gains in New Hampshire since trailing the GOP pack over the summer, ranks fifth. The polls show Christie's acceleration in the state could have stalled.
To read the full story, click here.
  