
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to section 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d)), the text of the proposed revised Agreement for Cooperation Between the United States of America and Norway Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy with an accompanied annex and agreed minute. The Agreement is accompanied by my written approval, authorization and determination concerning the agreement and the memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the Agreement. The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy, which includes a summary of the provisions of the Agreement, and the views and recommendations of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and the Members of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission are also enclosed.
The proposed revised agreement with Norway has been negotiated in accordance with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act and in order to strengthen the basis for continuing and close cooperation between our countries. In my judgment, the proposed revised agreement for cooperation, together with its accompanying agreed minute, meets all statutory requirements.
I am pleased that this agreement is with Norway, one of the strongest supporters of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and of international non-proliferation efforts generally. We have a long history of close cooperation with Norway, particularly in nuclear research and in the critical area of reactor safety work. The agreement reflects our deep interest in strengthening international nuclear safety and in supporting Norway's important work in that area. The agreement will, in my view, further the nonproliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed agreement and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution, and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
January 26, 1984.
  