
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The travel and tourism industry is the source of countless benefits for both Americans and our guests from other lands. Friendship, knowledge, and appreciation of intercultural differences, enhancement of international understanding, cooperation, and goodwill are just a few.
Our abundant natural and manmade attractions, the warm hospitality of our people, and the outstanding facilities and services provided by our travel and tourism industry establish the United States as the preeminent destination for both foreign and domestic travelers.
Every year, millions of Americans and foreign visitors travel throughout our country discovering the glory of America—the beauty of our natural wonders, cities, wilderness, and countryside; the hospitality of our people; and our outstanding recreational, educational, and cultural activities. They learn America's history and see, firsthand, that ours is the land of freedom, justice, democracy, and opportunity.
The travel and tourism industry, which is composed mainly of small businesses, is now America's second largest private employer and its third largest retail industry. The industry directly employs over 5 1/2 million Americans and indirectly employs another 2,200,000. Total travel expenditures in the United States amount to nearly $280 billion—over 6 percent of our gross national product. The more than $19.4 billion spent here on travel and tourism by foreign visitors improves our balance of trade and makes travel and tourism our largest service export.
National Tourism Week fittingly honors all those Americans who earn their livelihood in the travel and tourism industry. National Tourism Week reminds us of this industry's economic, educational, cultural, and social benefits—that come from a productive partnership of industry, labor, and government.
The Congress, by Public Law 100-672, has designated the week beginning the second Sunday in May 1989 as "National Tourism Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 14-May 20, 1989, as National Tourism Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe the week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of January, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  