
    To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting for the Senate's advice and consent to ratification the Consular Convention between the United States of America and the People's Republic of China, signed at Washington on September 17, 1980. I am also transmitting for the information of the Senate the report of the Department of State with respect to the Convention.
The signing of the Convention is a significant step in the process of improving and broadening the relationship between the United States and the People's Republic of China. Consular relations between the two countries are not now the subject of a modern formal agreement. This Convention will establish firm obligations on such important matters as free communication between a national and his consul, notification of consular officers of the arrest and detention of their nationals and permission for visits by consuls to nationals who are under detention.
I also transmit for the information of the Senate two separate exchanges of letters, signed on September 17, 1980. The first sets forth the understanding of each side that:
1 ) reunification of families will be promoted as quickly as possible;
2) persons who may be regarded as possessing the nationality of both countries will be permitted to travel freely;
3) persons considered to be nationals of both countries will be entitled to the consular protection of the State whose valid passport (properly visaed) they possess while visiting the other and
4) financial benefits payable by one country to persons residing in the other will be paid under mutually agreed arrangements.
The second reflects agreement that three consulates, in addition to the two already established in each country, may be established.
I welcome the opportunity through this Consular Convention to improve the relations between the two countries and their nationals. I urge the Senate to give the Convention its prompt and favorable consideration.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 19, 1981.
  