
    West Des Moines, Iowa—The Iowa for Warren campaign today announced endorsements from more than 25 Polk County elected officials and political leaders, growing the long list of Iowans committed to supporting Elizabeth Warren's vision for big, structural change at the Iowa caucuses on Feb. 3.
Among the new endorsers are Iowa state Reps. Jennifer Konfrst and Heather Matson, Des Moines City Councilman Josh Mandelbaum and five chairpersons from Area Democratic Party organizations.
"On February 3, I will proudly stand with Elizabeth Warren in my precinct caucus," Iowa state Rep. Jennifer Konfrst said. "Nothing is more important to me than electing a president who has a vision for ensuring everyone in our country has a chance at the American dream."
"We need someone who is bold enough to believe in who we can be, and experienced enough to make that vision a reality," Konfrst said. "I've worked hard over the last year to help spread an important message of opportunity for all, and I still believe that message is critical to our country's future. I'm proud to endorse Elizabeth because I know she'll carry that message all the way to the White House."
"I was called to action in this presidential race by a message of civic grace and common purpose, and a sincere desire to heal our country," Iowa state Rep. Heather Matson said. "And after a long Iowa caucus campaign, Elizabeth Warren has emerged as the best candidate to defend our shared values, ensure opportunity for all and give a voice to those too often left behind."
"We're at a crossroads in America, and now is the moment for bold action," Matson said. "Elizabeth's passion and her proven record make her the best candidate to lead the Democratic ticket and move our country forward together."
The new endorsements underscore the breadth of Elizabeth's support in Iowa, and follow last weekend's endorsement from Iowa Senate Democratic Leader Janet Petersen.
The Polk County leaders join State Treasurer Michael Fitzgerald, former Lieutenant Governor Sally Pederson, Iowa Democrat John Norris, the Storm Lake Times newspaper state, nearly a dozen state legislators and scores of local officials and activists who have endorsed Warren's campaign.
The following Polk County leaders and activists are all-in for Elizabeth:

Jennifer Konfrst, Iowa State Representative, Windsor Heights
Heather Matson, Iowa State Representative, Ankeny
Josh Mandelbaum, Des Moines City Councilman, Des Moines
Brian Shipley, Elkhart City Councilman, Elkhart
Steve Zook, Mitchellville City Council, Mitchellville
Ashley Anderson, Urbandale School Board Member, Urbandale
Lori Slings, Southeast Polk School Board President, Altoona
Katie Rock, Polk County Soil and Water Commissioner, Des Moines
Lila Starr, Clive Area Dems Chair, Clive
Mary McAdams, Ankeny Area Dems Chair, Ankeny
Vanessa Phelan, NW Des Moines Area Dems Chair, Des Moines
Suzette Jensen, East Des Moines Area Dems Co-Chair, Des Moines
Kim El-Baroudi, Heart of Des Moines Area Dems Co-Chair, Des Moines
Nick Kruse, IDP Stonewall Caucus Vice Chair, Des Moines
Matt Sinovic, Progressive Activist, Urbandale
Connie Ryan, Faith Leader, Des Moines
Jennifer Harvey, Faith Leader & Professor, West Des Moines
Guy Cunningham, Grand View Professor, Des Moines
Rosemary Kirlin, Activist and Former DAWN's List President, Des Moines 
Dan Chibnall, Former Iowa Library Association President, West Des Moines
Grace Van Cleave, Entrepreneur, Des Moines 
Bonnie Brown, Community Activist, Des Moines
Julie Hale, Community Activist, West Des Moines
Antonio Montoya, Community Activist, Clive
Marie Herring, Community Activist, West Des Moines
Mary Kahl, Community Activist, Des Moines
Polly Antonelli, Community Activist, Altoona

  