
    The Club For Growth: "Governor Romney Deserves Credit For Proposing A Plan That Encourages Individually-Owned Health Insurance..." "Given these limitations, Governor Romney deserves credit for proposing (and to a lesser extent, enacting) a plan that encourages individually-owned health insurance and circumvents some of the inequities carved into the federal tax code." (The Club For Growth, "Mitt Romney's Record On Economic Issues," Press Release, 8/21/07)
FACT: The Massachusetts Health Care Plan Is Working:
Nearly Half Of The State's Uninsured Have Gotten Insurance Under The Massachusetts Health Care Plan. "The law appears to be working. As of Nov. 1, the date for the most recent statistics, more than 200,000 formerly uninsured people had gotten insurance, roughly half of the state's target." (Glen Johnson, "Rivals Chide Romney On Health Care Plan," The Associated Press, 11/15/07)
- Since Implementation, Nearly 300,000 Massachusetts Residents Have Become Insured. "Since the implementation of Massachusetts' landmark Healthcare Reform began in June 2006, an estimated 290,000 residents of the Commonwealth have become newly insured. As of January 1, 2008, we estimate that this number will surpass 300,000 – a truly historic achievement." (Massachusetts Commonwealth Connector, http://www.mahealthconnector.org/, Accessed 1/25/08)

Uninsured Massachusetts Residents Can Obtain Health Care Insurance For As Little As $175 A Month. "The average uninsured Massachusetts residents could obtain health care coverage for as little as $175 a month under the state's insurance law, Gov. Deval Patrick announced Saturday as he released the results of negotiations with the state's health insurers." (Steve LeBlanc, "Patrick: Residents Can Get Health Insurance For $175 A Month," The Associated Press, 3/3/07)
FACT: Conservatives Have Praised Governor Romney's Market-Driven Health Care Reform:
The Heritage Foundation: "In reality, those who want to create a consumer-based health system and deregulate health insurance should view Romney's plan as one of the most promising strategies out there." (Edmund F. Haislmaier, "Mitt's Fit," The Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/, 1/28/07)
The Club For Growth: "Governor Romney Deserves Credit For Proposing A Plan That Encourages Individually-Owned Health Insurance..." "Given these limitations, Governor Romney deserves credit for proposing (and to a lesser extent, enacting) a plan that encourages individually-owned health insurance and circumvents some of the inequities carved into the federal tax code." (The Club For Growth, "Mitt Romney's Record On Economic Issues," Press Release, 8/21/07)
Massachusetts Citizens For Limited Taxation: "Romney's plan also got a thumbs up from an unlikely source yesterday – Barbara Anderson, head of Citizens for Limited Taxation, a group that often looks with deep suspicion on government mandates and programs. ... The tax activist said that Romney is proposing universal insurance, not universal health care – which Anderson said society effectively already has, as almost no one is denied care even if they can't pay for it. 'Let's just face that reality and deal with it,' Anderson said, adding that covering more people will reduce costs to taxpayers." (Jay Fitzgerald, "Romney Wins Health-Y Reviews," Boston Herald, 6/23/05)
Investor's Business Daily: "Health Care: Massachusetts lawmakers have passed a universal-coverage bill. Republican Gov. Mitt Romney plans to sign it. Has Romney flipped? Not at all. He has won a victory for market-based reform." (Editorial, "Blue-State Surprise," Investor's Business Daily, 4/6/06)
FACT: Governor Romney's Health Insurance Reform Included:
CONNECTING INDIVIDUALS AND SMALL BUSINESSES TO INSURANCE: Program Established The "Connector" Allowing Massachusetts Citizens To Purchase Insurance With Pre-Tax Dollars. (Governor Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Health Care For Everyone?" The Wall Street Journal, 4/11/06)
- The Health Care Plan "'Connector' Does Dramatically Facilitate Individually-Owned Health Insurance Plans..." "In order to bypass this inequity, Romney created a device known as the 'Connector' that serves as a government-sponsored clearinghouse/regulator for private healthcare plans. ... Nevertheless, the Massachusetts 'Connector' does dramatically facilitate individually-owned health insurance plans by enabling individuals to purchase health insurance with pre-tax dollars and choose from a number of competing private plans." (The Club For Growth, "Mitt Romney's Record On Economic Issues," Press Release, 8/21/07)

LOWER-COST INSURANCE PRODUCTS: Through Private Market Reforms, Governor Romney's Administration Helped Insurers Create Lower-Cost Insurance Products. (Governor Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Health Care For Everyone?" The Wall Street Journal, 4/11/06)
- Uninsured Massachusetts Residents Can Obtain Health Care Insurance For As Little As $175 A Month. "The average uninsured Massachusetts residents could obtain health care coverage for as little as $175 a month under the state's insurance law, Gov. Deval Patrick announced Saturday as he released the results of negotiations with the state's health insurers." (Steve LeBlanc, "Patrick: Residents Can Get Health Insurance For $175 A Month," The Associated Press, 3/3/07)

PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE: Starting In July 2007, Health Insurance Will Be Mandatory For All State Residents. Plans must be deemed affordable according to state standards. (Governor Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Health-Care Reform Gets A Fair Shake," Boston Herald, 6/21/05)
- Governor Romney: "[M]y plan calls for a personal responsibility principle: Everyone must either become insured or maintain adequate savings to cover their medical expenses." (Governor Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Health-Care Reform Gets A Fair Shake," Boston Herald, 6/21/05)

LOW-INCOME ASSISTANCE: Lower-Income Residents Will Be Eligible For State Subsidies To Purchase Health Insurance. (Governor Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Health Care For Everyone?" The Wall Street Journal, 4/11/06)
- The Heritage Foundation: "The Subsidies Require No New Tax Monies." "The subsidies require no new tax monies. Federal and state funds currently subsidizing hospitals for treating the uninsured will simply be redirected into buying coverage for the low-income uninsured." (Edmund F. Haislmaier, "Massachusetts Health Reform: What The Doctor Ordered," The Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/, 5/6/06)

  