
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 4
Following his arrival in Guadeloupe, the President met in the evening with President Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France, Prime Minister James Callaghan of the United Kingdom, and Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal Republic of Germany.
January 6
In the evening, the President attended a reception for elected officials from Guadeloupe at the residence of the Prefect of Guadeloupe, where he stayed during the remainder of his visit to Guadeloupe.
January 7
In the evening, the President attended a reception hosted by Prime Minister and Mrs. Callaghan aboard the Scylla.
January 9
In the evening, the President returned to the White House from Guadeloupe.
January 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director, and Robert R. Bowie, Deputy, National Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
January 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Barry P. Bosworth, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, John N. Gentry, Deputy Adviser on Inflation and Counselor on Labor-Management Relations, and Mr. Mcintyre;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mayor Marion S. Barry, Jr., of the District of Columbia;
—Wilma Rudolph, former Olympic champion;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Attorney General Griffin B. Bell.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Nicolas Mondjo of the People's Republic of the Congo, Jose-Joseph Amiar of the Gabonese Republic, Jose Antonio Bermudez-Milla of Honduras, Francisco Augusto Lora Gonzales of the Dominican Republic, and Ephraim Evron of Israel.
January 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Dr. Schultze;
—George Meany, president, and executive council members of the AFLCIO;
—members of the National Advisory Committee for Women.
The White House announced that the President has decided to relieve Bella S. Abzug of her responsibilities as Cochairperson and member of the National Advisory Committee for Women.
  