
    As former Ranking Member of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, Rep. Michaud lauds Mike Bloomberg's record and plans to support veterans
EAST MILLINOCKET, MAINE — Former Congressman (ME-2) and former Assistant Secretary of Labor in the Obama Administration, Mike Michaud, endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, citing his ability to bring the country together and praising Mike's proven record on issues that matter to the people of Maine.
"In 2020, we need a candidate who can do one thing — beat Donald Trump. Mike Bloomberg is that candidate. With so many issues facing Maine and the country, from the climate crisis, to opioid addiction, and ensuring our veterans have economic security — we can no longer afford to waste time with partisan bickering. We need someone who can lead from a set of shared values and bold ideas. It's what Mike did as a businessman, as mayor of New York, and it's what he'll do as president," said former Congressman Mike Michaud. "For me, veterans' issues are deeply personal. As Ranking Member of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, and Assistant Secretary of Labor, I witnessed the serious challenges that were, and still are, facing those who served. I stand with Mike Bloomberg because on this issue, and so many others, his record is not about talk but action. As a mayor and philanthropist, Mike worked to ensure that veterans are always provided the support they need, whether it be housing, education, or access to a good job. He'll continue this record as president, working to bridge the gap between military and civilian life through programs that offer veterans the tools and opportunity to build new lives."
"Mike Michaud's work for the people of Maine cannot be understated. From his time as congressman for the Second District, to a selectman for East Millinocket, Mike has epitomized what public service is about and we are honored to have his support," said Mike Bloomberg 2020 Campaign Manager Kevin Sheekey. "Our campaign will continue to outline plans to tackle the critical issues that face the great state of Maine, including support for veterans, strengthening our healthcare system, and protecting the environment."
Congressman Michaud represented ME-2 from 2003 to 2015, and was Ranking Member of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee from 2012 to 2015. After serving in Congress and running for governor of Maine, he became Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training under President Obama. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Michaud was a member of the Maine House of Representatives and Maine Senate. He worked in a paper mill for almost thirty years, and is a former member of the United Steelworkers. He now serves on the East Millinocket Board of Selectmen.
  