
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 6
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
January 7
The President met at the White House with: —Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—members of the Cabinet;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—professional boxer Muhammad Ali to discuss his recent trip to the People's Republic of China;
—economist Walter Heller.
January 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—former Prime Minister James Callaghan of Great Britain;
—members of the President's Advisory Committee for Women.
The President announced the reappointment of Douglas M. Costle as Chairman of the Regulatory Council for 1980. Costle is Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
January 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of Energy Charles W. Duncan, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Moon Landrieu, Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, Secretary of Transportation Neil Goldschmidt, Secretary of Commerce Philip M. Klutznick, James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, to discuss domestic policies;
—Mr. Moore;
—Mr. Schultze;
—representatives of the National Business League;
—Mayor James D. Griffin of Buffalo, N.Y.;
—Sandy L. Duckworth, a member of the Fairfax County, Va., Board of Supervisors;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the situation in Iran, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and other foreign policy issues, given in the State Dining Room at the White House for a group of citizens formerly or currently active in foreign affairs.
The President sent letters to Senator Henry M. Jackson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, and Representative Morris K. Udall, chairman of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, transmitting the semiannual progress report on the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, prepared by the Department of the Interior.
The White House announced that in the area of high technology and other strategic item exports to the Soviet Union, the President has directed that all existing validated export licenses be suspended and that all shipments under these licenses be frozen, pending a national security review of licensing policy.
January 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President.
January 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Deputy Secretary of Defense W. Graham Claytor, Jr., Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Donovan;
—Mr. Moore;
—a citizens group to discuss volunteer, nongovernmental programs in the Caribbean and Central America;
—A. Vernon Weaver, Jr., Administrator of the Small Business Administration, and Arthur Levitt, Jr., chairman of the White House Commission on Small Business;
—Robert F. Goheen, U.S. Ambassador to India.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the situation in Iran, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and other foreign policy issues, given for agricultural, labor, religious, community, and civic leaders in the State Dining Room at the White House.
The White House announced that Prime Minister Adolfo Suarez of Spain will visit Washington January 14 and will meet with the President to discuss international issues of mutual interest.
  