
    "Leader" Highlights Obama's Lifelong Commitment To Change
Des Moines, IA -- On the eve of the Iowa Caucus, the Obama Campaign released a new two minute TV ad that aired throughout Iowa.
In the ad, titled "Leader," Obama talks of how he has spent his life working for change that has made a difference in the lives of real people. From fighting poverty as a community organizer to passing sweeping ethics reform to opposing the Iraq war from the start, Obama shows that he has the judgment and ability to unite people together to bring real change that America can believe in.
Click here to view "Leader": LINK
"Leader" Script:
"Tomorrow, we'll come to the end of a ten-month journey. You've heard from all of us, and read our plans; you've been bombarded with mailings and phone calls, and you'll be glad to know this is one of the last times you'll hear me say, 'I'm Barack Obama, and I approve this message.'
"But the question you have to ask yourself when you walk into that caucus tomorrow is this - who can take us in a fundamentally new direction? I'm running to finally solve problems we talk about year after year after year. To end the division, the obscene influence of lobbyists, and the politics that values scoring points over making progress. We can't afford more of that, not this year, not now.
"I've spent my life working for change that's made a real difference in the lives of real people.
"That's why I passed up a job on Wall Street to fight joblessness and poverty on the streets of Chicago when the local steel plant closed.
"That's why I turned down the corporate law firms to work as a civil rights lawyer; to fight for those who had been denied opportunity.
"That's why I fought for tough new ethics laws in Illinois and Washington to cut the power of lobbyists. And I won.
"That's why I brought Democrats and Republicans together to provide health care and tax relief to working families.
"And that's why I opposed this war in Iraq from the start. It wasn't popular, but it was right.
"This country's ready for a leader who will bring us together: that's the only way we're gonna win this election and that's actually how we'll actually fix health care and make college affordable, become energy independent and end this war.
"I'm reminded every day that I am not a perfect man. And I won't be a perfect President. But I can promise you this - I will always tell you where I stand and what I think. I will listen to you when we disagree. I will carry your voices to the White House and I will fight for you everyday I'm there. So I ask you to caucus tomorrow, not just for me, but for your hopes; for your dreams; for the America you believe is possible."
  