
    At events in Concord and Portsmouth, Edwards stresses underdog status, says he will fight for middle- class families
Manchester, New Hampshire – On the second day of the "Main Street Express – Real Change Starts Now" tour across New Hampshire, Senator John Edwards kicked off canvassing activities in Portsmouth and spoke at a rally in Concord in advance of the ABC News/WMUR/Facebook debate tonight at the Saint Anselm College in Manchester. During the "Real Change Starts Now" tour at rallies and town halls across the Granite State, Edwards is speaking to voters about his determination to fight for middle-class families and stand up to the entrenched interests that have corrupted Washington.
"I see happening here in New Hampshire the same thing that happened in Iowa: big crowds, lots of enthusiasm, and enormous energy," Edwards said this morning at a rally in Concord. "It's pretty amazing considering what an underdog I am – running against two $100 million candidates.
"But what's most important isn't that I'm an underdog – it's that the middle class has become an underdog in America, up against all these billions and billions of dollars of the entrenched interests. I'm running for president to fight for middle-class families against those powerful interests – just as I have my whole life.
"On Tuesday, the voters will have a chance to reject the status quo and to vote for change. Tonight, in the debate, there will be two change candidates on the stage, both of whom have a very different approach to how you bring about change. I don't think you can negotiate with these entrenched, monied interests. I don't think you can 'nice' them to death. I think you have to fight them and stand up to them – and that's exactly what I intend to do as president of the United States."
At tonight's debate, Senator Edwards will be joined by James Lowe, a former coal miner from Wise County, Virginia, who barely speak for 50 years because he didn't have health care and couldn't afford the operation he needed to fix his cleft palate. Edwards met Mr. Lowe at the site of a Remote Area Medical (RAM) clinic during his "Road to One America" tour in July. It was at this free rural clinic, a year ago, that Mr. Lowe finally met with medical professionals willing to donate their time to perform the surgery he needed so he could finally speak.
"I am proud to support John Edwards and to lend my story to his fight to stand up for the millions of hardworking Americans who don't have a voice in Washington," said Mr. Lowe. "The American people need health care, and we need it badly. When John Edwards is president, I know that's exactly what we will get."
Edwards was the first candidate to propose a plan for true universal health care. As president, he will take on the drug and insurance companies and guarantee health care for every American, while cutting costs and improving care.
During the four-day "Main Street Express" tour leading up to the New Hampshire primary, John and Elizabeth Edwards are joined by their children Cate, Emma Claire and Jack as well as John's parents Bobbie and Wallace. Today, in addition joining John at the canvass kick off and Concord rally, Elizabeth Edwards will attend house parties in Derry and Peterborough.
  