
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced that Tony Gelbart and Mark Lezell, prominent Jewish community activists, have endorsed Mayor Giuliani for President. Both Gelbart and Lezell serve on the Republican Jewish Coalition Board of Directors.
"Rudy Giuliani has never wavered in his strong support for Israel," said Gelbart. "He's at the forefront of understanding that peace can only happen by standing up to terrorists and defeating them. The Jewish people know Rudy to be a loyal friend who will work to protect the state of Israel."
Mayor Giuliani enjoys overwhelming support among the membership of the Republican Jewish Coalition Board of Directors, with 24 of its 59 members backing him.
About Tony Gelbart:
Gelbart is the President and CEO of CPM Worldwide Group, an investment company based in Florida with holdings in both the U.S. and Israel. He is the son of Jewish immigrants to the U.S. While attending Bernard Baruch College of the City University of New York, Mr. Gelbart was an active advisor and participant in groups such as Herut, SSSJ, B'nai Brith, Hillel and the ADL. During his college years, Gelbart also attended Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
Gelbart currently serves as co-founder of Nefesh B'Nefesh and board member for the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies. Gelbart also contributes and plays an active role in organizations such as Friends of the Israeli Defense Forces and several Holocaust-oriented organizations. He serves on the Republican Jewish Coalition Board of Directors.
About Mark Lezell:
Lezell is the founder of Lezell Law, PC, in Washington, DC. He previously was a partner of Ropes & Gray. Lezell has extensive experience counseling, structuring, and negotiating a variety of business ventures. Additionally, his decades of active participation in the political process have facilitated the advocacy of legislative policy matters before the U.S. Congress and the Administration.
Lezell has been in private practice for more than 30 years. Previously, he was an attorney with the Office of Chief Counsel, Division of Corporation Finance, and legal assistant to Commissioner Irving M. Pollack of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, he was a law clerk to Chief Judge Aubrey E. Robinson, Jr., U.S. District Court of the District of Columbia.
Lezell obtained his B.A. from Michigan State University and received his J.D. from American University, Washington College of Law. He also holds an LL.M. in Taxation from Georgetown University Law Center.
  