
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five people and accord the Personal Rank of Ambassador to one individual.
The President intends to nominate P. Robert Fannin, of Arizona, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Dominican Republic. Mr. Fannin currently serves as a Senior Partner at Steptoe & Johnson, LLP. Prior to this, he served as a Partner at Quarles & Brady, LLP. Mr. Fannin received his bachelor's degree from Stanford University and his LLD from the University of Arizona.
The President intends to nominate Douglas Menarchik, of Texas, to be Assistant Administrator (Europe and Eurasia) of the United States Agency for International Development. Dr. Menarchik currently serves as Assistant Administrator for Policy and Program Coordination at the United States Agency for International Development. Prior to this, he served as Director of the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of the Center for the Defense Leadership and Management Program at the National Defense University. Dr. Menarchik received his bachelor's degree from the United States Air Force Academy and his master's degree from Liberty University. He also received an additional master's degree and his PhD from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate William Raymond Steiger, of Wisconsin, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mozambique. Dr. Steiger currently serves as Special Assistant to the Secretary for International Affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services. Prior to this, he served as an Education Policy Advisor in the Office of the Governor for the State of Wisconsin. Dr. Steiger received his bachelor's degree from Yale University, his master's degree and PhD from the University of California, Los Angeles.
The President intends to nominate Howard Charles Weizmann, of Maryland, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management. Mr. Weizmann currently serves as President of the Private Sector Council. Prior to this, he served as Senior Vice President of the European Business Operations and Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Digex, Inc. Earlier in his career, he served as a Managing Consultant at Watson Wyatt Worldwide. Mr. Weizmann received his bachelor's degree from Ohio University, his master's degree from the University of Michigan, and his JD from Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to accord the Personal Rank of Ambassador to Richard M. Russell, of Virginia, during his tenure as the United States Representative to the World Radio Communication Conference.
The President intends to nominate Bradley Udall, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2012.
  