
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




January 13, 202310:10

VP pool report #1: Kishida arrival
Vice President Kamala Harris is hosting Japanese PM Fumio Kishida at her home for breakfast.
She walked out the front door of the VP's residence at the Naval Observatory at 9:58 am. The pair walked together almost four minutes later at 10:02 am.
She gave brief remarks about what she described as their shared priorities, including space exploration.
"So welcome to my home, it is good to see you," she told Kishida.
Her remarks were then translated into Japanese.
He then said, in Japanese, that it was his first visit to DC as PM. He thanked her for "graciously" inviting him, per an English interpretation.
Kishida also said he looks forward to "exchanging views" on a variety of topics and their "frank and candid conversation."
Harris did not respond to a question on the special counsel as they went inside.
Just before Harris walked out to greet him, Kishida arrived in a black Suburban.
As pool was waiting outside the VP's residence, a Naval Observatory aide vacuumed the welcome mat.
More background below.....
On Background from a White House Official:Today, the Vice President will host Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan for a working breakfast at the Vice President’s Residence. They will discuss U.S.-Japan space cooperation and other bilateral and global issues.
U.S. Delegation- The Vice President- Ms. Lorraine Voles, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President- Dr. Rebecca Lissner, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor- T.H. Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Department of State- Mr. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council- Mr. Chirag Parikh, Deputy Assistant to the President and Executive Secretary of the National Space Council- Mr. David Redlinger, Special Advisor to the Vice President for East Asia and Oceania



January 13, 202310:33

VP Pool Report #2: photos and a few more remarks
It was hard to hear the VP, who spoke quietly. (And also quite hard to type in real time on a sunny but windy day in Washington, where it's currently 46 degrees Fahrenheit.)
She began her remarks by saying she was "very happy" to have Kishida in Washington, after meetings with the PM in Bangkok and Tokyo.
While talking about their shared priorities on space exploration, she said that today their two countries would sign an agreement.
Kishida noted per the English translation that they last met in November and thanked the VP for inviting him. He said they would discuss a "free and open Indo Pacific" and brought up space cooperation, which he said he knows she is "very eager" to talk about.
Here's a picture of the VP greeting Kishida and one of the preparations for his arrival.
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/kb8px8dpwpfn8vn/AAC5t35Lnd1n3lnE7FJCyCzTa?dl=0
That's all from me. Have a great Friday.




 
Pool Reports below by Takaaki Abe, Nippon Television 



Sent:
Reports:




January 13, 202309:22

VPOTUS Foreign Pool Report #1 (1/13/23)-Greetings and background information
Good morning or Ohayo gozaimasu from the VP Residence. My name is Taka Abe with Japan's Nippon Television. It’s my pleasure to be your foreign pool reporter this morning covering Vice President Harris's breakfast meeting with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan at the Vice President Residence, the Unites States Naval Observatory scheduled at 10am.
Per the Vice President office, they will discuss U.S.- Japan space cooperation and other bilateral and global issues.
As a reminder, in official documents, Japan changed the way Japanese names are written in English by placing the family name first, the same way they are written in Japanese. So Kishida is the Prime Minister's family name, and Fumio is his fist name.
President Biden's meeting with PM Kishida at the White House later this morning will be covered by my Japanese foreign pool counterpart, Mineko Tokito Abe, who also happens to be my wife.
Today's working breakfast will be the 2nd meeting between VP Harris and PM Kishida.
Their 1st meeting was held in Tokyo, Japan on Sep. 26, 2022 when VP Harris led the U.S. Presidential Delegation for the State Funeral of former Prime Minister Abe Shinzo.
On that occasion, VP Harris and PM Kishida discussed regional and global issues such as Russia's invasion of Ukraine, China and North Korea, as readouts from both governments explained below:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/26/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-meeting-with-prime-minister-kishida-of-japan/
https://www.mofa.go.jp/press/release/press3e_000457.htmlPer the readout from the Japanese side, they held a bilateral meeting for 40 minutes at the Akasaka Palace in Tokyo, and then PM Kishida hosted a dinner with the U.S. delegation for an hour.



January 13, 202309:30

VPOTUS Foreign Pool Report #2 (1/13/23)-Schedule
Japanese Prime Minister Kishida has been on tour in Europe and North America, 5 countries in 7 days. His last stop is here in the United States. The travel distance during the 7 day trip is equivalent to almost circling the globe.
According to the Japanese government, highlights of PM Kishida's schedule for the tour is as follows:
Sun. Jan. 8: Departed Japan
Mon. Jan. 9: Arrived in Paris, France. Held a joint press opportunity with French President Macron, dined with him, and held a tete-a tete meeting (30 min).
Tue. Jan. 10: Departed Paris, France and arrived in Rome, Italy. Met Italian PM Meloni (58 min), and held a working lunch with her. Left Rome, Italy, and arrived in London, UK.
Wed. Jan. 11: Met UK PM Sunak (58 min), left London, UK, and arrived in Ottawa, Canada.
Thurs. Jan. 12: Met Canadian PM Trudeau (63 min) and held a joint press conference. He left Ottawa, Canada and arrived in DC.
Today (Fri. Jan. 13): This morning PM Kishida participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery. After meeting with VP Harris, PM Kishida will meet President Biden and participate in a working lunch at the White House. He will also deliver an address at SAIS at 3pm, participate in a U.S. Japan space cooperation framework agreement at NASA HQ at 4:30pm, and will dine with members of the U.S. Congress later in the evening.
Tomorrow (Sat. Jan. 14): PM Kishida will hold a press conference and wrap up his trip. He will leave DC for Japan afterward.



January 13, 202310:29

VPOTUS Foreign Pool Report #3 (1/13/23)-PM Kishida Arrival
VP Harris came out from the main entrance to greet Japanese Prime Minister Kishida, and his vehicle arrived at the doors at 9:58 am.
He came out from the vehicle without wearing a mask.
They had a very quick photo session in front of the entrance.
VP Harris spoke first, and PM Kishida spoke in Japanese.
Please check against the official transcript, but he said, "I look forward to exchanging views today on various topics including US Japan alliance, establishing a free and open Indo Pacific, and a space cooperation that I know you are very, a you're eager about. So I look forward to our very frank and candid discussions."
They went inside the residence without responding to shouted questions at 10:01am.



January 13, 202311:11

VPOTUS Foreign Pool Report #4 (1/13/23)-Official Timeline
Per the Japanese side, the breakfast meeting began at 10:03am and finished at 11am.
That's it from your foreign pool reporter covering VP Harris-PM Kishida breakfast meeting.



January 13, 202312:32

VPOTUS Foreign Pool Report #5 (1/13/23)-Japanese Delegation list
Actually one more note from me...
Per the Vice President Office, attendees for the breakfast meeting from the Japanese side are as follows;
Japan Manifest:- H.E. Fumio Kishida, Prime Minister of Japan- H.E. Hayashi Yoshimasa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan- Mr. Kihara Seiji, Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary- Mr. Akiba Takeo, National Security Advisor- H.E. Tomita Koji, Ambassador of Japan to the United States- Mr. Yamada Shigeo, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs- Mr. Kobe Yasuhiro, Director-General




  