
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 11
The President returned to the White House from Plains, Ga.
January 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Ambassador Sol M. Linowitz;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison.
The President attended a reception in the morning for Carter/Mondale campaign staff members on the State Floor at the White House.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a concert and dinner for Carter/Mondale campaign fundraisers on the State Floor at the White House.
January 13
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Douglas M. Costle, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;
—William H. Webster, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
—Mr. Moore.
January 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a reception in the evening for administration officials on the State Floor of the White House.
January 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Ambassador Ephraim Evron of Israel.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a reception in the afternoon for donors and lenders to the White House collection on the State Floor of the White House.
The President transmitted to Congress the second annual report on the United States Government's international activities in the field of science and technology.
January 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
The President transmitted to Congress:
—The FY 1980 annual report of the ACTION Agency;
—the 10th annual report on hazardous materials control;
—the second annual report on the status of the Weatherization Assistance Program;
—the 13th annual report of the Department of Transportation.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at .Camp David, Md.
January 18
The President returned to the White House from Camp David.
The President met at the White House during the day and evening with his advisers to discuss the situation in Iran.
January 19
The President met at the White House throughout the day and evening with his advisers to discuss developments in the United States-Iran agreement on release of the American hostages.
The White House announced that President-elect Ronald Reagan phoned the President and asked him to represent the United States when the hostages arrived in Wiesbaden, Germany, after being released in Iran. The President thanked the President-elect for his offer and reviewed the situation with him. Later in the day, when it became apparent that the hostages might not be released during the Carter Presidency, the President called the President-elect, thanked him again for the offer, and accepted his invitation to represent the United States.
January 20
The President met at the White House with Dr. Brzezinski and other administration officials to discuss continuing developments in the U.S.-Iranian agreement.
The President and Mrs. Carter welcomed President-elect and Mrs. Reagan to the White House for coffee before leaving together for the Capitol and the Inauguration.
  