
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, R. Robert Russell, Director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Frank C. Carlucci, Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
January 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Representative William S. Moorhead of Pennsylvania;
—Mr. Mcintyre.
The White House announced that at the invitation of the President, Italian Prime Minister Francesco Cossiga will make an official visit to Washington January 24-25. The two Allied leaders will review a full range of major international issues. They will also discuss U.S. relations with the European Community, of which Italy currently holds the Presidency. The President announced the recess appointments of six persons. They are:
—William J. Beckham, Jr., as Deputy Secretary of Transportation, who was nominated for this position on October 26, 1979;
—Thomas K. Berg, as United States Attorney for the District of Minnesota, who was nominated for this position on December 20, 1979;
—William J. Driver, as Commissioner of Social Security;
—Ralph Earle II, as Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency;
—George M. Seignious, as a member of the General Advisory Committee of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency;
—William Lee Smith, as Commissioner of Education, who was nominated for this position on December 20, 1979.
The President announced the appointment of Charles D. Ravenel, of Charleston, S.C., as Associate Deputy Secretary of Commerce, a new position.
The President transmitted to the Congress the report on the Middle Distillate Situation During the Winter of 1979-1980.
January 4
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mr. Moore;
—U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union Thomas J. Watson, Jr., and Secretary Vance.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David. Md.
  