
    
  Palin Praises Trump's Leadership with Endorsement in Iowa

(New York, NY) January 19th, 2016 — Today Donald J. Trump received the coveted and influential endorsement of former Vice Presidential Candidate and Governor of Alaska, Sarah Palin. Palin praised Trump's leadership and unparalleled ability to speak the truth and produce real results. A trusted conservative, Palin has a proven record of being fiscally modest, staunchly pro-life and believes in small government that allows businesses to grow and freedom to prosper. Gov. Palin joined Mr. Trump in Ames on Tuesday, just two weeks before the Iowa Caucuses, to announce her endorsement of the GOP frontrunner.
Mr. Trump stated, "I am greatly honored to receive Sarah's endorsement. She is a friend, and a high quality person whom I have great respect for. I am proud to have her support."
Sarah Palin served as the Governor of Alaska before being selected as Senator John McCain's Vice Presidential nominee in 2008. As the first ever female Vice Presidential candidate for the Republican party, Palin is a highly influential, decorated public figure having been named as one of the Smithsonian Institute's 100 Most Influential Americans of All Time, one of TIME magazine's Most Influential People In The World, Forbes 100 Most Powerful Women and 100 Most Influential Pro-life advocates by Newsmax. In addition to her political accomplishments, Sarah Palin is also a New York Times Best-Selling Author, former FOX News contributor and internationally sought-after speaker.
Sarah Palin stated, "I am proud to endorse Donald J. Trump for President of the United States of America."
Palin's endorsement is amongst the most sought after and influential amongst Republicans. Since 2009 she has supported over 150 conservative candidates, helping to flip over thirty US House seats and 5 US Senate seats to regain historic majorities. She helped launch the careers of several key future leaders of the Republican Party and conservative movement. Senator Ted Cruz notes: "I would not be in the United States Senate were it not for Gov. Sarah Palin… She can pick winners." Senator Jim Demint noted: "She has done more to change the political landscape in America as anyone since Ronald Reagan."
Mr. Trump campaigned in Winterset, Altoona, and Ames, Iowa today and will be in Norwalk, Iowa for an event tomorrow, before traveling to Tulsa, Oklahoma for a rally with thousands expected to attend. Palin will travel with the candidate to both events on Wednesday.
  