
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




January 8, 202209:59 PST

Out-of-town pool report #1 - Good morning from Las Vegas
Good morning from the Vdara hotel in Las Vegas, where it's a sunny 57 degrees.
Pool has been tested and swept and we've loaded into the vans to head to the Smith Center for Performing Arts, where the president is attending a memorial service honoring former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid at 11 a.m. PST. The service will be livestreamed.
After the service POTUS and FLOTUS will head back to Washington before traveling to Camp David for the remainder of the weekend.
Please reach out with any questions should they arise.



January 8, 202210:21 PST

Out-of-town pool report #2 - Rolling for Smith Center
We're rolling at 10:16am PST for the Smith Center.



January 8, 202210:43 PST

Out-of-town pool report #3 - Arrival at Smith Center 
The motorcade arrived after a 13-minute ride. The route was quiet save for a few people scattered along the way recording with their phone cameras as we drove by.
Pool was escorted into the grand lobby before being ushered into the hall. Strings played beneath a screen they featured tweets paying tribute to Harry Reid as a masked crowd began to fill into the seats.
Apologies ahead of time as cell service is spotty.



January 8, 202211:34 PST

Out-of-town pool report #4 - Service starts
My report has not gone through. Trying this again without the PDF attachment. Again, apologies, as service is spotty.
The event was underway at 10:56am local time. Pallbearers escorted Sen. Reid's casket, draped in an American flag, into the hall shortly before 11am.
POTUS and FLOTUS are seated with VP Harris and Second Gentleman Emhoff to the left of the stage. The president escorted Landra Reid to her seat before the service began.
The president, who will speak after former President Barack Obama, arrived in the hall at the 10:53am.
His remarks will be streamed live: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer are also due to speak.
A mix of photos from Sen. Reid's personal life and career are featured onscreen.
I've included photos of the program below.
It includes lyrics to "Home Means Nevada," which will be performed by Brandon Flowers of The Killers, Las Vegas' hometown band. It also includes "i carry your heart with me" by E.E. Cummings. "Senator Reid kept a copy of a poem by E.E. Cummings in his desk at the US Capitol. The poem represented the love he and Landra share. He read the poem often and would think of her," the program read.








January 8, 202213:22 PST

Out-of-town pool report #5 - More from service
At the beginning of the service after the military processional, the Bible verse 2 Timothy 4:7 was displayed on stage: "I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith."
I posted images of the program to my Twitter account if you were not able to download the photos from my last report.
Sen. Reid's children Lana, Key, Josh, Leif and Rory all paid tribute to their father. Brandon Flowers performed "Be Still" and Carole King sang "In the Name of Love" during the service.
Sen. Schumer shared a story about Reid slipping him money to buy better shoes while House Speaker Pelosi recalled being on the receiving end of Reid's penchant for hanging up the phone when he felt the conversation was done.
Obama delivered the eulogy, which lasted about 25 minutes, and noted that Sen. Reid was uncomfortable with people being too complimentary. "As he looks down on us today, Harry is going to have to suck it up," Obama said as the crowd laughed. "Because few people have done more for this state and this country."
"Hardship had forged a steel in Harry," Obama said before recalling his passion for boxing. "A fighting spirit that explained his success in the boxing ring despite being significantly undersized." The same "dogged determination" defined his political career, he said. He was a pragmatist, Obama said, which made him adaptable.
He recalled their work together on passing Obama's signature healthcare law, Reid's encouragement for him to run for president and his generosity to family and friends.
"He was always unfailingly himself," Obama said. "It may not exceptional but in Washington it is an exceedingly rare quality."
Biden took the stage at 12:59pm local time and spoke for 19 ½ minutes. "Every time I hear a dial tone, I think of Harry," Biden said to laughs. "What a gift Harry Reid was to the state and this nation, and to so many of us, individually."
He recalled their long relationship, dating back to when Biden first entered the Senate and Reid asked him to campaign for him. He said Reid gave him "a sense of confidence. I counted on him."
He said, as Obama did, they shared many similarities: a loving family, wives who were smarter and better looking than them and they both liked to talk a lot.
Biden said Reid led the Democratic caucus not only by speaking but also by listening. "He was all Searchlight, no spotlight," he added, referring to his hometown.
He referred to the portrait of Mark Twain that hung in Sen. Reid's office and noted that Twain would've written about him as a defining character in American history if he would've known him.
"For the nation we lost a giant," Biden said, describing him as "plainspoken," "beloved" and "unyielding."
Pool was ushered out at 1:20 pm PST.



January 8, 202213:41 PST

Out-of-town-pool report #6 - Rolling for airport
Pool was escorted out before the end of the memorial service and piled into the press vans while waiting for POTUS. Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS before the motorcade left the Smith Center.
Motorcade is rolling for the Harry Reid International Airport at 1:38pm PST.



January 8, 202214:08 PST

Out-of-town-pool report #7- Departure for DC
The motorcade arrived at the airport at 1:57 pm local time and quickly hustled over to AF1. POTUS had already boarded and pool did not lay eyes on him before he boarded.
We're wheels up for the flight back to Washington at 2:08 pm local time.



January 8, 202220:56 EST

Out-of-town pool report #8 - JBA arrival
AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 8:39pm ET after a quiet flight back to Washington. No visitors to the back of the plane and CNN played on the televisions.
POTUS and FLOTUS alighted at 8:49pm ET.
The pair did not stop to talk to press before walking over to Marine One for a short ride to Camp David, where they'll remain for the rest of the weekend.
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President and the First Lady were greeted by:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Mrs. Christine Jones, Spouse of Colonel Jones
Marine One lifted at 8:54pm.



January 8, 202221:37 EST

Out-of-town pool report #9- Camp David arrival / lid
The President and the First Lady landed at Camp David at 9:30 PM. They will remain there until Monday, per the WH.
We have a travel/photo lid at 9:33pm.
Enjoy the rest of your weekend!




  