
    President Trump. Thank you very much. It's a great honor to have Prime Minister Solberg of Norway. Just had a very resounding election victory, so it's another 4 years at least. And very respected by her country, very liked by her country.
We do a lot of business with Norway, and I know you just bought some additional military equipment in the form of F-35s and other things, and so I congratulate you. We make the best in the world, we make. And Norway is a great customer and a great ally and a great friend. So it's an honor to have you. Thank you very much.
Prime Minister Solberg. Thank you very much. And I'd just like to say, we are really appreciating the good work that we have together with the United States; that you are our closest ally inside NATO. And we see your military personnel also training in Norway, and it's a part of what you think is very good on our bilateral cooperation also. And in the last years, there has even been a surplus from the U.S. to Norway on the economic side. So you must be making good products. [Laughter]
President Trump. Well, we're doing a little bit, and we do make great product. And it was just—we were just discussing with the Prime Minister, we make the greatest military equipment in the world, and you buy a lot of it, and we appreciate that. It's called jobs.
Prime Minister Solberg. It's called jobs, yes.
President Trump. But it's also called great equipment.
Prime Minister Solberg. You know, Norway contributes too. I think we have estimated it supports up to 470,000 jobs in the United States——
President Trump. Correct.
Prime Minister Solberg. ——by our investment and what we are doing so—and it's a special thing; you know, we have very—our climate policies now about make more—our transportation system different.
President Trump. Yes.
Prime Minister Solberg. So Teslas are a big hit in Norway.
President Trump. Oh, good. Well, that's good.
Prime Minister Solberg. Yes, electrical cars.
President Trump. We do that too. Thank you very much.
Prime Minister Solberg. Yes, thank you.
President Trump. Thank you. It's a great honor to have you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much.
  