
    To further coordination of the United Nations war effort, the President and Prime Minister Churchill have set up three Boards to deal with munition assignments, shipping adjustment, and raw materials. The functions of these Boards are outlined in the following statements.
Members of the Boards will confer with representatives of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, China, and such other of the United Nations as are necessary to attain common purposes and provide for the most effective utilization of the joint resources of the United Nations.
COMBINED RAW MATERIALS BOARD
A planned and expeditious utilization of the raw material resources of the United Nations is necessary in the prosecution of the war. To obtain such a utilization of our raw material resources in the most efficient and speediest possible manner, we hereby create the "Combined Raw Materials Board."
This Board will:
(a) Be composed of a representative of the British Government and a representative of the United States Government. The British member will represent and act under the instruction of the Minister of Supply. The Board shall have power to appoint the staff necessary to carry out its responsibilities.
(b) Plan the best and speediest development, expansion, and use of the raw material resources, under the jurisdiction or control of the two Governments, and make the recommendations necessary to execute such plans. Such recommendations shall be carried out by all parts of the respective Governments.
(c) In collaboration with others of the United Nations work toward the best utilization of their raw material resources, and, in collaboration with the interested Nation or Nations, formulate plans and recommendations for the development, expansion, purchase, or other effective use of their raw materials.
MUNITIONS ASSIGNMENTS BOARD
1. The entire munition resources of Great Britain and the United States will be deemed to be in a common pool, about which the fullest information will be interchanged.
2. Committees will be formed in Washington and London under the Combined Chiefs of Staff in a manner similar to the South-West Pacific Agreement. These Committees will advise on all assignments both in quantity and priority, whether to Great Britain and the United States or other of the United Nations in accordance with strategic needs.
3. In order that these Committees may be fully apprised of the policy of their respective Governments, the President will nominate a civil Chairman who will preside over the Committee in Washington, and the Prime Minister of Great Britain will make a similar nomination in respect of the Committee in London. In each case the Committee will be assisted by a Secretariat capable of surveying every branch and keeping in touch with the work of every subcommittee as may be necessary.
4. The civilian Chairman in Washington and London may invite representatives of the State Department, the Foreign Office, or production ministries or agencies to attend meetings.
COMBINED SHIPPING ADJUSTMENT BOARD
1. In principle, the shipping resources of the two countries will be deemed to be pooled. The fullest information will be interchanged.
2. Owing to the military and physical facts of the situation around the British Isles, the entire movement of shipping now under the control of Great Britain will continue to be directed by the Ministry of War Transport.
3. Similarly, the appropriate authority in the United States will continue to direct the movements and allocations of United States shipping, or shipping of other powers under United States control.
4. In order to adjust and concert in one harmonious policy the work of the British Ministry of War Transport and the shipping authorities of the United States Government, there will be established forthwith in Washington a Combined Shipping Adjustment Board, consisting of a representative of the United States and a representative of the British Government, who will represent and act under the instructions of the British Minister of War Transport.
5. A similar Adjustment Board will be set up in London consisting of the Minister of War Transport and a representative of the United States Government.
6. In both cases the executive power will be exercised solely by the appropriate shipping agency in Washington and by the Minister of War Transport in London.
  