
    "And I'm very happy in my former life; we helped create over 100,000 new jobs. By the way, we created more jobs in Massachusetts than this president's created in the entire country. So if the President wants to talk about jobs, and I hope he does, we'll be comparing my record with his record and he comes up very, very short." – Mitt Romney
"Fox and Friends"
FOX News
January 3, 2012
BRIAN KILMEADE: "Now I want to bring you to a fired employee of yours who was trotted out last time you wanted to be the senator of Massachusetts against Ted Kennedy. His name is Randy Johnson. Randy Johnson worked for a paper company, Bain Capital took it over. He got fired, along with others. He's angry. Listen."
RANDY JOHNSON: "I look at the candidates that are out there. I understand what his record is. I know what he did to us at AmPad. They bought AmPad in '92. They bought my plant in '94. They went public with the IPO in '96. And then in 2000, they let AmPad go bankrupt and made $100 million. Tell me what's right. There is something wrong with that."
STEVE DOOCY: "Well, It sounds like he was trotted out by the DNC. So you're right, they're already coming after you."
MITT ROMNEY: "Oh, of course they will. And I'm going to be able to talk to people across the country about the President's record. This is a president who lost more jobs during his tenure than any president since Hoover. This is 2 million jobs that he lost as President. And by the way, when he was overseeing General Motors and Chrysler, how many factories did he close? How many dealerships? How many thousands upon thousands of Americans had to be let go in an effort to try and save those businesses? That's what we did in our business. And I'm very happy in my former life; we helped create over 100,000 new jobs. By the way, we created more jobs in Massachusetts than this president's created in the entire country. So if the President wants to talk about jobs, and I hope he does, we'll be comparing my record with his record and he comes up very, very short."
STEVE DOOCY: "Governor, what would you say to that fellow, Randy Johnson, right there, who did lose his job in that takeover?"
MITT ROMNEY: "No one ever likes to see someone lose their job. It's just a tragedy, and any time you're in an enterprise that you're trying to turn around and it's going down the hill, you try and turn it around and sometimes you have to cut back on the size of the enterprise. That's an awful thing to have to do, but you try and do that to save the business. That's what I'm sure we're going to hear from President Obama about why he cut all those jobs at General Motors. He wanted to save it. That is the nature of free enterprise. And I know the President is going to try and put free enterprise on trial. I'll be able to talk to him about his mistakes and I think they've been severe because they've led to a lot of people being out of work that didn't need to be out of work."
  