
    MANCHESTER, NH — James Carville, the last Democratic strategist to unseat an incumbent Republican president, today announced his endorsement of Michael Bennet for president of the United States. Carville will campaign for Bennet in the Granite State ahead of the February 11th primary.
"The best way to beat Donald Trump is to show you're not him in any way, shape or form," said Carville. "Senator Bennet has less in common with Donald Trump than any human being in the United States when it comes to worldview, priorities, and demeanor. Senator Bennet is the opposite of Trump and is the best Democrat to take him on. And Senator Bennet would be the best President of the United States, which is why I endorsed his campaign."
"I think Senator Bennet is uniquely suited for New Hampshire," Carville continued. "It's a historical fact that people like him do well there. I have faith in his strategy of going from town hall to town hall, from living room to living room. He's putting in the work. Michael Bennet will surprise people."
Carville was the architect behind the successful 1992 Clinton presidential campaign, another candidate from the middle of the country who bet big on the New Hampshire primary. Clinton's success in the Granite State made him the "Comeback Kid," which became a decisive step toward him winning the Democratic nomination.
Carville is the latest Bennet endorser, a group that includes former New Hampshire presidential primary winner Gary Hart, Southern New Hampshire University President Paul LeBlanc, and NH State Reps. Marjorie Smith, David Luneau, Joyce Fulweiler, and Sherry Dutzy.
Bennet's momentum in New Hampshire continues to build. Last month, the campaign announced its first Granite State TV buy featuring a new ad, "Opposite of Trump," as well as an expanded digital buy, including the new "Just the Truth" series, to share with voters Bennet's personal story, experiences in leadership and service, and motivations underlying his run for president.
Bennet has also completed 33 town halls in New Hampshire since December 6th as part of his 50 town hall commitment in the final 10 weeks before the First in the Nation primary.
  