
    Michael Butler, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2008, vice Eric D. Eberhard, term expired.
James William Carr, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the National Security Education Board for a term of four years, vice Manuel Trinidad Pacheco, term expired.
Harold Damelin, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Department of the Treasury, vice Jeffrey Rush, Jr., resigned.
George M. Dennison, of Montana, to be a Member of the National Security Education Board for a term of four years, vice Bruce Sundlun, term expired.
Thomas C. Dorr, of Iowa, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development, vice Jill L. Long, resigned.
Thomas C. Dorr, of Iowa, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Jill L. Long, resigned.
Edward L. Flippen, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Corporation for National and Community Service, vice J. Russell George.
Peter Cyril Wyche Flory, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Jack Dyer Crouch, II.
Thomas A. Fuentes, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2005, vice Thomas F. Smegal, Jr., term expired.
Carolyn L. Gallagher, of Texas, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2009, vice Louis J. Giuliano.
Louis J. Giuliano, of New York, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2005, vice Carolyn L. Gallagher.
Louis J. Giuliano, of New York, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2014. (Reappointment)
A. Wilson Greene, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2009. (Reappointment)
Floyd Hall, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of five years, vice Amy M. Rosen, term expired.
Tony Hammond, of Virginia, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission for a term expiring October 14, 2010. (Reappointment)
William Hardiman, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2006, vice H. Terry Rasco, term expired.
D. Jeffrey Hirschberg, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2007. (Reappointment)
Nadine Hogan, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the InterAmerican Foundation for a term expiring June 26, 2008, vice Frank D. Yturria, resigned.
Howard J. Krongard, of New Jersey, to be Inspector General, Department of State, vice Clark Kent Ervin.
Daniel R. Levinson, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Janet Rehnquist, resigned.
Luis Luna, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Morris X. Winn.
Andrew J. McKenna, Jr., of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Security Education Board for a term of four years, vice Robert N. Shamansky, term expired.
Ronald E. Meisburg, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring August 27, 2008, vice Rene Acosta, resigned.
Brian David Miller, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, General Services Administration, vice Daniel R. Levinson.
Pamela Hughes Patenaude, of New Hampshire, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Romolo A. Bernardi.
Buddie J. Penn, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice H. T. Johnson.
George Perdue, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring November 5, 2006, vice Carroll A. Campbell, Jr., term expired.
Bernice Phillips, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2005, vice Maria Luisa Mercado, term expired.
Jorge A. Plasencia, of Florida, to be a Member of the Advisory Board for Cuba Broadcasting for a term expiring October 27, 2006, vice Joseph Francis Glennon, term expired.
Craig T. Ramey, of West Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term of two years. (New Position)
D. Michael Rappoport, of Arizona, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2008. (Reappointment)
Major General Don T. Riley, United States Army, to be a Member and President of the Mississippi River Commission.
David B. Rivkin, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the term expiring September 30, 2007, vice Laramie Faith McNamara.
Harry Robinson, Jr., of Texas, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2008. (Reappointment)
Ronald Rosenfeld, of Oklahoma, to be a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board for the remainder of the term expiring February 27, 2009, vice John Thomas Korsmo, resigned.
Charles P. Ruch, of South Dakota, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring August 11, 2010, vice Niranjan Shamalbhai Shah, term expired.
Kiron Kanina Skinner, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the National Security Education Board for a term of four years, vice Herschelle S. Challenor.
Thomas V. Skinner, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice John Peter Suarez, resigned.
Jay T. Snyder, of New York, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2007. (Reappointment)
Enrique J. Sosa, of Florida, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of five years, vice Linwood Holton, term expired.
Katina P. Strauch, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2009, vice Elizabeth J. Pruet, term expired.
Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2007. (Reappointment)
Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. (Reappointment)
Jack Vaughn, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the InterAmerican Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2006, vice Patricia Hill Williams, resigned.
Raymond Thomas Wagner, Jr., of Missouri, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2009. (Reappointment)
Roger W. Wallace, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the InterAmerican Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2008, vice Fred P. DuVal.
Allen Weinstein, of Maryland, to be Archivist of the United States, vice John W. Carlin.
John Paul Woodley, Jr., of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Michael Parker.
  