
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman:)
In accordance with the provisions of Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the following report on progress made during the past 60 days toward reaching a negotiated settlement of the Cyprus problem.
The intercommunal negotiations between Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot representatives recessed from December 4 until mid-January, a period during which the United Nations Secretary General's Special Representative, Ambassador Gobbi, visited New York and Geneva on U.N. business.
On December 1, U.N. Secretary General Perez de Cuellar submitted his latest semiannual report on Cyprus to the Security Council. In the report, a copy of which is attached, the Secretary General reviews progress in the peacekeeping operations of UNFICYP and in the parallel humanitarian assistance programs. He also reports the intercommunal negotiations continue to focus on the "evaluation" previously submitted by Ambassador Gobbi to the two sides. This approach, the Secretary General reports, is the best means available to provide a "structured, substantive" method of discussing the differences. He states further that the discussions "remain cooperative and constructive" and that the interlocutors, having essentially completed discussion of constitutional issues, will now focus on territorial matters. Perez de Cuellar observes that the task of developing "an overall package deal" should be undertaken soon in the talks and that he is confident that, "with the political will" on both sides, such a package can be accomplished.
Subsequent to the Secretary General's report, on December 14, the Security Council voted unanimously to extend the mandate of the U.N. forces in Cyprus until June 15, 1983.
We fully concur with the Secretary General's assessment. We remain in very dose touch with him, his staff, and, in particular, with Ambassador Gobbi. During the period the Special Cyprus Coordinator, Christian A. Chapman, visited New York twice to discuss the situation with senior U.N. officials. At present we, the U.N. officials, and the parties to the negotiations doubt much progress can be made during the present electoral campaign in Cyprus. The possibilities for progress should improve, however, after the February 13 election.
This Administration continues strongly to support efforts to find just and lasting solutions for the serious problems facing the people of Cyprus.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
  