
    SOUTH CAROLINA: In Greenville and Anderson, Hillary discussed her vision for tackling America's immediate and long-term economic challenges. Read more... The Myrtle Beach Sun News endorsed Hillary. Read more...President Clinton campaigned for Hillary in Lexington, Orangeburg, Walterboro, and Barnwell. He also made an unscheduled visit to the University of South Carolina's Student Union. Read more... U.S. Rep. Marion Berry stumped for Hillary in Rock Hill... "Women for Hillary" launched a two-day 'All Voices Count' tour at Mann-Simons Cottage in Columbia... U.S. Rep. Charlie Rangel and former New York City Mayor David Dinkins had lunch with Hillary supporters in West Columbia, met with local Democrats in Eastover, and attended the Kershaw County Black Caucus Monthly Meeting in Camden.
ALABAMA AND GEORGIA: Alabama Agriculture Commissioner Ron Sparks and Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Tommy Irvin held a conference call outlining Hillary's vision for protecting and empowering America's farmers and rural communities. Read more.
CALIFORNIA: A new Public Policy Institute of California poll has Hillary up by 15 points over Sen. Obama (43-28). Read more... Assemblymember Ira Ruskin endorsed Hillary, citing her proposal for a green, efficient economy... In Santa Barbara, the campaign opened a new field office with a meet and greet for local supporters and a "Bring Your Own Phone" party with special guests Supervisor Salud Sarbajal, former County Supervisor Susan Rose and former State Assemblymember Hanna-Beth Jackson... In Fresno, the campaign held a "Generations for Hillary" phone bank. Grandparents, parents, children and grandchildren came together to support Hillary's historic campaign... In San Diego, the campaign released its Steering Committee, led by former U.S. Rep. Lynn Schenk. Committee members will organize volunteers, plan activities, and reach out to undecided voters across San Diego.
COLORADO: The campaign announced its Health Care Advisory Council, chaired by U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette. The council includes Colorado doctors, nurses, and medical students. In a conference call with reporters, U.S. Rep. DeGette discussed the new council and detailed differences between Hillary' health care plan and those proposed by other presidential candidates. Read more.
CONNECTICUT: Attorney General Richard Blumenthal endorsed Hillary. Read more.
MASSACHUSETTS: Chelsea drew large crowds on a single day's notice. She spoke to about 500 students at Worcester's Clark University and 1,000 students at Boston College. At Clark, Chelsea "kept a packed room engaged across an incredibly broad range of issues, both domestic and international." She also held a smaller roundtable with undecided youth at Roxbury Community College. Read more.
MINNESOTA: At press conferences in St. Paul, Duluth and Rochester, the campaign announced the endorsements of nearly 50 legislators and community leaders from across the state, including State Senate President James Metzen, Minneapolis City Council President Barb Johnson, and former U.S. Rep. Bill Luther. Read more.
MISSOURI: Kansas City Mayor Pro Tem Bill Skaggs and his son, State Rep. Joe Skaggs, endorsed Hillary. Read more.
NEW JERSEY: U.S. Rep. Frank Pallone held a town hall meeting with Monmouth County residents to discuss Hillary Clinton's economic stimulus plan and its impact on women in the Garden State and across the country.
NEW YORK: In a show of Hillary's strength and support in the Capital Region, the Clinton campaign today celebrated the opening of the campaign's Albany headquarters and detailed its plan to harness the outpouring of support for Hillary in the region. The celebration was attended by campaign officials and dozens of grassroots supporters.
OKLAHOMA: In Tulsa, the campaign held its first Sooner-to-Sooner phone bank. Volunteers came out with their cell phones to call community members in support of Hillary. In television interviews with Tulsa's ABC affiliate and Oklahoma City's NBC affiliate, Hillary discussed her plan to jumpstart the economy.
TENNESSEE: A new poll from NBC affiliate WSMV-TV has Hillary up by 14 points over Sen. Obama (34-20). Read more.
UTAH: Senate Minority Leader Mike Dmitrich and former State Democratic Party Chair Donald Dunn held a press conference to announce that the campaign had begun airing its first ad, "Warned." Watch it. The Daily Herald covered the press conference. Read more.
  