
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Romney for President launched its newest television ad, "Pride of America." The ad features Governor Romney discussing the need to change Washington and invest in unleashing the power of Michigan. Governor Romney grew up in Michigan and knows Michigan's potential. For him, Michigan is personal, and he will work to end the state's one-state recession. Governor Romney is asking the people of Michigan to vote for building a better future for their state and our nation.
The ad will begin airing as part of the campaign's rotation tomorrow in Michigan. Script and viewing link are below.
Script For "Pride Of America" (TV:30 ):
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I grew up in Michigan when Michigan was the pride of America.
"It breaks my heart to see us in a one-state recession.
"We can change that.
"We need new leaders with the experience and energy to turn us around.
"Let's invest in the future with new technology and innovation and unleash the power of Michigan.
"I'll work everyday to change Washington and bring us back, because Michigan is personal to me.
"I'm Mitt Romney and I approve this message and ask for your vote."
To watch "Pride of America," please see: http://tv.mittromney.com/?showid=729144

AD FACTS: Script For "Pride Of America" (TV:30):
Grand Rapids Press: "We Stand At A Critical Moment, Bearing On Our Backs A Worst-In-The-Nation Unemployment Rate, Staring At An Uncertain Future." "Many issues will confront the nation in the next four years, from the ongoing threat of terrorism to the need to find a sensible immigration policy. For Michigan, however, one challenge dominates: the economy. We stand at a critical moment, bearing on our backs a worst-in-the-nation unemployment rate, staring at an uncertain future." (Editorial, "Press Editorial Board Endorses Romney," Grand Rapids Press, 1/11/08)
Oakland Press: "'Favorite Son' Romney Is Best GOP Choice In Primary." "We urge Republican Party faithfuls to stand up and vote for Mitt Romney. ... Equally critical, Romney knows how to get a state out of debt and, being from Michigan, he certainly has an empathy for the state that the other candidates, both GOP and Democratic, don't have. With Michigan's horrible economy and other problems, we need as much clout in Washington as possible and Romney promises to give us that." (Editorial, "'Favorite Son' Romney Is Best GOP Choice In Primary," Oakland Press, 1/11/08)
Grand Rapids Press: "...Mitt Romney Has Our Vote In The Republican Presidential Primary." "Among Republicans on the ballot in Tuesday's presidential primary, two candidates would offer solid leadership, Arizona Sen. John McCain and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney. However, when it comes to Michigan's challenges and needs, the passion and knowledge of Mr. Romney tip the scales in his favor. During a visit with Press editors this week, Mr. Romney vowed, 'I will not sleep until Michigan is strong and active and vibrant again.' Because of that focus, MITT ROMNEY has our vote in the Republican presidential primary." (Editorial, "Press Editorial Board Endorses Romney," Grand Rapids Press, 1/11/08)
  