
    U.S. Army Veteran Max Rose is the First Member of Congress to Endorse Bloomberg for President
NEW YORK, NEW YORK — U.S. Representative Max Rose (NY-11) endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, praising Mike's dedication to working America and his ability to put New York City back on track in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.
"The city Mike Bloomberg inherited in 2002 was reeling from the worst terrorist attack in American history and facing economic recession. There were real fears nothing would ever feel or be the same again. Mike Bloomberg took the reins, brought New York City back to life and put us on track to lead in the 21st century," said Congressman Max Rose. "Mayor Bloomberg's even keeled and visionary leadership is what we need to reduce the chaos, partisanship and hyper-vitriol that has overtaken Washington. Rather than submit to another stage of politics as usual, we must be bold and unifying in taking on the huge challenges we face as a nation. We need to root out corruption so we can put the economy back on the side of working people, fix our crumbling infrastructure, lower prescription drug costs and end the opioid epidemic. Mike Bloomberg has taken on tough fights and gotten results, which is why I believe he is the best candidate for my district, my city, and for our country."
"Max Rose understands what public service is all about: working for the people, not a political party, lobbyists, or your own self-interest," said Mike Bloomberg. "Max knows that the people of Staten Island and South Brooklyn sent him to Congress to get stuff done on critical issues — from tackling the opioid epidemic to ensuring the passage of the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund — and his efforts to work across the aisle are exactly what we need more of in Washington. He's a patriot who served with distinction in the Army, and he continues to serve our country with distinction — and I'm honored to have his endorsement."
Congressman Rose, a United States Army veteran and the first post-9/11 combat veteran of the war in Afghanistan to represent New York City, is also the first member of Congress to endorse Mayor Bloomberg for president.
  