
    
  Overland and Olson join Speaker of the House Kraig Paulsen, Bruce Rastetter and other prominent Iowa leaders

For Immediate Release:
Tuesday, January 5, 2016
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Today, two influential Cedar Rapids City Councilmen announced their endorsements of Governor Christie for President of the United States and urged fellow Iowans to caucus for him. Overland and Olson join the following Linn County Republicans who have already endorsed Governor Christie: Speaker of the House Kraig Paulsen, Linn County Supervisor John Harris, Kathy Pearson, Allan Thoms, Mark Hudson, Gary Grant, Dan Seufferlein, and more.
"On February 1st, I'll be supporting Governor Chris Christie at my Republican Caucus. He has the right combination of experience, vision for the future of our country, and a message that resonates with all Americans, that our country needs in a President right now," said Councilman Scott Overland. "Through his experience as U.S. Attorney and governor of New Jersey, Governor Christie has been tested and is ready for the job on day one."
Councilman Scott Olson stated, "Meeting Governor Christie first in 2012 and now twice in 2015, has reinforced my belief that his experiences as a Federal prosecutor and a conservative Governor in a state with a Democratic legislature has provided him the skills to be a President that can lead the nation from 'day one'. His campaign slogan 'telling it like it is' is right on as Iowans that attend his town hall events are discovering. Thus I plan to support and endorse Governor Christie as he builds the support he needs to be our party's nominee and the next President of the United States."
Councilman Scott Overland has been involved in the Cedar Rapids community since graduating from Luther College in 1985. Overland came to Cedar Rapids to enter the financial services business, and has been a licensed financial advisor since 1991. Overland has been part of the wealth group at Cedar Rapids Bank & Trust since 2010. For 30 years, Overland has been active in numerous non-profit organizations that have benefited the Cedar Rapids community - from the Jaycees in the 1980's to the Daybreak Rotary Club since 1996. In addition, Overland currently is a member of the Cedar Valley Habitat for Humanity Restore board. Overland is a Big Brother through the Big Brothers Big Sisters organization.
Councilman Scott Olson was reelected this November to his second term on the Cedar Rapids City Council. He was first elected in 2011. He is a commercial realtor in Cedar Rapids. Scott was born in Chariton, Iowa and moved to Cedar Rapids in 1961. A graduate of Washington High School and Iowa State University, he has lived in Cedar Rapids since that time except for 2 years in the US Army. He has been active in over 50 civic, community and professional organizations on a local, regional and national level.
View Christie's full Iowa leadership team here.
  