
    Little Rock, AR - On Saturday, January 12, 2008, the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades (IUPAT) formally announced that former Arkansas Governor and Republican Presidential Candidate Mike Huckabee won the majority of Republican candidate votes in a recent membership poll on who the union should support in the presidential race.
"I am tremendously honored to receive this historic support from the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades," said Huckabee while campaigning in Michigan. "I appreciate this endorsement from the working men and women of the union - and pledge to keep their interests at the forefront of my economic policy."
"We are fully aware that the membership of this union is both Republican and Democrat and this leadership wants to make certain both sides of the aisle are represented," said IUPAT General President James Williams.
Earlier this year, Huckabee received another historic co-endorsement from The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers - the first time IAM has supported a Republican presidential candidate in 119 years.
"This is yet another encouraging sign that my pro-growth message of opportunity and prosperity for all Americans is resonating," said Huckabee, who spoke yesterday at the Detroit Economic Club about his views on jobs, globalization, healthcare and the other domestic and foreign policy issues.
The IUPAT announcement is the result of an unprecedented special ballot that was sent to 160,000 IUPAT members and retirees across the United States last December. Included with the ballot were letters written by the candidates - Republican and Democrat - specifically to IUPAT members as to why he or she is the best candidate for the top job in the United States. The ballot also included comprehensive fact sheets on the candidates' voting records on the issues important to America's working families.
"Governor Huckabee's frank talk on the campaign trail has impressed our conservative members and we, as a union, look forward to an ongoing dialogue with him as he makes his case to be our next president. It's our hope to be a strong influence in making certain his campaign considers the needs of working families in this country. His openness and candor thus far shows that he is a leader willing to consider all points of view," Williams said.
The International Union of Painters and Allied Trades represents over 160,000 working and retired men and women of the finishing trades in the United States (www.IUPAT.org). The IUPAT is renowned for its political activism within the organized labor movement and has been dubbed the Army of Black and Gold because of its members' signature black and gold t-shirts and large numbers at rallies.
  