
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Michael B. Coleman, Member, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
•      Horace Henry Foxall, Jr., Member, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
•      Bradford J. White, Member, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
•      Carole E. Goldberg, Member, Indian Law and Order Commission
•      Theresa M. Pouley, Member, Indian Law and Order Commission
•      Ted Quasula, Member, Indian Law and Order Commission
•      Norma Lee Funger, General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
President Obama said, "I am proud to appoint such impressive men and women to these important roles, and I am grateful they have agreed to lend their considerable talents to this Administration. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
Mayor Michael B. Coleman will be appointed to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation in addition to his duties as Mayor of Columbus, Ohio.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Michael B. Coleman, Appointee for Member, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
Michael B. Coleman was elected mayor of Columbus, Ohio in 1999 and was reelected in 2003 and 2007. As mayor, he has focused on rejuvenating downtown Columbus by initiating Neighborhood Pride, a proactive effort to engage residents and businesses to fix up thousands of homes and clean up their neighborhoods. Mayor Coleman also created the Affordable Housing Trust Corporation to provide more housing options to inner-city residents and led the restoration of the historic Lincoln Theatre and the landmark Lazarus Department Store building in downtown Columbus. He received his B.A. from the University of Cincinnati and his J.D. from the University of Dayton Law School.
Horace Henry Foxall, Jr., Appointee for Member, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
Horace Henry Foxall, Jr. recently retired as Manager of the Army Corps of Engineers'Center of Expertise for Preservation of Historic Structures and Buildings. For more than three decades, Mr. Foxall assisted the Army Corps of Engineers, Department of Defense, and other Federal agencies in developing historic preservation projects and programs, advising staff, architects, engineers, and outside consultants in the execution of historic building preservation. Mr. Foxall currently serves on the Board of Advisors of the National Trust for Historic Preservation. He received his M.Arch.in Architectural Design and Urban Design from the University of Washington and his B.S. in Urban Development and B.Arch. in Architectural Design from the University of Oregon.
Bradford J. White, Appointee for Member, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
Bradford J. White is a Principal of Brad White & Associates in Evanston, Illinois, providing development consulting on affordable housing and historic resources. He is the former Senior Vice President of Acquisitions and Development at The Habitat Company LLC. Prior to joining Habitat, Mr. White was Vice President of Related Midwest LLC, where he was responsible for the acquisition, financing and development of affordable and market-rate housing. He serves on the board of the Illinois Housing Council and is past chair of the Landmarks Preservation Council of Illinois and Preservation Action. Mr. White received a B.A. in economics from the University of Michigan and a J.D. from DePaul University.
Carole E. Goldberg, Appointee for Member, Indian Law and Order Commission
Carole E. Goldberg is currently the Jonathan D. Varat Professor of Law at UCLA School of Law, where she directs the Joint Degree Program in Law and American Indian Studies and serves as faculty chair of the Native Nations Law and Policy Center. She is also a Justice of the Court of Appeals of the Hualapai Tribe in Arizona. Ms. Goldberg is author of numerous books and articles in the fields of Federal Indian Law and Tribal Law, and has been the Principal Investigator on major grants from the National Institute of Justice to study the administration of criminal justice in Indian country. In 2006, she was the Oneida Indian Nation Visiting Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. Previously, Ms. Goldberg served as an Associate Dean of UCLA Law School. Ms. Goldberg holds a B.A., magna cum laude, from Smith College and a J.D. from Stanford Law School.
Theresa M. Pouley, Appointee for Member, Indian Law and Order Commission
Theresa M. Pouley is currently the Chief Judge of the Tulalip Tribal Court. She is also an Associate Justice of the Colville Tribal Court of Appeals, and a member of the Colville Confederated Tribes in Northeast Washington. Judge Pouley has served as the President of the Northwest Tribal Court Judges Association since 2005, and on the Board of Directors for the National Tribal Court Judges Association from 2003 to 2004. From 1999 to 2005, Judge Pouley was the Chief Judge of the Lummi Nation. In 2009, she worked with the Department of Justice as a facilitator for the "Tribal Nations Listening Session", and in 2010 she facilitated a "Focus Group on Human Trafficking of American Indian and Alaska Native Women and Children" developed by the Office for Victims of Crime. She has also worked and lectured with the Washington State Administrative Office of the Courts on domestic violence and Indian law issues for the last several years. Judge Pouley frequently lectures at local, state and national conferences on Tribal Courts and Indian law issues, and makes regular presentations at the University of Washington's Indian Law Symposium. In 2005, The National Tribal Child Support Association named her Outstanding Judge. Previously, Judge Pouley practiced law in Michigan and Washington until her appointment to the bench in 1999. She continues to teach Indian law at Edmonds Community College, and previously taught at Northwest Indian College. Judge Pouley holds a B.A. from Gonzaga University and a J.D. from Wayne State University Law School.
Ted Quasula, Appointee for Member, Indian Law and Order Commission
Ted Quasulais currently the General Manager of the Grand Canyon Skywalk located on the Hualapai Indian Reservation. He is a member of the Hualapai Tribe in northern Arizona. Previously, Mr. Quasula served as chief of police for the Las Vegas Paiute Tribe from 2003 to 2007. He also served for 26 years in the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Law Enforcement Services within the Bureau of Indian Affairs, where he worked his way up from field criminal investigator to Director of the national program from 1990 to 2000. Mr. Quasula started his law enforcement career with the Flagstaff, Arizona, Police Department in 1972. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the Nevada Indian Commission and Vice-President of the Board of Directors for the Northern Arizona University Alumni Association. Mr. Quasula is a graduate of the Government Program for Senior Executives at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation's National Academy. He holds a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in police science and administration from Northern Arizona University.
Norma Lee Funger, Appointee for General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Norma Lee Funger has been in the real estate business for more than 27 years. She has served the arts in many roles, including as a member of the Board and Nominating Committee of the National Symphony Orchestra, the National and International Committees for the Performing Arts at the Kennedy Center, the Leadership Benefactors and Laureates Circle of the Kennedy Center, as a Commissioner for the Smithsonian American Art Museum, the Trustees Council for the National Gallery of Art and its Collectors' Committee, and as a board member of the Washington Performing Arts Society, serving on the Society's Impresarios and Nominating Committees. Ms. Funger also serves on the Foundation Board of the Children's Hospital National Medical Center.
  