
    The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of California Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35).
"At a time when the economy continues to worsen and so many of my constituents are losing their homes and their jobs, we need someone with the leadership and experience who can step in on day one to tackle the economic challenges our country is facing," said Congresswoman Waters. "The voices of so many struggling families have gone unheard for long enough. Hillary understands the daily challenges that people are facing and she will fight for them everyday she is in the White House."
Waters is serving her 9th term in Congress where she has been a leader on many issues such as expanding access to health care services and affordable housing, fairness in the criminal justice system and the War in Iraq. She spearheaded the development of the Minority AIDS Initiative in 1998 to address the alarming spread of HIV/AIDS among African Americans, Hispanics and other minorities. She is also the author of legislation to expand health services for patients with diabetes, cancer and Alzheimer's disease. During her career in Congress, Rep. Waters has been responsible for shaping housing policy, including legislation to reform the FHA program, improve the Section 8 Program and revamp the Hope VI Program. She is also the founder and Chairwoman of the Out of Iraq Caucus.
Prior to serving in Congress, Waters served 14 years in the California State Assembly, where she rose to the powerful position of Democratic Caucus Chair. She was responsible for some of the toughest legislation in California including the largest divestment of state pension funds from South Africa; landmark affirmative action legislation; and the nation's first statewide Child Abuse Prevention Training Program.
Waters is currently a member of the House Committee on Financial Services and the Chairwoman of its Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. She also serves on the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade, Technology.
She also continues to serve on the Committee on the Judiciary and its Subcommittees on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, and on Immigration, Border Security and Claims.
"Maxine has spent a lifetime fighting for change and delivering results. She has been a leader on all of the biggest challenges we face – from housing, to the economy, to Iraq and I'm so honored to have her support in this campaign," said Senator Clinton. "Maxine is known and respected from the grassroots to the world stage as a voice for justice, for opportunity, and for peace and I am honored to have her support."
  