
    
  Women and men valuing their Second Amendment rights hail from Clark County and support the 'Champion of the Constitution'

HENDERSON, Nevada — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign announced today additions to its active "Gun Owners for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
The new members hail from Clark County, Nevada, and reside in the Las Vegas metro area.  All have pledged to spread the word among their respective communities about Dr. Paul's staunch defense of the fundamental right to bear arms.
"As a gun owner, I am supporting Ron Paul because he truly believes in freedom and the Constitution.  He stands by the Second Amendment which gives us the right to exercise our constitutional right to carry and use firearms responsibly," said Renee Newton of Las Vegas.
Ms. Newton further commented, "The Federal Government is out of control and spends money we don't have while borrowing it to give away as aid.  Ron Paul would take care of Americans first and that is why he will win this election."
"Ron Paul represents so well the core values upon which our nation was founded.  The provisions of his 'Plan to Restore America' intended toresolve our country's current issues are both intelligent and attainable," said Glenn and Andrea Barthel, two Las Vegas gun owners.  They believe that "his adherence to traditional values, his voting record, and his predictions show he is in touch with the majority of America."
Scott Schultz, a concealed carry permit holder from Las Vegas, also announced his support for Ron Paul.  "Dr. Paul is the only Republican candidate who continues to show strong support for the Second Amendment.  As a gun owner, I believe possessing firearms is a fundamental right."
As a function of this announcement, the above-mentioned persons now are members of the "Gun Owners for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, in particular its Nevada steering committee.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the "Gun Owners for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official web page by clicking here.  Prospective members should also send an email tonvcoalitions@ronpaul2012.com, writing the coalition name in the subject line.
  