
    THE KING. Mr. President, with great joy I am welcoming you and Mrs. Carter to Belgium for the first time in your capacity as President of the United States of America. You have, of course, visited our country before as the Governor of your home State.
This is the final stage of your long but rapid tour of four continents just at the beginning of the year 1978, which you have described as of capital importance. The many conversations you have had during the tour bear witness to your heavy responsibilities in the construction of a freer and more peaceful world. The list of countries on your program is by itself evidence of your concern for drawing international relations closer and for solving the problems that are causing the greatest difficulties at the present time.
Your stay in Brussels, the headquarters of the Atlantic Alliance and the seat of the European Communities, obviously reflects your desire further to confirm your friendship and cooperation with the member countries of those organizations.
By taking your inspiration from the essential human values which, as you have said, make life worth living, you have promoted a universal awareness of the importance of human rights. You are responding to the great challenges of our time, whether political or economic, national or worldwide, with courage and determination.
Two months ago you received Mr. Tindemans and Mr. Simonet 1 at Washington in their two-fold capacities as members of the Belgian Government and spokesmen for the European Communities. The discussions held in your Capital City have greatly encouraged us, since they led to the conclusion that, in spite of the difficulties caused by the world prices, you remained opposed to the easy way out, namely, protectionism.
1 Leo Tindemans, Belgian Prime Minister and President of the Council of the European Communities, and Henri Simonet, Belgian Foreign Minister and Deputy Chairman of the Commission of the European Communities.
1 Leo Tindemans, Belgian Prime Minister and President of the Council of the European Communities, and Henri Simonet, Belgian Foreign Minister and Deputy Chairman of the Commission of the European Communities.
Mr. President, Mrs. Garter, welcome to Belgium. May your all too brief presence here be fruitful.
THE PRESIDENT. Your Majesties, people of the great nation of Belgium:
I am delighted to be back in your great country to renew my friendship with Prime Minister Tindemans and to have an opportunity to meet with Your Royal Highness, King Baudouin, and Queen Fabiola.
Brussels was the first city which Vice President Mondale visited when he toured the nations of our traditional allies just 1 year ago, and now it is the last stop that I will make before I return to the United States.
First and last, our purpose has been the same—to reaffirm in times of rapid change our unchanging faith in allies like your great country and people.
This has been a diverse journey for us, but I have talked about simple, constant themes. One is the demand for political liberties, for basic human rights. On this question, Belgium and the United States have never differed. For these values we have fought together in war, and we have always worked together in peace.
The other universal theme is a need to resolve conflict without violence, to make peace instead of war. Throughout this century, Belgium has paid a heavy price for other nations' failure to keep the peace. Now, Brussels is the home of institutions such as the European Community, and NATO represents our shared hope for a secure and peaceful and a prosperous future.
Brussels is a beautiful city, as my wife and I will remember, which is one of the discouraging aspects of this visit—that it is all too brief. I feel, however, that the warmth of your own personal welcome is a consolation, and I look forward to seeing more of your land and your people when Rosalynn and I are able to return.
Your Majesty, thank you for this warm welcome. We are indeed grateful for a chance to be back with you and the people of your country.
  