
    Mr. Frank Alonso                                                          
President, Unidad Cubana/Cuban Unity
Miami, Florida
 
Dear Mr. Alonso:
 
In recognition of the Cuban exile community's longstanding commitment to the liberation of the Cuban people, I want to reaffirm my solidarity with the cause of a free and democratic Cuba.
 
Throughout my years of service in the United States Congress, I was a consistent and active supporter of efforts to isolate, destabilize and terminate the Castro dictatorship.  As Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, I was proud to work with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart to pass the 1996 Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act (Helms-Burton).
 
Let me assure the Cuban-American community, the captive Cuban people, and the Castro tyrants themselves, that a Newt Gingrich presidency will be committed to implementing a pro-active policy agenda to expedite a transition to democracy in Cuba.
 
Included among the Cuba policy initiatives I intend to pursue as President of the United States are:

Full implementation of the Helms-Burton law, including Title III allowing a legal cause of action against foreign entities that traffic in confiscated U.S. property;
No lifting of sanctions on the Castro dictatorship until all political prisoners are released, civil liberties are restored and free elections are held;
Requiring the U.S. Justice Department to reassess any deliberations related to the potential indictment of Fidel and Raul Castro for the murder of innocent Americans in the 1996 Brothers to the Rescue shoot down;
Re-establishing the 2004 Bush administration regulations related to travel, as well as conducting a comprehensive review and reassessment of all Obama administration executive orders related to Cuba travel, trade and immigration, including the 1994 Clinton-Castro "wet-foot/dry-foot" migration accord.

My presidency will be fully committed to both supporting the heroic internal opposition activists inside Cuba who are bravely risking their lives for a free and democratic Cuba, as well as delivering the message of freedom to Cuba through Radio and TV Marti.
 
Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to express my commitment to the cause of a free and democratic Cuba.  Last year's "Arab Spring" will serve as an inspiration to my presidency to pursue pro-active policies meant to make the hope of a "Cuban Spring" a reality.
 
As President of the United States, be assured the Cuban-American community and the Cuban people will have no greater ally and will continue to have my steadfast support in this noble cause.
 
Sincerely,

 
 
 
Newt Gingrich
  