
    Lake County, FL — Newt 2012 FL announced the formal support of 37 Florida based Tea Party leaders who have pledged their support to Newt Gingrich for President of the United States.  The coalition of Florida Tea Party Leaders will help elect Newt and defeat Massachusetts Moderate Mitt Romney and then President Barack Obama.
"I've considered all the candidates, and Speaker Gingrich has the right combination of vision and experience to lead this country out of the economic misery created by government overreach that has been occurring for generations," said Peter Lee, Founder and Director of the East Side Tea Party of Orlando. "It is clear to me and many others in the Tea Party movement that Newt is the Reagan Conservative that America needs — not a Massachusetts Moderate."
"I stand with Newt because I know he will stand up to the establishment and insist on fiscal reforms. Obama and his failed policies have met their match. With the Speaker's leadership, and engaged citizens, we can restore prosperity to America," concluded Patricia Sullivan, Patriot Army Founder.
Coalition supporters hosted Speaker Gingrich at the Lakeside Inn for a Tea Party rally.
 
Florida Tea Party Coalition with Newt
Patricia Sullivan, Patriot Army Founder
Karin Hoffman, DC Works For US, Founder
Karena Morrison, State Advisory Team for GOOOH in Florida
Tom Gaitens, Former State Director for Freedom Works
Sharon Calvert, Tampa Tea Party
Tom Tillison Central Orlando Tea Party Council
Juan C Torres, Latino American Tea Party
Mike Hill, NW Florida Tea Party
Alan Berkelhammer, Gainesville Tea Party
Alice Beutien, Putnam County Tea Party
Audrey Rumsey, Hernando County Tea Party Coordinator
Bob Knox, American Citizens League
Carol Knighton, Co-founder Leesburg Regional Tea Party
Charlie Perez, Gilchrist County Tea Party
Deanna May Keystone Heights Tea Party
Diane Leone, St. Johns Tea Party
Don Anderson, Sarasota 912
Don Eaton, Conservative Liberty Alliance
Donna Hoak, Conservative Liberty Alliance
Eli Knighton, Conservative Liberty Alliance
Jerry Bell, DC Works For Us Broward
Ruth Bell, DC Works For Us Broward
Jesse Phillips, Restore America
Kay Eaton, Conservative Liberty Alliance
Ken Rbideau, Conservative Liberty Alliance
Letha Fadeley, Tea Party Manatee
Nancy Haynes, Hernando County Tea Party
Peter Lee, East Side Tea Party Orlando
Steve Norflus, Conservative Liberty Alliance
Steve Vernon, Tea Party Manatee
Steve Williams, Lake Area Tea Party
Terry Beutien, Putnam County Tea Party
Tom Nelson, Fort Walton Beach Tea Party
Tony Ledbetter, Vice President, Volusia 912 Inc.
Steve Williams, Lake Area Tea Party
Vance Jochim, North Lake County Tea Party
Steve Norflus, Conservative Liberty Alliance
Steve Vernon, Tea Party Manatee
  