
    FRIENDSHIP HEIGHTS, MD – Today, Congressman John Delaney's 2020 presidential campaign announced the hiring of Chris MacKenzie as New Hampshire State Director and Casey Neal as New Hampshire Deputy Political Director.
MacKenzie was raised in Hopkinton, NH and most recently he served as Communications Director for Congresswoman Terri A. Sewell (D-AL). Prior to working with Rep. Sewell, MacKenzie worked as Communications Director with the non-profit, U.S. PIRG, campaigning to reduce the influence of money in politics and restore voter protections. MacKenzie previously worked for Congressman Delaney in his official office and as Regional Field Director during Delaney's first campaign for Congress.
"I am truly honored to help lead John's presidential campaign in my home state of New Hampshire," said Chris MacKenzie. "I worked with John when he first ran for Congress and saw firsthand how he built excitement and momentum behind big ideas for the future. Voters need a candidate who is going to stop dividing and start delivering. At campaign stops from Manchester to Holderness, John has built support with voters for his ideas to move beyond partisan divides and come together to solve real problems facing hardworking Americans, like climate change, infrastructure, healthcare, jobs, and education. I am excited to continue that momentum with a solutions-oriented campaign in the Granite State."
Prior to joining Delaney's campaign, Neal served as the Organizing Director for Free & Fair New Hampshire, where she worked on Colin Van Ostern's campaign for Secretary of State on a platform of keeping people educated and aware of their voting rights and maintaining free and fair elections. Neal previously worked in political fundraising and consulting in Baltimore, Maryland and Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Next week, Delaney will be holding Meet and Greet events in Manchester, Hanover, and Amherst. Delaney is also planning to open an office in the state by the end of the month. This will be Delaney's 13th trip to New Hampshire since announcing his candidacy for President.
  