
    Pool Reports by Peter Nicholas, NBC News 



Sent:
Reports:




January 8, 202319:10 CST

FLOTUS pool report, Mexico City arrival
First Lady Jill Biden arrived in Mexico City ahead of the president, her plane touching down at 4:47 p.m. local time. Accompanying her on the flight from Joint Base Andrews, per the White House, were the following officials:

Antony Blinken, Secretary of State.
John Kerry, U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate.
Chris Dodd, Special Presidential Advisor for the Americas.
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady.
Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the United States
Mala Adiga, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Policy for the First Lady.
Brian Nichols, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs.
Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs, National Security Council.
Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady.

Dr. Biden descended from the plane in a light purple skirt and jacket and purple heels. Following her down the stairs were Blinken, Kerry, and other officials.
On the tarmac at Aeropuerto Internacional Benito Juárez, she was greeted by Mexico’s first lady, Dr. Beatriz Gutiérrez Müller; Laura Elena Carillo Cubillas, Executive Director of the Mexican Agency of International Cooperation for Development; Hope Hernandez Salazar, spouse of the Ambassador of the U.S. to Mexico; Andrea Salazar, daughter of the Ambassador of the U.S. to Mexico; and Stephanie Syptak-Ramnath, Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy in Mexico.
The pool then hustled to the motorcade for the approximately 20 minute drive to theBasilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe. With its distinctive tent-shaped roof, the basilica draws millions of visitors worldwide each year.
Asked why Dr. Biden had wanted to visit the church, a White House official mentioned its historical significance. In addition, Dr. Gutierrez Muller had given Dr. Biden a necklace of the Virgin de Guadalupe when they met at the White House in May, the official said.
Dr. Biden left her car walked toward an outdoor shrine with dozens of candles. She carried with her a basket of flowers and was accompanied by Dr. Gutierrez Muller and Monsignor Salvador Martinez Avila, the Rector of the Sanctuary of the Basilica. After placing the candle next to dozens of others, she clasped her hands in front of her and bowed her head for a half-minute. She then turned and thanked the monsignor.
The pool was ushered out, but Dr. Biden then went inside the church for a brief visit. Afterward, the motorcade pulled asway, with scores of people watching the scene from behind metal barricades.
We went straight to the InterContinental hotel, where she and the president were later scheduled to privately greet U.S. embassy officials.




  