
    
  Campaign has 1,573 caucus captains

HOUSTON, Texas – Today, the Cruz for President campaign announced it has 1,573 caucus captains across the state. The announcement marks the final milestone in Cruz's impressive Iowa organization. The campaign is putting its massive Iowa organization to the test this week by mobilizing the grassroots and turning them out to caucus for Cruz.
Leading up to the Iowa Caucus on February 1, the Cruz for President campaign has put together an unmatched ground game throughout the Hawkeye state. It has named a county chair for each of Iowa's 99 counties. The campaign has recruited 247 notable activists, pastors, and lawmakers including Congressman Steve King, Bob Vander Plaats, Steve Deace, and Cruz's chairman Matt Schultz, former Iowa Secretary of State.
As of last week, over 12,000 volunteers have signed on and are now working to identify and turn out caucus goers for Cruz. Volunteers, on average, are making up to 20,000 phone calls and knocking on 2,000 doors every day. During the month of January, 836 people will have stayed at Camp Cruz, the former college dorms that are filled beyond capacity with volunteers from all over the country, some tripling up in rooms using air mattresses.
"In my experience the Cruz organizational effort here in Iowa is unrivaled," said Bryan English, the Cruz campaign's Iowa state director. "We have coalesced conservatives from across the state because they want a conservative leader who will change Washington, break the DC Cartel, and bring power back to 'We the People'."
This week, Cruz will be barnstorming the state holding 30 public events in 22 counties leading up to the caucuses. By Monday, he will have completed the 'Full Grassley,' visiting and holding events in all 99 counties in the state. Over the course of the campaign, Cruz has met thousands of Iowans who have come out to his events. He has made it a point to spend time listening to and getting to know the people of Iowa face to face. Governor Rick Perry, who endorsed Cruz earlier in the week, will be attending events today with Cruz along with Bob Vander Plaats and Congressman Steve King.
All the campaign has done up to this point in Iowa leads to Monday's caucuses. Cruz noted that this incredible effort would not have been possible without the sacrifices made by thousands of courageous conservatives and their families from Iowa and from around the country. The Cruz campaign believes that conservatives in Iowa have united behind their campaign because Cruz is the only candidate in the race with a proven conservative track record and because he has stood up to Washington, including the leaders in his own party.
  