
    SOUTH CAROLINA: The campaign launched a new radio, "Urgent," highlighting Hillary's plan to jumpstart our economy... President Bill Clinton held "Solutions for America" town halls in Charleston, Kingstree, and Myrtle Beach. Read more... Councilwoman Lessie Price knocked on doors for Hillary in Aiken... Clinton campaign senior adviser Ann Lewis attended a house party in Columbia.
ARIZONA: State Sen. James Henderson, Jr. endorsed Hillary.
CALIFORNIA: The campaign expanded its presence on the California airwaves with a new ad, "Serious," on energy independence. Watch it... A new Field Poll has Hillary up by 12 points over Sen. Obama (39 to 27)... Los Angeles Unified School District Board President Monica Garcia and Hillary supporters distributed Hillary buttons, stickers and signs to merchants and store owners in Los Angeles' Pico-Union neighborhood.
CONNECTICUT: The campaign announced the endorsement of three State Senators and 22 State Representatives...The campaign begin airing its first ad, "Warned." The ad highlights Hillary's economic stimulus plan. Watch it.
GEORGIA: Continuing her efforts to reach out to youth, Chelsea Clinton spoke to students at Spelman College about her mother's experience and why she is the best candidate to represent youth as President. Read more.
ILLINOIS: Georgia Costello, wife of Rep. Jerry Costello, announced her support for Hillary.
MASSACHUSETTS: Suffolk County Sheriff Andrea Cabral joined the campaign to open its headquarters in Dorchester... The campaign began airing its first ad, "Falling Through." The ad highlights Hillary's economic stimulus plan. Watch it.
MINNESOTA: Former Sen. Mark Dayton and state Assistant Senate Majority Leader Tarryl Clark traveled across Northern Minnesota sharing Hillary's positive vision for America. Read more.
MISSOURI: The campaign began airing its first two ads, "Falling Through" and "Warned." Watch them here and here.
NEW JERSEY: U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez joined Hillary for packed rallies in Hackensack and North Bergen. Bergen County Chairman Joe Ferriero endorsed Hillary. Read more.
NEW MEXICO: The campaign announced that it would today begin airing its first ad, "Warned." Watch it. Albuquerque's NBC affiliate previewed the ad. Read more.
NEW YORK: After announcing the opening of a regional office, the campaign highlighted its grassroots activity in Rochester, including an upcoming organization meeting, weekday phone banks, and house parties.
OHIO: Ohio Lieutenant Governor Lee Fisher endorsed Hillary. Read more.
OKLAHOMA: Former House Speaker Steve Lewis in Tulsa and former Attorney General Mike Turpen in Oklahoma City unveiled the campaign's first ad, "Falling Through." Watch it.
PENNSYLVANIA: Gov. Ed Rendell endorsed Hillary. Listen or Read more.
TENNESSEE: The campaign held a press conference with Sen. Thelma Harper to unveil Hillary's new campaign ad, "Warned." Watch it. Chattanooga CBS' affiliate previewed the ad and noted that Sen. Obama recently stopped running ads in the state. Read more.
UTAH: The campaign began airing its first ad, "Warned." Watch it.
  