
    Pool Reports by Joey Garrison, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




January 2, 202310:57 AST

Travel pool report #1 — pool gathering
Good morning. I'm your out-of-town print pool reporter today in St. Croix, where President Biden is leaving this afternoon after his holiday vacation.
It's a beautiful, sunny 81 degrees. Biden departs on AF1 at 1:45 pm AST.
There are no changes to his schedule.
AST
11:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
1:45 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands en route Joint Base AndrewsHenry E. Rohlsen Airport, St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands Open Press
EST
4:15 PM In-Town Pool Call Time
4:35 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at Joint Base AndrewsJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
4:55 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 4:45 PM– Palm Room Doors)



January 2, 202312:57 AST

Travel pool report — #2
President Biden's motorcade pulled out of the private residence where he's been staying in St. Croix at 12:50 pm AST.
President Biden and Dr. Jill Biden were riding in a black SUV.
The pool is now following the motorcade en route to the Henry E. Rohlsen Airport, where the Bidens will board Air Force One.
Rolling ….



January 2, 202313:21 AST

Travel pool report #3 — airport arrival
The president and his motorcade arrived at the St. Croix airport at 1:20 after about a 30-minute drive.
The motorcade traveled through hilly, winding and often bumpy roads to get to the airport.
Hundreds of people along the route, scattered sporadically, took pictures and videos with their phones and waved to the president. One bar/restaurant called the Salt Great Pound was packed with people waving from its back porch.
Cars were blocked off on adjoining roads in the rural area to clear the way for the motorcade's airport arrival. A picturesque view of ocean was to our left for most of the trip.



January 2, 202313:39 AST

Travel pool report #4 — taking off soon
President Biden — wearing a navy blazer, light blue shirt and no tie — and Jill Biden boarded AF1 with Natalie and Hunter Biden, Biden's grandchildren and children of Beau Biden, next to them.
The Bidens boarded at 1:33 pm.
The president gestured to the press when asked several shouted questions and appeared to say something that was inaudible. He saluted before entering the plane's door. He took no questions.
One of the questions shouted by your pooler was, "When will you have a decision on running in 24?"
Before boarding, the Bidens took several minutes shaking hands and exchanging pleasantries with police and other local law enforcement officials.
From the WH:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival to Henry E. Rohlsen Airport:
Delia Smith, United States Attorney for the District of the Virgin IslandsFritz Boezen, Airport LiaisonBill and Connie NevilleHonnie EdwardsJonathan and Andrea AlexanderLT Dustin B. Randall, United States Coast GuardSFC Nkebila Bah, United States ArmyLocal police and fire personnel



January 2, 202313:43 AST

Travel pool report #5 — wheels up up
Air Force One lifted up from St. Croix at 1:43 pm local time. We are scheduled to land at 4:35 pm ET.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyEmilie Simons, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary



January 2, 202316:08 EST

Travel pool report #6 — landed at Andrews
President Biden, riding in Air Force One, touched down at Joint Base Andrews at 4:05 pm ET— about 30 minutes ahead of schedule.



January 2, 202316:24 EST

Travel pool report #7
President Biden exited Air Force One at 4:15 pm with Dr. Jill Biden and grandchildren Hunter and Natalie Biden. Both are children of Beau Biden.
Granddaughter Ashley Biden and husband Howard Krein came out of AF1 behind them. Among other passengers, there was a dog on a leash that came out as well. The dog belongs to Ashley and Howard.
President Biden hugged his grandchildren goodbye before they walked different directions. Biden lifted up on Marine One at 4:23 pm en route to the White House.
The president did not address reporters.
I'm now going to hand off to the in-town pooler.
Have a great evening!



January 2, 202316:25 EST

Travel pool report #8
One more report — from the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady



January 2, 202316:33 EST

Travel pool report #9 — correction
In pool report #7, I identified Ashley as the president's granddaughter. Ashley is Biden's daughter.




 
Pool Reports below by Christian Datoc, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




January 2, 202316:07 EST

In-town pool report #1 — gathering for arrival
Hello and happy new year from the White House, where it's an unseasonably pleasant 61 degrees.
President Joe Biden is now expected to return to the White House ahead of schedule this evening... pool is starting to gather for his arrival as of 4:05pm ET.
As always, feel free to reach out directly with any questions.



January 2, 202316:36 EST

In-town pool report #2 — wheels down
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 4:31pm ET.
POTUS, wearing a blue button down and blazer, disembarked with FLOTUS at 4:34 and walked into the residence after answering a question about his upcoming visit to KY. Stand by for quotes



January 2, 202316:51 EST

In-town pool report #3 — lid and quotes
White House called a lid just before 4:40pm.
See mostly exact quotes from POTUS' very brief q&a below, but please check against video and the WH's official transcript.
OTTER: https://otter.ai/u/-BfAGPtLCItv7JlKBNdoxsNoTWc
Have a great night, y'all!
—————————
Q: Mr. President, can you tell us why you want to go to Kentucky with Mitch McConnell? Why is it important to go with Mitch McConnell to Kentucky?
POTUS: It's his state.
Q: Why is it significant to be with McConnell there?
POTUS: We've been [inaudible] a long time and everyone's saying [inaudible] he is. [Inaudible] about our relationship. It's a giant state and there's a lot of money.
Q: Mr. President, are you discussing joint nuclear exercises with South Korea right now?
POTUS: No




  