
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress this report of the activities of the United States Government in the United Nations and its affiliated agencies during calendar year 1979.
The international crisis created by the seizure of the American Embassy in Tehran and the taking of Americans hostage overshadowed much of the 34th General Assembly. In this atmosphere, the United States directed its efforts in the United Nations toward supporting the work of the Secretary General and the Security Council to resolve this breach of international law. The Secretary General brought the issue to the Council which unanimously called upon the Government of Iran to release the hostages. Ironically, after three years of negotiations, the Assembly adopted by consensus the Convention Against the Taking of Hostages. This Convention affirms that there is no valid excuse for the taking of hostages and that there are no circumstances under which the seizure of hostages can be condoned.
Both the Security Council and the General Assembly focused international attention on the continued military occupation of Kampuchea by Vietnam. Of particular note during 1979 was the Security Council's termination of sanctions against Southern Rhodesia, a result of the agreement by the Lancaster House Conference.
On economic issues, UN actions ranged from highly technical meetings such as those on commodities, to continuing the work of the International Monetary Fund and to political discussions in the General Assembly on the future of international economy and development.
These discussions, attended by almost all UN members, saw a continuous, intense, and sometimes acrimonious series of exchanges between the developed and developing countries on the organization of the international economy, the nature of international economic relations, and the effects of both on economic development. This resulted in the decision by the 34th General Assembly to hold further meetings on these issues. We believe that negotiations of this kind and at this level are important and necessary to relations between developed and developing countries. However, whether the U.S. participates in these global negotiations will depend on how effectively we use but do not intrude upon the agencies of the UN and other international organizations.
The United States continues to monitor closely UN expenditures and programs and supports the Secretary General's efforts to limit budget growth.
Our participation in the United Nations and its related agencies and programs is an integral part of our foreign policy. As this report makes clear, the United Nations system of organizations is important and sometimes indispensable to the achievement of many of our central foreign policy objectives. This report should contribute to American understanding of and support for the United Nations and to the continuing active and constructive role of the United States.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 7, 1981.
  