
    Radio Spots Airs Across State
Montgomery, AL - Dr. Maya Angelou and Magic Johnson took their support of Hillary Clinton to the Alabama airwaves today as the Clinton Campaign launched two 60-second radio spots across the state.
In the spot "My Girl," Dr. Angelou describes her personal support of Hillary and focuses on Hillary's experience as an advocate for families. The accompanying spot featuring Magic Johnson focuses on Hillary's experience and ability to lead the country.
A complete transcript is included below. The radio ads can be heard online at:
http://hillaryclinton.com/hq/alabama/
Script:
Maya Angelou:
Hello, this is Maya Angelou. Let me tell you about my girl... Hillary Clinton. As a child, Hillary Clinton was taught that all God's children are equal, so as a mother she understood that her child wasn't safe unless all children were safe.
I know what kind of president Hillary Clinton will be because I know who she is. Hillary Clinton has always been a strong woman and a passionate protector of families. For 35 years, that is exactly what she has been doing.
Each generation stands on the shoulders of those who came before. Today, the challenges facing us threaten the dreams we have had for our children. We need a president with the experience and strength to meet those challenges.
I am inspired by Hillary Clinton... a daughter, a wife, a mother... my girl.
I'm Hillary Clinton, a candidate for president, and I approve this message.
Magic Johnson:
This is Magic Johnson. On the court and in life, successful leadership comes from hard work and experience. That's why I'm endorsing Hillary Clinton for President.
We have great candidates this year but I believe only Hillary is a proven leader with 35 years experience dealing with the challenges facing America.
Are you looking for better jobs? Universal healthcare? Better treatment for Veterans? Opportunities for your children? Then you want Hillary Clinton for President.
My rookie year we won our first game on a last second shot. I was so hyped but the captain of our team said, take it easy rookie it's a long season...it's a long road to the championship. He was right. Winning comes from years of hard work and preparation. Whether it's winning championships or a president who can bring us back to greatness, I always want the most prepared and experienced person leading my team. That's why I'm asking you to join me in voting for Hillary Clinton for President.
I'm Hillary Clinton, a candidate for president, and I approve this message.
  