
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 2
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned to Washington, DC, from Hilton Head, SC.
January 3
In the afternoon, the President met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
January 4
In the afternoon, the President had lunch with the Vice President.
In the evening, the President had dinner with experts on European affairs.
January 5
In the afternoon, the President had lunch with columnists.
January 6
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Hot Springs, AR, to attend the funeral of his mother, Virginia Clinton Kelley, on January 8.
The President appointed Katherine D. Seelman to be the Director of the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research, part of the Department of Education's Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services.
January 7
The President announced that he intends to nominate William A. Reinsch to be the Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration.
The President appointed the following individuals to Senior Executive Service positions in the administration:
Department of Housing and Urban Development
Tony Hernandez, Regional Administrator, Region 8
Joseph J. O'Hern, Regional Administrator, Region 7
Department of Agriculture
Vicki J. Hicks, Assistant Deputy Administrator for Commodity Operations, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service
Mary Ann Keeffe, Deputy Administrator for Special Nutrition Programs, Food and Nutrition Service
R. Alan King, Deputy Administrator for Commodity Operations, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service
Paul W. Johnson, Chief, Soil Conservation Service
Department of Energy
Daniel C. Tate, Jr., Deputy Assistant Secretary for House Liaison, Congressional, Intergovernmental and International Affairs
Environmental Protection Agency
Denise T. Graveline, Deputy Associate Administrator, Communications and Public Affairs
Department of Commerce
Jeffrey Hunker, Senior Policy Adviser, Office of Policy and Planning
Sally Yozell, Director of Congressional and Legislative Affairs, NOAA
General Services Administration
Faith A. Wohl, Director, Workshop Initiatives
Department of Health and Human Services
Carol L. Roddy, Senior Adviser to the Surgeon General
Department of the Interior
Katherine Louise Henry, Associate Solicitor for Surface Mining
Department of Justice
Paul R. Friedman, Deputy Associate Attorney General
Frank Sharp Holleman III, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division
Cynthia C. Lebow, Senior Counsel for Policy, Civil Division
Department of State
Mary Faith Mitchell, Senior Population Coordinator, Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration
Department of the Treasury
John Paul Whitehead, Assistant to the Commissioner, Internal Revenue Service
  