
    Atlanta, GA — Newt 2012 released the following statement from Congressman Trent Franks (R-AZ), a member of the House Armed Services Committee and the House Judiciary Committee, and Chairman of the Constitution Subcommittee in the House of Representatives, endorsing Newt Gingrich for president:
"Today I am pleased to endorse Newt Gingrich for president.
"Newt Gingrich's singularly bold plan for economic recovery, his unmatched record of conservative achievement and job creation, his unwavering commitment to the core principles enshrined in our Constitution, and his unmatched debate skill means he is far and away the best Republican candidate to challenge and defeat Barack Obama this November.
"America cannot afford another four years of Barack Obama, which is why conservatives must unite now around the one candidate who can offer the clearest contrasts with Barack Obama. That person is Newt Gingrich.
"While Newt's contrast with Obama is clear, so is his contrast with other leading Republican contenders. As someone who believes that restoring Constitutional protection to unborn children is a preeminent goal and responsibility for any Administration, I believe that Mitt Romney would have an impossible time mobilizing pro-life voters if he became the nominee. Romney's record includes taxpayer-funded abortions under Romneycare and, shockingly, the decision by his administration to finance the building of a Planned Parenthood abortion clinic using tax-exempt state bonds, and the elimination of conscience protections for Catholic hospitals in Massachusetts so that Catholic healthworkers are now forced to violate their conscience if they want to keep their job.
"Additionally, I believe Newt understands the national security threats America faces, and what it will take to defeat them, better than any other candidate in the field. Specifically, he believes that Iran must be prevented from acquiring a nuclear weapon and we must immediately exhaust all possible options for making sure this is the case, up to and including military action. He also understands the threat of an EMP event, whether caused by an act of terrorism or a naturally occurring solar flare, and the need to harden our national electrical infrastructure and pursue a robust missile defense system to prevent such an attack.
"Lastly, I believe Newt Gingrich's plan to restore the proper role of the judicial branch under the Constitution is the most effective and well-thought out plan of any candidate seeking to address the heretofore unchallenged judicial oligarchy that has cost the lives of 50 million unborn children, has undermined American national security, and continues to threaten Americans' most cherished values and religious liberty.
"The stakes are far too high; at a time when America faces a perfect storm of record jobless rates and an ailing economy, a growing nuclear threat from Iran, and an out-of-control federal judiciary that has eschewed our Constitutional system of checks and balances, I am convinced Newt Gingrich is far and away the Republican candidate who is most capable of uniting and igniting Republicans and the nation to defeat Barack Obama and restore American exceptionalism."
  