
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 26
Thomas A. Constantine, of New York, to be Administrator of Drug Enforcement, vice Robert C. Bonner, resigned.
William W. Ginsberg, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice L. Joyce Hampers, resigned.
Susan Bayh, of Indiana, to be a Commissioner on the part of the United States on the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada, vice Hilary Paterson Cleveland.
Edward Jay Gleiman, of Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission for the term expiring October 16, 1998, vice John W. Crutcher, term expired.
Deborah P. Christie, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Robert C. McCormack, resigned.
Robert F. Hale, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Michael Bruce Donley, resigned.
Rodney A. Coleman, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Jerome G. Cooper, resigned.
Lawrence J. Goffney, Jr., of Michigan, to be an Assistant Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, vice Edward Ernest Kubasiewicz, resigned.
Lewis Manilow, of Illinois, to be a member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 1996, vice Tom C. Korologos, term expired.
Kent Barron Alexander, of Georgia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia for the term of 4 years, vice Joe D. Whitley, resigned.
David D. Freudenthal, of Wyoming, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Wyoming for the term of 4 years, vice Richard A. Stacy.
Israel Brooks, Jr., of South Carolina, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of South Carolina for the term of 4 years, vice Lydia Glover.
Herbert Lee Brown, of Nevada, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Nevada for the term of 4 years, vice John H. Robinson.
Jerry J. Enomoto, of California, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of California for the term of 4 years, vice Arthur F. Van Court.
John James Leyden, of Rhode Island, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Rhode Island for the term of 4 years, vice Donald W. Wyatt.
Timothy Patrick Mullaney, Sr., of Delaware, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Delaware for the term of 4 years, vice O. Evans Denny.
  