
    Pool Reports by Chris Johnson, Washington Blade 



Sent:
Reports:




January 7, 202210:03

In-town pool report #1 — checking in 
Good morning from the White House!
I'll be your print pooler this morning in the time before POTUS heads out for his trip.
It's a chilly Winter day in D.C. The temperature is 28 degrees and the weather is partly cloudy.
On the public schedule for POTUS ahead of his departure is remarks in the State Dining Room on the monthly jobs report. The remarks will be livestreamed. Your pooler won't provide quotes, but any color if needed.
Your pooler will let you know if anything changes.



January 7, 202211:38

In-town pool report #2
POTUS entered the State Dining Room at 11:36 and began his remarks after referencing his upcoming trip to Colorado.



January 7, 202211:57

In-town pool report #3 — POTUS takes Q 
POTUS finished his remarks at 11:53 then took one shouted question from NBC's Peter Alexander.
Q: Is COVID here to stay?
POTUS : "No. I don't think COVID is here to stay."
Adds more advanced tools, testing available
POTUS exited at 11:55.



January 7, 202212:05

In-town pool report #4 — Marine One lifts 
POTUS exited the South Portico at 12:00 holding hands with FLOTUS. Both were wearing dark overcoats appropriate for the winter weather.
POTUS ignored shouted questions from reporters as the two proceeded to Marine One, which lifted off at 12:02 after they boarded.
Handing things off to out-to-town pooler, but will provide full quote on COVID question in another report.
From the White House:
Traveling on Marine One with the President and the First Lady:Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



January 7, 202212:29

In-town pool report #5- Full POTUS quote 
As promised, here's the full quote from POTUS in response to the question from Peter Alexander.
NBC News: Is COVID here to stay?
POTUS: No. I don't think COVID is here to stay, but having COVID, in the environment here and the world, is probably here to stay. COVID, as we're dealing with it now, is not here to stay. The new normal doesn't have to be.
We have so many many more tools developed, and continue to develop, that can contain COVID and other strains of COVID, so I don't think this is that.
Take a look: It was very different today than we were a year ago, even though we still have problems. Ninety percent of the schools are open now. It was 98, it's down to 90 — is open now because we spent the time and money in the recovery act to provide for the ability for schools to remain open.
And, you know, what we're doing now is we talk about, you know, how we're dealing with testing. Well, you know, we have been doing now — we have 300 million tests per month so far, and that's 11 million tests a day. In addition to that, we're in the process of ordering 500,000 new tests. And so, we're going to be able to control this. The new normal is not going to be what it is now; it's going to be better.




 
Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




January 7, 202211:18 EST

Out-of-town pool report #1- Good morning from JBA
Good morning from JBA where it’s 29 degrees. We’re awaiting POTUS for his trip to Colorado and Nevada.
Here’s what’s on tap:
12:10 pm ET – POTUS and FLOTUS depart JBA for Denver International Airport4:15pm ET – Arrive at Denver International Airport5pm ET – Arrive at Rocky Mountain International Airport5:30 pm ET – POTUS and FLOTUS tour a neighborhood in Louisville, CO6:35pm ET – Meet with families affected by the Marshall Fire; POTUS delivers brief remarks on his administration’s response to recent wildfires8:35pm ET – Depart Denver International Airport for Las Vegas, NV10:25pm ET – Arrive at Harry Reid International Airport in Las Vegas, NV
Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard AF1 en route to Denver. Please feel free to reach out with any questions you may have.



January 7, 202212:26 EST

Out-of-town pool report #2 - JBA departure
Marine One touched down at 12:12pm and POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off at 12:14pm.
POTUS, dressed in a blue suit and black overcoat, and FLOTUS, wearing a black coat and blue scarf, did not stop to talk to press.
They were greeted by Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, and Mrs. Christie Jones, Colonel Jones’ spouse.
POTUS paused to speak to the commander and FLOTUS waved to press before they boarded AF1 at 12:16pm.
As mentioned, Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard AF1 about an hour after take-off and it will be live-streamed.
Here’s the travel list:
Traveling to Boulder County, Colorado with the President and the First Lady:FEMA Administrator Deanne CriswellSenator Michael Bennet (CO)Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)Representative Joe Neguse (CO-02)Representative Jason Crow (CO-06)Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorMichael LaRosa, Special Assistant to the President &Press Secretary for the First LadyMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningAshley Jones, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
We’re wheels up for Denver International Airport at 12:26pm for a flight time of 4 hours and 5 minutes.



January 7, 202214:14 MST

Out-of-town pool report #3 - Denver airport arrival 
AF1 was wheels down at 4:10 ET after a bumpy landing.
Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled with reporters for about 28 minutes.
News: POTUS accepted House Speaker Pelosi’s invitation for the State of the Union address on March 1.
She fielded questions on updates for contracts for 500 million free Covid tests (more on that next week), Kazakhstan president’s order to shoot-to-kill protesters, Biden’s voting rights speech in Atlanta and the president’s media availability. You can find it streamed online.
To clarify Karine’s comments on the first contract that went out for the 500 million test purchase, please see below:
On background from a WH official: Awarding a letter is awarding a contract. The first one is for Goldbelt Securities, which I sent below. This contract is for tests (FDA authorized tests). The 500 million test purchase is targeting both new manufacturing, as well as distributors that have uncommitted, existing testing supply. Goldbelt is an example of a distributor with uncommitted supply.



January 7, 202214:30 MST

Out-of-town pool report #4- Louisville departure
POTUS and FLOTUS deplaned at 4:23 ET. FLOTUS noticeably changed into snow boots.
Upon arrival at Denver International Airport, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:
Governor Jared Polis (CO)Lieutenant Governor Dianne Primavera (CO)State Senate President Leroy Garcia (CO) POTUS and FLOTUS spoke to the group for two and a half minutes before walking to Marine One. They boarded 4:26pm ET.
Pool is now heading to the ospreys for the short lift to Louisville.



January 7, 202215:05 MST

Out-of-town pool report #5- Louisville arrival
Marine One was wheels down at 2:53pm MT (4:53pm ET). It’s sunny and 51 degrees here.
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off at 2:29pm MT and climbed into the Beast.
We’re rolling for a tour of a neighborhood of Louisville at 3:02 pm MT.



January 7, 202215:26 MST

Out-of-town pool report #6 - Neighborhood tour
Motorcade arrived at the Harper Lake at 3:14pm MT after about a 12-minute ride. The neighborhood was filled with snow-covered charred remains of homes, dead trees and burned-out cars.
Pool spotted a few climate protesters waving a banner that read "Code Red" on an otherwise quiet ride.
Upon arrival to the Harper Lake neighborhood in Louisville, Colorado, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:
Louisville Mayor Ashley Stolzmann (CO)
Boulder County Sheriff Joe Pelle
Chief John Wilson, Louisville Fire Protection District
POTUS spoke to the fire chief and sheriff before walking along the road to survey the damage from the Marshall Fire. He's speaking to families who were affected by the fire as he continues his tour.
More tk.



January 7, 202216:02 MST

Out-of-town pool report #7 - More from tour
Gov. Polis, Sen. Hickenlooper, Sen. Bennet and Congressman Neguse moved along the tour with POTUS and FLOTUS, stopping to talk to neighborhood residents.
POTUS hugged a woman before she turned to explain the debris behind them, which included the remnants of a foundation of a house and a burned-out car in what appeared to be a driveway.
At the next stop FLOTUS hugged another woman while a man told POTUS, "we'll get through this."
Toward the end of the tour, Biden, the First Lady and the Colorado officials stopped to speak and shake hands with a group of 10 fire and rescue officials. POTUS gave the officials each a Challenge Coin.
They moved on to another group of families, speaking to each. FLOTUS hugged a man who told her, "we lost everything," as POTUS spoke to another couple. The man told FLOTUS "we're lucky to have a lot of great friends." POTUS walked over and then hugged the man his wife had just embraced.
"I'm not even properly dressed because this is all I have," the man said to Biden, gesturing to his shorts.
"We definitely need help," the man's son told POTUS.
Biden leaned over at one point to pet a very happy golden retriever. Pool was escorted away at 3:56 MT while the tour (which has lasted for more than 40 minutes) was still underway.
From the WH:
Families greeted by the President and the First Lady—
The Miller Family:Ian MillerRyan MillerColton Miller
The Berman Family:Lynn BermanBrett Berman
The Delaware Family:Judy DelawareLouie Delaware Prescott Delaware



January 7, 202216:07 MST

Out-of-town pool report #8 - Motorcade rolling
Motorcade is rolling at 4:04 pm MT for the Louisville Recreation & Senior Center where POTUS is due to give brief remarks.



January 7, 202216:14 MST

Out-of-town pool report #9 - Rec Center arrival
Motorcade arrived after a 4-minute ride at 4:08pm MT.
Just outside the Center throngs of people looked on along the route, with one woman holding a Colorado state flag.
Pool is now holding inside an indoor soccer field.



January 7, 202217:22 MST

Out-of-town pool report #10- Rec Center visit
Pool was escorted into a gymnasium where families affected by the Marshall Fire were seated at six round tables spread out across the room.
A podium with the presidential seal stands at the far end of the room with large American and Colorado flags draped behind it. Another American flag and a presidential flag are displayed between the two larger flags.
Biden and Dr. Biden moved around each table, sitting down to speak with the families. The president gave the families presidential M&Ms.
POTUS and Dr. Biden walked over to the podium and the president began speaking at 5:15pm. The Colorado delegation stood behind him along with local officials.
"There's nothing so frightening - in my view - as a fire," he said.
"I can't imagine what it's like to be in this neighborhood," he said, and see winds up to 100mph and see flames approaching.
He praised the residents for the "incredible courage that you showed."
"A whole neighborhood gone," he said of the tour he just took.
More tk



January 7, 202217:45 MST

Out-of-town pool report #11 - More remarks
Please check against Audio.
"I can't imagine what it's like to be here in this neighborhood and see winds whipping up to 100 miles an hour and see flames approaching," he said.
Referring to huge wildfires around the country in an age of climate change, he said "more land has burned in the United States…. than make up the entire, in terms of total acreage, as the entire state of New Jersey."
"The situation is a blinking code red for our nation," he said, referring to unusually high winds and the late arrival of snow as responsible for creating "a tinder box.
Biden says his message to firefighters and everyone impacted is "we're here with you."
"The federal government is not going to go away."
"We can't ignore the reality that these fires are being supercharged, they're being supercharged" by climate change.
Biden said that families meeting him at the tables in the rec center had asked him "What do we do now?"
"Well, hang on to one another," he said, referring to how his family had "been through a few things ourselves."
"It's just hanging on to one another," he said. "That's the way. Find purpose in what you've been through."
He thanked the Colorado governor and congressional delegation who flew out with him from DC. "If Neguse tells me one more story about how particularly great this area is I'm moving," he said as the crowd laughed.
Dr. Biden then spoke and thanked the firefighters and officials for their work in rebuilding. She said the governor told her how many families lost a pet and she wanted to say how terribly sorry she is for that "tough loss."
He pitched his Build Back Better plan, noting it includes money for wildfire preparedness.
"We're going to stay here as long as it takes," Biden said. "And it's going to be better. It's going to be better.
"The whole nation is with you," Biden said.
Remarks wrapped at 5:30pm local time for a total of 15 minutes.
Pool was escorted out at 5:34pm and is holding in the press vans.
Thanks to co-pooler Sebastian Smith for the assist with quotes.



January 7, 202217:53 MST

Out-of-town pool report #12 - motorcade rolling
Crowds huddled on the outer perimeter of the Rec Center began to cheer as the motorcade pulled out.
We’re rolling for the airport for a short right back to Denver at 5:49pm MT.



January 7, 202218:04 MST

Out-of-town pool report #13- Airport arrival
Motorcade arrived at Rocky Mountain International Airport at 6pm local time after a quiet ride. Some onlookers were seen along the route immediately upon leaving the rec center.
Pool briefly caught a glimpse of POTUS climbing into
Marine One at 6:01pm but did not see it lift.
Pool is loading into the ospreys for the short ride back to Denver International.



January 7, 202218:43 MST

Out-of-town pool report #14- Denver departure
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off Marine One at 6:28 pm MT.
They did not stop to talk to press but spoke for a few minutes to US Ambassador to Switzerland Scott Miller and his husband Tim Gill, LGBTQ rights activist and philanthropist (and founder of Quark software). Dr. Biden hugged both before they boarded at 6:31 pm MT.
POTUS turned and waved to press before boarding.
One note: POTUS used the main staircase as opposed to the lower staircase he used at JBA.
We’re taxiing for Las Vegas at 6:38 pm.



January 7, 202219:47 PST

Out-of-town pool report #15 - Vegas arrival
AF1 touched down at 7:18 local time.
The president held Dr. Biden's hand as they emerged from the plane and descended the steps at 7:30 pm local time. The group of greeters (listed below) clapped for their arrival.
Dr. Biden hugged each person while POTUS followed closely behind, stopping to shake hands and chat along the way. Everyone is masked. They posed for a picture with the official WH photographer before speaking for a few more minutes. POTUS then posed for more individual photos with members of the group.
POTUS then took Congresswoman Susie Lee and her son Cody Lee back up the AF1 steps for a quick tour of the plane.
POTUS got into the beast at 7:43pm local time. Pool loaded into the vans and we're rolling at 7:45pm.
From the WH:
Upon arrival at Harry Reid International Airport, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:Governor Steve Sisolak (NV)First Lady of Nevada Kathy SisolakRepresentative Dina Titus (NV-01) and Thomas Wright, SpouseRepresentative Susie Lee (NV-03) and Cody Lee, SonRepresentative Steven Horsford (NV-04) and Sonya Horsford, SpouseLas Vegas Mayor Carolyn Goodman



January 7, 202220:07 PST

Out-of-town pool report #16 - Arrival at hotel
Motorcade arrived at the Vdara hotel at 8pm PST.
Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS before we entered the hotel.



January 7, 202220:23 PST

Out-of-town pool report #17- Travel/photo lid
We have a travel/photo lid at 8:18pm local time.
Have a great night!




  