
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 10
In the morning, the President traveled to Galesburg, IL. Following his arrival, he went to Carl Sandburg College where he participated in an informal discussion with area students, graduates, and employers.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced the President has invited President Mircea Snegur of Moldova to meet with him at the White House on January 30.
The White House announced the President, at the invitation of the Canadian Government, will make his first state visit to Ottawa on February 23-24.
January 11
The President announced that he has nominated Sheila C. Cheston to be General Counsel of the United States Air Force.
January 12
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton attended the play "Tommy" at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kay Dickersin to the National Cancer Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Timothy Finchem and Al Mead to the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.
The President announced his intention to appoint Samuel J. Simmons to the Policy Committee of the White House Conference on Aging.
The President announced his intention to designate William T. Esrey to be Chairman and Charles R. Lee to be Vice Chairman of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
January 13
In the morning, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH, where he met with a group of Central and Eastern European-Americans and with representatives of Central and Eastern European news organizations at the Stouffer Renaissance Hotel.
In the afternoon, the President met with participants of the White House Conference on Trade and Investment in Central and Eastern Europe. He then went to Cleveland-Hopkins International Airport where he met with the editorial board of the Cleveland Plain-Dealer in the conference room at the IX Jet Center. He then returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Camp David, MD, for the weekend.
The White House announced the President moved the effective date of the latest California flood disaster back from January 6 to January 3.
The President announced his intention to appoint S. David Fineman to the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the National Skill Standards Board:
—James R. Houghton;
—Vera Katz;
—Marc S. Tucker; and
—Alan L. Wurtzel.
  