
    John Delaney's Presidential Campaign Kicks Off 2019 with the Announcement of Iowa Campaign Co-Chairs, Office Openings and Key Staff Hires
DES MOINES- Today, John Delaney's 2020 Presidential campaign announced several key staff positions including an Iowa State Director, Iowa Caucus Director and a total Iowa staff of 24. This month, the campaign will also open six, new campaign offices across the state. The campaign also announced Connie Klug and Paula Meyer as the Iowa Campaign Co-Chairs.
Connie Klug, of Adel, currently works as a Business Development Manager for AT&T Sports and Entertainment. She is active in her church, Central Presbyterian of Des Moines, and served for nine years on the Des Moines General Board of Trustees. A link to a video of Connie on why she supports John Delaney for President can be found here.
"I'm looking for a leader that can tone down the rhetoric that we currently have in place. I'm not looking for someone who is shouting or name calling or exaggerating or lying," said Klug. "I want someone who's honest, who can talk about the issues that are important to ordinary Americans and that can truly reach across the aisle. And I think that John's record in Congress shows that he has that capability."
Paula Meyer earned her BA at Luther College and her MBA from the University of Pennsylvania, Wharton School of Business. After a successful business career, Meyer founded Friends of Ngong Road, whose mission is to provide education and support for impoverished Nairobi children whose families have been affected by HIV/Aids so they can transform their lives. She, and her husband, Kurt, live in St. Ansgar, IA. A link to a video of Paula on why she supports John Delaney for President can be found here.
"The most important thing that our country needs now is someone who can defeat Donald Trump. I believe John Delaney can do that. The second most important thing that we need is someone who could bring people together, both Democrats and Republicans," said Meyer. "Then once we can start to work together, we need to start to solve our problems in the future, not dwell on the past. So, I think Delaney can deliver on all those things."
The campaign also announced the hiring of key, senior staffers. Monica Biddix, former Iowa Communications Director, will serve as the Iowa State Director. Mark Galinsky, former Outreach Director, will serve as the Deputy State Director. Other senior staff hires include Michelle Bruggenthies as Iowa Caucus Director, Marcia Rogers as Political Director and Rachel Potucek as Deputy Communications Director. In October, the campaign announced the hiring of Greg Hauenstein as the Iowa Digital Director. Both Bruggenthies and Hauenstein bring Iowa Caucus experience as part of the Sanders '16 and Obama '08 Iowa campaigns, respectively.
Bios for the Campaign Co-Chairs and staffers can be found here.
"Our campaign spent most of last year laying the groundwork and introducing Congressman Delaney to Iowans," said Monica Biddix, Iowa State Director. "We're excited to hit the ground running in 2019 with a solid, statewide organization and offices from river to river. Our campaign is committed to assembling a team that looks like Iowa and the rest of the country including members of the African-American, Latino, LGBTQ+ communities and veterans. Unlike some previous presidential campaigns, we're not just hiring women, we're putting them in leadership positions."
In the coming weeks, Delaney will open new offices in Cedar Rapids, Council Bluffs, Davenport, Des Moines, Sioux City and Waterloo. The Des Moines office grand opening will be held on Saturday, January 12th at 12:30 pm at 2415 Ingersoll Avenue, Des Moines, IA 50312. The grand opening is free and open to the public.
  