
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and to appoint one individual to serve as members of his administration:
The President intends to nominate Mark Everson of Texas, to be the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. Mr. Everson is currently the Deputy Director for Management with the Office of Management and Budget. In this capacity at OMB, he provided government-wide leadership to executive branch agencies, leading to strengthened federal management and improved program performance. He also contributed to the development of the Department of Homeland Security and served on the transition planning team for the new department. Upon joining the administration in August 2001, Mr. Everson served as Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management within the Office of Management and Budget. Prior to serving with the OMB, he was Group Vice President-Finance for SC International Services, Inc. (also known as LSG SkyChefs). He is a graduate of Yale University and earned his master's degree from the New York University Business School.
The President intends to nominate Clay Johnson III of Texas, to be the Deputy Director for Management at the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Johnson is currently Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel and Deputy to the Chief of Staff. A trusted advisor, he has served with the President since his days as Governor of Texas, where he was the Appointments Director in the Office of the Governor and then Executive Assistant to the Governor. Mr. Johnson then served as Executive Director of the Bush-Cheney Presidential Transition Team. Prior to his involvement in government, Mr. Johnson worked in management for Horchow Mail Order Company, Citicorp and Frito Lay. He earned his bachelor's degree from Yale University and master's from the Sloan School of Management at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to appoint Dina Habib Powell to be Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel. Ms. Powell is currently Special Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel. Prior to joining the administration, Ms. Powell served in the personnel office of the Bush-Cheney Transition Team. Earlier in her career, she was the Director of Congressional Affairs for the Republican National Committee in Washington, D.C. She has also served as a member of House Majority Leader, Dick Armey's senior staff. Ms. Powell graduated with honors from the University of Texas, Austin.
  