
    In upcoming attraction, John Edwards rescues a nation hijacked by special interests and delivers it back to the hands of the people
Columbia, South Carolina – Two days before South Carolina voters go to the polls, the John Edwards for President campaign unveiled a new theatrical trailer for Native Son: The Movie starring Senator John Edwards. The trailer, narrated by well-known voiceover artist and Edwards' supporter George DelHoyo, highlights how Edwards has spent his life standing up to the rich and powerful to help the kind of regular people he grew up with in the Palmetto State, and how, as president, Edwards will rescue a nation hijacked by special interests and deliver it back to the hands of the people.
"From the people that want to end this senseless war, comes the story of the man who will bring you stronger schools, smart trade and universal health care," the narrator explains. "Starring South Carolina's native son, John Edwards. On January 26th, choose a brighter future – John Edwards for President."
Today, Edwards wraps up a two-day "Back Roads, Back Home Barnstorm" of South Carolina's small towns and rural communities to bring attention to the millions of rural Americans who, for too long, have been forgotten by Washington politicians. Edwards has seen how the voices of working Americans – like James Lowe, who could not speak for 50 years because he did not have health insurance, like the men and women who worked in the mills with his father Wallace, and like so many others he has met across South Carolina, have been forgotten.
Joined by James Lowe, his parents Bobbie and Wallace Edwards, his daughter, Cate, and Rev. James Blassingame of Sumter, South Carolina, on the last day before the primary, tomorrow Edwards will campaign across South Carolina to meet with voters and tell them, as President, he will never forget the voices of South Carolina's working families.
The new trailer for Native Son: The Movie is featured prominently on the John Edwards website at http://www.johnedwards.com/sc/video/native-son-movie and a higher resolution version can be downloaded at http://www.johnedwards.com/watch/native-son-movie/press. A full transcript of the trailer is also included below.
Transcript of Native Son: The Movie Trailer (90 seconds):
NARRATOR: In a world where candidates are many, one man stands apart from the crowd.
EDWARDS: When people say to me, 'why are you running for President of the United States,' I can say it in one sentence. I'm running for President of the United States because I want everyone in America to have the same chances that I've had.
NARRATOR: Born to humble beginnings in South Carolina, he spent his life fighting against the rich and powerful to help the kind regular people he grew up with.
SUPPORTER: Give 'em hell, Johnny.
EDWARDS: Oh, I will.
NARRATOR: Now we have the chance to let him bring that fight to the White House, to rescue a nation hijacked by special interests and deliver it back to the hands of the people.
EDWARDS: The strength of America's not just in the Oval Office, the strength of America is in this room, right now. It's the American people, the incredible capacity of the American people to do great things. And we need you. Your country needs you.
NARRATOR: From the people that want to end this senseless war, comes the story of the man who will bring you stronger schools, smart trade and universal health care. Starring South Carolina's native son, John Edwards. On January 26th, choose a brighter future – John Edwards for President.
EDWARDS: I'm John Edwards, and I approve this message.

  