
    Today, President Joe Biden convened a meeting of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) – a group of renowned experts from outside of the Federal government who advise the president on key issues of science, technology, and innovation – to discuss their ongoing work to help the Administration deliver on its science and technology priorities and drive American innovation.
The President highlighted the role of science-based decision making in his efforts to tackle the challenges of the moment, including fighting the pandemic, implementing bold climate solutions, and working to harness the power of game-changing energy technologies. He also emphasized the Administration's steadfast commitment to upholding scientific integrity to help restore the American people's trust in government.
The President's Science Advisor and PCAST Co-Chair Eric Lander noted that it was fitting that the meeting coincided with the one-year anniversary of President Biden taking office given the President's passion and commitment to using science and technology as a driver to improve the lives of all Americans.
PCAST Co-Chairs Frances Arnold and Maria Zuber outlined four key areas of update for the President, including 1) how our Nation can use new scientific advances to assess and protect against physical and financial risks from climate change; 2) how to use science and technology to strengthen the Nation's ability to detect, track, and fight wildfires; 3) what might be needed to reimagine the American public health system to address decades-old challenges laid bare by the pandemic; and 4) what steps are necessary to ensure America's continued global leadership in science and technology innovation in the 21st century.
PCAST members detailed the group's work to explore each of the critical areas outlined by the co-chairs and provided subject matter expertise on the path forward.
PCAST's next public virtual meeting will be held on March 24-25, 2022. Additional information PCAST's future meetings can be found at https://www.whitehouse.gov/pcast/meetings/.
Event Speakers Included:
PCAST Co-Chairs 
Eric Lander, the President's Science Advisor and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy
Frances Arnold, California Institute of Technology
Maria Zuber, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
PCAST Members
Lisa A. Cooper, Johns Hopkins University
John O. Dabiri, California Institute of Technology
Sue Desmond-Hellmann, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (ret.)
Andrea Goldsmith, Princeton University
Laura H. Greene, National High Magnetic Field Laboratory and Florida State University
Jonathan Levin, Stanford University
Steve Pacala, Princeton University
Kathryn Sullivan, Potomac Institute for Policy Studies
For more information on PCAST members or their work please visit: https://www.whitehouse.gov/pcast/.
  