
    Dear Ed:
It is with regret that I accept your resignation as Deputy Attorney General, effective February 3, 1984.
I know that you have been a strong right hand for Bill Smith as the Department of Justice has kept our promise to the American people to wage unremitting war against crime. You have played a leading role in our counterattack against those who terrorize innocent victims, and especially against organized crime, which can only be defeated by resolute action at the Federal level. Your experience and knowledge in this and many other areas will be sorely missed, but I know that your successor will build on the solid foundations you have laid. I want to thank you personally for a job well done.
Nancy and I send you our best wishes for every future success and happiness.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
[The Honorable Edward C. Schmults, Deputy Attorney General, Washington, D.C. 20530]
January 23, 1984
My Dear Mr. President:
For three years, it has been my privilege to be the Deputy Attorney General of the United States. Every day I have had a keen sense of accomplishment and pride in working with Bill Smith to serve the cause of justice and carry out your policies here at the Department of Justice. Thus, it is not easy for me to tender my resignation, which I do by this letter, effective on February 3, 1984.
Because of your unswerving leadership and strong support, the Federal effort against crime is being fought more effectively than at any time in our Nation's history. The law enforcement community knows it has a President who respects and supports what it is doing, and the results are now apparent to the American people.
My deepest thanks for the opportunity of helping you to further your goals. As I return to private life, I stand ready to do whatever you ask as you seek a second term, knowing that the American people will reelect a President who has served them so well.
Respectfully,
EDWARD C. SCHMULTS
[The President, The White House, Washington, D.C. 20500]
  