
    On Tuesday, January 5, 2021, the President signed into law:
H.R. 1240, the "Young Fishermen's Development Act," which requires the Commerce Department to establish the Young Fishermen's Development Grant Program to provide training, education, outreach, and technical assistance initiatives for young fishermen;
H.R. 1503, the "Orange Book Transparency Act of 2020," which amends the types of patents and exclusivity-related information for approved drugs listed in a publication of the Food and Drug Administration;
H.R. 1966, the "Henrietta Lacks Enhancing Cancer Research Act of 2019," which requires GAO to complete a study on barriers to participation in Federally funded cancer clinical trials by populations that have been traditionally underrepresented in such trials;
H.R. 2468, the "School-Based Allergies and Asthma Management Program Act," which increases the preference given, in awarding allergy and asthma-related grants, to States that require public schools to have allergy and asthma management programs;
H.R. 3976, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 12711 East Jefferson Avenue in Detroit, Michigan, as the Aretha Franklin Post Office Building;
H.R. 4031, the "Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act of 2019 or the GLRI Act of 2019," which reauthorizes the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative through FY 2026;
H.R. 4983, which designates the Department of Veterans Affairs community-based outpatient clinic in Gilbert, Arizona, as the Staff Sergeant Alexander W. Conrad Veterans Affairs Health Care Clinic;
H.R. 4988, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 14 Walnut Street in Bordentown, New Jersey, as the Clara Barton Post Office Building;
H.R. 5023, which designates the Department of Veterans Affairs community-based outpatient clinic in Youngstown, Ohio, as the Carl Nunziato VA Clinic;
H.R. 5123, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 476 East Main Street in Galesburg, Illinois, as the Senior Airman Daniel Miller Post Office Building;
H.R. 5273, the "Securing America's Ports Act," which requires the Department of Homeland Security to develop a plan for increasing to one hundred percent the rate of scanning of commercial and passenger vehicles and freight rail traffic entering the United States using large-scale non-intrusive inspection systems;
H.R. 5451, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 599 East Genesee Street in Fayetteville, New York, as the George H. Bacel Post Office Building;
H.R. 5458, the "Rocky Mountain National Park Boundary Modification Act," which authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire, by donation, an approximately 40-acre parcel of non-Federal land for inclusion within the boundary of the Rocky Mountain National Park in Colorado;
H.R. 5459, the "Rocky Mountain National Park Ownership Correction Act," which authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to exchange a small parcel of Federal land for an equal sized parcel of private land to correct a land ownership error within the boundary of the Rocky Mountain National Park in Colorado;
H.R. 5597, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 305 Northwest 5th Street in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, as the Clara Luper Post Office Building;
H.R. 5663, the "Safeguarding Therapeutics Act," which extends certain import refusal and destruction authorities to medical devices;
H.R. 5852, the "Weir Farm National Historical Park Redesignation Act," which redesignates the Weir Farm National Historic Site in Connecticut as the Weir Farm National Historical Park;
H.R. 5972, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 500 Delaware Avenue, Suite 1, in Wilmington, Delaware, as the Mary Ann Shadd Cary Post Office;
H.R. 5983, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 4150 Chicago Avenue in Riverside, California, as the Woodie Rucker-Hughes Post Office Building;
H.R. 6016, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 14955 West Bell Road in Surprise, Arizona, as the Marc Lee Memorial Post Office Building;
H.R. 6100, the "Strengthening the Opposition to Female Genital Mutilation Act of 2020 or the STOP FGM Act of 2020," which increases criminal penalties for performing a female genital mutilation on a minor and expands the scope of punishable offenses;
H.R. 6161, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 1585 Yanceyville Street, Greensboro, North Carolina, as the J. Howard Coble Post Office Building;
H.R. 6237, the "Proper and Reimbursed Care for Native Veterans Act" or the "PRC for Native Veterans Act," which clarify the requirement of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense to reimburse the Indian Health Service for certain services;
H.R. 6418, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 509 Fairhope Avenue in Fairhope, Alabama, as the William "Jack" Jackson Edwards III Post Office Building;
H.R. 6535, which deems urban Indian organizations and their employees to be a part of the Public Health Service for purposes of liability protection under the Federal Tort Claims Act;
H.R. 7088, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 111 James Street in Reidsville, Georgia, as the Senator Jack Hill Post Office Building;
H.R. 7105, the "Johnny Isakson and David P. Roe, M.D. Veterans Health Care and Benefits Improvement Act of 2020," which amends a number of VA authorities related to medical care; housing and homelessness; general benefits; education benefits; training programs; financial protections; addressing the particular needs of women veterans; military sexual trauma; memorials affairs; and extending the sunset dates of certain time-limited authorities;
H.R. 7259, the "Patents for Humanity Program Improvement Act," which authorizes the holder of an acceleration certificate awarded under the Patents for Humanity program to transfer the certificate to another party;
H.R. 7347, which designates the medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Ann Arbor, Michigan, as the Lieutenant Colonel Charles S. Kettles Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center;
H.R. 7460, the "Peace Corps Commemorative Work Extension Act," which extends the authority of the Peace Corps Commemorative Foundation to establish a commemorative work on Federal lands in the District of Colombia to commemorate the missionof the Peace Corps and the ideals on which the Peace Corps was founded;
H.R. 7502, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 101 South 16th Street in Clarinda, Iowa, as the Jessie Field Shambaugh Post Office Building;
H.R. 7810, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 3519 East Walnut Street in Pearland, Texas, as the Tom Reid Post Office Building;
H.R. 7898, which establishes the National Landslide Hazards Reduction Program and the 3D Elevation Program within the Department of the Interior;
H.R. 8611, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 4755 Southeast Dixie Highway in Port Salerno, Florida, as the Joseph Bullock Post Office Building;
H.R. 8810, the "National Landslide Preparedness Act," which establishes the National Landslide Hazards Reduction Program and the 3D Elevation Program within the Department of the Interior; and
H.R. 8906, the "Lifespan Respite Care Reauthorization Act of 2020," which reauthorizes the Lifespan Respite Care Program through fiscal year (FY) 2024.
  