
    LITTLE ROCK, Ark.- Conservative Christian and family values leaders from across the country formally endorsed Gov. Mike Huckabee today.
"Life, marriage, and religious liberty aren't bargaining chips or political considerations-they are moral issues. And I'm proud of the social conservative leaders who are coalescing around our campaign to burn down the corrupt Washington political machine and put our God, our country, and our cherished values first," said Gov. Huckabee.
These initial endorsements represent a few national leaders, joining hundreds of pastors and community activists from around the country, supporting Huckabee.
"I have long believed Gov. Mike Huckabee is the most qualified candidate to lead America in these dangerous times. He is an experienced governor who won numerous state-wide elections in a difficult, Democrat-controlled state. He is a well-balanced minister of the Gospel with a wealth of legislative experience and has an admirable family. In addition, he has a long history of loyalty to God, family and America. I heartily endorse him as the next president of our great country." Dr. Tim LaHaye, minister and author of the New York Times best-selling Left Behind book series
"Gov. Huckabee has integrity and won't compromise fundamental values, making him a statesman, not merely a politician. Our nation needs a true leader like Huckabee, not another politician." Dr. Jim Garlow, Senior Pastor of SkyLine Church, host of the Garlow Perspective
"Mike Huckabee is the most experienced, qualified and capable of all the Republican candidates running for President, and he has the moral clarity and commonsense to restore and rebuild America after seven years of President Obama's mess." Art Ally, founder and president of Timothy Plan, America's first pro-life and pro-family mutual fund company
"Our next President must be able to rise above the Washington bickering class and lead our nation. There are plenty of candidates that talk the talk, but Governor Huckabee walks the walk." Mark Harris, North Carolina Pastor
"America is plagued with many ills, yet none is more critical than our country's moral decline. It is why I support Gov. Mike Huckabee. Whether the sanctity of life, family values, or religious liberty, no other candidate is more committed these issues than the governor. I strongly urge you to join me in supporting his campaign for president!" Joni Eareckson Tada, radio host and founder of Joni and Friends International Disability Center, serving as National Chair of the Huckabee for President Advisory Committee on Disability Issues
"I ask myself who Jesus would vote for ... and that answer is Governor Mike Huckabee," Joshua Feuerstein, social media Christian advocate and former television and radio evangelist
"Gov. Huckabee is morally grounded and Constitutionally sound. Politically, he has been tried and tested. He is ready to lead the free world with humility and conviction. That's why I'm endorsing Mike Huckabee for President of the United States." Dr. Eric M. Wallace, President & Co-Founder of Freedom's Journal Institute
"Gov. Huckabee's commitment to life, marriage and restoring America's greatness is second to none, and I proudly support his campaign for president." Rev. Dr. Cecil Williamson, a founding pastor of Warrior Presbytery and the PCA in Selma, Ala.
"Mike Huckabee is the only candidate who has the experience, the conservative principles, and the likability to be our next president." Ken Eldred, entrepreneur & philanthropist
"On life, liberty, and the family, there is no one stronger than Gov. Mike Huckabee." Janet Folger Porter, Founder and President Faith2Action
  