
    Mrs. Bush. Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Miyazawa, I rarely get to speak for George Bush. But tonight I know he would want me to thank you, on behalf of the members of his administration and the American businessmen who are here, for a wonderful visit and for a great friendship, in my part, for a lovely day, and I think for a wonderful day for all of you.
You know, I can't explain what happened to George because it never happened before. But I'm beginning to think it's the Ambassador's fault. [Laughter] He and George played the Emperor and the Crown Prince in tennis today, and they were badly beaten. And we Bushes aren't used to that. [Laughter] So, he felt much worse than I thought. [Laughter]
But General Scowcroft is going to speak for the President. And thank you very much for a wonderful visit.
Mr. Scowcroft. Ladies and gentlemen, it's my great honor on behalf of the President, and without his assured elegance, to deliver the remarks he was going to make. May I first, Mr. Prime Minister, on his behalf, thank you for your very kind words, your expressions of solidarity, hope, and friendship.
Prime Minister Miyazawa, Deputy Prime Minister Watanabe, distinguished ministers, distinguished former Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Prime Minister, it is already clear from our discussions that we share much in common. Most important, we both want stronger ties, better trade, and a closer friendship between our two countries.
Barbara and I are honored to be here. I am proud to join you in welcoming the season of the new year and to look ahead with honesty and understanding to the era of a new century.
Mr. Prime Minister, let me offer my very warmest congratulation on your election. I sincerely look forward to the work that lies together before us. As you remarked earlier this year, the United States and Japan share the same values and bear a heavy responsibility for world order. It is my conviction that the United States and Japan must move forward together as partners. We share a common vision for the post-cold-war world, a world knitted together by a global trading system with common rules making possible free and equitable competition.
Kiichi, I know our people share a love of baseball, so perhaps we should think of this new world in this spirit. You've called your country a team player, a description I would also apply to America. So let's compete in the arena of free and open trade. Open competition and close cooperation will make both our countries winners. Working together, no two nations can do more to realize a new era of peace and prosperity than Japan and the United States.
You once spoke of the need to create an economy for the benefit of mankind and to challenge the unknown. So now, let us join together. Let us forge a global partnership as we confront the challenges of the coming century. For the sake of our children, for the sake of their children, we must not let these opportunities slip through our fingers.
Mr. Prime Minister, I hear you are fond of the phrase "large trees with deep roots." Let us guard the growing tree of our friendship so that it may shelter all the generations to come.
To this friendship, I raise my glass.
  