
    Terrence W. Boyle, of North Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the fourth Circuit, vice J. Dickson Phillips, Jr., retired.
Jay S. Bybee, of Nevada, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Procter R. Hug, Jr., retired.
Deborah L. Cook, of Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Alan E. Norris, retired.
Miguel A. Estrada, of Virginia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Patricia M. Wald, retired.
Richard A. Griffin, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Damon J. Keith, retired.
Carolyn B. Kuhl, of California, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice James R. Browning, retired.
David W. McKeague, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Richard F. Suhrheinrich, retired.
Susan Bieke Neilson, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Cornelia G. Kennedy, retired.
Priscilla Richman Owen, of Texas, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice William L. Garwood, retired.
Charles W. Pickering, Sr., of Mississippi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Henry A. Politz, retired.
John G. Roberts, Jr., of Maryland, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice James L. Buckley, retired.
Henry W. Saad, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice James L. Ryan, retired.
Jeffrey S. Sutton, of Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice David A. Nelson, retired.
Timothy M. Tymkovich, of Colorado, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice John C. Porfilio, retired.
John R. Adams, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice George Washington White, retired.
J. Daniel Breen, of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee, vice Julia Smith Gibbons, elevated.
Cormac J. Carney, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Carlos R. Moreno, resigned.
James C. Dever, III, of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina, vice W. Earl Britt, retired.
Ralph R. Erickson, of North Dakota, to be United States District Judge for the District of North Dakota, vice Rodney S. Webb, retired.
Sandra J. Feuerstein, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Thomas C. Platt, Jr., retired.
Gregory L. Frost, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio, vice George C. Smith, retired.
S. Maurice Hicks, Jr., of Louisiana, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, vice Donald E. Walter, retired.
Richard J. Holwell, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Barrington D. Parker, Jr., elevated.
Robert A. Junell, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Texas, vice Hipolito Frank Garcia, deceased.
Thomas L. Ludington, of Michigan, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Paul V. Gadola, retired.
S. James Otero, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Richard A. Paez, elevated.
William D. Quarles, Jr., of Maryland, to be United States District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice William M. Nickerson, retired.
Frederick W. Rohlfing III, of Hawaii, to be United States District Judge for the District of Hawaii, vice Alan C. Kay, retired.
Thomas A. Varlan, of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, vice Robert Leon Jordan, retired.
William H. Steele, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Alabama, vice Richard W. Vollmer, Jr., retired.
Timothy C. Stanceu, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of International Trade, vice Richard W. Goldberg, retired.
  