
    The President today accepted with deep regret the resignation of Richard V. Allen as Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
In his place, the President named William P. Clark, currently Deputy Secretary of State, to become his new national security adviser.
In a private meeting this afternoon, the President told Mr. Allen that he greatly appreciated the service that he had performed for him over the past year and in earlier years. In the President's view, Mr. Allen has made an outstanding contribution to the construction and development of a strong national security policy for the Nation.
The President also reported to Mr. Allen his pleasure that both the investigation by the Justice Department and a recently completed study by the White House Counsel's office had revealed no wrongdoing on Mr. Allen's part.
At the same time, both Mr. Allen and he agreed that, in view of the controversy of recent weeks, it would be better for all concerned to seek a change in responsibilities. Toward that end, the President asked Mr. Allen to serve as his consultant for an indefinite period to assist in the organization of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
Mr. Clark brings to his new post at the White House a distinguished record of service in California and, more recently, at the State Department.
In consultation with the members of the National Security Council, Mr. Clark in his new role will be responsible for the development, coordination, and implementation of national security policy, as approved by the President. In addition, he will be responsible for providing staff support and for administering the National Security Council. As Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Mr. Clark will have a direct reporting relationship to the President.
This expanded role for the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, as announced today, will implement recommendations made to the President by the Counsellor to the President, Edwin Meese III, following a review of the national security process.
  