
    Following a strong debate performance, Edwards holds town hall meetings across Nevada on second day of "Standing with Working Families" tour
Reno, Nevada – Following a strong debate performance last night in Las Vegas, today Senator John Edwards was welcomed at a town hall meeting in Reno by a crowd of more than 1,500 supporters. Edwards' event at the Grand Sierra Resort in Reno took place during the second day of his "Standing with Working Families" Nevada tour, during which Edwards is highlighting his plans to stand up for the middle class and fight for hard-working families across America.
Born to working class parents and raised in small, rural towns, John Edwards understands the values and struggles of hard-working families. He has been fighting for regular Americans like the ones he grew up with his entire life, and he'll keep fighting for them as president.
"If you've been watching the national media for the last year you might have thought there were only two candidates, but if you watched the debate last night you saw there are actually three," Edwards said at the Reno town hall meeting. "Only one of these candidates has never taken a dime from Washington lobbyists and PACs. Only one beats every single Republican candidate in head to head match-ups. Only one will have no corporate lobbyists in White House.
"The cause of my life is fighting for working people and the middle class who are being held back by powerful entrenched interests," Edwards continued. "Middle class families across the country are working harder than ever today, but still struggling to make ends meet. To help hard-working families in Nevada and across America get ahead, we need a president who will fight for universal health care, smarter trade policies and a new energy economy. And to get real change, we need a president with the strength and conviction to stand up against the big corporations and powerful interests who control Washington."
Edwards will continue to campaign in Nevada tomorrow and Friday as part of a coast-to-coast trip to bring his fight for the middle class to states from the West Coast to the Heartland to the East Coast. Over the course of the next three days, Edwards will visit Nevada, California, Oklahoma, Missouri, Georgia and his native state of South Carolina to share with voters his detailed plans to stand up to the powerful interests and make sure hard-working families can get ahead.
  