
    
  Pessimistic Outlook Failed In Michigan, And Will Fail Elsewhere

"Mitt Romney had a light home field advantage in the Michigan primary since he grew up in Detroit and his dad was a three-term governor. But that's not why he won. Romney defeated John McCain because the economy is emerging as the overriding issue in the 2008 presidential race, and Romney's message on the subject is stronger than McCain's. And Romney is far more comfortable and persuasive in talking about the economy." – Fred Barnes (Fred Barnes, "Romney Gets The Gold," Weekly Standard, 1/16/08)
Michigan Republicans Chose Gov. Romney's Experience And Optimism:
Weekly Standard's Fred Barnes: "Romney Defeated John McCain Because The Economy Is Emerging As The Overriding Issue In The 2008 Presidential Race." "Mitt Romney had a light home field advantage in the Michigan primary since he grew up in Detroit and his dad was a three-term governor. But that's not why he won. Romney defeated John McCain because the economy is emerging as the overriding issue in the 2008 presidential race, and Romney's message on the subject is stronger than McCain's. And Romney is far more comfortable and persuasive in talking about the economy." (Fred Barnes, "Romney Gets The Gold," Weekly Standard, 1/16/08)
The Detroit News Attributed Gov. Romney's Win In Michigan To His Optimistic Message. "It's the economy, again -- a sign of the times and perhaps the times to come. Michigan voters ... cast their ballots mostly with their pocketbooks in mind. The optimistic economic message former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney brought to his native state was a big reason he finished on top of Tuesday's Republican primary here." (Editorial, "Romney's Economic Optimism Prevails In Michigan Primary," The Detroit News, 1/16/08)
The Detroit News: Romney's "Hope For A Brighter Future" Is What Distinguishes Him Among The Candidates. "The vote ... indicates that a candidate such as Romney, who speaks of hope for a brighter future, can find legs in a campaign in which voters are so far lukewarm about the choices. Romney promised brighter prospects for the vital automotive industry. (Editorial, "Romney's Economic Optimism Prevails In Michigan Primary," The Detroit News, 1/16/08)
National Review: Romney "Connected With Voters" On Economic Issues. "In Michigan, Romney was able to 'connect' with voters, as the cliche goes, by spending his time on the issues that most animate him, which is to say the economic issues.' (Editorial, "Getting The Gold," National Review, 1/16/08)
National Review's Rich Lowry: Romney's Theme Of "Fighting For The American Economy" Worked. "[Romney] was behind in Michigan and facing the abyss, before fighting back, and this time prevailing. This has proved that Mitt doesn't have a 'glass jaw,' and the political adversity has provided the opportunity for him to find a theme - fighting for the American economy and for jobs." (Rich Lowry, "Mitt's Comeback," National Review's The Corner Blog, corner.nationalreview.com, Posted 1/15/08)
Michigan Republicans Rejected Sen. McCain's Economic Defeatism:
The Detroit News Said Sen. McCain Should Have Offered A Way Forward Rather Than Being Simply Pessimistic. "Arizona Sen. John McCain ... can learn something from his Michigan defeat. Straight talk about the tough economic conditions must be matched with a blueprint for making things better. McCain must beef up the solutions side of his message." (Editorial, "Romney's Economic Optimism Prevails In Michigan Primary," The Detroit News , 1/16/08)
The Wall Street Journal 's John Fund: Michigan Republicans Had "Problems" With McCain's Support For Tougher Polices That Could Hurt The Auto Industry. "Regular Republicans last night continued to have problems with several of the Arizona senator's positions, especially his support for tougher fuel-economy standards and a 'cap and trade' regime on global warming. When Mr. McCain spoke to some 1,000 people attending an Americans for Prosperity meeting last Saturday, he tried to strike a conciliatory tone on global warming, emphasizing his desire not to hurt the local economy. He failed -- the crowd roundly booed him." (John Fund, "Mitt Wins Big - And Changes Nothing," Wall Street Journal's Opinion Journal, 1/16/08)
- McCain's Opposition To The Bush Tax Cuts "Came Back To Haunt Him." "Similarly, Mr. McCain's opposition to the 2001 and 2003 Bush tax cuts came back to haunt him. About half of GOP voters in an exit poll said that cutting taxes should trump curbing the deficit, and they voted for Mr. Romney by a stunning 44% to 21%." (John Fund, "Mitt Wins Big - And Changes Nothing," Wall Street Journal's Opinion Journal, 1/16/08)

Sen. McCain Does Not Have The Record To Lead America's Economy Forward In An Uncertain Time:
In 2001, Sen. McCain Was One Of Only Two Republicans To Vote Against The $1.35 Trillion Bush Tax Cuts. The bill lowered marginal rates, eliminated the marriage penalty, and doubled the child tax credit. (H.R. 1836, CQ Vote #170: Adopted 58-33: R 46-2; D 12-31; I 0-0, 5/26/01, McCain Voted Nay)
- Sen. McCain Said The 2001 Bush Tax Cuts Benefited The Wealthy. SEN. JOHN MCCAIN: "I think there is a belief in America that too much of this tax cut still goes to wealthiest Americans. And maybe we could do something about those that still pay a significant portion of their income in payroll taxes." (CNN's "Late Edition," 3/11/01)

In 2003, Sen. McCain Was One Of Only Three Republicans To Twice Vote Against The $350 Billion Bush Tax Cuts. The comprehensive bill lowered taxes by $350 billion over 11 years - including increasing the child tax credit and eliminated the marriage penalty. (H.R. 2, CQ Vote #179: Passed 51-49: R 48-3; D 3-45; I 0-1, 5/15/03, McCain Voted Nay; H.R. 2, CQ Vote #196: Adopted 50-50: R 48-3; D 2-46; I 0-1, 5/23/03, McCain Voted Nay)
- Sen. McCain Said The 2003 Bush Tax Cuts Benefited The Wealthy. MCCAIN: "I want to see tax cuts, if they are necessary, go to working Americans, not the wealthiest." (Richard Ruelas, "McCain Isn't Saying 'Oui' To Bush's Tax Cut Plan," The Arizona Republic , 4/25/03)

In 2002, Sen. McCain Was One Of Only Two Republicans To Twice Vote Against Permanent Repeal Of The Death Tax. (S. 1731, CQ Vote #28: Adopted 56-42: R 45-2; D 11-39; I 0-1, 2/13/02, McCain Voted Nay, H.R. 8, CQ Vote #151: Motion Rejected 54-44: R 45-2; D 9-41; I 0-1, 6/12/02, McCain Voted Nay)
- Sen. McCain: Estate Tax Cuts Go "Solely To The Wealthiest." MCCAIN: "I am concerned that repeal of the estate tax would provide massive benefits solely to the wealthiest- and highest-income taxpayers in the country." (Sen. John McCain, "Statement Of Senator John McCain On H.R. 8, The Death Tax Elimination Act," Press Release, 6/11/02)

Sen. McCain Is Pushing For A Massive New Energy Tax:
Sen. McCain's Legislation Would Dramatically Raise Taxes On All Carbon-Based Fuels. "What is not widely understood is that he is currently sponsoring legislation that, in the name of fighting global warming, would dramatically raise the tax on all carbon-based fuels, including gasoline, home heating oil, coal, and to a lesser extent, natural gas." (Roy Cordato, "McCain's Costly Tax On Energy," National Review, www.nationalreview.com, Posted 1/10/08)
Sen. McCain's Energy Policy Could Devastate The Auto Industry. "Higher energy costs will, among other things, raise the cost of manufacturing big-ticket items in American factories. And higher gas prices will likely raise demand for those classes of automobiles that tend to be manufactured overseas. Somehow, I think Michigan voters will be less than thrilled about this, should anyone bother to inform them." (Roy Cordato, "McCain's Costly Tax On Energy," National Review, www.nationalreview.com, Posted 1/10/08)
Sen. McCain's Plan Would Send Gas Taxes Sky High And Would Harm The National Economy:
The EPA Estimates Sen. McCain's Plan Would Hike Gas Taxes By 68 Cents Per Gallon. "The EPA has estimated what the McCain energy tax would mean to consumers. Since the bill's provisions are phased in, the full cost of the tax would not be felt for a number of years. But in a letter to Senator McCain dated July 2007, the EPA estimated that the tax will be about $.26 cents in current dollars per gallon of gasoline by 2030 and $.68 cents per gallon by 2050." (Roy Cordato, "McCain's Costly Tax On Energy," National Review, www.nationalreview.com, Posted 1/10/08)
The EPA Estimates Sen. McCain's Plan Would Reduce United States GDP By As Much As $5.2 Trillion. "The effect on the economy of the McCain tax would be similar to any other broad-based tax. In the EPA's own words: 'The present value of the cumulative reduction in real GDP for the 2012-2030 period ranges from $660 billion to $2.1 trillion...the cumulative reduction in the present value of real GDP for the 2012-2050 period ranges from about $1.6 trillion to $5.2 trillion.'" (Roy Cordato, "McCain's Costly Tax On Energy," National Review, www.nationalreview.com, Posted 1/10/08)
  