
    
  Dr. Paul: "I have been a strong supporter of a National Right to Work Act, and I have made passing such legislation a centerpiece of my presidential campaign."

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul authored a congratulatory letter to Mark Mix of the National Right to Work Committee, applauding the organization's success in helping to pass a right to work law in the lower house of the Indiana General Assembly.
The legislation ending forced unionization and forced payment of dues to union bosses passed the Indiana House and is up for consideration in the state Senate, before Governor Mitch Daniels (R) signs it into law.
Reads the letter:
Mark Mix
President
National Right to Work Committee
8001 Braddock Road, Suite 500
Springfield, Virginia 22160
Dear Mark,
Congratulations!
Last night, my staff informed me that the Indiana House just passed Right to Work on a truly historic vote, and that Indiana is on the verge of becoming America's 23rd Right to Work state.
Of course, it is my hope the Indiana Senate will soon follow suit, and that Governor Daniels will quickly sign Right to Work into law in Indiana so that no Hoosier worker can be forced to pay union dues just to get or keep a job.
I want to congratulate you and your staff on this latest success. You have persevered against the full weight of the union machine, and every American owes you a debt of gratitude for your leadership and dedication.
While Americans should be free to join a union, it's just common sense that no worker should be forced to do so as a condition of employment.
As you know, in Congress, I have been a strong supporter of a National Right to Work Act, and I have made passing such legislation a centerpiece of my presidential campaign. My administration would work closely with your organization and leaders like Senator Jim DeMint and my son, Senator Rand Paul, for its passage in Congress.
Thanks again for all of your hard work to guarantee every American can enjoy the fruits of his labor free from interference by Big Labor bosses.
For Liberty,
Ron Paul
For a link to the letter, please click here.
  