
    
Today in Hooksett, New Hampshire, Marco delivered a major foreign policy address — laying out President Obama and Hillary Clinton's failures abroad and how he's the best qualified candidate to fix them.

Eight years ago today, he noted, was a key point in President Obama's ascendance to the presidency, where he's been a danger to America and the world order:
Though the media isn't covering it, today is actually the anniversary of a historic moment in global affairs.
Eight years ago today — January 4th 2008 — was the first day many people around the world heard the name Barack Obama. They awoke to the news that a little-known Senator from Illinois had won the Iowa caucuses the night before, and that a political frenzy was sweeping the United States. As that year went on, many around the world who resented America's influence found a lot to like about this man.
There have always been voices in our country who say America's not that different, that every country thinks they're special — voices who question our role abroad, who think of America as a bully rather than as a leader. But in 2008, for the first time ever, one of these voices was elected president.
"America is in far greater danger than it was 8 years ago," Rubio says pic.twitter.com/ks2oUG2Ayj
— Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) January 4, 2016
After eight years of dangerous weakness, what can we do? Elect a president who will restore strength and clarity to American foreign policy:
When you vote for me, you know exactly what you'll get. You'll get a president who will destroy terrorists overseas by authorizing whatever tools our commanders need. You'll get a reversal of the defense cuts that Obama and Harry Reid have forced on our military. You'll get a leader who upholds the promise we make to our men and women in uniform that we will never send them into a fair fight, but will always equip them with the upper hand. Anyone who supports Obama's disastrous defense cuts cannot make that promise.
Not every Republican running, Marco noted, has made the same commitment to rolling back President Obama's dangerous policies:
Rubio says he will not just restore but "strengthen" NSA's capabilities, "because ISIS does not use carrier pigeons to communicate."
— Sabrina Siddiqui (@SabrinaSiddiqui) January 4, 2016
Rubio: "Unlike some candidates, I don't think foreign terrorists captured abroad should get any rights under our Constitution"
— Ines de La Cuetara (@InesdLC) January 4, 2016
Here's the promise Marco made to the New Hampshire voters on hand this morning:
I will be a president who doesn't just believe America is the greatest country in the world; I will be a president who acts like it. I will take the global stage and say, "I know what the last eight years have been like, but America is back. We once again have a president who understands our role in the world."
Five weeks out from #FITN, full house for @marcorubio town hall in Hooksett, NH pic.twitter.com/qsnhCzgYQl
— Michael Zona (@mjzona) January 4, 2016
Read more about Marco's detailed plans to rebuild American strength and restore America's role in the world.
Go here to read his entire remarks.
  