
    Grand Rapids Press Endorses Governor Romney:
"Press Editorial Board Endorses Romney"
Grand Rapids Press
Editorial
January 11, 2008
"Many issues will confront the nation in the next four years, from the ongoing threat of terrorism to the need to find a sensible immigration policy. For Michigan, however, one challenge dominates: the economy. We stand at a critical moment, bearing on our backs a worst-in-the-nation unemployment rate, staring at an uncertain future.
"Among Republicans on the ballot in Tuesday's presidential primary, two candidates would offer solid leadership, Arizona Sen. John McCain and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney. However, when it comes to Michigan's challenges and needs, the passion and knowledge of Mr. Romney tip the scales in his favor. During a visit with Press editors this week, Mr. Romney vowed, 'I will not sleep until Michigan is strong and active and vibrant again.' Because of that focus, MITT ROMNEY has our vote in the Republican presidential primary."
...
"Mr. Romney first came to the national stage as the turnaround man for the scandal-plagued 2002 Winter Olympics in Utah. His deft handling of the bribery mess and deficit is a case study in successful management. He served as governor of Massachusetts for one term, ending in 2006. There, he worked with the Legislature to enact a law that required every citizen of the state to have health insurance, and provided state aid for those who couldn't afford it. As president, he said he would push states to enact their own health care solutions. He would aggressively pursue alternative energy and energy efficiency. He supports merit pay for teachers and more educational choices for parents and children, ideas that deserve furtherance in Washington. The next president will need to transcend the stunting polarities that bedevil Washington. As the Republican leader of a Democratic state, Mr. Romney had to reach across partisan boundaries. Mr. Romney's father, George Romney, served as governor of Michigan in the 1960s, a tie that strengthens his understanding of Michigan. He knows that this state's job losses and struggle to find a new economic footing are the 'canary in the mine,' as he rightly put it, for the nation as a whole."
...
"But on the issue that matters most to Michigan, Mr. Romney's message resonates. In Grand Rapids this week, he said, 'Michigan's one-state recession will come to an end if I'm president.' That's a bold promise. Michigan voters should increase his chance to make it reality."
To read the full endorsement, please see: http://www.mlive.com/

Oakland Press Endorses Governor Romney:
"'Favorite Son' Romney Is Best GOP Choice In Primary"
Oakland Press
Editorial
January 11, 2008
"Michigan's presidential primary election Tuesday certainly has stirred enough controversy nationwide with both political parties.
"And despite possible sanctions from both national Democratic and Republican organizations, it offers Michigan residents a chance to send a message and make a statement.
"Particularly on the GOP ticket, where all national presidential candidates will be listed.
"We urge Republican Party faithfuls to stand up and vote for Mitt Romney. Although technically not a home state 'favorite son,' his ties to Michigan are strong."
...
"Meanwhile, Mitt Romney certainly has the credentials to run the country. He is a former Massachusetts governor who turned that state's economy around and proved to be a more than able leader.
"His ties to Michigan and Oakland County are obvious."
...
"Romney is the first candidate for president with Michigan ties since the late Gerald Ford.
"If elected, he would be the country's only Michigan-born president.
"His interest in Michigan has been strong, probably stronger than any other GOP candidate."
...
"Looking at the obvious, Romney entered the 2008 race with impressive backing in Michigan, and his ties to the state are undeniable. He has firsthand knowledge of the auto industry and its importance to Michigan.
"Equally critical, Romney knows how to get a state out of debt and, being from Michigan, he certainly has an empathy for the state that the other candidates, both GOP and Democratic, don't have.
"With Michigan's horrible economy and other problems, we need as much clout in Washington as possible and Romney promises to give us that."
...
"But there's no doubt whom state Republicans should vote for - Mitt Romney."
To read the full endorsement, please see: http://www.theoaklandpress.com/
  