
    SOUTH CAROLINA: On Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Hillary received a "warm welcome from an energized crowd" at a "King Day at the Dome" rally in Columbia. Read more... Hillary also participated in the Congressional Black Caucus debate, where she said, "I am not running for president to put Band-Aids on our problems. I want to get to universal health care for every single American."... Rep. Gregory Meeks joined the campaign's post-debate party in Myrtle Beach... Famous Hillary supporters also stumped for her across the state. Former NFL wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson and actresses America Ferrera and Amber Tamblyn attended a Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. day prayer service in Columbia and participated in a march to the South Carolina Statehouse dome. They were joined by Airborne Ranger Mark Jones and General Johnnie Wilson, Former Commander of the U.S. Army Materiel Command...Vernon Jordan, a civil rights leader and former advisor to President Clinton, and his wife, civil rights activist Ann Jordan, participated in the University of South Carolina Law School's Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day celebration.
ALABAMA: In Huntsville, Hillary supporters held debate watch parties. In Montgomery, Hillary supporters participated in State Rep. Alvin Holmes' annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day parade and rally. In Birmingham, they took part in the 22nd annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Unity Breakfast. In Mobile, they participated in the People's United annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day parade.
ARIZONA: Hillary began airing a television ad, "Voice," in which she makes clear that when she is President, American families will have a voice. Watch it... In Phoenix, Hillary supporters stocked shelves at the Cultural Cup Food Bank... The campaign announced the hiring of Dana Marie Kennedy as Communications Director.
ARKANSAS: In Little Rock, Hillary volunteers marched in the "MLK Marade." They also participated in Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day events in Pine Bluff and Jonesboro. The campaign continued to collect paper products, which it will donate to Little Rock's Union Rescue Mission for the homeless.
CALIFORNIA: Assemblymember Felipe Fuentes and State Senator Alex Padilla, both former supporters of Governor Bill Richardson, endorsed Hillary. Read more... State Senator Michael Machado and Assemblymember Lois Wolk also joined the campaign... The campaign opened two new offices in Palo Alto and San Jose. Supporters and volunteers kicked off the openings with a phone banking blitz to California voters... Alice Huffman, President of the California State Conference of the NAACP, joined Sacramento Hillary Clinton supporters to watch the Congressional Black Caucus/CNN Presidential Debate... In Fresno, San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego and Sacramento, Hillary supporters participated in events commemorating Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day.
COLORADO: In Denver, staff and volunteers marched in the annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day "Marade" and served food at the annual "Dinner for Those Who Hunger."
CONNECTICUT: In New Haven, Hillary supporters held a debate watch party.
GEORGIA: President Clinton spoke at Mercer University in Macon. "About 2,000 people packed a large gymnasium at Mercer University, and Clinton took questions for more than an hour after his speech...Monday's event, put together during the last few days, was so popular that several hundred people were turned away at the door." Read more... President Clinton also attended a worship service at Atlanta's Ebenezer Baptist Church... In Atlanta, Hillary supporters marched in the annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day parade.
INDIANA: Former Indiana Governor Joe Kernan and First Lady Maggie Kernan endorsed Hillary. "The stakes in this election are high, and it will take a leader with Hillary Clinton's strength and experience to tackle the challenges we face," said Governor Kernan. Read more.
MINNESOTA: In St. Paul, Hillary supporters and staff attended the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day rally and parade. They marched from Central High School to Concordia University.
MISSOURI: In Springfield, Hillary supporters held a debate watch party. In Columbia, Students for Hillary gathered to watch the debate.
NEBRASKA: Public Service Commission Chairwoman Anne Boyle Endorsed Hillary. "Hillary Clinton is a proven, tested leader who will make change happen from her first day in the White House," Boyle said.
NEW YORK: The campaign announced that it is this week opening nine regional offices, each with full-time staff, and 25 phone bank locations across the state. Regional offices will open in Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, Albany, Binghamton, Poughkeepsie, White Plains, Garden City, and Farmingville. Read more... New Zogby and Rasmussen polls have Hillary up 21. Read more here and here... A new Marist college survey showed Hillary leading Sen. Obama by 16 points, 48 to 32 percent. She leads among men and women, low- and high-income voters, and in New York City, the suburbs, and upstate. She also leads among voters whose primary concern is the economy, health care, or the war in Iraq. Read more.
OKLAHOMA: In Tulsa, Hillary supporters and staff marched in the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day parade.
TENNESSEE: In Nashville, President Clinton energized Hillary's Tennessee supporters today during a rally at Fisk University, "close to 1,000 Fisk students...erupted in applause when Clinton stepped onto the stage." Read more.
  