
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and his intention to appoint 17 individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Roslynn R. Mauskopf to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York. Mauskopf has served as New York State Inspector General since 1995. From 1982 to 1995, she was Assistant District Attorney in the Manhattan District Attorney's Office. Mauskopf is a graduate of Brandeis University and Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to nominate Paul I. Perez to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Florida. Perez has been a Partner with Booth, Arnold and Perez in Jacksonville, Florida since 1994. He previously was a Partner with Mahoney, Adams and Criser. From 1989 to 1992, Perez was Assistant United States Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Florida. Before joining the U.S. Attorney's Office, he was with Mahoney, Adams and Criser, and from 1985 to 1988, he was an Associate with Smith and Hulsey in Jacksonville. Perez earned a bachelor's degree from Jacksonville University, a Master's degree from the University of Florida and a law degree from George Washington University.
The President intends to appoint the following 17 individuals to serve as Members of the President's Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans. The Commission is charged with charting a multi-year plan to close the educational achievement gap for Hispanic Americans. The plan will highlight models of success that will help improve achievement among Hispanic students through coordinated efforts among parents, community leaders, business leaders, educators and public officials. Recommendations will also include ways to improve on and measure Hispanic participation in Federal education programs.
Frank Hanna of Georgia, who upon confirmation will serve as Co-Chair
Patricia Janette Mazzuca of Pennsylvania who upon confirmation will serve as Co-Chair
Micaela Alvarez of Texas
Christopher Jeffrey Barbic of Texas
Jose Guadalupe Canchola of Arizona
Jamie Alfonso Escalante of California
Charles Patrick Garcia of Florida
Norma Sanchez Garza of Texas
Alexander Gonzalez of Califonia
Miguel Angel Hernandez, Jr. of Texas
Jose Eugenio Hoyos of Virginia
Francisco Jose Paret of Puerto Rico
Altagracia Ramos of Ohio
Enedelia Schofield of Oregon
Ofelia Saenz Vanden Bosch of Texas
Rene Vasquez of Puerto Rico
Octavio Jesus Visiedo of Florida
The following four individuals will serve as Ex-Officio members of the Commission:
The Honorable Rod Paige, Secretary of Education
The Honorable Hector Baretto, Administrator of the Small Business Administration
The Honorable Paul O'Neill, Secretary of the Treasury
The Honorable Mel Martinez, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
  