
    "This woman has integrity. She has grit. And she has a plan."
Charlestown, MA - On Friday, former Iowa Democratic Party Chairwoman Sue Dvorsky and her husband, former state Sen. Bob Dvorsky, endorsed Elizabeth Warren for president. Sue and Bob Dvorsky are longtime Iowa Democrats and their endorsement follows a list of 550 Iowans, including elected officials, party leaders, political activists and community leaders, who have endorsed Elizabeth Warren for President.
In an interview with the Des Moines Register, Sue Dvorsky said: "This woman has integrity. She has grit. And she has a plan."
"Sue and Bob have devoted decades to their state and their party," said Elizabeth. "They are the epitome of political activists and community leaders. I'm so grateful to have them standing in our corner on caucus night.
Read the full Des Moines Register story about the endorsement here. Key excerpts below:
Former Iowa Democratic Party Chairwoman Sue Dvorsky and her husband, former state Sen. Bob Dvorsky, are endorsing Elizabeth Warren for president.
The Dvorskys join a growing list of Iowa Democrats who have sided with Warren after supporting candidates who have dropped out of the presidential race. They volunteered for and supported U.S. Sen. Kamala Harris' presidential campaign in Iowa.
After about a month of internal debate—and a personal phone call from Warren during a break in the Senate impeachment trial on Thursday—the Dvorskys decided it was time to publicly back the U.S. senator from Massachusetts. The pair have never gone into caucus night undecided and, since 1988, have never split on whom they'll caucus for.
...
Sue Dvorsky said it's the senator's innumerable plans, particularly those that build off of Warren's upbringing in a middle class family, that has left an impression on the couple.
"It's about getting things done. I truly, truly think she's a person who can get things done," she said. "And whether people like it or not, her message has been authentic."
The former party chair said they're also impressed by Warren's organization in the state, which has been lauded as the most sophisticated among the Democratic field of candidates. Sue Dvorsky said it was important that Warren has emulated that organization in states across the country, which they see will be key to propelling her to the nomination.
...
  