
    William Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney General, vice Jeff Sessions, resigned.
Richard K. Bell, of Pennsylvania, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire.
Russell A. Berman, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Marvin Krislov, term expired.
Mark Anthony Calabria, of Virginia, to be Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency for a term of five years, vice Melvin L. Watt, term expiring.
William English, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2024, vice Patricia Nelson Limerick, term expired.
John Fonte, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Jamsheed K. Choksy, term expired.
Marjorie Fisher Furman, of Michigan, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2022, vice Christopher Merrill, term expired.
Charles L. Glazer, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2020, vice Lyndon L. Olson Jr., term expired.
Claire Griffin, of Washington, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2022, vice Albert J. Beveridge III, term expired.
Joyce Malcolm, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice David Hertz, term expired.
Adair Margo, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2022, vice Cathy M. Davidson, term expired.
Nicole R. Nason, of New York, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration, vice Gregory Guy Nadeau.
Eliot Pedrosa, of Florida, to be United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of three years, vice Mark E. Lopes, resigned.
Matthew Rose, of Iowa, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2024, vice Gerald Lyn Early, term expired.
William Schneider, Jr., of Colorado, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Rolena Klahn Adorno, term expired.
Noel Valis, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Carol M. Swain, term expired.
Robert Williams, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, vice Nisha Desai Biswal.
  