
    Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Rabin and distinguished guests:
It is again a pleasure for us to say shalom.
Betty and I have--of course, and all of our guests feel a very special warmth as far as you, Mr. Prime Minister, and Mrs. Rabin are concerned. And our friendship on a personal basis has been one of long standing and a very enjoyable and very pleasant one.
Your 5 years in Washington as the distinguished Ambassador of Israel created many and very warm friendships. Betty and I are two of those friends, and we are deeply grateful for that relationship. And we are obviously delighted to be your hosts tonight.
We are very proud that you are the first head-of-government guest during our Bicentennial Year. And I think that tells us something. The celebration of our Nation's history gives Americans a deeper appreciation of basic values that we share with the State of Israel--the tribute that your country and ours pay to these ideals you expressed in Philadelphia last night.
Both of our nations have had a very painful birth as well as growth. As havens for men and women fleeing persecution, both of our nations find their vitality as well as their strength today in a commitment to freedom and a commitment to democracy and the spirit of free peoples.
Both of our nations, Mr. Prime Minister, have tasted the bitter fruits of war and the struggles that are necessary to preserve independence and security. Both of us know full well in today's world that eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. And we, individually and collectively, will not fail.
I applaud your statesmanship, Mr. Prime Minister. You have shown it over and over again. It has contributed so much that has been achieved so far. I am gratified that our personal friendship and relationship now facilitates the closest consultation on the very complex problems that we face in the problems ahead.
From the moment of Israel's independence, all of America's Presidents, as well as the major political parties, have identified with your freedom and your progress.
America now completes its second century. Israel counts its heritage in thousands and thousands of years and its modern history in decades. Yet, our heritage, your country and mine, are the same.
I think we must take inspiration from the founding fathers of both of our Nations and the principles of justice and freedom which they have passed down to you as well as to myself for the survival of those principles, which is our major responsibility. You are dedicated to that end, Mr. Prime Minister, and all of your people are likewise. And they are an inspiration to all of us.
Israel, Mr. Prime Minister, like the United States, has stuck to its principles and persevered with courage and determination. The unbreakable spirit of the people of Israel remains its strongest defense. And as we reflect on this Bicentennial Year, we are both mindful of the indispensable role that the United States has played in the world as a guardian of stability and defender of freedom.
I want to tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, that I am determined, as I think most Americans are, that America will remain strong and America will remain committed to its allies and to its world responsibilities.
I know that Israel and our other friends and allies depend upon America's strength and America's commitment. Our two nations have been working together for peace in the Middle East. No peacemaking process, as you well know, is easy, but important steps have been taken. And we are proud of the role that America has played in working with your country.
I know that all Americans deeply desire to see the process continued toward its goal of a just and secure peace.
The United States has demonstrated many, many times, including yesterday in the United Nations, that we will oppose measures that we consider unrealistic or unworkable or that make peace harder to achieve. But we have demonstrated at the same time we are committed to seek and to support positive measures, positive moves toward peace.
We will continue the hopeful effort in which we are jointly engaged.
You and I began our discussions this morning in a spirit of friendship and a spirit of common desire for peace. You stated this morning, and many times otherwise, your nation's views eloquently and persuasively.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you join me in a toast to the Prime Minister of Israel and to Mrs. Rabin, to the enduring friendship between Israel and the United States, and to a just and lasting peace in the Middle East.In the ancient toast of the Jewish people, lechayim.
  