
    PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON HOSTAGE
COMPENSATION
By the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, and as President of the United States of America, in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment.
1-101. There is established the President's Commission on Hostage Compensation, hereinafter referred to as the Commission, which shall be composed of not more than nine members who shall be appointed by the President.
1-102. The President shall designate a Chairman from among the members.
1-2. Functions.
1-201. The Commission shall study and analyze, and make recommendations to the President on, the question whether the United States should provide financial compensation to United States nationals who have been held in captivity outside the United States, either (1) by or with the approval of a foreign government, or (2) by reason of their status as employees of the United States Government or as dependents of such employees.
1-202. The Commission shall submit a report to the President ninety days after the date of this Order. The report shall contain the Commission's recommendations as to whether legislation to deal with the foregoing compensation issue is appropriate and, if so, as to what such legislation should provide. The report shall specifically contain the Commission's recommendations concerning the compensation of United States nationals held hostage in Iran on and after November 4, 1979.
1-203. In analyzing the foregoing issues the Commission shall consider all factors which it may consider relevant, including the prior practice with respect to governmental compensation, both by the United States Government and by foreign governments, of persons held in captivity abroad.
1-204. In the performance of its functions the Commission shall specifically address the following issues:
(a) whether any legislation authorizing compensation should set forth specific legislative standards, or whether the standards by which to award compensation should be administratively developed;
(b) whether any standards developed either legislatively or administratively should be applied uniformly to civilian and military government employees, dependents of such employees, and private citizens, or whether separate criteria should be developed for these or other categories;
(c) whether an existing administrative body should determine amounts of compensation, or whether a new body should be established for this purpose; and
(d) whether compensation should be paid for injuries suffered by members of families of persons who have been held in captivity.
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1-301. In performing its functions the Commission shall conduct such studies, reviews, and inquiries as may be necessary. In addition to conducting open meetings in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the Commission shall conduct public hearings to identify critical issues and possible solutions related to compensation.
1-302. The Commission is authorized to request from any Executive agency such information that may be deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this Order. Each Executive agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, furnish such information to the Commission in the performance of its functions under this Order.
1-303. Each member of the Commission who is not otherwise employed in the Federal Government may receive, to the extent permitted by law, compensation for each day he or she is engaged in the work of the Commission at a rate not to exceed the maximum daily rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for GS-18 of the General Schedule, and may also receive transportation and travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703).
1-304. All necessary administrative staff services, support, facilities, and expenses of the Commission shall, to the extent permitted by law, be furnished by the Department of State.
1-4. General Provisions.
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to the Congress, which are applicable to the Commission, shall be performed by the Secretary of State in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
1-402. The Commission shall terminate thirty days after submitting its report.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 19, 1981.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:27 a.m., January 22, 1981]
  