
    
  Tips-earning workers in service occupations join Dr. Paul's call for tax-free gratuities and pledge to assist with Clark County outreach

HENDERSON, Nevada — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today new members of its active "Hospitality Workers for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
The following additions are from Clark County and have pledged to spread the word about Dr. Paul in and among their respective workplaces, peers, and communities.
A Las Vegas taxi cab driver for more than five years, Aaron Gamboa praised Dr. Paul's proposals, and his support for Ron Paul stems from a dissatisfaction of the government taxing his hard-earned tips.
"My hard earned tips from my customers are taxed based on the highest percentage allowable by law. There are already way too many cabs in Vegas to make a good living, and I feel that taxing someone unfairly who lives off tips is way too big of a burden to bear from our government," said Mr. Gamboa.
"Ron Paul respects the hard work we do," said Reginald Currie, a Las Vegas resident.
Currie has been in the service industry his whole life.  Currently working two jobs as a waiter, he supports Ron Paul and his stance on tax-free tips.  "The service industry in America respects people who respect our hard work," he stated. Mr. Currie firmly believes Ron Paul's bill, the Tax Free Tips Act of 2011, is a sign that "he understands and stands for hardworking service industry employees in America."
"I am a big supporter of Ron Paul because he understands that this country was based on the principles of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. His voting record shows his consistency, and this country needs a president who is a man of his word.  I know Ron Paul will restore America," said Ivy Floirendo, also from the Las Vegas area.
As a five year service industry worker, Ms. Floirendo supports Ron Paul for his goal of helping tip-based workers "keep their hard earned money."
These new members are everyday hospitality or service sector workers in their community who are representative of the support Dr. Paul enjoys from this large Nevada voting bloc.  They understand and are attracted to Ron Paul's stance on ending taxation of tips, and for this reason this coalition will serve to amplify Nevada state operations.
As a function of this announcement, the above-mentioned persons are all members of the "Hospitality Workers for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, in particular the Nevada steering committee.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the active "Hospitality Workers for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official web page by clicking here. Prospective members should also send an email to nvcoalitions@ronpaul2012.com, writing the coalition name in the subject line.
  