
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, let's hear it for Karen Pence, everybody. (Applause.) Listen, I just wanted — I just came by to say thank you. You've already heard from this Marine Corps mom. (Laughter.) And, in fact, we have our Sarah here, who's married —
THE SECOND LADY: She's been up on stage. (Laughter.)
THE VICE PRESIDENT: — to our son. So —
THE SECOND LADY: And we also had Natalie come up, because I just hired my own military spouse.
THE VICE PRESIDENT: Okay, we've actually got two military spouses now in our immediate family.
And I want to assure you that you have a President and a Vice President who know that those who serve as families both serve. And we are grateful to each and every one of you for your service and your family's service to this country. Give yourselves a round of applause, will you, please? (Applause.)
And I'm just so proud. I'm so proud of Karen's efforts in coming alongside military spouses. We've been working with members of Congress in both political parties to really implement the President's vision for a military that takes into account the unique challenges that family members face. And as you move through different deployments, you have your own lives and, in most cases, have your own careers. And I just want to assure you, under President Trump's leadership and with this Vice President, and with the First Family and the Second Family, and our allies in the Congress: We are going to stand with military spouses, and we're going to support your lives and your careers just as much as the service member that you live with every day. I promise you that. (Applause.)
And in that vein, let me also just — let me say thank you for serving here in Italy. (Laughter.) We've had some — we've had some remarkable meetings. I spent time this morning — we did — with Pope Francis. It was our great honor to spend time. And, in fact, you can give a round of applause to our Ambassador to the Holy See, Callista Gingrich, who is not far from here. She's doing a phenomenal job.
We also just met with the President of Italy, the Prime Minister of Italy. And in each meeting, we talked about the strong relationship between the United States and Italy. But we also talked about the fact of how grateful we are for our security partnership. The 30,000 American military personnel and their families live and serve here in Italy.
And I want to tell each and every one of you: You and your families make us proud, and Italy is proud to have the United States military here. I heard it again and again and again today. (Applause.)
So whether you're U.S. Embassy Rome or Naval Support Activity Gaeta — (applause) —
THE SECOND LADY: Is that how you say it? Gaeta?
THE VICE PRESIDENT: — whether you're Naval Support Activity Naples — (applause) — or whether you're American Forces Network Vicenza — (applause) — wherever your family is serving, on behalf of the American people, on behalf of your Commander-in-Chief, I just wanted to come by and say, from our family to your family: Thank you for your service. Thank you for the sacrifices that you and your families make to serve the greatest nation on Earth.
So, God bless you, and I'll let you get to all those great pictures.
  