
    (Washington, DC) – Today, nominee for United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson received the bipartisan endorsement of four former Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development. These former secretaries, who wrote a letter to Chairman of the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Mike Crapo and Ranking Member Sherrod Brown, cited Dr. Carson's ability to learn and adapt in high pressure situations as reasons he will be an innovative and exceptional member of the President's cabinet.
"I am immensely grateful for the support of Secretaries Cisneros, Martinez, Jackson and Preston, and it is a great honor to be mentioned with such accomplished public servants," said Dr. Carson. "If confirmed, I look forward to listening to the concerns of the American people in order to develop new solutions to age-old problems, especially increasing opportunity, and making America's neighborhoods stronger."
Full text of the letter can be read below:
Dear Chairman Crapo and Ranking Member Brown:
We write today, from both sides of the political aisle, in support of Dr. Ben Carson's nomination as Secretary for Housing and Urban Development, a position we have all held.
Some of us came in with deep housing experience while others had to learn it. We all succeeded thanks to the help of the cadre of dedicated civil servants -- a team of respected, career leaders who have stood alongside each one of us, helping us guide the agency to succeed in its mission.
The singular, common piece of advice every HUD secretary is given is to listen. It worked to help us overcome the challenges we faced, and we know Dr. Carson will heed it as well as he works to help make HUD's mission a reality: creating strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality affordable homes for all.
As secretary, we know that Dr. Carson will learn about what works, develop new innovations, measure outcomes, and achieve real results to improve communities throughout America.
We urge the Committee to support Dr. Carson's confirmation.
Sincerely,
Henry Cisneros (HUD Secretary, 1993-1997)Sen. Mel Martinez (HUD Secretary, 2001-2003)Alphonso Jackson (HUD Secretary, 2004-2008)Steven Preston (HUD Secretary, 2008-2009)
  