
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of key South Carolina business leaders, elected officials, veterans, and conservative activists.
"The wide range of support from conservatives across South Carolina proves that my message of a 'Simpler, Smaller, and Smarter' federal government is resonating with voters concerned about the direction of our country," said Mitt Romney. "I'm happy to earn their endorsement and look forward to working with them for the vote of every South Carolinian."
"The voters of South Carolina have an important choice to make regarding the future of this country," said former South Carolina Secretary of Commerce Bob Faith. "We need a conservative candidate who will defeat President Obama and reverse his failed policies. That man is Mitt Romney. He is committed to getting rid of failed government programs like Obamacare. He is against government entities like the NLRB interfering with free enterprises like Boeing who want to invest in South Carolina and create jobs for South Carolinians.  He is for restoring conservative principles to government, so that Washington will stop spending and start letting this country's entrepreneurs and business leaders get back to creating jobs."
 
"Our nation is at a crossroads, and Mitt Romney is the best choice to lead our country through these challenging times," said Greenville County Council Chairman and retired Brigadier General Butch Kirven.  "He is a strong leader who we can trust to restore limited government to Washington, cut spending, grow our economy, and get our nation back on the right track. I was looking for someone who reflects my values, is strong on national defense, and knows how to get the economy going again.  Mitt Romney is the leader who can positively do that, and he can win in November."
 
"It's really simple, the only person of either party running for President who has created significant private sector jobs is Mitt Romney," said retired executive Bill Hewitt. "He will implement the policies necessary to turn the economy around, start of story, end of story."
South Carolina Leaders Supporting Mitt Romney:
Upstate
State Representative Don Bowen, Anderson
Greenville County Councilman Joe Dill
Greenville City Councilwoman Amy Ryberg Doyle
George Dean Johnson, Jr., Chairman, Johnson Development Associates, Spartanburg
Greenville County Council Chairman Butch Kirven
State Representative Phil Owens, Easley
Rick Pennell, Metromont Corporation, Greenville
Specialist John Snyder, U.S. Army, Ret., Greenville
Greenville Mayor Pro Tempore David Sudduth
 
Midlands
John H. Burriss, Owner of Gold's Gyms of Columbia
Former York County GOP Chairman Henry Eldridge, Rock Hill
Richard J. Gaton, Columbia
Richard Jackson, CEO, C.R. Jackson, Inc., Columbia
Leighton Lord, Former Chairman, Nexsen Pruet, Columbia
State Representative Ralph Norman, Rock Hill
Former York County GOP Executive Committeewoman Karen Walto, Rock Hill
Coastal
Sally and Richard Coen, Mount Pleasant
Former South Carolina Attorney General Charlie Condon, Charleston
Former South Carolina Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Faith, Chairman & CEO, Greystar Real Estate Partners, Charleston
Rear Admiral, James Flatley, U.S. Navy, Ret., Charleston
William B. Hewitt, Retired Executive, Charleston
Former Bluffton Mayor Hank Johnston
Former South Carolina Secretary of Transportation Buck Limehouse, Charleston
Brigadier General Cliff Poole, U.S. Army, Ret., Charleston
Bill Prezzano, Charleston
Charleston County Treasurer Andy Smith
Jonathan Zucker, President, The InterTech Group, Charleston
*Company/business names are provided for identification purposes only.
 
Endorsers are retired or not on active duty.  Use of military rank and job titles does not imply endorsement by the Department of Defense or any department thereof.
  