
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Jay Sekulow and Jordan Sekulow of the American Center for Law and Justice *.
"Jay and Jordan have been on the front lines fighting for conservatives - it is an honor to have their support," said Mitt Romney. "On issues of great importance to me, including religious freedom and protecting human life, Jay and Jordan have been tireless leaders. I look forward to working with them to ensure that we can bring conservative change to Washington."
"In order for conservatives to make the changes in Washington that we have been fighting for, we must first defeat President Obama and have a leader with a proven record of getting things done," said Jay Sekulow. "Mitt Romney is the one candidate who can take his pro-growth message to the American people and defeat President Obama. Throughout his life, he has proven that he will not back down from difficult situations - fixing the mess that President Obama has left will not be easy."
"Mitt Romney's record as governor and vision for our country is one that conservatives should be proud to support," said Jordan Sekulow. "He cut taxes, balanced budgets, and defended both traditional marriage and life in a politically difficult environment. Mitt Romney's ability to defeat President Obama and enact conservative change is why I support him and so many conservatives are backing his campaign."
Background on Jay and Jordan Sekulow
Jay Sekulow is Chief Counsel of the American Center for Law and Justice. He is an accomplished Supreme Court advocate, renowned expert on religious liberty, and a respected broadcaster. Jay Sekulow is an attorney with a passion for protecting religious liberty, freedom, and democracy. For nearly a quarter of a century, he's been on the front lines - working to protect religious and constitutional freedoms in the courts, in Congress, and in the public arena. At the Supreme Court of the United States, Jay Sekulow has argued 12 cases - including several landmark cases which have become part of the legal landscape in the area of religious liberty litigation.
Jordan Sekulow is the Executive Director of the American Center for Law and Justice. He is the host of the Jordan Sekulow Show, a syndicated radio program that provides cutting analysis of today's political and legal landscape and regularly features elected officials and conservative leaders from across the U.S. and around the globe. He also serves as co-host, along with ACLJ Chief Counsel Jay Sekulow, of the Jay Sekulow Live! radio broadcast and the ACLJ This Week television broadcast. Jordan, an attorney, has an LL.M. from Georgetown Law Center and oversees the organization's international offices.
* Organizational references are for identification purposes only.
  