
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of five former U.S. Ambassadors to the Holy See. The Ambassadors wrote the following letter in support of Mitt Romney:
"We the undersigned former U.S. Ambassadors to the Holy See —Thomas Melady, Ray Flynn, James Nicholson, Francis Rooney and Mary Ann Glendon — are united in our wholehearted support for the candidacy of Mitt Romney for the Presidency of the United States because of his commitment to and support of the values that we feel are critical in a national leader.
"Although our political affiliations are diverse, we recognize the importance of family and traditional values in American life. We also share the conviction that Governor Romney has the experience, vision and commitment to the common good that our country needs at this crucial moment in history.
"In particular, our support is based on Governor Romney's superior understanding of America's key role in our increasingly interdependent world and his appreciation of the fact that sound economic and social policies must rest on a healthy culture. From our knowledge of Governor Romney and his wife Ann, as well as his outstanding record in defense of marriage and the family, we are confident that he understands the importance of strong families as pillars of a vibrant economy and a flourishing polity. We also know that Mitt Romney is a staunch defender of the principle that every human being should be welcomed in life and protected by law from conception to natural death.
"Last but not least, Mitt Romney understands that America owes its freedom and prosperity to the distinctive legal heritage that is the bedrock of our society. He is a staunch defender of the Constitution and the rule of law.
"At this juncture in the nation's affairs, we believe that it is important to support the one candidate who is best qualified by virtue of experience, intelligence and integrity to build on all that is best in our country's traditions and to lead it to a future where every American has the opportunity to reach his or her highest potential. That candidate is Mitt Romney."
Thomas Patrick Melady (U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See 1989-1993)
Raymond L. Flynn (U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See 1993-1997)
James Nicholson (U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See 2001-2005)
Francis Rooney (U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See 2005-2008)
Mary Ann Glendon (U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See 2008-2009)
  