
    Diaz will also serve as Florida Co-Chair
MIAMI, FLORIDA — Today, Mike Bloomberg 2020 announced that Manny Diaz, former Mayor of the City of Miami, has been named National Political Co-Chair and Florida Co-Chair for the campaign. Diaz served as the Mayor of Miami for two terms from 2001-2009 and led the U.S. Conference of Mayors as President in 2008.
"I came to the United States when I was six-years old, on a freedom flight, sitting on my mother's lap. My mother, as many did before her, came to America searching for freedom and a better life because she saw this country as a beacon for hope and a land of boundless opportunity. At every turn of my life, especially in my youth, I benefited from a partnership with a government willing to invest in me," said former Mayor Manny Diaz. "Today, I question whether America is still willing to invest in people and provide the same access to opportunity to all. We need leaders who can blend vision, reason, and courage and commit to the ideals of a just and a fair society; leaders who dream of a better life for all Americans. Mike is that person, and his leadership is exactly what this country needs because he believes in that promise of America where everyone has access to the American Dream."
Joining former Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter as National Political Co-Chair, Diaz will advise the campaign on policy development and strategy. Diaz will also serve as a national surrogate on behalf of the campaign, encouraging others to join the campaign and traveling to field offices and events to share with voters why he believes Mike Bloomberg is uniquely qualified to make our country stronger, safer, and more resilient as President of the United States.
"I admired Manny's innovative work as the mayor of Miami, and we had the chance to work together on a number of big issues, including gun violence and climate change," said Mike. "He was an early member of our national coalition of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, and he has remained a good friend. He and I share a common-sense approach to policy and government, and we're honored to have him become part of our campaign leadership team."
During his two-term tenure as Mayor, Diaz was recognized for transforming the City of Miami and launching nationally innovative programs in urban design, sustainability, and education – all of which are cornerstone issues of the Bloomberg campaign. Under his leadership, Diaz developed a vision for Miami as an international city that embodies diversity, economic opportunity, effective customer service, and excellent quality of life.
Diaz serves on a number of boards including Harvard University, Kennedy School of Government, Institute of Politics Senior Advisory Committee, and University of Pennsylvania Institute for Urban Research, and is also a former member of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Homeland Security Advisory Council.
In recognition of his leadership, Diaz has received almost 100 awards including, The Center for Public Leadership at the Kennedy School of Government and the Urban Innovator of the Year by the Manhattan Institute. Diaz served as a Resident Fellow at Harvard's Institute of Politics, and is the author of Miami Transformed: Rebuilding America One Neighborhood, One City at a Time.
Diaz received his B.A. in Political Science from Florida International University, and his J.D. from the University of Miami School of Law.
  