
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden
(857) 288-6400
Recent Praise Of Governor Mitt Romney's Commitment To Conservative Principles:
Former New Hampshire Republican House Speaker Donna Sytek: "He's conservative enough for my taste. I'm very strong on life issues. He made some courageous vetoes." (Sarah Liebowitz, "Romney Partygoers Like What They Hear," Concord [NH] Monitor, 12/22/06)
Sytek: "I respect his experience, both at the Olympics and in dealing with an overwhelmingly Democratic legislature...I just love his whole approach to things." (Sarah Liebowitz, "Romney Partygoers Like What They Hear," Concord [NH] Monitor, 12/22/06)

American Enterprise Institute's The American Magazine: "In a quest for the Republican nomination there's no question that Romney will be well organized and well prepared...[Tom] Stemberg, the Staples founder, is one who thinks he's up to the task: 'I have never met a better venture capitalist or corporate director than Mitt Romney. I suspect he will be an equally good president.' We may get a chance to find out." (Matthew Rees, "Mister PowerPoint Goes To Washington," The American, 12/1/06)
Tom Keane Of Bow, New Hampshire: "His message about having faith in the creative part of the public sector is a key issue...Personal freedom and personal responsibility: He exudes that model." (Sarah Liebowitz, "Romney Partygoers Like What They Hear," Concord [NH] Monitor, 12/22/06)
New York Times Conservative Columnist David Brooks: "I think Mitt Romney's been running a brilliant campaign..." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 12/17/06)
Newsweek's Jonathan Darman: "Some Christian conservatives have watched Romney's passionate opposition to gay marriage in Massachusetts and concluded he may be the one electable candidate who shares their principles in public and private life." (Jonathan Darman, "Mitt Romney," Newsweek, 12/25/06)
Chris Buonopane Of Deerfield, New Hampshire: "I think he'd be great. The country needs to return to our core values." (Sarah Liebowitz, "Romney Partygoers Like What They Hear," Concord [NH] Monitor, 12/22/06)
Conservative Commentator Dean Barnett: Governor Romney "Is, Personally, A Deeply Conservative Man." "First, let me outline a few Romney characteristics. He is, personally, a deeply conservative man. He is a traditionalist to his core. Second, as I said above, he is a profoundly decent man." (Dean Barnett, "Hugh Hewitt" Blog, "Romney A Social Conservative? Yes!" http://hughhewitt.townhall.com, 12/21/06)
Barnett: "Romney is someone who at his core and in his politics shares the aims of socially conservative Republicans...He'll pursue the socially conservative agenda whenever there's a chance to do so." (Dean Barnett, "Hugh Hewitt" Blog, "Romney A Social Conservative? Yes!" http://hughhewitt.townhall.com, 12/21/06)

Conservative Blogger Nathan Moore: "To say the least, Romney was impressive, and will be a formidable candidate for the 2008 nomination." (Nathan Moore's "MooreThoughts" Blog, "Massachusetts Governor In Tennessee," http://moorethoughts.com, 12/18/06)
Recent Praise Of Governor Mitt Romney's Strong Leadership In Massachusetts:
Wanda Andrade Of Brockton, Massachusetts: "He Does The Right Thing, And I Like People Who Do The Right Thing." "A number of voters said they admired the governor's morality. Wanda Andrade, 43, a Democrat and nursing assistant from Brockton, said she was a friend of Milena Del Valle, the woman who was killed in the Big Dig tunnel collapse. Andrade was moved by what she described as Romney's kindness to the family. 'They were poor people, and he responded right away,' she said. 'He does the right thing, and I like people who do the right thing.'" (Lisa Wangsness, "Voters Voice Regard, Regret Over Romney," The Boston Globe, 12/26/06)
Matt Hayes Of Brookline, Massachusetts: Governor Romney Turned Deficits Into Surpluses. "Matt Hayes, 31, an undeclared voter from Brookline who owns Jamaica Plain Auto Body, pointed out that Romney turned the state's deficits into surpluses, 'which the Democratic primary candidates were all fighting over how to spend.'" (Lisa Wangsness, "Voters Voice Regard, Regret Over Romney," The Boston Globe, 12/26/06)
Governor Mitt Romney In His Own Words:
Governor Romney On His Optimism That Americans Will Rise To The Occasion And Face The Great Challenges Of This Century: "'We are facing a tough challenge, but when you rise to the occasion and face it head on and do what's necessary to overcome it, you emerge stronger, and we are going to do that,' Romney said. 'One of the reasons I am convinced of that is I have looked at the source of America's strength, and I have seen it time and time again. The American people are the source of our strength.'" (Jennifer Feals, "Ready To Face The Challenge," Portsmouth [NH] Herald, 12/22/06)
Governor Romney On His Record Of Accomplishment In Massachusetts: "I've got a record. And people can look at my record and see, for instance, that when people were clamoring to raise taxes in Massachusetts, I said 'no' and we held the line on taxes, and held the line and borrowing, and we balanced our budget. They can see that I vetoed literally hundreds of line items in budgets because I thought there was too much spending. They can see that I fought for better schools. They can see that I fought for a better environment. And they can recognize that a lot what Ronald Reagan was doing I'm also doing. So I'm pretty proud to follow in his legacy, if you will, recognizing, of course, that there's some differences. He's just a lot better than anyone else I know." (Robert B. Bluey, "Q&A: Mitt Romney Discusses Iraq War, Reagan's Influence And Gay Marriage," Human Events, www.humanevents.com, 12/28/06)
Governor Romney On His Commitment To Traditional Marriage And Family: "I have always believed, and am confident of this, that marriage should be a relationship between a man and a woman. And that same-sex marriage is a mistake in course. I disagree with the Supreme Judicial Court of my state. I have said this before, I agree instead with all recorded history of human kind. Marriage should be a relationship between a man and a woman. At the same time, I am not in favor of discrimination against anyone in our country on the basis of sexual preference, or any other, gender or ethnicity, or faith." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks, Manchester, NH, 12/21/06)
Governor Romney: "Because in my view, if you think of marriage as an adult right, you're missing something. Marriage is not just an adult right. Marriage is primarily about the development and nurturing of children. And the development of a child is enhanced by having access to a mom and a dad. And therefore, as much as I feel that in America we should not discriminate against people, I also feel that marriage should be about a relationship between a man and a woman, and a child deserves a mom and a dad." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks, Manchester, NH, 12/21/06)

Governor Romney On Promoting A Culture Of Life: "I believe people will see that as governor, when I had to examine and grapple with this difficult issue, I came down on the side of life. I know in the four years I have served as governor I have learned and grown from the exposure to the thousands of good-hearted people who are working to change the culture in our country. I'm committed to promoting the culture of life. Like Ronald Reagan, and Henry Hyde, and others who became pro-life, I had this issue wrong in the past." (Kathryn Jean Lopez, "A Primary Factor," National Review Online, http://article.nationalreview.com, 12/14/06)
Governor Romney: "When I was running for office 12 years ago, there were a number of things that I said and felt at that time that, with the benefit of experience, I have a different view today. One of those is abortion. As governor, I've had several pieces of legislation reach my desk, which would have expanded abortion rights in Massachusetts. Each of those I vetoed. Every action I've taken as the governor that relates to the sanctity of human life, I have stood on the side of life. So talk is cheap, but action is real. And people can now look at my record." (Robert B. Bluey, "Q&A: Mitt Romney Discusses Iraq War, Reagan's Influence And Gay Marriage," Human Events, www.humanevents.com, 12/28/06)

  