
    Pool Reports by  Christopher Megerian, Los Angeles Times



Sent:
Reports:




January 9, 202009:04

Pool report 1 
Good morning from the White House.
The president's schedule has an environmental policy event in the Roosevelt room at 11 a.m., so stay tuned for updates on that.
Then there's an intelligence briefing at 2 p.m. before he leaves from the South Lawn at 4:15 p.m. for a rally in Toledo, Ohio.
He's scheduled to be back at the White House at 10:40 p.m.



January 9, 202011:14

Pool report 2: Environmental event starting soon 
We entered the Roosevelt room at 11:05 a.m.
People are lined up around the podium where POTUS will speak. Two men in hard hats and orange construction vests are immediately behind the podium.



January 9, 202011:11

Pool report 3: Event details 
Here's some background from the press office and a list of expected attendees.
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks on the latest step his Administration is taking to reverse burdensome regulations. The Council of Environmental Quality's (CEQ) proposal will modernize the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) regulations to promote more efficient, effective, and timely NEPA reviews of infrastructure projects that will increase our Nation's economic competitiveness and improve the quality of life of our citizens. This action is great news for families frustrated with traffic, farmers wanting to help feed the world, and small business owners interested in reducing transportation costs to better serve their customers.
NEPA regulations have not been comprehensively updated in over 40 years. President Trump knows time is money: Today's action will establish time limits of 2 years for completion of environmental impact statements and one year for completion of environmental assessments.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White House President Donald J. TrumpMick Mulvaney, Acting White House Chief of StaffChristopher Liddell, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy CoordinationLarry Kudlow, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic CouncilMary Neumayr, Chair of the Council on Environmental QualityRuss Vought, Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget
Trump AdministrationSecretary Elaine Chao, Department of TransportationSecretary David Bernhardt, Department of the InteriorAdministrator Andrew Wheeler, Environmental Protection Agency
State and Local Officials Robert Woodard, County Commissioner & Commission Chairman, Dare County, North CarolinaGreg Chilcott, County Commissioner, Ravalli County, MontanaKevin Fieldsend, Highway Superintendent, Ramsey County, North Dakota & President of the North Dakota Association of CountiesMary Ann Borgeson, County Commissioner, Douglas County, Nebraska & President of the National Association of CountiesGary Moore, Judge/Executive, Boone County, Kentucky & First Vice President of the National Association of CountiesBilly Pittard, County Commissioner, Oglethorpe County, Georgia & President of the Association of Georgia County CommissionersChris Edwards, Assemblyman & Deputy Minority Whip, Assembly District 19, NevadaTimothy Hens, Superintendent of Highways, Genesee County, New York & President of the National Association of County Engineers
External Participants Dave Bauer, President & CEO of American Road and Transportation Builders AssociationMichael Bellaman, President & CEO of Associated Builders and ContractorsJennifer Houston, President of National Cattlemen's Beef AssociationJerry Howard, President & CEO of National Association of Home BuildersVince Malta, President of National Association of RealtorsSean McGarvey, President of North America's Building Trades UnionsChris Spear, President & CEO of American Trucking AssociationsJay Timmons, President & CEO of National Association of Manufacturers



January 9, 202011:47

Pool report 4: Environment event remarks 
POTUS entered at 11:19 and spoke until 11:28. The event is ongoing with other administration officials and supporters speaking, but wanted to share some remarks. Stay tuned for Q&A.
Trump said projects are "tied up and bogged down by an outrageously slow and burdensome federal approval process."
His goal is "fixing this regulatory nightmare"
"We're going to have very strong regulation, but it's going to go very quickly."
"America is a nation of builders." But it takes too long to get a permit, and that's "big government at its absolute worst."
Trump said the policy will cut the timeline for obtaining permits and force federal agencies to work more closely together to speed the process.
"We're maintains America's world-class standards of environmental protection."
Trump said he won't stop until "gleaming new infrastructure has made America the envy of the world again."
Now we're like a "third world country."



January 9, 202012:08

Pool report 5: Trump Q&A 
Event ongoing, but sending because of Trump remarks on Ukraine plane at end of this report
The first question was about phase 2 of China trade deal and whether he would go to Beijing.
Trump said phase one is "a tremendous percentage" of the overall deal. It's good for farmers and bankers, he said.
Phase 2 "will take a little bit of time," and it may wait until after the election.
Trump emphasized that his trade policies are good for farmers. "The farmers did pretty well, and now they're doing great."
Second question on whether there should be witnesses for impeachment
Trump said he would leave it up to the Senate.
"I'd like to hear the whistleblower, I'd like to hear Shifty Schiff." He also wants testimony from Hunter and Joe Biden.
"The whole thing is a hoax."
Trump is wondering about why a second whistleblower didn't come forward. "Maybe we know who the second whistleblower was."
"The ones who are guilty are the Democrats."
Third question was on war powers
Trump said senators told him the Iran briefing was the "greatest presentation they ever had." It would be hard to provide any more details to Congress at large because its classified information, he said.
"I get along great with Mike Lee, I've never seen him like that."
Trump said killing Sulemani was the right thing.
"We caught a total monster, and we took him out."
"They were looking to blow up our embassy."
Trump says he doesn't want to go to Congress for more authorization because "you have to make split second decisions."
He accused Pelosi of "defending a monster" by opposing killing Sulemani. "I think that's a very bad thing for this country."
Next question on JCPOA
Trump complained about Obama administration providing money to Iran. "That money was used for terror... That's when it became really bad."
"Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon. They understand that."
Trump said Iran probably wants to negotiate with a weak Democrat and called Warren "Pocahontas" and some people around him chuckled.
Next question on new Iran sanctions.
Trump said they've already been put in place, and said details will be provided.
What about the Ukrainian plane that went done in Iran?
"I have my suspicions. I don't want to say that."
"It's a tragic thing when I see that. Someone could have made a mistake on the other side... Not our system. It has nothing to do with us."
The plane was flying in a "rough neighborhood."
"Something very terrible happened."



January 9, 202012:09

Pool report 6: More questions, event over 
The event ended at 12:06.
Trump was asked about what he said was a plot by Sulemani to blow up the US embassy in Baghdad.
"I think it was obvious." Trump complained about how Benghazi was handled and said Baghdad was "the anti Benghazi."
The militias could have taken hostages or killed people at the embassy if he didn't act quickly.
As far as Sulemani's plans, "he had more than that particular embassy in mind."
Trump was asked about potential Bolton testimony
He didn't say he would block it but expressed concerns.
"We have to protect presidential privilege for me but also for future presidents."
What about request for NATO's help in Middle East?
He said he had a name thought of a name for NATO's participation because he's good at naming things.
"NATOME"
"If you add the two words ‘Middle East' at the end of it." Trump said it sounds "beautiful," and it's "NATO plus me."
Trump was asked whether climate change is a hoax.
"Nothing's a hoax about that. It's a very serious subject." He said he has a book about it that he's going to read.
"I'm a big believer in that word, the environment." But he also wants jobs.
How much of his own money will he spend on reelection?
"I have not thought about it," he said. Trump said they're raising more money because of the "impeachment hoax."
He said he didn't get enough credit for using his own money for 2016 campaign or donating his presidential salary.



January 9, 202013:26

Pool report 7: Lunch lid 
We have a lid until 2:30.



January 9, 202015:48

Pool report 8: Gathering for departure 
The pool is assembling for Trump's South Lawn departure, which is scheduled for 4:15.
Stay tuned for any remarks.



January 9, 202016:45

Pool report 9: Trump departure 
Trump left the building at 4:30. He gave the press a thumbs up and a wave and walked to Marine One.
He didn't stop to talk to the press. Dan Scavino, Kellyanne Conway and Stephen Miller joined him on the helicopter. Marine One took off at 4:35.
Handing off to out of town pool. I'll be back in position for POTUS return from rally tonight, scheduled for 10:40 p.m.



January 9, 202021:51

Pool report 10: Flood mitigation in N.C. 
POTUS is on his way back from his Ohio rally, and the press office passes along this announcement.
Today, President Donald J. Trump called Mayor Bobbie Jones (Princeville, NC) to notify the Mayor that the Army Corps of Engineers will advance a flood mitigation project with an estimated cost of $39.6 million to improve levee and drainage systems in the community. The City of Princeville has a powerful heritage as it was established by freed slaves after the Civil War and is believed to be the oldest city in the United States incorporated by African Americans. Princeville has long battled flooding over the decades and President Trump previously spoke with Mayor Jones ahead of Tropical Storm Florence and White House staff have continued discussions about longstanding flood mitigation needs in the community. Mayor Jones also attended the White House Opportunity Zone Summit in April 2019 in which President Trump discussed transforming America's communities with bipartisan community leaders from across the Nation.



January 9, 202023:00

Pool report 11: POTUS return 
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 10:51 p.m.
POTUS stepped off shortly afterwards and headed into the White House. He didn't stop to talk, just waved.
We have a travel/photo lid. Good night.




Pool Reports by Anita Kumar, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




January 9, 202016:53

Travel pool report #1 
Joint Base Andrews
Good afternoon from Joint Base Andrews on a clear, cold day.
Marine One landed at at 4:43 pm.
POTUS, wearing a dark coat and red tie, walked down the steps of the helicopter at 4:47 pm.
He was accompanied by aides Dan Scavino, Kellyanne Conway and Stephen Miller.
POTUS walked up the stairs of Air Force One at 4:48 pm. He waved to the pool but did not stop to answer questions.
Air Force One is rolling to Ohio for a campaign rally at 4:52 pm., about 30 minutes behind schedule.



January 9, 202018:21

Travel pool report #2/arrival Ohio 
Swanton, Ohio
Air Force One landed at Toledo Express Airport at 6:01 pm.
The flight was uneventful with no visitors to the press cabin. The TVs were tuned to FOX.
White House Deputy Press Secretary Steve Groves is also traveling on Air Force One.



January 9, 202018:23

Travel pool report #3 
Swanton, Ohio
POTUS disembarked Air Force One at 6:15 pm. He spent a few minutes talking to the officials who were there to greet him but it was too dark to see any specific interactions.
The pool was moved away from our usual spot under the wing and visibility was not as good.
It's clear and cool here but warmer than in Washington.
There were people, some holding small US flags, gathered in a pen to watch the arrival. They cheered when they caught a glimpse of POTUS.
Motorcade is rolling from Toledo Express Airport at 6:18 pm.
From the White House:
The President is met by -
Secretary Frank LaRoseSecretary of State of Ohio
Col Michael DiDioCommander, 180th Fighter Wing, Ohio Air National Guard
Col William GiezieVice Commander, 180th Fighter Wing, Ohio Air National Guard
CMSgt Edward WagnerCommand Chief, 180th Fighter Wing, Ohio Air National Guard
Allan BlockSupporter
Susan BlockSupporter
John BlockSupporter
Caroline BlockSupporter



January 9, 202018:49

Travel pool report #4/rally arrival 
Toledo, Ohio
Motorcade arrived at the Huntington Center in downtown Toledo at 6:43 pm.
Traffic was stopped and the drive along the Ohio Turnpike and I-75 was bumpy.
POTUS will soon be headlining a Keep America Great rally.



January 9, 202019:03

Travel pool report #5 
Toledo Ohio
From Hogan Gidley:
"The President has the right and duty to protect this nation and our citizens from terrorism. That's what he continues to do, and the world is safer for it.
"This House resolution tries to undermine the ability of the U.S. Armed Forces to prevent terrorist activity by Iran and its proxies, and attempts to hinder the President's authority to protect America and our interests in the region from the continued threats. These Congressional actions are completely misguided. In fact, this ridiculous resolution is just another political move because, under well-established Supreme Court precedent, it's non-binding and lacks the force of law.
"President Trump's decision to strike Qassem Soleimani, the world's leading terrorist, was the right course of action and authorized under his constitutional powers as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive as well as the 2002 Authorization for Use of Military Force."



January 9, 202019:14

Travel pool report #6/color 
Toledo, Ohio
At 7 pm., VPOTUS took the stage of the Huntington Center, home of the minor league hockey team, the Toledo Walleye. Thousands of supporters, many wearing MAGA baseball hats and waving Trump Pence signs, cheered.
The arena, decorated in the typical way for a rally, looks pretty full. A large U.S. flag was erected on one side. "Keep America Great!" is shown on blue digital monitors.
As the motorcade drove in, your pool caught a glimpse of what appeared to be hundreds of people protesting POTUS and then hundreds more – perhaps thousands – in an overflow area with a large video screen showing the rally.
As the pool walked in the arena, a man in the stands yelled "fake news!"



January 9, 202019:20

travel pool report #7/POTUS takes the stage 
Toledo, Ohio
POTUS took the stage at 7:16 pm to the song "God Bless the USA" after being introduced by VPOTUS.
The crowd erupted, many waving signs or singing along.
At 7:17 pm, POTUS and VPOTUS stood on the stage together. POTUS patted VPOTUS on the back for a couple seconds before the vice president departed the stage.
The speech is open press.



January 9, 202020:48

Travel pool report #8 
Toledo, Ohio
Pool is being ushered to the doors at 8:47 pm as rally ends.



January 9, 202020:57

Travel pool report #9/departure 
Toledo, Ohio
Motorcade is rolling to the airport at 8:56 pm.



January 9, 202021:27

Travel pool report #10/leaving Ohio 
Swanton, Ohio
Motorcade arrived at Toledo Express Airport at 9:21 pm after an uneventful but bumpy ride.
Your pooler did not see POTUS board the plane.
Air Force One is rolling at 9:26 pm.
Also traveling on Air Force One: Rep. Bill Johnson and newly re-hired aide John McEntee.



January 9, 202022:41

Travel pool report #11/JBA 
Joint Base Andrews
Air Force One landed at Joint Base Andrews at 10:25 pm after an uneventful flight.
POTUS disembarked at 10:34 pm. He didn't linger in the cold weather and walked straight to Marine One.
Marine One lifted up at 10:40 pm.
Handing off to intown pool.
Goodnight, everyone.




  