
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Ben S. Bernanke, of New Jersey, to be United States Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of five years, vice Alan Greenspan.
Donald T. Bliss, of Maryland, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization.
Richard A. Boucher, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs, vice Christina B. Rocca.
Gale A. Buchanan, of Georgia, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics, vice Joseph J. Jen, resigned.
Patricia A. Butenis, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Robert M. Couch, of Alabama, to be President, Government National Mortgage Association, vice Ronald Rosenfeld.
Tyler D. Duvall, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Emil H. Frankel.
Preston M. Geren, of Texas, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice R. L. Brownlee, resigned.
James B. Gulliford, of Missouri, to be Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Stephen L. Johnson, resigned.
Roger Shane Karr, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Nicole R. Nason.
Nicole R. Nason, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, vice Jeffrey William Runge.
David L. Norquist, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Homeland Security, vice Andrew B. Maner.
David C. Sanborn, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration, vice William Schubert.
Jackie Wolcott Sanders, of Virginia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during her tenure of service as Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations.
Jackie Wolcott Sanders, of Virginia, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
John A. Simon, of Maryland, to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, vice Ross J. Connelly, resigned.
James S. Simpson, of New York, to be Federal Transit Administrator, vice Jennifer L. Dorn.
Mark D. Wallace, of Florida, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform.
Mark D. Wallace, of Florida, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Patrick Francis Kennedy.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Eugene Hickok, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for the remainder of the term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Sidney McPhee, which was sent to the Senate on October 17, 2005.
  