
    Memorandum for the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Subject: Designation of Officers of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration To Act as Administrator
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., it is hereby ordered that:
Section 1. Order of Succession.Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this memorandum, the following officials of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of the Administrator of NASA (Administrator), during any period in which both the Administrator and Deputy Administrator of NASA (Deputy Administrator) have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator, until such time as the Administrator or Deputy Administrator is able to perform the functions and duties of that office:
(a)          Associate Administrator; (b)          Chief of Staff to the NASA Administrator; (c)          Director for Johnson Space Flight Center; (d)          Director for Kennedy Space Flight Center; and (e)          Director for Marshall Space Flight Center.
Sec. 2. Exceptions.(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Administrator pursuant to this memorandum.
(b) No individual listed in section 1 shall act as Administrator unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this memorandum in designating an acting Administrator.
Sec. 3. This memorandum is intended to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, it agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 4. You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
George W. Bush
  