
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Colorado Springs Mayor Lionel Rivera has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Mayor Rivera will play an important role in expanding grassroots support for Governor Romney in Colorado, in addition to the nation's Hispanic community as a member of Romney for President's National Hispanic Steering Committee.
Making today's announcement, Mayor Rivera said, "Mitt Romney possesses the real-world business experience our nation needs to remain the world's economic superpower and to get Washington's fiscal house in order. As we face economic challenges at home and abroad, America needs someone like Mitt Romney who understands why jobs come and why they go and would work to reduce the tax burden on taxpayers and businesses. His experience running a business, the 2002 Olympics and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts is a resume that would dwarf Senators Clinton or Obama in November."
Welcoming Mayor Rivera's support, Governor Romney said, "I am honored to have Lionel Rivera's endorsement and welcome him to our strong team in Colorado. As an experienced businessman and Mayor of Colorado Springs, he has devoted his life to creating jobs and helping seniors, families and businesses manage their finances. I look forward to working with Mayor Rivera as the Colorado caucuses approach."
Background On Mayor Lionel Rivera:
Lionel Rivera Is The Mayor Of Colorado Springs, Colorado. Elected in April of 2003, he is the first Hispanic Vice-Mayor and Mayor in the history of Colorado Springs. Originally from El Paso, Texas, Rivera came to Colorado Springs in 1984 as an Army Captain at Fort Carson. He has served on many community boards having served as a founder and past president of the Colorado Springs Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, a board member of the Colorado Springs Greater Chamber of Commerce and United Way Board of Trustees and Executive Committee Member and a co-chair of The Springs Community Action Plan. Rivera was first elected to an at large City Council seat in April of 1997 and re-elected again in April of 1999. In April 2001, he was elected by his City Council colleagues to serve as Vice Mayor for a two year term. Rivera has worked as a financial advisor for more than 20 years advising business owners, retirees, non-profits and young families on a range of financial issues. Rivera and his wife Lynn reside in Colorado Springs.
  