
    Gov. Huckabee Raised Regressive Taxes On Working Families & More Government Spending
"I don't think he understands the free market business system. He's not good on taxing, he's not good on spending, he's not good on free trade. In other words, all the prosperity factors seem to be Mr. Huckabee's weakness. I don't think he understands it. He's just out of tune with all measures of free market, supply side economics." – CNBC's Larry Kudlow (Hugh Hewitt Radio Show, 12/21/07; www.youtube.com/watch?v=mvfhmE6PKxI)
Using Democrat Class Warfare Language, Gov. Huckabee Claims To Defend "The Poorest People":
In South Carolina, Gov. Huckabee "Dwelled On The Economic Pain Felt By The Working And Middle Class." "Continuing to reach out to his evangelical base, Mr. Huckabee, a former Baptist pastor, spoke at North Greenville University, a Southern Baptist institution. There he dwelled on the economic pain suffered by the middle and working classes..." (Michael Luo and Michael Cooper, "Focus Shifts To S. Carolina For Romney And Rivals," The New York Times, 1/17/08)
Gov. Huckabee Has Accused Oil Companies Of "Stealing From Absolutely The Poorest People." "Gov. Mike Huckabee on Thursday night lambasted the profit levels of oil companies, saying they 'are stealing from absolutely the poorest people.' He also suggested the Legislature enact a uniform pay scale for school superintendents in the state." (Michael R. Wickline, "Huckabee Lashes Out At Oil Firms Over Profits," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 10/28/05)
Gov. Huckabee Takes Cues From Democrat John Edwards, Waging "Class Warfare." "Does Huckabee really believe that Reaganomics represents a philosophy of greed? ... This is the rhetoric that is being religiously flogged on an hourly basis by Democrat John Edwards over on the class warfare side of the divide." (Jeffrey Lord, "Huckabee Attacking Reaganomics," American Spectator, 12/28/07)
Yet As Governor, Huckabee Raised Taxes On Working Families:
Gov. Huckabee Raised Taxes $883.1 Million, Cut $378 Million In Taxes, For A Net Tax Increase Of $505.1 Million. "But a review of tax legislation passed while he was governor shows a net tax increase of $505 million, a figure adjusted for inflation and economic growth, according to the state Department of Finance and Administration. ... The 90 cuts reduced tax collections by $378 million, according to the Department of Finance and Administration. Meanwhile, the department counts 21 tax increases that raised collections by $883.1 million." (Daniel Nasaw, "Gaps Led To Taxing In Huckabee Years," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 10/9/07)
- The Average Arkansan Saw Their Taxes Increase Almost $1,000 Under Gov. Huckabee. "The average Arkansan's tax burden grew from $1,969 in the fiscal year that ended June 30, 1997, to $2,902 in the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2005, including local taxes." (Daniel Nasaw, "Gaps Led To Taxing In Huckabee Years," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 10/9/07)

Higher Sales Tax, Higher Income Tax, Higher Gas Tax:
Gov. Huckabee Actually Stood Before the Legislature And Begged Them To Raise The Income Tax, Sales Tax, And Tobacco Tax. GOV. HUCKABEE: "There is a lot of support for a tax at the wholesale level for tobacco. That's fine with me. I will very happily sign that... Some have suggested the retail level of tobacco. If that ends up being your preference, I will accept that. Others have suggested a surcharge on the income tax. That's acceptable. I'm fine with that. ... Others have suggested perhaps a sales tax. That's fine. Yet others have suggested a hybrid that would collect some money from any one or combination of those various ideas... If that's the plan that the House and Senate agree upon, then you will have nothing but my profound thanks." (Mark Silva, "Conservatives Target A Once Tax-Happy Huckabee," Chicago Tribune's The Swamp Blog, 11/12/07; www.youtube.com/watch?v=DaJW7nXw30A)
- Following His Pleas, The Legislature Passed An Income-Tax Surcharge Which Gov. Huckabee Signed. "Three days after the start of the May special session, the Legislature passed a bill that raised taxes on tobacco products and established on a 3 percent income-tax surcharge. Huckabee signed the bill into law hours later. It raised $97 million its first year in effect." (Daniel Nasaw, "Gaps Led To Taxing In Huckabee Years," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 10/9/07)

"During His 10 Years As Arkansas Governor, Huckabee Supported Numerous Tax Increases." (Andrew DeMillo, "Despite No-Tax Pledge, Huckabee Pressed By Fiscal Conservatives," The Associated Press, 3/14/07)
"Huckabee Increased Taxes On Sales, Gasoline, Cigarettes And Nursing Homes." "The Club for Growth, which advocates limited government and lower taxes, has repeatedly criticized Huckabee since his formation in January of a presidential exploratory committee. It notes that as governor, Huckabee increased taxes on sales, gasoline, cigarettes and nursing homes." (Andrew DeMillo, "Despite No-Tax Pledge, Huckabee Pressed By Fiscal Conservatives," The Associated Press, 3/14/07)
  