
    Yesterday, the Biden-Harris Administration announced historic investments from the President's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to make long overdue improvements at ports and waterways, strengthen America's supply chain, and bolster climate resilience.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will invest more than $14 billion in fiscal year 2022 through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and supplemental appropriations for over 500 projects across 52 states and territories. These key projects will strengthen the nation's supply chain, reduce costs for American families and businesses, increase climate resilience, and strengthen domestic manufacturing so we make and move more goods in America. The investments also further advance the President's Justice40 commitment to ensure that 40 percent of the overall benefits of federal climate and clean energy investments flow to historically marginalized, underserved, and overburdened communities to build their economies.
Members of Congress who helped the President deliver the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, as well as Governors, Mayor, local officials, advocacy organizations – lauded the investments in ports and waterways and highlighted how they will help communities across the country.
See below for what they are saying:
Members of Congress
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi: "The century-old Embarcadero Seawall provides a crucial foundation for our City: protecting our families, businesses and streets from flooding. As we face an intensifying climate crisis, and an ever-present earthquake risk, this important victory brings us a crucial step closer to shoring up our Seawall. In doing so, we will ensure that the billions of dollars in economic activity, our critical transportation infrastructure and many of our most iconic destinations continue to stand strong for decades to come. From restoring the Florida Everglades to improving the Port of Long Beach to protecting the Great Lakes, communities across our nation will soon see the benefits of this $14 billion investment. Thanks to the visionary leadership of President Biden and Democrats in Congress, these projects will create good-paying jobs for our workers, unstick supply chain jams to lower costs and turbo-charge American competitiveness for a generation" [Statement, 1/19/2022]
House Appropriations Chair Rosa DeLauro: "From the beginning of this effort, I have been pushing for the New Haven Navigation Improvement Project to be included as one of the accelerated projects under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. This federal funding is a game-changer. This project will increase the navigation efficiency and safety of the New Haven Harbor. It will create good-paying jobs for longshoremen, truck drivers, warehousemen, and construction workers and strengthen Connecticut's supply chain. We have long known that this critical project would bolster Connecticut's economy, and now the New Haven Port Authority and the Connecticut State Port Authority have the tools they need to make these much-needed improvements a reality. Thanks to the leadership of President Biden and House Democrats, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is creating jobs and providing opportunities to get Connecticut infrastructure projects over the finish line." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
House Appropriations Chair Rosa DeLauro: "These relief funds for the New Haven County Coastal Storm Risk Management Project will help protect Long Wharf and key infrastructure from the damage caused by floods like those that have devastated the area in the past. By creating construction jobs and saving money on future cleanup costs and losses caused by water damage, this project is a huge economic benefit to the region." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Pennsylvania Congressman Conor Lamb: "River traffic is something few people think about unless it is shut down. The Montgomery Lock and Dam is nearly 100 years old and if it collapses, we could lose thousands of jobs and add thousands of trucks to our roads, meaning more pollution and traffic. This funding is essential and the result of years of advocacy and old-fashioned, hard legislative work." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
House Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Marcy Kaptur: "The critical role that Great Lakes waterways play in sustaining and advancing America's economic vitality cannot be overstated. As Chair of the Energy and Water Subcommittee, it has been my top priority to secure the federal resources that ensure the navigability and preservation of the Great Lakes for generations to come. The revitalization of the Soo Locks will strengthen America's commercial shipping capabilities, and support good-paying jobs throughout the Industrial Heartland. By investing in innovative new solutions at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam, we will finally be able to protect the Great Lakes freshwater kingdom from the economic and ecological devastation wrought by invasive species. When we invest in infrastructure, we are investing in Middle Class workers, families, and communities. President Biden and Congressional Democrats are leading the way for the future of the American economy." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
House Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz: "The Everglades is the lifeblood of South Florida, and this historic funding commitment by the Biden Administration will ensure we can much more aggressively move to restore and protect the natural sheet flow of water that is the largest environmental restoration project in American history. The Florida Everglades is a vital source of drinking water and essential to combat climate change and this massive infusion of funding will have the added benefit of creating more jobs." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Peter DeFazio: "I have been fighting for years for much-needed funding to support the Coos Bay North Jetty, which is in desperate need of repair. Ongoing jetty deterioration has increased danger for ships, boaters, and commercial fisherman, and puts economic opportunity at risk. The funding announced today will allow jetty repairs to finally begin. By bringing the North Jetty into a state of good repair, we'll ensure safer conditions at the Port of Coos Bay and enhance economic opportunity by supporting the Port's work to attract a new class of shippers. [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Texas Congresswoman Lizzie Fletcher: "Our community has shown overwhelming support for the study of underground tunnels as a way to alleviate the potential for flooding around the Addicks and Barker reservoirs and along Buffalo Bayou. I am glad the Army Corps of Engineers worked with our office and approved additional funds, allowing an extension for the Buffalo Bayou and Tributaries Resiliency Study, which will enable the Corps to continue studying underground tunnels as a potential water conveyance solution. I am grateful for the support of Harris County Commissioners Tom Ramsey and Jack Cagle in providing the funds necessary to complete the study and I look forward to seeing the results released next year." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Delaware Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester: "I'm thrilled that over $51 million secured through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will be used to fund four major water infrastructure projects in Delaware including repairs and improvements at our historic beaches and waterways. This is another exciting example of how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is helping our state make long-overdue investments to our infrastructure, creating good-paying jobs, and spurring economic growth." [Article, 1/19/2022]
Connecticut Congressman Joe Courtney: "Now, thanks to the IIJA, towns like Thompson and Westbrook don't have to wait until someday off in the future for this important work to get started—increased resources from the IIJA mean the Army Corps is ready to begin this work starting right now, in 2022. It's another example of how good the new bipartisan infrastructure bill really is for our region—from improved highways and bridges, to upgraded water infrastructure, now to expanded port access and refurbishment of our local natural resources and outdoor spaces. It's good to see all the forward momentum continuing now that our bipartisan infrastructure bill has been signed into law." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Florida Congresswoman Lois Frankel: "Thanks to the leadership of President Biden, Florida will be receiving the biggest infusion of federal funding for Everglades restoration projects in our state's history. The Everglades is a beautiful and delicate ecosystem that serves as drinking water for more than eight million Floridians and home to hundreds of endangered plant and animal species. This new funding will significantly boost efforts to make sure that this unique and vibrant environment is kept alive and thriving for future generations." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Florida Congresswoman Val Demings: "I'm excited for the future of Florida and all that we will accomplish with this bipartisan investment, but it is a shame that Florida's House and Senate Republicans failed to support this critical investment into our economy, health, and environment. I will continue working with both Democrats and Republicans to ensure that Florida has everything we need to compete and win on the world stage. We look forward to additional funding throughout our community in the coming years through this bipartisan act." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
California Congressman Mike Levin: "Funding for the Encinitas-Solana Beach project will allow us to place more than a million cubic yards of sand along our beaches, which will reduce erosion of coastal bluffs, improve public safety, and expand all of the recreational benefits that come with larger sandy beaches. Funding for the long-delayed Oceanside Special Shoreline Study will similarly advance efforts to restore local beaches that have been negatively affected by the construction of Camp Pendleton Harbor. After years of advocacy along with local partners to advance these projects, I'm proud the bipartisan infrastructure law is delivering crucial funding for our communities, and I look forward to seeing the sand replenishment work begin soon." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
New Jersey Congresswoman Mikie Sherrill: "Our communities and families across Northern New Jersey have faced the dire, and sometimes deadly impact of devastating flooding in this region for far too long. This full federal funding for the Army Corps of Engineers to address and mitigate the flooding in the Peckman River Basin could not come at a more critical time." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Illinois Congresswoman Cheri Bustos: "Today's announcement is a huge win for our economy, jobs, American farmers, trade and the environment. This years-long effort to modernize the locks and dams of the Mississippi will help our agricultural producers bring tons of goods to market faster, increase trade by speeding up the transport of American products, spur job creation, alleviate supply chain stress and help reduce transportation emissions. With this funding, we're bringing taxpayer dollars home and revolutionizing how efficiently we utilize our waterways." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Texas Congressman Marc Veasey: "The Trinity River flood control project is a critical piece of infrastructure that will provide needed flood protection and growth opportunities to Fort Worth. Earlier in the 117th Congress, I was pleased to vote for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and work with both local partners and the Biden-Harris Administration to secure key funding for this project. I will keep working to ensure the success of this project and that other funding will come to North Texas to help our economy grow and make long-overdue improvements to our nation's infrastructure." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Arizona Congressman Tom O'Halleran: "Without this funding, the Winslow levee was at risk of failure, jeopardizing a very large portion of the city of Winslow that lies in the floodplain, and the hardworking Arizonans that call the area home. I was proud to have a leading role in developing and supporting the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and I am beyond pleased to see these funds awarded to complete this urgently-needed project that will protect Arizona families, support Winslow's economic growth, and create new jobs in the process." [Statement, 1/20/2022]
New Jersey Congressman Bonnie Watson Coleman: "While it is of utmost importance to fight the causes of climate change, it is also necessary to mitigate the impacts of climate change that are already occurring… The deadly floods in Central Jersey last summer show how climate change can devastate communities that were already at risk. I'm grateful that President Biden, the Army Corps of Engineers and the OMB have taken the step to provide the funds necessary to complete this project and help prevent future damage and loss of life." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Senators
Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin: "The threat of invasive Asian Carp to the economic and environmental resources of the Great Lakes is serious. It's vital that we protect one of the Midwest's greatest assets from irreparable harm," said Durbin. "I've championed this project for over a decade, and I'm heartened by the Biden Administration's support for the Brandon Road Project and their commitment to the Great Lakes. I'm looking forward to seeing this project come to fruition with the $225 million investment announced today." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell: "I supported last year's landmark bipartisan infrastructure legislation because I understand the importance of addressing the Commonwealth's need for adequate infrastructure resources. With the new projects announced today, Kentuckians will have access to the cleaner water, enhanced transport systems, better flood control, and more pristine natural spaces they deserve." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin: "Today's funding announcement from Army Corps is incredible news for many areas in West Virginia, with over $20 million headed directly to our state for various projects, including the Kanawha River Basin Feasibility Study which I've fought to fund for years. The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act continues to provide much needed investments in the Mountain State, and these projects will improve our waterways, drinking water systems and ensure our communities are safe from potential environmental concerns for years to come." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
West Virginia Senator Shelley Moore Capito: "The bipartisan infrastructure bill provided significant funding to the Corps to address our nation's water resources needs. Because my EPW Committee oversees the Corps, I've worked diligently with the agency to ensure West Virginia's priorities were included in any spending plan. I'm pleased to say our great working relationship has paid off: The Corps is fully funding every priority I requested. This infrastructure funding is critical to not only help prevent and mitigate future flooding issues, but also to protect health and encourage economic growth." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey: "The Port of Pittsburgh and the region's locks and dams play a vital role in moving commerce, creating and sustaining jobs, and supporting economic growth throughout Southwestern Pennsylvania. This $857 million investment will help our region do just that. I have long supported efforts to modernize the Montgomery Lock and Dam, which will ensure that shippers can reliably deliver and take cargo from Pittsburgh to the rest of the world. Thanks to the Infrastructure Law, President Biden and Democrats are delivering jobs and resources to Southwestern Pennsylvania." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Delaware Senator Chris Coons: "Delaware's ports and waterways are absolutely critical to sustaining the strength of our nation. Through national and international trade, our waterways connect us to the rest of the world and help bolster our state's economy exponentially." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman Tom Carper: "With our abundance of 5-star beaches and important waterways, the Corps is an essential partner in the First State's water resources infrastructure. That's why we fought for historic funding for the Corps as part of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. The continued operation and needed repairs of these projects are just the tip of the iceberg in building a stronger economy in the First State that is more resilient to threats like climate change." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
North Dakota Senator John Hoeven: "This $437 million fulfills the entire federal funding commitment for the project, providing certainty that it will be built on or ahead of schedule and ensuring the Red River Valley is permanently protected against the threat of flooding. This project is the first in the nation to use the P3 model, making today's funding announcement a tremendous milestone for the Fargo-Moorhead region and an example the Army Corps can use for other projects nationwide." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar: "With this federal funding, we will be able to continue construction on the Fargo-Moorhead Flood Diversion project and provide permanent flood protections for more than 200,000 people. I'm proud to have partnered with Senator Hoeven to secure this investment and will continue advocating to ensure flooding problems in the area are addressed in a timely manner." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy: "This funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Package is crucial to protect our state against future Hurricanes and floods. Looking forward to the additional ways the bipartisan infrastructure bill will benefit our state. This disaster aid is critical in our effort to rebuild after Hurricane Ida and prevent damage from future storms." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski: "This announcement – made possible by our bipartisan infrastructure bill – is worthy of celebration. These projects are real-life, boots-on-the-ground examples of the priorities we addressed through this historic law. I'm proud of our work on it and thrilled by the results it is already producing for our state. Each of these infrastructure projects is timely and necessary and will make a difference in our state. They are critical to economic development, America's role in an evolving Arctic, community safety, our response to natural hazards, and more. I thank the administration for joining Alaskans in recognizing the importance of these projects." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen: "Investing in Maryland's waterways is crucial to both our state's economic success and environmental well-being. That's why we fought tooth and nail to secure federal resources for these projects – which will support the Port of Baltimore, improve the health of the Bay, and promote continued economic and job growth across our state. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I've been focused on delivering these critical investments, and I'll keep working alongside the Army Corps to put our Maryland priorities front and center." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Maryland Senator Ben Cardin: "By advancing critical projects like the Mid-Bay Islands restoration effort, federal investments will lay a foundation for economic and environmental benefits for years to come. These investments will promote new habitats for a variety of fish and wildlife, enhanced competitiveness for the Port of Baltimore, and safe navigation for the boats and ships on the Bay." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Illinois Senator Tammy Duckworth: "Invasive species are a growing threat to our entire inland waterways system and to the countless Illinois communities and businesses that rely on strong and vibrant aquatic ecosystems. The Brandon Road Project is critical in protecting the Great Lakes' exposure to Asian Carp, and I'm pleased to see this support from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal to ensure this project can continue to protect our waterways." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow: "After a hard-fought effort, we finally have full funding of the Corp's budget to finish building the new lock at the Soo Locks. In Michigan, we know how vital the Locks are to our economy and our national defense. We also know that we are on borrowed time until something happens that shuts them down. Thanks to our bipartisan efforts in Congress, and with the President's leadership, we are able to finish this project as soon as possible." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Michigan Senator Gary Peters: "The bipartisan infrastructure law is delivering for Michiganders with this significant investment in the Soo Locks – an economic and national security priority for Michigan and our nation. With some of the pumps operating the locks being more than 100 years old, it was long overdue that we modernize such a critical piece of our infrastructure and ensure sustainability for the future. Building a new lock will make our supply chains more resilient and bolster commerce on the Great Lakes – and I was proud to help pass the legislation making this necessary upgrade closer to a reality." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Maine Senators Susan Collins and Angus King: "These critical dredging projects for Bar Harbor as well as rivers in Ogunquit, Milbridge, and Scarborough will help address significant safety and navigational concerns for commercial fishermen as well as recreational boaters. Maine's waterways are the lifeblood of many coastal towns and support our state's economy. These investments are excellent examples of how the bipartisan infrastructure package is creating jobs and providing substantial benefits to Maine's communities and families." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
State and Local Officials
Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards: "I would like to thank President Biden for recognizing the urgent need for storm protection and flood control funding after touring and seeing firsthand the devastation caused by Hurricane Ida last fall. I would also like to commend the members of our Congressional Delegation who advocated for disaster relief. Additionally, I applaud Sen. Cassidy and Rep. Carter for their instrumental roles in securing funds for Louisiana's coast through the bipartisan infrastructure bill. Our unrelenting message has been that Louisiana's coastal crisis is a national crisis. Investments in coastal protection and restoration make life in south Louisiana possible, protect interstate commerce, and support major economic engines that supply goods and services to our entire country." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer: "I applaud the US Army Corps of Engineers for making a $479 million investment in the Soo Locks to finish the project, protecting tens of thousands of jobs and uplifting our economy. The locks are critical to facilitating trade and economic cooperation between our two peninsulas and Great Lakes neighbors. Our federal partners are also bolstering critical Michigan harbors, further shoring up our waterways and enabling businesses to trade goods and supplies more easily. I am grateful to our congressional delegation for fighting for this investment. Together, we will continue finding ways to grow Michigan's economy, create and protect good-paying jobs, and invest in every region of our great state. [Statement, 1/19/2022]
North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum: "Grateful for @SenJohnHoeven and @SenKevinCramer in helping secure $437M in federal funding for the @FMDiversion. Local funding and $435M in state funds for the project in last year's historic bonding package are advancing this much-needed protection against catastrophic flooding." [Tweet, 1/19/2022]
Curtis Morgan, Environment Editor at Miami Herald: "This is a big deal: Biden administration plans to spend more than $1 billion on Everglades restoration" [Tweet, 1/19/2022]
Mayor of the Township of Little Falls James Damiano: "The federal funding of the Peckman River Flood Mitigation project is remarkable! This is a long term and permanent solution that will provide so many residents of Little Falls the relief that they deserve. No longer will the residents in the Jackson Park section of town need to live in fear that their homes, their belongings, or their lives are in danger from the Peckman River." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Conservation Organizations
Friends of the Everglades: "Let's be sure we protect this federal investment by: - enforcing Florida's water-pollution limits, - protecting low-lying & environmentally sensitive areas from development, - managing Lake Okeechobee in a way that protects the Greater Everglades" [Tweet, 1/19/2022]
National Wildlife Federation: "America's Everglades is a national treasure that is also a hard-working landscape: It provides clean water for millions, supports countless local jobs, creates recreation opportunities and protects communities from climate-fueled disasters," said Jessie Ritter, senior director of water resources and coastal policy for the National Wildlife Federation. "This bold down payment will help bring key projects across the finish line and sustain this iconic ecosystem and the clean water, wildlife and way of life that it supports." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
National Parks Conservation Association: "This level of investment far exceeds any previous administration's financial contributions to the fight to protect this park. This effort will help bolster this imperiled ecosystem, ushering in a new era for America's Everglades. There is no other place on Earth like Everglades National Park. This fragile, beautiful place has faced countless threats from development since before it even became a national park. Millions of Floridians are reliant on its health for clean drinking water and a booming recreation and tourism economy. Restoring America's Everglades is a bipartisan rallying point, and this investment will create tens of thousands of quality jobs." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Audubon Florida: "We are elated to see this level of investment in Everglades restoration…The funding allocated to the U.S. Army Corps will allow already planned projects under the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan to be expedited, hastening the completion of Everglades Restoration. These projects, like the Indian River Lagoon C23/24 Reservoir, the Biscayne Bay and Southern Everglades Ecosystem Restoration Project, and the Western Everglades Restoration Project, will improve the hydrology of the region, safeguard drinking water supplies for South Florida, improve water quality, and increase the region's resilience." [Statement, 1/19/2022]
Senior Policy Advisor for Freshwater at the Nature Conservancy Jim Howe: "The Largest Single Investment in the Everglades in U.S. History #USACE allocates $1.1 billion of #Infrastructure Act funds for #Everglades conservation activities such as removing levees, filling in canals, and storing #freshwater.#iija" [Tweet, 1/19/2022]
  