
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 23
The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and high winds on January 21 and continuing.
January 24
In the morning, the President traveled to Little Rock, AR, to inspect tornado damage in the surrounding areas. In the afternoon, he traveled to Beebe, AR, where he inspected tornado damage there.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
January 25
The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, ice, and freezing rain on December 22-26, 1998.
January 26
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to St. Louis, MO. In the evening, they returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Rudy de Leon as a member of the National Partnership Council.
January 27
In the afternoon, the President met with President-elect Hugo Chavez of Venezuela in National Security Adviser Samuel R. Berger's office.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a dinner for the Nation's military leaders in the State Dining Room.
The White House announced that the President invited President Jerry John Rawlings of Ghana for a state visit on February 24.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Manchester, NH on February 18.
The President announced his intention to appoint John C. Pierce and Joyce Van Schaack as members of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph (Jody) Trapasso as a member of the Community Adjustment and Investment Program Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Edward F. Hartfield and Mary E. Jacksteit as members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel.
The President announced his intention to appoint W. Peter Conroy to serve as the Alternate Federal Commissioner to the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint River Basin Compact Commission and to the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa River Basin Compact Commission.
The President declared an emergency in Michigan and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by near-record snow on January 2 and continuing.
January 28
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oakton, VA, and later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert W. Gee to be Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to appoint Steven W. Percy as a member of the President's Council on Sustainable Development.
The White House announced that the President invited Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema of Italy, President of the Council of Ministers, for an official working visit on March 5.
January 29
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India concerning India-U.S. relations and nonproliferation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Evelyne R. Villines as a member of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Boston, MA, and New York City on February 2.
  