
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Miranda A. A. Ballentine, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Terry A. Yonkers, resigned.
Norman C. Bay, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2018, vice Jon Wellinghoff, resigned.
L. Reginald Brothers, Jr., of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary for Science and Technology, Department of Homeland Security, vice Tara Jeanne O'Toole, resigned.
William P. Doyle, of Pennsylvania, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for a term expiring June 30, 2018. (Reappointment)
Ann Elizabeth Dunkin, of California, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Malcolm D. Jackson.
Manuel H. Ehrlich, Jr., of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five years, vice John S. Bresland, resigned.
Mileydi Guilarte, of the District of Columbia, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, vice Jan E. Boyer, resigned.
Suzan G. LeVine, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Swiss Confederation, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein.
Michael J. McCord, of Ohio, to be Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), vice Robert F. Hale.
Brian P. McKeon, of New York, to be a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, vice Kathleen H. Hicks, resigned.
Christine E. Wormuth, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice James N. Miller, Jr., resigned.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Leslie Berger Kiernan, of Maryland, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014.
Leslie Berger Kiernan, of Maryland, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014.
  