
    Chicago, IL - Following Obama's decisive victory in the South Carolina primary, the Obama for America campaign today highlighted the fact that Obama has received the endorsement of more than 50 newspapers across the country.
Below is a list of the endorsements and some excerpts:
Chicago Tribune: "Barack Obama is the rare individual who can sit in the U.S. Senate yet have his career potential unfulfilled. He is the Democrat best suited to lead this nation. We offer him our endorsement for the Feb. 5 Illinois primary."
http://www.chicagotribune.com
Arizona Republic: "We believe Barack Obama has the best chance of moving Washington and the nation beyond the poisonous partisanship of recent decades. He appeals to independent voters and Republicans, in addition to members of his own party. His promise to unite is convincing."
http://www.azcentral.com
St. Louis Post-Dispatch: "Barack Obama is aware of yesterday, but he is about today and tomorrow and next year. In a strong field of Democratic presidential contenders, he offers the best hope of transforming the debate and moving on to what America can be in the 21st century."
http://www.stltoday.com
San Francisco Chronicle: "In a Jan. 17 meeting with our editorial board, Obama demonstrated an impressive command of a wide variety of issues. He listened intently to the questions. He responded with substance. He did not control a format without a stopwatch on answers or constraints on follow-up questions, yet he flourished in it. He radiated the sense of possibility that has attracted the votes of independents and tapped into the idealism of young people during this campaign. He exuded the aura of a 46-year-old leader who could once again persuade the best and the brightest to forestall or pause their grand professional goals to serve in his administration."
http://www.sfgate.com/
Newspapers that have endorsed Obama
AL - Tuscaloosa News
AZ - The Arizona Republic
CA - Black Voice News
CA - Chico News & Review
CA - Inland Valley Daily Bulletin
CA - Long Beach Leader
CA - Los Angeles Sentinel
CA - Marin Pacific Sun
CA - Modesto Bee
CA - North Bay Bohemian
CA - Palm Springs Desert Sun
CA - Pasadena Star-News/San Gabriel Valley Tribune/Whittier Daily News
CA - Precinct Reporter
CA - Riverside Press-Enterprise
CA - Sacramento Bee
CA - San Diego City Beat
CA - San Francisco Bay Guardian
CA - San Francisco Bay View
CA - San Francisco Chronicle
CA - San Jose Mercury News
CA - Santa Barbara Independent
CA - Santa Cruz Sentinel
CA - Tri County Bulletin
CA - Stockton Record
CT - The Day
FL - Gainesville Sun
FL - Palm Beach Post
FL - Tampa Tribune
FL - St. Petersburg Times
GA - Atlanta Journal Constitution
GA - Atlanta Daily World
IA - Ames Iowa State Daily
IA - Des Moines El Latino
IA - Iowa City Press Citizen
IA - Iowa City Daily Iowan
IA - Sioux City Journal
IA - Logan Herald-Observer
IA - Ottumwa Courier
IL - Chicago Defender
IL - Chicago Tribune
IL - Daily Herald
IL - Belleville News Democrat
MA - Bay State Banner
MA - Boston Globe
MA - Daily News Tribune
MA - The Springfield Republican
ME - Portland Press Herald
MO - Kansas City Call
MO - St. Louis Post-Dispatch
NH - Littleton Courier
NH - Nashua Telegraph
NH - Portsmouth Herald
NH - Valley News
NJ - The Trenton Times
NV - Las Vegas Review Journal
NV - Reno Gazette Journal
NV - Elko Free Press
NY - New York Observer
PA - Philadelphia Inquirer
SC - The State
SC - The Rock Hill Herald
SC - The Greenville News
TN - Tri-State Defender
TX - Dallas Morning News
WA - The Seattle Times
  