
    On February 11, 2013, President Barack Obama will award Clinton Romesha, a former active duty Army Staff Sergeant, the Medal of Honor for conspicuous gallantry.
Staff Sergeant Romesha will receive the Medal of Honor for his courageous actions while serving as a Section Leader with Bravo Troop, 3d Squadron, 61st Cavalry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division during combat operations against an armed enemy at Combat Outpost Keating, Kamdesh District, Nuristan Province, Afghanistan on October 3, 2009.
He will be the fourth living recipient to be awarded the Medal of Honor for actions in Iraq or Afghanistan. He and his family will join the President at the White House to commemorate his example of selfless service.
PERSONAL BACKGROUND
Staff Sergeant Romesha separated from the Army on April 4, 2011. He and his family currently live in Minot, North Dakota. He is married to Tamara (Tami) Romesha and they have three children; Dessi, Gwen, and Colin.
Staff Sergeant Romesha enlisted in the Army in September 1999 as an M1 Armor Crewman. After completion of training at Ft Knox, he was assigned as a Tank Gunner with B Company, 1-63rd Armor, Camp Vilseck, Germany which included an Operational Deployment to Kosovo. After Germany, he was assigned as a Gunner/Assistant Tank Commander with A Company, 2-72nd Armor, Camp Casey, Korea. Following Korea, which included a Combat Tour to Iraq, he was assigned as a Section Leader with 3-61st Cav, Ft Carson, CO. There he completed the Long Range Reconnaissance Course, Advanced Leader Course, and Air Assault Training.
At the time of the October 3, 2009 combat engagement, Staff Sergeant Romesha was a Section Leader assigned to B Troop, 3-61 Cav, 4th BCT, 4th ID. His actions were performed at COP Keating, Kamdesh District, Afghanistan.
His military decorations include: the Afghanistan Campaign Medal w/ Campaign Star, Iraq Campaign Medal w/three Campaign Stars, Bronze Star Medal, three Army Commendation Medals, Purple Heart, five Army Achievement Medals, Valorous Unit Award, Army Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Kosovo Campaign Medal, Korean Defense Service Medal, Non Commissioned Officer Professional Development Ribbon w/ Numeral 2, Army Service Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon w/ Numeral 5, NATO Medal w/ Bronze Service Star, and the Combat Action Badge.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
THE MEDAL OF HONOR:
The Medal of Honor is awarded to members of the Armed Forces who distinguishes themselves conspicuously by gallantry above and beyond the call of duty while:

engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States; 
engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing foreign force; or 
serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict against an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a belligerent party. 

The meritorious conduct must involve great personal bravery or self-sacrifice so conspicuous as to clearly distinguish the individual above his or her comrades and must have involved risk of life. There must be incontestable proof of the performance of the meritorious conduct, and each recommendation for the award must be considered on the standard of extraordinary merit.
  