
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Robert J. Callahan, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua. Mr. Callahan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as a Diplomatic Fellow at the George Washington University. Prior to this, he served as Director of Public Diplomacy in the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Earlier in his career, he served as a Public Affairs Officer in Rome. Mr. Callahan received his bachelor's degree from Loyola University and his master's degree from DePaul University.
The President intends to nominate Heather M. Hodges, of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador. Ambassador Hodges, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Human Resources at the Department of State. Prior to this, she served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Moldova. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Madrid. Ambassador Hodges received her bachelor's degree from the College of St. Catherine and her master's degree from New York University.
The President intends to nominate Barbara J. Stephenson, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama. Ms. Stephenson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Coordinator for Iraq at the Department of State. Prior to this, she served as a Principal Officer in Belfast. Earlier in her career, she served as a Political and Economic Officer in Panama. Ms. Stephenson received her bachelor's degree, master's degree, and PhD from the University of Florida.
The President intends to nominate William E. Todd, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Brunei Darussalam. Mr. Todd, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, currently serves as Deputy Inspector General at the State Department. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Civilian Police, Rule of Law, Asia, Africa, and Europe in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the Department of State. Mr. Todd received his bachelor's degree from Longwood College.
  