
    Pool Reports by Morgan Chalfant, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




January 19, 202110:10

In town pool report #1 -- good morning
Good morning from the White House. I'll be your print pooler for President Trump's last full day in office.
The restricted in-house pool has been tested for COVID-19 in lower press.
The president currently has no public events on his schedule. I will let you know if that changes and please feel free to reach out with any questions.
By the way, the security downtown is very tight. Your pooler had to navigate a large perimeter downtown around the White House and spotted several National Guard troops.



January 19, 202112:48

In-town pool report #2 -- lunch lid
At 12:45 p.m., the White House called a lunch lid until 2 p.m.



January 19, 202115:05

In-town pool report #3 -- info on Trump farewell speech
Judd Deere passes the following along:
President Trump's farewell address will be released today at 4 p.m.
SPEECH EXCERPTS FROM PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP'S FAREWELL ADDRESSThe greatest danger we face is a loss of confidence in ourselves – a loss of confidence in our national greatness.No nation can long thrive that loses faith in its own values, history, and heroes – for these are the very sources of our unity and our vitality.America is not a timid nation of tame souls who need to be sheltered and protected from those with whom we disagree.We are—and must always be—a land of hope, of light and of glory to all the world.This week, we inaugurate a new Administration and pray for its success in keeping America safe and prosperous.We did what we came here to do – and so much more.Above all, we have reasserted the sacred idea that in America, the government answers to the people.We restored the idea that in America, no one is forgotten – because everyone matters and everyone has a voice.I took on the tough battles, the hardest fights, the most difficult choices – because that's what you elected me to do.Our agenda was not about right or left, it wasn't about Republican or Democrat, but about the good of a nation, and that means the whole nation.We restored American Strength at home—and American leadership abroad.We built the greatest economy in the history of the world.We revitalized our alliances and rallied the nations of the world to stand up to China like never before.As a result of our bold diplomacy and principled realism, we achieved a series of historic peace deals in the Middle East. It is the dawn of a new Middle East and we are bringing our soldiers home.I am especially proud to be the first president in decades who has started no new wars.All Americans were horrified by the assault on our Capitol. Political violence is an attack on everything we cherish as Americans. It can never be tolerated.Now, as I prepare to hand power over to a new administration at Noon on Wednesday, I want you to know that the movement we started is only just beginning.



January 19, 202115:35

In-town pool report #4 -- Pence spotted
Pool spotted Vice President Pence speaking with about a dozen staffers outside on West Executive Avenue for several minutes. Pool could not hear what he was saying but Pence did get a round of applause from the group after finishing his remarks. He headed back towards the White House afterwards. Pool also spotted HHS Secretary Alex Azar getting into a black SUV nearby.



January 19, 202115:58

In-town pool report #5
Just a little bit more on the president's farewell address -- I am told that it will be released via a link in a press release. I am also told that the address was prerecorded and was taped yesterday.



January 19, 202116:02

In-town pool report #6 -- more on Pence
Vice President Pence was thanking White House Fellows when he was spotted earlier this afternoon, according to his spokesman.



January 19, 202120:38

In-town pool report # 7 -- travel/photo lid
At 8:34 p.m., the White House called a travel/photo lid. Have a great night, everyone.




  