
    
The answers on gun violence at the Republican debate reached an all-time low.
The Republican candidates for president held their most recent debate in Charleston, South Carolina—a city hit by tragedy when nine Americans at a bible study were killed in a mass shooting last year.
But instead of debating how to close the loophole that let the Charleston shooter legally purchase a gun—or any other commonsense steps to prevent further gun violence—the candidates on stage spent their time assuring the gun lobby that they'll have nothing to worry about with a Republican in the White House.
1. When asked if we should keep guns out of the hands of dangerous individuals, Jeb Bush bragged about his support from the NRA.

The moderators asked Bush about the loophole that let the Charleston shooter buy a gun. His reply: "We don't need to add new rules."
2. Donald Trump doesn't think we should prevent anyone from having access to a gun—a convicted felon, a domestic abuser, or even a suspected terrorist.

3. Marco Rubio laid out his plan to undo President Obama's recent executive actions on gun violence prevention.

4. Chris Christie called President Obama a "petulant child" for trying to address the epidemic of gun violence.

Actually, Governor Christie, more than 90 percent of the American people support expanding background checks for gun purchases.
5. And Ted Cruz reminded everyone whose side he's on.

Cruz is proud to have stood in the way of commonsense gun reform. When President Obama and Senator Chuck Schumer fought back against the gun lobby, Cruz bragged that he "led the opposition."
All five of these Republican candidates managed to send one clear message: Not only will they not lift a finger to take on the deadly epidemic of gun violence in this country—but they'll stand on the side of the NRA.
We can't afford to send them to the White House. There's only one candidate in this race who's going to stand up to the gun lobby and take real action to to prevent gun violence in America—and that's Hillary Clinton.
  