
    Pool Reports by Seung Min Kim, The Washington Post



Sent:
Reports:




January 2, 202010:08

Travel pool report #1 — Departing Mar-a-Lago 
Palm Beach, Fla.
Good morning from sunny Palm Beach, Fla., where the high today is projected to reach 80 degrees by early afternoon. The POTUS motorcade departed Mar-a-Lago at 10:07 a.m. for an undisclosed location. Your pooler did not spot POTUS entering the motorcade.
Your pooler has also inquired about the president's schedule today and will pass along any information from the White House.



January 2, 202010:20

Travel pool report #2 — Arrival at Trump International Golf Club 
West Palm Beach, Fla.
The POTUS motorcade arrived at Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Fla., at 10:17 a.m. after an uneventful ride. En route to the golf club, the motorcade passed a number of pro-vaping demonstrators wearing t-shirts and signs, similar to the protesters who were out on the route Wednesday afternoon. The motorcade was also greeted by a large red, white and blue vertical sign across the street from the golf club that read "Thank You" "Winning Winning Winning" and "MEGA KAG"
Your pool is holding at the West Palm Beach library across the street from the golf club.



January 2, 202013:11

Travel pool report #3 — Readout of Trump-Erdogan call 
West Palm Beach, Fla.
Hogan Gidley sends this statement:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. The leaders discussed bilateral and regional issues. President Trump pointed out that foreign interference is complicating the situation in Libya. The leaders agreed on the need for de-escalation in Idlib, Syria, in order to protect civilians.



January 2, 202015:05

Travel pool report #4 — leaving Trump International Golf Club 
West Palm Beach, Fla.
At 3:03 p.m., the POTUS motorcade departed Trump International Golf Club. Your pooler did not see POTUS enter the motorcade.



January 2, 202015:16

Travel pool report #5 — Arrival at Mar-a-Lago 
Palm Beach, Fla.
The presidential motorcade returned to Mar-a-Lago at 3:12 p.m. after an uneventful ride. The pro-vaping demonstrators, now numbering in the dozens, had returned, waving the same signs and wearing the same t-shirts and chanting "We vape! We vote!" On the other side of the road, many Trump supporters lined up the streets and cheered, waving several pro-Trump signs and banners. Spotted among them were an Israeli flag and "Don't Tread On Me" sign (thanks to Nikki Schwab of the DailyMail.com for spotting them). 
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 3:14 p.m. Have a good rest of your day, everyone.




  