
    The President today announced the selection of seven persons to receive the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service, the highest award that can be granted to Federal civilian employees. The award was established in 1957 to recognize outstanding achievement in carrying out the Government's mission with imagination and ability. It consists of a gold medal and a citation signed by the President and is presented "with profound appreciation, highest esteem, and great personal satisfaction" to a small number of individuals each year.
The seven recipients, and the citations from their awards, are:
MORTON I. ABRAMOWITZ, U.S. Ambassador to Thailand
"An outstanding diplomat, demonstrating the highest ideals of dedication and leadership, he used imagination, courage, and unmatched energy to help save thousands of Cambodian lives.
"He became the focal point of efforts to find longer-term political solutions to the dangers threatening Indochina, and his reports, analyses and recommendations provided invaluable guidance in shaping United States policies and action in Southeast Asia."
GLENN W. BURTON, research leader, Forage and Turf Research Science and Education Administration, Department of Agriculture "An internationally recognized crop breeder, his outstanding contributions to the productivity of grass lands have saved untold thousands from malnutrition or starvation.
"He proved that vegetative plantings of a pasture grass can be successful in establishing new, improved varieties, and opened a new horizon in breeding, pearl millet in India and the United States."
ALONZA H. COTTON, Deputy Director, Materiel Management, Air Logistics Center, Department of the Air Force
"A recognized authority and outstanding leader in the field of logistics, he has organized and developed cost effective support systems which have had major impact on our nation's defense.
"His innovative contributions in the field of materiel management, spanning many critical periods this nation has faced, such as the Southeast Asia crisis, have assured the best support possible for United States missions throughout the world."
JOHN T. HUGHES, Deputy Director for Defense Intelligence, Defense Intelligence Agency
"A recognized authority in the field of reconnaissance intelligence and technology, he has made exceptional contributions to the security of the United States.
"His innovative accomplishments in intelligence collection management and brilliant presentations to United States and Allied leaders have had significant, positive impact on intelligence support to our military forces overseas and to the viability of NATO preparedness."
ROBERT T. JONES, senior staff scientist, National Aeronautics and Space Administration "A most distinguished and honored figure in aeronautical engineering in the United States, his contributions span the entire field of aeronautical sciences, including aircraft, missile and spacecraft research.
"Of major consequence are his narrow triangular wing concept, the independence principle for three-dimensional boundary layers, and the concept of the oblique wing, boom-free supersonic airplane."
WILLIAM H. OLDENDORF, senior medical investigator, VA Medical Center, Brentwood, Calif., Veterans Administration
"An outstanding clinician, his work in the field of diagnostic radiology represents some of the best and most significant medical research sponsored by the Veterans Administration.
"His significant contributions to the advancement of medical practice have greatly benefited the veteran and the public. In particular, his conceptualization and demonstration of reconstruction transmission tomography is the most significant recent advancement in the non-invasive diagnosis of solid tumors."
MARY DE LA TORRE PINKARD, former Acting Director, Office of Program Standards and Evaluation, Department of Housing and Urban Development (presented posthumously)
"Recognized nationally for outstanding contributions to the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity Program, she participated in every major task force created to develop new programs or policy.
"She transformed legislation into operating regulations, and was the primary author of policies concerning Tenant Selection and Assignment, EEO requirements under the Model Cities Program, and the inclusion of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity Standards in all HUD programs."
  