
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 20
In the morning, the President traveled to Houston, TX, where he met with the family of former Congresswoman Barbara Jordan before her funeral. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
January 21
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton toured the Johannes Vermeer exhibit at the National Gallery of Art.
The President declared a major disaster in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by flooding beginning January 19 and continuing.
January 22
The White House announced that the President has invited President Konstandinos Stephanopoulos of Greece for a state visit on May 9.
January 23
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on January 19 and continuing.
The President announced his intention to nominate Elmer B. Staats to the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Marsha M. Bera-Morris as a member of the Department of Defense Retirement Board of Actuaries.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lawrence Neal Benedict as Ambassador to Cape Verde.
January 24
In the morning, the President met with the family of former Congressman Mike Synar at St. John's Church Lafayette Square before the Congressman's memorial service.
In the early afternoon, the President traveled to Louisville, KY. Aboard Air Force One en route, he had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich on the national debt ceiling. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey as Director of National Drug Control Policy.
The President declared major disasters in the States of Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by the "Blizzard of 1996," which occurred January 7-13.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning January 19 and continuing.
January 25
The President declared a major disaster in the State of West Virginia and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning January 19 and continuing.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas Fink to the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
January 26
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia.
In the evening, the President attended the annual convention of the National Association of Hispanic Publications at the National Press Club.
  