
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 4
Robert E. Rubin, of New York, to be Secretary of the Treasury, vice Lloyd Bentsen, resigned.
Robert E. Rubin, of New York, to be U.S. Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the African Development Bank for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the Asian Development Bank; U.S. Governor of the African Development Fund; U.S. Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Ronna Lee Beck, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Bruce D. Beaudin, resigned.
Linda Kay Davis, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Gladys Kessler, elevated.
Eric T. Washington, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Ricardo M. Urbina, elevated.
Submitted January 5
Terrence B. Adamson, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 1997 (reappointment).
Yerker Andersson, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1996, vice Anne C. Seggerman, term expired.
Martin Neil Baily, of Maryland, to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Alan S. Blinder, resigned.
Calton Windley Bland, of North Carolina, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of North Carolina for a term of 4 years, vice William I. Berryhill, Jr.
Robert G. Breunig, of Arizona, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1998 (reappointment).
Robert Clarke Brown, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term of 6 years, vice Jack Edwards, term expired.
Howard W. Cannon, of Nevada, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring March 3, 1998 (reappointment).
Herschelle Challenor, of Georgia, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years, vice Steven Muller.
Sheila Cheston, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force, vice Gilbert F. Casellas.
Kinshasha Holman Conwill, of New York, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1997, vice Willard L. Boyd, term expired.
Juan Abran DeHerrera, of Wyoming, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Wyoming for the term of 4 years, vice Delaine Roberts.
G. Edward DeSeve, of Pennsylvania, to be Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice Edward Joseph Mazur, resigned.
Robert F. Drinan, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years, a new position.
Dennis M. Duffy, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Policy and Planning), vice Victor P. Raymond.
Jay C. Ehle, of Ohio, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Conrad Fredin.
Maurice B. Foley, of California, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term expiring 15 years after he takes office, vice Charles E. Clapp II, retired.
John A. Gannon, of Ohio, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1995 (reappointment).
E. Gordon Gee, of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 1999, vice Gary Eugene Wood, term expired.
Peggy Goldwater-Clay, of California, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring June 5, 2000, vice Barry M. Goldwater, Jr., term expired.
Sanford D. Greenberg, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice Warren J. Baker, term expired.
Susan Hayase, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years, a new position.
Steve M. Hays, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 1997, vice Dianne E. Ingels, term expired.
Eleanor Hill, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Department of Defense, vice Susan J. Crawford.
Kenneth Byron Hipp, of Hawaii, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 1997, vice Patrick J. Cleary, resigned.
Charles Hummel, of Delaware, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1999, vice Marilyn Logsdon Mennello, term expired.
Norwood J. Jackson, Jr., of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a new position.
Shirley Ann Jackson, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a term of 5 years expiring June 30, 1999, vice Forrest J. Remick, term expired.
Ayse Manyas Kenmore, of Florida, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for the remainder of the term expiring December 6, 1995, vice Daphne Wood Murray, resigned.
Jerome F. Kever, of Illinois, to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board for a term expiring August 28, 1998 (reappointment).
Cherry T. Kinoshita, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years, a new position.
Elsa H. Kudo, of Hawaii, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years, a new position.
Yeiichi Kuwayama, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years, a new position.
Charles T. Manatt, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Communications Satellite Corporation until the date of the annual meeting of the Corporation in 1997, vice Rudy Boschwitz.
Charles L. Marinaccio, of the District of Columbia, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 1996, vice George H. Pfau, Jr., term expired.
Nancy Marsiglia, of Louisiana, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1998, vice George S. Rosborough, Jr., term expired.
Marciene S. Mattleman, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for the remainder of the term expiring October 12, 1995, vice Jim Edgar, resigned.
Audrey L. McCrimon, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1997, vice Robert S. Mueller, term expired.
Eve L. Menger, of New York, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice Arden L. Bement, Jr., term expired.
Dale Minami, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years, a new position.
Claudia I. Mitchell-Kernan, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice Daniel C. Drucker, term expired.
Thomas Hill Moore, of Florida, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for the remainder of the term expiring October 26, 1996, vice Jacqueline Jones-Smith, resigned.
Bruce A. Morrison, of Connecticut, to be a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board for a term expiring February 27, 2000, vice William C. Perkins, resigned.
Don T. Nakanishi, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years, a new position.
Diana S. Natalicio, of Texas, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice Charles L. Hosler, Jr., term expired.
J. Timothy O'Neill, of Virginia, to be a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board for the remainder of the term expiring February 27, 1997, vice Marilyn R. Seymann, resigned.
Rose Ochi, of California, to be an Associate Director for National Drug Control Policy, vice Kay Coles James, resigned.
Joe Bradley Pigott, of Mississippi, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi for the term of 4 years, vice George L. Phillips.
Robert Pitofsky, of Maryland, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 1994, vice Deborah Kaye Owen, resigned.
Lilliam Rangel Pollo, of Florida, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1996, vice Helen Wilshire Walsh, term expired.
Lt. Gen. William W. Quinn, USA, Ret., of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 1999 (reappointment).
Debra Robinson, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1997, vice Anthony Hurlbutt Flack, term expired.
Arthur Rosenblatt, of New York, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1997, vice Richard J. Schwartz, term expired.
Vincent Reed Ryan, Jr., of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Panama Canal Commission, vice Walter J. Shea.
Lynda Hare Scribante, of Nebraska, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 1999, vice Dean Burch.
Niranjan Shamalbhai Shah, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring August 11, 1998, vice Timothy W. Tong, term expired.
Stanley K. Sheinbaum, of California, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years, vice John P. Roche, resigned.
Robert M. Solow, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice Peter H. Raven, term expired.
Virgil M. Speakman, of Ohio, to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board for a term expiring August 28, 1999 (reappointment).
Catherine Baker Stetson, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2000, vice James D. Santini, term expired.
Joseph E. Stevens, Jr., of Missouri, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 1997, vice Truman McGill Hobbs, term expired.
Robert M. Sussman, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a term of 5 years expiring June 30, 1998, vice James R. Curtiss, term expired.
Ruth Y. Tamura, of Hawaii, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1996, vice James H. Duff, term expired.
Juan F. Vasquez, of Texas, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term expiring 15 years after he takes office, vice Perry Shields, retired.
Lynne C. Waihee, of Hawaii, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of 3 years, a new position.
Warren M. Washington, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice Roland W. Schmitt, term expired.
John A. White, Jr., of Georgia, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice Benjamin S. Shen, term expired.
Townsend Wolfe, of Arkansas, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1995, vice Rosemary G. McMillan, term expired.
Steven L. Zinter, of South Dakota, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 1997, vice Richard J. Fitzgerald, resigned.
Dan M. Berkovitz, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2000, vice E. Gail de Planque, term expiring.
Deborah Dudley Branson, of Texas, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 1996, vice Jesse D. Winzenreid, term expired.
Eugene Branstool, of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, vice John R. Dahl.
Martin James Burke, of New York, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Romolo J. Imundi.
Joan Challinor, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 1999, vice Elinor H. Swaim, term expired.
Shirley Sears Chater, of Texas, to be Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2001, a new position.
Albert James Dwoskin, of Virginia to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 1995, vice Frank G. Zarb, term expired.
J. Don Foster, of Alabama, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama for the term of 4 years, vice J. B. Sessions III, resigned.
Robert Talcott Francis II, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for the term expiring December 31, 1999, vice John K. Lauber, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Phillip Frost, of Florida, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1996, vice Arthur C. Beale, term expired.
Denis J. Hauptly, of Minnesota, to be Chairman of the Special Panel on Appeals for a term of 6 years, vice Barbara Jean Mahone, term expired.
Wilma A. Lewis, of the District of Columbia, to be Inspector General, Department of the Interior, vice James R. Richards, resigned.
Kathleen A. McGinty, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Council on Environmental Quality, vice Michael R. Deland, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
George K. McKinney, of Maryland, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Maryland for the term of 4 years, vice Scott Alan Sewell.
Tony Scallon, of Minnesota, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of 3 years, vice John K. Stewart, term expired.
Janie L. Shores, of Alabama, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 1997, vice Vivi L. Dilweg, term expired.
Sheila Anne Smith, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of 3 years, vice Frank B. Sollars, term expired.
William L. Wilson, of Minnesota, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Virgil E. Brown, resigned.
  