
    Today in Salinas, California, at an event with more than 1,000 people the United Farm Workers gave its enthusiastic endorsement to Senator Hillary Clinton for President. The UFW represents more than 27,000 farm workers.
"After meeting with and talking to the candidates, the UFW board believes Hillary Clinton to be the strongest, most experienced candidate for President of the United States. She will be able to tackle our nation's toughest problems - health care, improving the economy for working people and repairing our country's standing in the world. Senator Clinton has stood with farm workers and immigrants - fighting for comprehensive immigration reform, sponsoring the UFW sponsored AgJOBS and helping 1,800 farm workers sign a union contract with D'Arrigo after 30 years," said UFW President Arturo Rodriguez.
The UFW, founded in 1962 by Cesar E. Chavez and Dolores Huerta, and often described as the conscience of the labor movement for its inspiring fights for low wage working families, is the first successful and most influential farm labor union in the United States. Throughout its 40 year history, the UFW has worked to organize farm workers, raise wages and improve working conditions for its members and all farm workers.
"I am very grateful for the UFW"s support," said Clinton. "You work in some of the most difficult conditions imaginable, and you do it with courage, optimism and determination. I am humbled to have your support -- and you will have mine."
Hillary has been endorsed by more than a dozen unions representing about 6 million working families nationwide, including: Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union; International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers; Transportation Communications Union; National Association of Letter Carriers; International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers; American Federation of Teachers; the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees; Sheet Metal, Air, Rail and Transportation Workers; Amalgamated Transit Union; Office and Professional Employees International Union; and the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts, and the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades.
  