
    SOUTH BEND, IN — Today, Congressman Anthony G. Brown (D-MD) announced he is backing Pete Buttigieg for President of the United States, citing Pete's ability to unite Americans around our country's shared values. Brown, who is the former Lt. Governor of Maryland, served his country in Iraq, and is a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, will become the campaign's first national co-chair.
"Our country needs a president who can heal our divides and restore decency to our nation's highest office," said Brown. "Pete's message is not defined by exclusion but welcomes everyone into the fight to tackle our nation's greatest challenges. As we fight for the future of the soul of our country here at home, we also remain entangled in endless wars abroad and the threats to American lives and interests around the world have increased. After serving three decades in the Army and Army Reserve and now as Vice Chair of the House Armed Services Committee, I'm acutely aware that the top priority for the President should be the security and safety of our nation, which is why my choice for president is Mayor Pete Buttigieg."
"As a veteran of the Iraq War, Congressman Brown understands firsthand the gravity of the decisions that are made in Washington," said Buttigieg. "Congressman Brown has been a leader in rejecting the political warfare we have come to expect from Washington, focused on keeping our nation safe while working to end endless wars, boosting workforce development, and make sure we have an economy that works for everyone. I am honored to have Congressman Brown's endorsement and am thrilled to have him co-chair my campaign, as we work together to heal our nation's divides and restore decency and respect to the presidency so that we can get to work on the urgent issues facing our country."
Brown is a former Colonel of the United States Army Reserve and while Lt. Governor was one of the highest ranking public officials to have served in Iraq and earned the Bronze Star. He served in the U.S. Army and Army Reserve for more than 30 years. He currently serves as the Vice Chair of the House Armed Services Committee where he works to support the men and women serving in our Armed Forces while shaping policy to ensure the country is making smart investments to fight 21st-century threats and keep our country safe. During his time as Lt. Governor of Maryland, Brown worked to increase employment opportunities and health services to veterans. Brown is also a member of the Congressional Black Caucus.
  