
    
  Iowans rally in support of Ted Cruz

HOUSTON, Texas – After 6 days, 28 stops, and thousands of courageous conservatives who showed up to greet Ted Cruz, the #CruzinToCaucus bus tour was a huge success! Throughout the duration of the tour, Cruz met with Iowans in many parts of the Hawkeye State often neglected by presidential candidates. It was a chance for many Iowa families to hear from a principled leader who shares and fights for their values, and it was an opportunity for them to join the building movement in their home state. Below is a roundup of some of the coverage of the tour:


ABC News: Five Takeaways From Ted Cruz's Iowa Bus Tour
Cruz visited several rural towns with populations in the thousands. One town had a population of 600. Despite the size of the towns and the snowy weather, Cruz turned out large crowds that fogged up windows at local restaurants and diners. Some took selfies with the senator. Others had him sign their copy of the Constitution. Some cried as they talked to Cruz and some literally swooned over him.
This man just told @tedcruz "I'm blind but I can still see through Hillary" pic.twitter.com/Zt4jVFpMFd
— Michelle Fields (@MichelleFields) January 5, 2016

New York Times: In Iowa, Ted Cruz Savors Lead Role
Barnstorming Iowa on a six-day, 28-town campaign tour this week, he is even displaying a touch of swagger. He warns Iowans at every stop to expect tens of millions of dollars in ads attacking him to reach their TVs and mailboxes any day now.
Joined on his 45-foot bus by a phalanx of aides and a camera crew from Showtime, and with a second motor coach carrying a swelling group of reporters, Mr. Cruz boasted about the fresh denunciations being directed his way. "I guess something has changed," he said with barely concealed delight.
Day 4. Stop 15 of 28 stop @tedcruz bus tour. Humboldt, Iowa. pic.twitter.com/qg3Fioxjo2
— Jessica Hopper (@jesshop23) January 7, 2016

Washington Post: Ted Cruz promises conservative Iowa something it's never had: A nominee
This year, many voters in Sioux County are saying they have a candidate in Cruz (R-Tex.) who shares their views — and who, critically, has a campaign and resources to do more than win northwest Iowa, more than send the fruitless messages of past years to the national GOP. They think he could win the Republican nomination. And they are all the more emboldened that it is the establishment this year that has not been able to pick a front-runner.
.@heidiscruz joins Ted on the Iowa bus tour today. "He was raised reading the Constitution at the dinner table." pic.twitter.com/swoZjW7B68
— Betsy Klein (@betsy_klein) January 9, 2016

KCCI: Ted Cruz launches bus tour across Iowa
It was standing room only with hundreds of supporters crammed into the bookstore.
"I think he would take the country on the right path that we desperately need," said Leonard Wallace, of Boone.
Cruz launched his week-long Cruzin' to Caucus bus tour across Iowa Monday. He spoke about his plans for America and asked Iowans to caucus for him when Feb. 1 rolls around.
Cruz Stop #13: Storm Lake, Iowa pic.twitter.com/Mlj2xgdt24
— Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) January 7, 2016

KWWL: Ted Cruz Making Stops in Northeast Iowa
It was a packed house, as people stood shoulder to shoulder in the small room.
Cheering as Cruz announced his plans to repeal the Health Care Act and Common Core.
"We need a person that is going to change our country because if we don't our county isn't going to be here," said Cruz supporter Steve Krogman.
For Steve and many others at the event, Ted Cruz is the man to do it.
.@tedcruz surrounded by Iowans eager to hear what he is going to do for Iowa. @KWWL pic.twitter.com/THCcdhnbTy
— Jessica Hartman KWWL (@JessicaKWWL) January 9, 2016

Washington Post: 28 counties. 27 days to the caucuses. Lows in the teens: Aboard Ted Cruz's Iowa campaign bus
10:30 p.m., Missouri Valley, Iowa It's late and Penny's, a 24-hour diner whose blue plate special is a hot meatloaf sandwich for $7.99 and desserts are cinnamon rolls and bread pudding, is packed with Cruz supporters and media — it's hard to move around.
CNN: Takeaways from Ted Cruz's Iowa road trip
On the surface, Ted Cruz looked as strong as ever during his six-day, 28-county bus tour across the Hawkeye State last week week, filling Christian bookstores and old schoolhouses as he trekked from the Missouri to the Mississippi rivers at a workmanlike pace. He took dozens of shouted questions each day at events not billed as town halls, and reveled in the adoration given to a candidate who badly wants to earn top billing here on February 1.
His red meat connected. His crowds swelled. His applause never ended.
At 11:15 pm, Ted Cruz shaking hands and snapping selfies with voters inside an Iowa diner pic.twitter.com/CkHczq56DP
— Katie Zezima (@katiezez) January 5, 2016

The Blaze: 10 Best Jokes From Ted Cruz's Iowa Bus Tour Stump Speech
While traveling between small towns in Iowa this week on a campaign bus tour, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) peppered his standard 2016 presidential stump speech with jokes poking fun at Hillary Clinton, Democrats in general and the media.
NBC News: Cruz's Iowa Bus Tour Brings Out Thoughts of Family

KCRG: Cruz Takes Campaign Bus Tour Through Eastern Iowa
Ted Cruz made the final stops on his six day bus tour throughout Iowa on Saturday and spoke at Luigi's restaurant in Oelwein to a crowd that gathered with beers in their hand, Italian food in their stomachs, and the February caucus on their minds.
...
Cruz's poll numbers sky rocketed in early December and in most recent major polling he passed Donald Trump, putting him as the front runner.
  