
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that U.S. Representative Pete Hoekstra (R-MI), the top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee, will be joining the Romney for President Exploratory Committee. Representative Hoekstra will serve as Governor Romney's adviser on all matters pertaining to U.S. intelligence.
Governor Romney also named Representative Hoekstra as a Co-Chair of his Michigan state organization helping to organize areas of Western Michigan.
"I am honored that Representative Hoekstra will serve as my intelligence adviser. From his many years of service on the House Intelligence Committee, he has become a leader in America's Intelligence Community," said Governor Romney. "Today, our country faces grave threats and our intelligence professionals must have the resources necessary to safeguard the American people. Our first priority is a safe America and that requires a strong Intelligence Community."
Joining the Romney for President Exploratory Committee, Representative Hoekstra said: "As a governor and as chief executive of the 2002 Winter Olympics, Governor Romney knows good intelligence is necessary for our security. Governor Romney will provide those on the frontlines of the war against radical militant Islam with the resources necessary to win. I know that the professionals who serve in the Intelligence Community will be well served under Governor Romney."
Background On Representative Pete Hoekstra:
Representing Michigan's Second Congressional District, Representative Hoekstra Is An Authority On U.S. Intelligence Issues. In August 2004, he was named Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, where he had served since 2001. As the current top Republican on the Committee, he is helping to lead Congressional oversight and ensure a strong Intelligence Community.
Representative Hoekstra was originally sworn in to the 103rd Congress in 1993. He served a key role in the development of the Contract with America and is a member of several task forces and caucuses, including the Congressional Pro-Life Caucus.
  