
    Denver, CO – Colorado for Hillary today announced the endorsements of former Richardson Colorado Co-Chairs Polly Baca and Lawrence Martinez, superdelegate Ramona Martinez, and Richardson Steering Committee members Val Vigil and Tish Maes.
"Hillary has the strength to win and the experience to lead. For 35 years, she has stood tall and stood firm for working families. Hillary doesn't just talk about change; she delivers it. I believe her Presidency will mark a new beginning for America," said Lawrence Martinez.
Lawrence Martinez has worked with the Graphic Communications International Union for more than 40 years, serving in many positions including Senior Vice President. His work with the Democratic Party spans several decades.
"As someone who has worked for the advancement of the Hispanic community, I share Clinton's commitment to creating opportunity for all Americans. Clinton knows that change requires hard work. She has spent her life finding real solutions to the big challenges we face, and will continue to do so as President," said Ramona Martinez, a member of the DNC and a superdelegate to the convention. Martinez also served as President of the Denver City Council.
"I have known Hillary for more than three decades and have always admired her commitment to serving others. When Hillary graduated from law school she chose to work for the Children's Defense Fund, beginning a life-long commitment to fighting for children and families. As President she will continue to deliver real change to improve the lives of all Americans," said Polly Baca.
Baca served in the Clinton administration and was also elected a Colorado state representative and state senator. She served as vice-chair of the Democratic National Committee from 1981 to 1989 and is currently the President and CEO of the Latin American Research and Service Agency (LARASA).
Clinton also picked up the endorsements today of former Colorado State Representative Val Vigil and Tish Maes, members of Richardson's Colorado Steering committee.
  