
    On Thursday, January 3, 2019, the President signed into law:
H.R. 1660, the "Global Health Innovation Act of 2017," which requires the United States Agency for International Development to report to the Congress on the development and use of global health innovations in its programs;
H.R. 3460, which designates the United States courthouse located at 323 East Chapel Hill Street in Durham, North Carolina, as the John Hervey Wheeler United States Courthouse;
H.R. 6287, the "9/11 Memorial Act," which authorizes competitive grants for the operation, security, and maintenance of certain memorials to victims of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001;
S. 2276, the "Good Accounting Obligation in Government Act" or the "GAO–IG Act," which requires each Federal agency, in its annual budget justification submitted to the Congress, to report on the status of certain Government Accountability Office and Office of Inspector General recommendations;
S. 2652, the "Stephen Michael Gleason Congressional Gold Medal Act," which provides for the award of a Congressional Gold Medal to Stephen Michael Gleason;
S. 2679, the "Veterans Small Business Enhancement Act of 2018," which amends the Small Business Act to provide veteran-owned small businesses access to surplus property owned by the Federal government;
S. 2765, the "RBIC Advisers Relief Act of 2018," which exempts investment advisers who solely advises Rural Business Investment Companies (RBICs) or companies applying for an RBIC license from the requirement to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
S. 2896, the "Justice Against Corruption on K Street Act of 2018" or the "JACK Act," which requires lobbyists to disclose convictions of certain crimes when registering as lobbyists with the Congress;
S. 3031, the "Federal Personal Property Management Act of 2018," which requires Federal agencies, in accordance with guidance from the General Services Administration, to conduct an inventory and assessment of personal property;
S. 3367, the "Department of Transportation Reports Harmonization Act," which requires the Department of Transportation to make certain reports and information publicly available; and establishes sunset dates for certain Federal advisory councils and committees;
S. 3444, which designates the community-based outpatient clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Lake Charles, Louisiana, as the Douglas Fournet Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic; and
S. 3777, the "Forever GI Bill Housing Payment Fulfillment Act of 2018," which requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a tiger team to address issues with implementing the Forever GI Bill's housing benefits payment requirements.
  