
    NEVADA: At the MSNBC debate, Hillary showed that her 35 years of experience make her the best prepared candidate to lead our nation and bring the real change that America needs. Following the debate, Hillary rallied a packed house of more than 1200 supporters with actress America Ferrera and some of Nevada's most prominent women leaders. Meanwhile President Clinton stumped northern Nevada, talking about Hillary's experience and the importance of caucusing with supporters and undecided voters in Carson City and Sparks. Back in Las Vegas, Chelsea Clinton and America Ferrera visited with young voters, and a jazzed up group of women at a local cosmetology school ready to see Hillary take the White House.
SOUTH CAROLINA: Yesterday, senior campaign adviser Leecia Eve addressed Columbia voters at a policy forum and Hillary was showing the right stuff on stage at the Nevada debate, the South Carolina campaign launched a new TV ad, "Voices." In the ad, Hillary pledges to take the voices of middle-class Americans to the White House with her 35-year record of experience to make real change for the country.
ALABAMA: Clinton supporters held a Nevada debate watch party last night in Birmingham.
ALASKA: Hillary supporters in Alaska gathered together for a debate watch party last night at the Pepper Mill Restaurant in Anchorage, AK.
ARIZONA: Arizona for Hillary held a debate watch party for supporters in Phoenix, AZ.
ARKANSAS: Hillary Clinton for President Campaign today announced that Arkadelphia businesswoman and Democratic National Committee Member Martha Dixon will serve as co-chair of Senator Clinton's Arkansas campaign.
CALIFORNIA: Hillary Clinton holds a commanding lead over Barack Obama in California, a new statewide L.A. Times/CNN/Politico poll has found. Clinton leads Obama 47% to 31% among voters judged likely to cast ballots in California... President Bill Clinton drew a crowd of more than 10,000 at UC Davis, where he spoke to students and supporters that Hillary Clinton is the best candidate for the White House. Video: The CA Clinton Campaign opened its newest field offices today in Fresno and Sacramento and in celebration, both offices hosted a Nevada Democratic Presidential Debate Watch Party. President Bill Clinton made a special appearance at the Sacramento office where he joined with area supporters to watch the MSNBC debate.
COLORADO: Former Denver Mayor Wellington Webb and Assistant Majority Leader Michael Garcia held a press conference call last night to discuss Senator Hillary Clinton's performance in the NBC Debate where she once again made clear that she is the candidate best prepared to lead this country starting on day one.
CONNECTICUT: Hillary was endorsed by former Connecticut Democratic Party Chair George Jepsen. George served as the Chair of Ned Lamont's 2006 campaign for the U.S. Senate and is a former Majority Leader of the State Senate. In his endorsement he described Hillary as "the American people's best hope to move our country in a new and positive direction."
ILLINOIS: The campaign held debate watch parties in Chicago.
KANSAS: Hillary supporters held a debate watch party in Wichita.
MASSACHUSETTS: Continuing its momentum in the Bay State, the Hillary Clinton for President Campaign announced today that Massachusettes natives Roger Lau, Mark Daley, and Katie Sullivan have returned to Massachusetts to serve as State Director, Communications Director, and Field Director respectively.
MINNESOTA: Campaign held a conference call with former NTSB Chairman Jim Halland Assistant Senate Majority Leader Tarryl Clark to discuss Hillary's plan to rebuild America's infrastructure. Later the campaign held a debate watch party in Minneapolis.
MISSOURI: Supporters gathered for debate watch parties in St. Louis and Kansas City.
NEW JERSEY: The campaign in New Jersey announced Brendan Gilfillan as the state's communications director.
NEW YORK: President Clinton appeared on Rev. Al Sharpton's radio show for an hour and discussed why Hillary's health care plan is the best. Supporters in Broome County were buzzing after dozens of Hillary's friends and constituents met in Binghamton to organize to help Hillary win the Presidency, because they have seen what she has done for New York, and know what she will accomplish for the country.
OKLAHOMA: The campaign hosted a debate watch party for supporters in Norman.
  