
    LAS VEGAS, Nev. – Bernie 2020 this week will launch its first TV ads in Nevada, which will run in both Spanish and English.
The campaign will run two ads in English, including "Fights For Us," which highlights Sanders' unwavering dedication to causes that improve the lives of all Americans. "Bernie Sanders. He's fighting to raise wages. Leading the fight to guarantee health care," the narrator says.
"For All" highlights Sanders' commitment to fight for working people when he is in the White House. "Our campaign is funded by the working people of this country, and those are the people that I will represent. No more tax breaks for billionaires," Sanders says in the ad.
The campaign will also run an ad in Spanish, titled, "Nuestro Futuro."
All three ads were produced entirely in-house by Bernie 2020 staff.
The full ad, "Fights For Us," can be seen here and the transcript is below:
Growing up in a family that struggled economically powerfully influenced my values. Bernie SandersHe's fighting to raise wages.Leading the fight to guarantee health care.Now, our country is at a turning point.Hard working people, betrayed by Trump, struggling to survive.We need a fighter.Bernie Sanders. We know he'll fight for us as president because he always has.I'm Bernie Sanders and I approve this message.
The full ad, "For All," can be seen here and the transcript is below:
Huge tax breaks for the rich, while the middle-class continues to struggle.That's what happens when billionaires are able to control the political system.Our campaign is funded by the working people of this country, and those are the people that I will represent.No more tax breaks for billionaires.We are going to guarantee healthcare to all people, create up to 20 million good paying jobs and save the planet.I'm Bernie Sanders and I approve this message because we need an economy that works for all, not just wealthy campaign contributors.
The full ad, "Nuestro Futuro," can be seen here and the transcript is below:
La historia de Bernie Sanders, es nuestra historia.Su padre vino a este país buscando una vida mejor. El no sabia hablar ingles y casi no tenía dinero.Bernie nunca olvido las raíces inmigrante de su familia y por eso él siempre ha luchadopor nosotros.Y pero eso necesitamos Bernie como presidente.Nuestro Futuro. Nuestra Lucha.I'm Bernie Sanders and I approve this message.
  