
    Pool Reports by Brett Samuels, The Hill



Sent:
Reports:




January 4, 202009:47

Out of town travel pool report #1
Good morning from sunny Palm Beach. I'll be your print pooler today.
The motorcade is rolling from Mar-a-Lago at 9:47 a.m. to an undisclosed location. Updates to follow.



January 4, 202009:58

Out of town pool report #2: Golf arrival
Motorcade arrived at Trump International Golf Club at 9:56 a.m.. Your pooler could not spot POTUS.
Pool vans peeled off at the golf club entrance and we are now holding at the library across the street.
Just outside Mar-a-Lago, about a dozen demonstrators were gathered to express opposition to restrictions on e-cigarette flavors. They held signs that read "Unicorn Vomit is Harmless" and "PMTA Will Kill Small Businesses," references to a vape flavor and an FDA rule, respectively.



January 4, 202015:13

Out of town pool report #3: Leaving golf club
Press vans rejoined the motorcade, which departed Trump International Golf Club at 3:12 p.m.
The White House has not responded to multiple inquiries from your pooler about what the president did while at the golf club. I will pass along any updates if and when I get them.
Press vans rejoined the motorcade, which departed Trump International Golf Club at TIME.
The White House has not responded to multiple requests from your pooler about what the president was doing this morning and this afternoon. I will pass along any updates if and when I get them.



January 4, 202015:26

Out of town pool report #4: MAL return
The motorcade arrived back at Mar-a-Lago at 3:21 p.m. after an uneventful drive and press vans peeled off.
Dozens of demonstrators had gathered on the sidewalks near the entryway to the property.
The pro-flavored vape group, including the man with the "Unicorn vomit is harmless" sign and another man with a sign reading "green apple saved my life," were on one side of the road.
Across the street from them were a few dozen Trump supporters who waved flags and held cardboard cut-outs of the president. One man held a black poster that had the word "landslide" written in white.



January 4, 202015:40

Out of town pool report #5: Lid
We have a travel/photo lid at 3:38 p.m. Your pooler did not see the president today.
Enjoy the rest of your Saturday.




  