
    Re: Notification Pursuant to Public Law
95-452 as Amended by Public Law 96-88
("The Inspector General Act of 1978")
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
This is to advise the Senate that I have today exercised my power as President to remove from office the current appointees to the position of Inspector General in the following departments and agencies:
1. Department of Agriculture
2. Department of Commerce
3. Department of Education
4. Department of Housing and Urban Development
5. Department of the Interior
6. Department of Transportation
7. Community Services Administration
8. Environmental Protection Agency
9. General Services Administration
10. National Aeronautics and Space Administration
11. Small Business Administration
12. Veterans Administration
Some of these individuals may be involved in investigations which would be aided by some continued association with their offices. We will want to review these situations to consider asking such individuals to continue their participation on an appropriate basis.
Uncovering fraud, waste and mismanagement of federal funds as well as the promotion of economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the administration of federal programs and operations will be an important priority in my Administration. The Inspectors General will have critical roles in the achievement of this objective. As is the case with all positions where I, as President, have the power of appointment by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, it is vital that I have the fullest confidence in the ability, integrity and commitment of each appointee to the position of Inspector General.
I will be submitting to the Senate in the near future my nomination of an individual for each of these positions who has my confidence and who meets the appropriate qualifications. If any of these individuals wishes to be considered for reappointment, they may indicate their interest and they will be judged in competition with other applicants.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
  