
    
  Ad condemns serial hypocrisy, counterfeit conservatism and flip-flopping of Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today the release of its newest ad 'Three of a Kind' setting straight the records of his three main competitors Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum, and Mitt Romney.



The ad condemns the serial hypocrisy, counterfeit conservatism, and flip-flopping of Gingrich, Santorum, and Romney respectively.
In the ad, Gingrich's unpopular missteps are cited as lobbying for Freddie Mac prior to the housing market collapse, and lobbying for the individual mandate before the passage of Obamacare. Santorum's transgressions against traditional Republican values are defined as increasing funding for Planned Parenthood, growing the national debt, and having a longstanding aversion to Right to Work. Flip-flopper Romney, for his part, supported TARP bailouts and as left-moderate Massachusetts governor provided the blueprint for Obamacare. The ad sums up the views of Paul's three rivals by terming their approach as follows: "Three men, one vision. More big government, more mandates, and less freedom."
The spot then describes how Ron Paul is the candidate of authentic change and how he stands apart from the economically and socially destructive policies of his competitors. It then touts the 12-term Congressman from Texas' record of voting against every tax increase and every unbalanced budget, every time. It reminds viewers that Paul is prolife and pro-Right to Work, two policy stances crucial to South Carolina Republican primary voters, and reiterates elements of the congressman's path-breaking 'Plan to Restore America.'
"At a time when Republican voters are looking for a true conservative to defeat Obama, this ad effectively makes the case that Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum, and Mitt Romney do not measure up. Ron Paul, in stark contrast, is presented as the one and only authentic conservative in the race," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"Ron Paul is the sole alternative to the fair-weather conservatives who grow government, increase mandates, betray the sanctity of life, destroy the patient-doctor relationship, and erode individual workers' rights," added Mr. Benton.
To view the ad online, please click here.
  