
    MSNBC's Chris Matthews - Hillary was 'so strong tonight... she's playing on the varsity team' "She behaved as if she won the Democratic nomination already. That those two partners with her tonight were her adjutants, her allies already. She has won it. She was so strong tonight in skipping past the intramurals to the varsity. She's playing on the varsity team tonight... [her] attack on the president was so dramatic, so powerful, referring to his pathetic effort to try to jawbone the prices down by the middle east oil potentates, made the president look small tonight. She was running as his stronger successor, I might put it, tonight. It was powerful stuff and I wonder if these guys were ready for it. I don't think they were, to take her on tonight, Keith. I thought it was a strong performance tonight. Something else to watch." [MSNBC, 1/15/08]
Reno Gazette Journal's Anjeanette Damon - HRC ‘seizes on the moment' on Yucca Mountain. "The Inevitable Yucca Mountain question is broached: Hillary Clinton seizes on the moment to go after both Barack Obama, pointing out that he has taken large campaign contributions from the nuclear industry in his state, and John Edwards, pointing out that he voted in favor of the project before turning against it." [Reno Gazette Journal, 1/15/08]
NBC News' Andrea Mitchell - Hillary 'had passion' gave a ‘very successful' performance. "Well the strategy was clearly to run against Bush and by doing that she becomes the presumptive leader among these people. She was very forceful and I think effective and not in a strident way when she talked about the urgency of the mortgage crisis because she had detailed information, she had passion about it, but it wasn't a grading thing, it was really a strong, forceful presentation. I thought that was very successful." [MSNBC, 1/15/08]
NBC News' Chuck Todd - 'Clinton is ' the candidate who is saying all the right things.' "Clinton is proving to be the candidate who is saying all the right things as far as Nevada is concerned." [MSNBC First Read, 1/15/08]
ABC News' Rick Klein - When the debate ‘turned to substance' Hillary 'turned it on,' show 'depth and range.' "On energy, an overall strong performance by Clinton. As soon as this debate turned to substance, she's turned it on...Clinton is answering the questions on the economy with depth and range" [ABC, Political Radar, 1/15/08]
ABC News' David Wright - Hillary got 'the better' of Obama. "Seems like the only debate so far is over whether Obama's messy desk is a sign that he's not up to the job. Obama arguing he has vision, but needs staff to handle the...Clinton did seem to get the better of him...Not surprising he should lose that round." [ABC, Political Radar, 1/15/08]
The Atlantic's Marc Ambinder - Hillary 'got the better of an exchange on Yucca Mountain.' "Clinton got the better of an exchange on Yucca Mountain, making sure to drive home the point that John Edwards twice voted in favor of the nuclear waste repository." [The Atlantic blog, 1/15/08]
  