
    ALABAMA: The Montgomery Advertiser endorsed Hillary, "based on her grasp of issues, her impressive work ethic and her personality." Read more... U.S. Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones campaigned across Alabama for Hillary. She kicked off the day by joining local supporters at the opening of the campaign's office in Birmingham. Watch. She then attended the Morehouse University vs. Tuskegee University basketball game in Tuskegee.
CALIFORNIA: Hillary supporters throughout the state hosted and participated in more than 250 "Bring Your Own Phone" (BYOP) parties with friends, family and neighbors across the Golden State. Supporters called undecided voters... U.S. Reps. Hilda Solis, Grace Napolitano and Lucille Roybal-Allard joined human rights leader Dolores Huerta, local elected officials and young Latino voters for the grand opening of the campaign's East Los Angeles field office. Serving a predominantly Latino area, the new office will anchor the campaign's East Los Angeles get out the vote (GOTV) effort, which includes bi-lingual phone banks and Latino and youth outreach.
COLORADO: The campaign's Hispanic Leadership Council held a "Latinas for Hillary" event in Denver... Hillary supporters gathered to watch South Carolina returns.
CONNECTICUT: The Hartford Courant endorsed Hillary. "Mrs. Clinton's positions reflect the fiscal discipline her husband managed to effect in the 1990s." Read more... State Comptroller Nancy Wyman endorsed Hillary. Read more... The campaign announced Hillary will visit Hartford on Monday.
DELAWARE: Clinton senior economic advisor Gary Gensler spoke on behalf of Hillary at a political forum in Newark.
ILLINOIS: Hillary supporters kicked off a two-day statewide phone bank blitz with events around the state.
MASSACHUSETTS: The Worcester Telegram & Gazette endorsed Hillary. "The next president will face considerable domestic challenges, in health care, the economy, [and] education...Overcoming the challenges will require steadfast leadership - with no time for on-the-job training." Read more... Hillary supporters canvassed neighborhoods throughout Massachusetts... The campaign announced that Hillary will hold a "Solutions for the American Economy" town hall in Springfield on Monday.
MISSOURI: In Independence, President Bill Clinton was "frequently interrupted by applause" while talking about the economy, health care and Iraq. Read more.
NEW JERSEY: Staff and volunteers conducted visibility before gathering to watch the South Carolina primary returns in field offices throughout the state.
NEW MEXICO: Former New Mexico Governor Bruce King and his wife, Alice King, endorsed Hillary. John Wertheim, former chair of New Mexico Democratic Party, also joined the campaign. Read more...The campaign launched a new website to highlight Hillary's efforts in the state. Visit.
NEW YORK: U.S. Rep. Steve Israel attended an "Ambassadors for Hillary" house party in Laurel Hollow and answered questions from Long Island women. "Ambassadors for Hillary" is a network of over 1,600 New York women who support Hillary and actively encourage their personal networks to support Hillary... The campaign also launched its effort in Dutchess County with a phone bank.
TENNESSEE: The Memphis Commercial Appeal endorsed Hillary. "Clinton has the experience needed to step into the Oval Office at this critical time." Read more... Hillary spoke about the future and took questions from an "energized" crowd of thousands at a "Solutions for the American Economy" town hall at Tennessee State University. Read more. The campaign announced Hillary will attend worship services today.
UTAH: The Salt Lake Tribune endorsed Hillary. "With this country bogged down in two wars, burdened by a crushing deficit and hurtling toward recession, experience and sheer toughness are essential in a presidential nominee... Hillary has an abundance of both." Read more.
WASHINGTON: The campaign held caucus trainings in Sequim and Vancouver. Read more.
  