
    Pool Reports by Tal Kopan, San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




January 20, 202116:23

VP pool report 1: parade
Harris' motorcade joined the pool on the parade route at 3:36 pm. Her limo's license plate reads "49."
My understanding is most of this is going out live on TV, so I'll focus on color from the scene.
Law enforcement lining the route took pictures or saluted as we rolled by. It was so quiet you could hear camera shutters and the sound of the truck we were on until the drumline began playing. I spotted Harris waving out the window as we rounded the corner onto Pennsylvania Ave.
Harris was escorted by the drumline of her alma mater, Howard University, and the school's Flashy Flags squad and Ooh La La dancers. Below is some background from Harris' office.
At 4 pm VPOTUS exited her limo on Pennsylvania with husband Douglas Emhoff and went the rest of the route on foot. Her family, including grand nieces, met her there with a cheer.
Holding hands with one of her grand nieces, Harris walked down Pennsylvania Ave. Two women in the small crowd yelled "we love you." She waved back.
A reporter shouted "how are you feeling? ""Great!" Harris yelled back.I believe another asked something about Howard and she said "you know!"
As music played, she turned onto West Exec. There was a brief moment of waiting for Doug Emhoff to catch up and take her hand for the walk down to the EEOB.
With the Herald Trumpets playing from the along the White House fence, she continued to the stairs, greeting cheering staff. With a military salute, the music built to a crescendo as she ascended the staircase. At the top, she turned and waved, then entered the building. Harris will head from here to the Capitol, but we are not going with her.
I've attached some pictures and video. If they don't go through, I can see what I can do.
Some color from before the parade, At 3:10 Mayor Bowser walked by and took a photo with the Howard drumline and dancers, at the mayor's request.
Shortly before Biden passed through the parade route, EMTs carried a person on a stretcher into an ambulance. After the VP's motorcade was set on the parade route, it turned on its lights and departed the area. We have no further details.
That's it for me today. Stay safe, all.
Background:Presidential Escort and Arrival at the White HouseFollowing the visit to Arlington National Ceremony, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will arrive at the White House for the first time as the Second Family with a Vice Presidential escort accompanying them. The Vice Presidential escort is a mixed formation of law enforcement and military personnel, which will include representation from five branches of the military, DC Metropolitan Police and the U.S. Secret Service. The Harris-Emhoff immediate family will participate with them, and their extended family will watch from Pennsylvania Avenue.
Upon arrival at the White House, the Vice President and the Second Gentleman will watch the President and First Lady enter the White House then proceed on to West Executive Ave with a military cordon then into the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.
 




 
Pool Reports by Lissandra Villa, TIME Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




January 20, 202121:09

VPOTUS pool report #2: Lincoln Memorial
Hey everyone,
Lissandra Villa from TIME magazine here, reporting for VP pool duty. We arrived at the Lincoln Memorial via motorcade at 9:03 p.m.
As a friendly reminder, you should be able to watch remarks here.
I asked VP's team if they had additional details, including prepared remarks, to pass along but was told they didn't have anything.
Lissa



January 20, 202122:02

VPOTUS pool report #3: Lincoln Memorial
Hey all,
VPOTUS gave brief remarks facing the Lincoln Memorial starting at 9:28 p.m. EST.
It's dark and press held at a distance, so it was difficult to make much out at first, but per her team the group nearby included family members. Pool spotted Meena Harris as the group made its way up the steps of the Lincoln Memorial to gather for fireworks.
VP and the Second Gentleman were spotted on the steps of Lincoln Memorial holding hands and dancing to Lovely Day.
Celebrity sightings include Tom Hanks, Katy Perry and John Legend. Fireworks starting going off as Perry sang "Firework." Harris watched, clasping her hands and clapping near where the I Have A Dream inscription is on the steps.



January 20, 202122:25

VPOTUS Pool Report #4: Lid
Motorcade rolled out of Lincoln Memorial at 10:17 p.m. EST.
Pool briefly spotted VP Harris one last time in the tent tunnel behind the memorial as we were led back to vans.
We have a lid.




  