
    Building on his unique experience in both business and government, Mike's plan helps improve employment prospects by making connections between veterans and employers; also protects military families from predatory banking practices, and provides other support to help transition to civilian life.
Fayetteville, NC — Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg outlined his plan to ensure that veterans have access to quality jobs and economic security for themselves and their families as they transition out of active service and into the civilian economy. Mike's plan, which he detailed during a speech in Fayetteville, North Carolina, before a crowd of veterans and their families, clears the roadblocks to fulfilling work by providing tools and support to help veterans re-enter the workforce and gain new skills, while also providing protections against predatory banking practices.
Nearly three million women and men have served our nation over the last decade and more than one million veterans are expected to transition to civilian life in the next five years, with many facing an uncertain economic future. Our veterans are some of the most knowledgeable, well-trained people America has to offer. They return home with hundreds of unique and valuable skills – and many have more management experience and leadership potential than the average CEO. But one third of all veterans are underemployed, largely because employers don't understand how to apply those skills towards critical roles in their companies.
Mike's plan builds on his unique experience in both business and government, and his understanding about how to make the connection between veterans and companies. He recognizes that the women and men of our Armed Forces come from every corner of America and all backgrounds and, through their service, have gained skills and experience that can strengthen the American economy and communities. And, he knows how to help companies understand the value of what veterans bring and how to make the right connections to benefit both veterans and employers.
Mike's plan:

Creates a central repository of the skills required for a military position and the most common civilian jobs that are related.
Educates companies to better understand the unique skills that veterans bring to the workforce, including the value in including veterans as part of their diversity-and-inclusion efforts.
Calls for the collection of data and developing systems to better evaluate the needs of veterans in order to inform and prioritize future employment support services.
Offers credentialing services and support throughout a veteran's entire career.
Makes employment and education benefits available to veterans, and provides critical financial literacy support to help protect veterans and their families from predatory lenders.
Helps veterans transition to life outside of the military and into new communities.

Mike's plan also provides relief to any veterans that need support to combat the sense of isolation that may contribute to veteran homelessness, opioid use and suicide.
"President Trump has broken his promise to veterans – he's done nothing significant to fix what's broken in the VA, find solutions to the many problems plaguing our vets, or bring people together to help those who've served," said Mike Bloomberg. "As president, I will work every day to repay the debt this country owes our veterans – starting by helping them to succeed in the civilian workforce. Veterans are among the most competent, well-trained people in America, and it's time for the nation to tap into that limitless potential by helping them find jobs that take advantage of their training, teaching them new skills, and giving them the resources required to start a successful business of their own."
In his speech, Mike took on the President's questionable record, and highlighted the need to improve the management of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the challenges that veterans face gaining access to quality healthcare, housing affordability, and other critical issues. Mike's plans to address those and other related issues will be released in the coming weeks.
Mike has a record of supporting veterans and families who have served in the military around the world. As a mayor, businessman, and through his philanthropic work, he has always provided support for veterans as they hang up their uniforms and transition into civilian life. In contrast, despite vowing to support America's veterans, President Trump has proposed budget cuts, sought to undermine the ACA, and gutted critical nutrition and other programs that negatively impact the lives of veterans and their families. On his third day in office, President Trump signed an order freezing pay for federal workers, which disproportionately affected veterans, who are an essential part of the federal workforce.
In addition to unveiling his plan, Mike announced "Veterans and Military Families for Mike," a national organizing program to identify, persuade and turnout members of the veteran and military community for the Bloomberg 2020 campaign. Housed within the National Coalitions and Constituencies program, the Veterans and Military Families organizing program is led by Paul Kennedy, a retired US Marine Corps two-star general. It will include state-based, veteran and military family-specific organizers. North Carolina and California have already begun to implement their programs and outreach with staff dedicated to this program. Additionally, the program will engage a universe of veteran and former military surrogates to support the campaign and introduce relevant policy proposals.
Release and Fact Sheet are available for download here.
OTHER QUOTES
Admiral Michael Mullen, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
"Mike Bloomberg has zeroed in on one of the most important issues for our military families — the transition back to a full and successful civilian life," said Admiral Michael Mullen, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. "He has laid out a series of important policies to provide greater economic security for our veterans."
"We ask our women and men in uniform to give their lives for our country, and invest so much in training them to become great soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines and coast guardsmen, and then we don't do nearly enough to help them find good jobs and careers to support themselves and their families when they come home," Admiral Mullen said. "Mike's plan addresses that gap in support and is a much-needed step forward for veterans and their families, and our nation."
"Under Mike's plan, veterans and their families will be able to take advantage of job training programs, financial literacy services, and opportunities to start their own businesses," Admiral Mullen said. "Empowering veterans to take charge of their financial future is exactly the right thing to do."
Melissa McCaw, Military Spouse
"Raising two young kids with a husband in the military can be challenging at times but every day I'm proud of him and our family's service to our nation," said Melissa McCaw, a military spouse in Fayetteville, North Carolina. "I just want to make sure we are even stronger when he finishes his service. Mike Bloomberg's plan to provide job training and career and financial literacy services to veterans and their families will help our family and families like ours across the country."
"Mike Bloomberg understands and values the daily sacrifices military families make for our country," McCaw said. "And he wants to make sure we have a secure future. I'm grateful Mike is looking out for my family."
Thomas E. Norman Founder of Veterans Bridge Home, a Charlotte-based organization that connects veterans and their families, in any state of transition, to communities.
"One of the most difficult things for veterans to do after serving is coming back to civilian life," Norman said. "Mike Bloomberg knows that ex-service members struggle to find good jobs and build new lives after serving. He's committed to giving our heroes the tools and support they need to carve out meaningful lives in their communities. They have given us so much and helping them fully come home and find work, it's the least we can do."
"Mike is a friend of veterans," Norman said. "His plan is a serious one that supports veterans who want to learn new careers, who want to learn financial literacy, and even helps protect their pensions. Being financially secure is critical. Mike understands this and he'll make sure every veteran has access to services that will make the transition into civilian life easier."
"Veterans do get some help transitioning from the US government, but it isn't enough," Norman said. "They have many skills and a solid work ethic, but they need companies to hire them. Mike will increase incentives for companies that hire veterans. He also wants a national job portal to help our heroes find good jobs. Mike is a guy who works hard every day and he appreciates that veterans want to work for an honest day's wage. He's committed to making sure our vets find those great jobs or get the skills that will get them good jobs so they can provide at home."
Colin Hood, Lieutenant Colonel, Army (Retired)
"Our Veterans have given so much to our country," Colin Hood, Lieutenant Colonel, Army (Retired), said. "We cannot forget the debt we, as a nation, owe them. Mike Bloomberg wants every Veteran to come home, feel supported and fulfill his or her full potential. Mike Bloomberg will go to Washington and get the job done. He will ensure every Veteran can achieve everything they are capable of being."
"I'm a Veteran and a businessman," Hood said. "I understand both military service and civilian life. Moving from the military into civilian life isn't without its bumps and challenges. Although Mike Bloomberg did not serve, he listens, gets it and he has promised to help. Mike has a plan that will support Veterans find good jobs, good retraining if they need it, and even teaches Veterans to manage their finances."
"Mike will protect Veterans from predatory lenders and scammers," Hood said. "Payday lenders target Veterans, trapping them in a cycle of debt. Mike's plan would prevent that from happening. It would set rules that make sure our military families don't get caught up in that nonsense. He's a very successful businessman and he wants our Veterans to be financially secure. He knows how to get things done and he will be a great friend to our deserving Veterans."
"Mike Bloomberg has been helping our warriors for more than a decade," Hood said. "He expanded the Veterans Employment Initiative act to include an entrepreneurship program. The program has courses on business planning, marketing and financing. Most importantly, it connects Veterans looking for jobs with Veteran-owned businesses. And...it 's free."
Paul Kennedy, Ret. Major General, U.S. Marine Corps, And Senior Advisor on Veterans and Military Families
"Mike Bloomberg understands that we, as a country, need to provide greater support to veterans re-entering the workforce because it's not just the right thing to do but it's a smart investment to make in our economic future," said Paul Kennedy, Ret. Major General, USMC, and Senior Advisor on Veterans and Military Families for Mike Bloomberg 2020. "Today, veterans consistently take jobs below their capability and potential with many of them only partially employed. A third of veterans with degrees and certifications work in jobs that don't leverage their full education and training. That's a major missed opportunity for employers across the country. As president, Mike will make sure veterans have access to careers services in order to compete for the best jobs, and employers are educated about the unique skills and talents veteran applicants possess."
"I'm proud to stand with Mike Bloomberg because he has a strong record of supporting veterans and military families as a three-term mayor of New York City and self-made entrepreneur," Kennedy said. "As mayor, Mike launched the Veterans Employment Initiative, and in its first year it provided career services to 6,000 veterans and their spouses and helped connect nearly 1,200 to jobs. As a business leader, he has prioritized hiring veterans and putting their leadership skills to work, and he has encouraged other companies to do the same. I know Mike will do even more to support our veterans and military families when he gets to White House."
Mayor Adrian Perkins of Shreveport, LA
"Nearly a third of our veterans are underemployed," said Mayor Adrian Perkins of Shreveport, Louisiana. "As a veteran myself, I know my sisters and brothers re-entering civilian life have the leadership skills and experience to succeed in every industry. Mike Bloomberg's common-sense plan to establish regional Centers of Excellence and Empowerment will bring companies and veterans together, with the support of the federal government, and create much-needed networking and employment opportunities for veterans across the country."
"I'm excited about Mike's plan to increase support for veteran entrepreneurs through the Small Business Administration," Perkins said. "As Shreveport's mayor, I'm committed to promoting innovation in my community. Mike's plan recognizes veterans, with the right coaching and financial assistance, can make a unique contribution to our local economies."
Dan Akerson, former Chairman and CEO of General Motors
"Many years ago, when I and many other veterans fulfilled our service to our country, there was very little, if any, thanks for our service. It's different today. Many people perfunctorily say "thank you for your service" but too often, it stops there; especially, for our younger veterans and their families that may need help with the transition from military to civilian life. These young and deserving men and women, who volunteered to serve, deserve better—a helping hand. Mike Bloomberg stands ready to help our veterans prepare themselves for the transition before and after they have served our nation. These veterans need job training and facilitation between companies' needs and veterans' skill sets as well as financial planning and counseling once they leave the service. I proudly stand with Mike because Mike stands with veterans and their families."
  