
    This morning, Governor Bush rolled out his education policy which aims to give access to a quality education to every child, an issue he strongly believes is the civil rights challenge of our time. This afternoon, the campaign is announcing the initial members of the African-Americans for Jeb National Steering Committee, a group that will help promote Jeb's message of expanding education opportunity and economic empowerment across the nation.
"I am impressed by Gov. Jeb Bush's record expanding school choice, college access and affordability, and his support for African-American entrepreneurs and businesses. Jeb understands that education and economic empowerment are the civil rights issues of our time. As we reflect, today, on Dr. King's legacy and the work left to achieve his Dream, Republicans should look to a leader who's been both consistently conservative as well as inclusive, building bridges, and growing the tent of our party," said former Congressman Gary Franks (CT-5).
In a new video, Jeb discusses Dr. Martin Luther King's vision based on equality of opportunity, and speaks about how we need to ensure children in poverty get access to a quality education that will prepare them for a lifetime of success.

"America is in vital need of leadership, not entertainment or colorful rhetoric. Real leadership. We need leadership that will stand for liberty and justice for all. Leadership that will expand opportunity for all. Leadership that will pave the way for every child, no matter their race or zip code, to receive a quality education. We need a leader who will ensure quality care for our veterans and secure the borders of our nation. We need a leader who will remind us that diversity is our greatest asset in America. I choose to support Gov. Jeb Bush for he is America's best hope for change," said Mary Millben.
"I have known Jeb Bush for 21 years. Thanks to Jeb's leadership, low-income and African-American students in Florida made among the biggest gains of any state in the nation. I know first-hand that Jeb has a heart for people; and he cares. Jeb has demonstrated a lifelong commitment to closing racial disparities in education and employment, and expanding opportunity for all," said T. Willard Fair.
African-Americans for Jeb National Steering Committee:
Dr. John Agwunobi— Former Florida Secretary of Health, Assistant Secretary for Health and Human Services, Retired Rear Admiral in the Public Health Service Corps
Darrell Allison- President of Parents for Educational Freedom
Renee Amoore- Deputy State Chairwoman of the Pennsylvania Republican Party and Businesswoman
Paul Boyd- Clerk, Shelby County, TN
Laura Branker- Senior Vice President, Smith & Co.
Reg Brown- Partner at Wilmer Hale, Former Deputy General Counsel to Governor Bush
Nick Buford- Valdosta State University, Mission:Next Campus Leader
David Byrd- Consultant, Byrds Eye LLC
Matt Carter II- Former Chair, Florida Public Service Commission
Nancy Charles- President, Central Florida Haitian Educators Association
Dr. Dion Clark- Director, NCWorks Career Pathways
Kay Cole James- Former Director of the US Office of Management and Budget
Cristal Cole- former Director of Community Engagement, Foundation for Excellence in Education
Stephen Davis- DuPage Airport Authority
Hugh "Danny" Dunn- former White House aide, President George W. Bush
T. Willard Fair- CEO, Miami Urban League
Sophia Fifner- Director of Development and Public Relations, I Know I Can, Columbus, OH
Dr. Kingsley Fletcher- Life International Church
Vennia Francois- Former Aide to Senators Mel Martinez and George LeMieux
Gary Franks- Former Member of Congress, CT
Byron V. Garrett— Chairman, National Family Engagement Alliance
Dylan Glenn- Managing Director, Guggenheim Partners, Former Deputy Chief of Staff, President George W Bush
Wendy Grant- Vice President, Republica
Beverly Green- Former Palm Beach County School Board Member
David Griffin- Former Florida Lottery Secretary
James Michael Harvey- Former Chairman, Shelby County Commission, TN
Chelsi Henry- Ebony Contributor, Chair of the Republican Diversity Coalition
Marsha Hill- Executive Assistant, Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services
Paula Hoisington- Vice President, Net Communications
Pastor R.B. Holmes- Bethel Missionary Baptist Church
Joel James- President, Morehouse College Republicans
Garrett Johnson- Co-Founder, SendHub.com
Julia Johnson- President, Net Communications, Former Chair of the Florida Internet Taskforce, Former Chair of Florida Public Service Commission
Freda King- Program Coordinator, "Dress for Success" Walmart Going Places Program
Ruben King-Shaw- Chairman and CEO, Mansa Capital
Roderick "Rod" Love- President and CEO, Community Synergy Group
Ramon Manning- Chairman, Partners Energy North America
Frank T. Martin- Former COO, Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority
Judge Simone Marstiller- Florida First District Court of Appeals
Darrick McGhee- VP Public Affairs, Johnson & BlantonMarquis McMillan- Florida A&M, Mission: Next Campus Leader
Fred McClure- CEO, George Bush Presidential Library Foundation, Former Assistant to President George H.W. Bush and Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan
Dr. Rhonda Medows- Former Florida Secretary, Agency for Health Care Administration, Commissioner, Georgia Department of Community Health
Mary Millben- Helen Hayes nominee, singer & actress
Sonya Montgomery- President, the DeSoto Group
Rufus Montgomery- President and CEO, The Cascon Group
Willie Montgomery- Retired Postmaster and Decorated Vietnam Veteran
Windell Paige- Former Director of the Office of Supplier Diversity, State of Florida
Kelly Price- CEO and Founder, Memphis Entrepreneurship Academy
Sam Rivers, Jr.- South Carolina State Representative; Pastor, Voice of the Lord International Ministries, Columbia SC
Rachel Robinson- Former Executive Director, Palm Beach County Republican Party
Pastor Windell Rodgers- Mount Calvary Baptist Church, Easley SC
Chris Sanders- Georgia Young Republicans, Mission: Next Campus Leader
Don Scoggins- Prince William County Republican Party Executive Committee
Leon Searcy, Jr.- University of Miami Hall of Fame (Football), 11 year veteran of NFL
Daryl Sharpton- Founder and President, The Sharpton Group, Former Chairman of the Miami-Dade Expressway Authority
Marcus Skelton- Former Chairman, DC Young Republicans
Leslie Steele- Consultant for the Yes4Marriage Campaign in 2008
Lynn Swann- Pro Football Hall of Fame, Pittsburgh Steers
Rebecca Swindle- Former Florida Lottery Secretary
Maurice Washington- Former Charleston, SC Councilman
Stefan Walker- Consultant, The Politics Store
Sheldon Watts- Board of Trustees, DuPage County, IL
Pastor Harry Williams- In the Word International, Jacksonville, FL
Robert Woody- Former Deputy Secretary, Florida Department of Juvenile Justice
Join the African-Americans for Jeb coalition below:
  