
    Pool Reports by Kate Bennett, CNN 



Sent:
Reports:




January 31, 202010:45

Supplemental pool note 1, attendees run of show 
Good morning! At 10:34 am, Ivanka Trump took the podium to welcome guests, she is giving ongoing remarks. Please see reportable attendees and run of show below, from White House:
REPORTABLE:
WHITE HOUSE SUMMIT ON HUMAN TRAFFICKING:
Honoring the 20th Anniversary of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA)
LIVESTREAM: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
BACKGROUND: 
Today, President Trump will host a summit in the East Room to discuss paths forward to combat human trafficking nationwide. This summit will feature panels and remarks from survivors and notable speakers, including President Trump, Vice President Pence, Attorney General William Barr, Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump, Ambassador-at-Large for the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons John Richmond, and U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See Callista Gingrich. Summit participants include Members of Congress and State, Local and Tribal level leaders focused on this issue.
10:30AM        Welcome & Opening Remarks: Ivanka Trump,  Advisor to the President10:35AM        Remarks: Survivor10:40AM        Remarks: Bill Barr, U.S. Attorney General10:45AM        Panel: Combatting Human Trafficking on a State, Local, and Tribal Level

Panel to discuss innovative solutions to end domestic human trafficking on the state, local, and tribal levels.
Moderator:  Joe Grogan, Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council, White House
Panelists: 
1. Jeanette Nuñez,  Lt. Governor of Florida 2. Chris Carr, Attorney General of Georgia3. Amy Loudenbeck, State Representative of Wisconsin4. Richard Blake,  Tribal Judge from California5. Michael Spisz, County Commissioner of Oakland County, Michigan6. Jim Skinner,  Sheriff of Collin County, Texas
11:20AM        Remarks: Callista Gingrich,U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See11:25AM        Panel: Honoring the 20th Anniversary of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act

Panel to highlight impact of the TVPA and paths forward to combat trafficking in persons internationally.
Moderator:  John Richmond,Ambassador-At-Large, Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, U.S. Department of State 
Panelists: 
1. Sam Brownback,Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom, Office of International Religious Freedom2. Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ)3. Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO)4. Rep. Mike McCaul (R-TX)
12:15PM        Remarks: President Donald J Trump12:20PM        Remarks: Survivor12:25PM        Remarks: Vice President Mike Pence12:30PM        POTUS Sign Executive Order12:35PM        Summit Concludes





January 31, 202011:04

Subject: #2 Supplemental pool note - trafficking summit, Ivanka remarks and Barr 
After speaking for about 15 minutes, which included remarks from Jessica Hamlet, a survivor of human trafficking, Ivanka Trump introduced Attorney General Bill Barr, and then took her seat in the front row, next to Jared Kushner.
Barr said his office is prepared to put the "full force of the law" behind stopping human trafficking, which he called "a horrific crime" and "modern day slavery." Barr spoke for about 7 minutes, noting specifically the "serious challenge" of digital communications, internet and "platforms like that," in which trafficking evidence is frequently digital – however, he says it's being encrypted and that's posing a real problem. He says this is his particular focus and that of his office as they move to combat trafficking and go after those responsible.
Adding Ivanka Trump's remarks below, provided by the White House:
Good morning. I am honored to welcome you here today to the White House Summit on Human Trafficking, honoring the 20^th Anniversary of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act.
On behalf of the President, thank you for joining me to celebrate this milestone and to recognize the incredible work that has been done across the country to tackle modern-day slavery, pursue justice for victims, and hold traffickers accountable.
Thank you Attorney General Barr, Secretary Scalia, Secretary Azar, Acting Secretary Wolf, and Deputy Secretary Biegun [bye-gun] for being here today. Under your leadership, and in coordination with the whole of government, the United States is committed to ending human trafficking in all of its evil forms.
I'm grateful to also be joined by Members of Congress and special guests, including Congressman Smith, Congresswoman Wagner, Congressman McCaul, Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom Brownback, and U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See Gingrich.
Further, among us are the members of the U.S. Advisory Council on Human Trafficking, the President's Public-Private Partnership Advisory Council to End Human Trafficking, as well as recipients of the Presidential Award for Extraordinary Efforts to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
Each of you possess a wealth of knowledge and action-oriented approach that are invaluable resources in our fight against this crime and as we support survivors.
Human trafficking is believed to be one of the largest criminal activities in the world, with an estimated 24.9 million people trapped in forced labor, domestic servitude, or commercial sex trafficking. It is also one of the most lucrative illegal industries worldwide, generating over $150 billion dollars in annual profits.
This issue has no demographic limitations, exploits society's most vulnerable, often women and children, andparticularly targets runaway and homeless youth.
In 1983, Robert Fuller and Louis Molitoris [Mo-lee-tor-is], two middle-aged men both born with intellectual disabilities, were discovered working on a dairy farm in Chelsea, Michigan. Isolated from the world, these two men were working 17 hour days without pay and living in squalor. They were hidden in plain sight.
The ruling in United States v. Kozminski [cause-min-ski], as Robert and Louis's case would come to be known, recognized that the U.S. involuntary servitude and slavery statues were not sufficient in their scope, lacking necessary provisions to guarantee protections for these men and many others. This case spurred what would become a national outcry for legislation to address modern-day slavery.
In 2000, Congress responded. Under the leadership of former Senator Sam Brownback and Representative Chris Smith—who we will hear from shortly—Congress passed the monumental bi-partisan Trafficking Victims Protection Act.
This landmark piece of legislation changed the landscape of the conversation around human trafficking and elevated the U.S. Government's capabilities to combatthis evil.
The TVPA created a number of protections for victims of human trafficking, ensuring they can access necessary services. It also sharpened prosecution capacities, criminalizing a broader scope of human trafficking-related crimes and requiring convicted traffickers to provide full restitution to their victims.
The TVPA enhanced prevention efforts as well, creatingfor the first time in U.S. history, an "Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons" within the Department of State.
The TIP Office, currently led by Ambassador-at-Large John Richmond who joins us today, is tasked with producing the annual Trafficking in Persons Report that serves as our key diplomatic tool to engage foreign governments on this issue.
It goes without saying to the guests in this room that the TVPA ushered in a new-era in anti-trafficking work. Over the past 20 years, this legislation has shaped how our country pursues justice for victims, holds traffickers accountable, and prevents further trafficking.
So that brings us to today. Much progress has been made, but we recognize that this issue is still pervasive across communities.
In the early days of the Administration, President Trump boldly committed to bringing the "full force and weight of our government" to solve this horrific problem.
Since then, the President has delivered on this promise, signing NINE pieces of legislation into law that directly address human trafficking, including the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Acts of 2017 and 2018.
These bills expanded the provisions of the TVPA of 2000to include required law enforcement victim-identification training, HHS grant authority for educational institutions to educate teachers and students on signs of sex and labor trafficking, and more.
In 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order to dismantle transnational criminal organizations, including those trafficking human beings. This action elevated human trafficking as a national security issue, as traffickers' profits enrich their organizations at the expense of the American people.
President Trump was also the first sitting U.S. Presidentto attend the President's Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, the interagency body tasked with coordinating U.S. Government-wide efforts to combat trafficking in persons.
Further, the President has prioritized funding for anti-trafficking work, proposing a $42 million dollar budget increase for 2021 that will enhance human trafficking investigations, prosecutions, and victim services.
Never before has a President been so resolved and relentless in the fight to hold perpetrators accountable and restore human dignity for victims.
The Trump Administration has fought, and will continue to fight this crime and ensure that survivors can access the services they need.
Human trafficking is not solely an international issue or a crime that must occur across borders. Human beings are being sold in America. In neighborhoods throughout our Country.
In rural and urban communities, as well as tribal lands. We cannot turn a blind eye to trafficking that happens at home. We cannot tolerate the exploitation of our own citizens.
The prevalence of domestic trafficking was brought to a new light during a recent visit of mine to Atlanta. Facing one of the nation's highest rates of human trafficking, the City of Atlanta has taken big strides forward to equip survivors with long-term care and the skills they need to succeed in the workforce.
One of the facilities leading in this effort is Wellspring Living, a non-profit providing a path forward to survivors of domestic sex trafficking. Wellspring's motto is "To Live and Dream Again," a beautiful testament to what I witnessed that day.
I met incredible, courageous women in Wellspring Living's Women's Academy, which is dedicated to helping survivors attain skills for their GED, an apprenticeship, or a future career.
A few of these ladies join us here today, including Jessica Hamlet. Jessica's story is one of truly remarkable transformation. Jessica shared with me her experience being trafficking for sex domestically after surviving a childhood of abuse, losing custody of her children, and facing serious challenges with drug abuse and addiction.
Despite all of this, Jessica recently completed an apprenticeship at Delta Airlines, regained custody of her daughter, and now works full-time for the City of Atlanta.Her resilience is inspiring. I would be honored if Jessica could join me up here on stage to say a few words.
Thank you, Jessica. You have shown courage that few will ever know, and your voice is critical to this conversation.
No human being deserves to live without agency or without hope for the future.
So today, let us recognize the vigorous work of all those who brought us to this point in history. As a Nation, we have taken strides forward in combatting modern-day slavery, but there is more to be done. We must continue our efforts to end this evil scourge.
Thank you for being here, and with that, I welcome Attorney General Bill Barr, a passionate champion of this cause, to share a few words.



January 31, 202011:29

Subject: #3 Supplemental pool note - trafficking summit, panel discussion 
Some highlights from the panel discussion, which lasted about 20 minutes:
The six panelists (moved up from below so you don't need to scroll down) told their personal and professional stories about interaction with and work to address human trafficking, from a law enforcement perspective via Sheriff Jim Skinner of Collin County, Texas, to judicial, via Richard Blake, a tribal judge in rural California, whose own daughter fell victim to a human trafficker she met via social media.
"It's in everybody's backyard, you just don't know about it," said Michael Spisz, a county commissioner from Michigan who created a task force in part to monitor the ongoing crimes in his region, both labor trafficking and sex trafficking.
Florida Lt. Gov. Jeanette Nuñez said her state is adding age-appropriate education in schools to teach children about the dangers of human trafficking and tools for prevention, which received a round of applause from the audience in the East Room.
Moderator Joe Grogan gave out the national hotline number for reporting trafficking, or for those who need help: 1-888-373-7888. Grogan also reiterated that later today when the President joins the Summit (12:15) he will be announcing a new position by executive order, to be specifically assigned to address human trafficking – the position will be part of the administration's Domestic Policy Council.
Panel: Combatting Human Trafficking on a State, Local, and Tribal Level

Panel to discuss innovative solutions to end domestic human trafficking on the state, local, and tribal levels.
Moderator: Joe Grogan, Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council, White House
Panelists:
1. Jeanette Nuñez, Lt. Governor of Florida2. Chris Carr, Attorney General of Georgia 3. Amy Loudenbeck,State Representative of Wisconsin4. Richard Blake, Tribal Judge from California5. Michael Spisz,County Commissioner of Oakland County, Michigan6. Jim Skinner, Sheriff of Collin County, Texas




January 31, 202012:00

Subject: #4 Supplemental pool note - trafficking summit, second panel 
After brief remarks from Calista Gingrich, Ambassador to the Holy See, who discussed the commitment of faith-based organizations to stopping human trafficking, a second panel of lawmakers was convened (again, I moved it up from below) to focus on the 20th anniversary of the TVP Act.
Sam Brownback was asked what prompted him to put the bill forward in the Senate: "You see it, something clicks, and then you think someone needs to do something." Brownback, reflecting on getting the bill passed 20 years ago, name-checked odd couple Gloria Steinem and Chuck Colson, both of whom signed on to publicly support the bill – which Brownback credited for helping create bi-partisan enthusiasm. (Aside: Bownback is wearing Kansas City Chiefs socks today.)
Congressman Mike McCaul spoke for a few minutes and recognized Courtney Litvak, a now-21-year-old survivor of trafficking who is sitting in the front row. Litvak is a resident of Katy, Texas, and her story is in the Houston Chronicle today. Litvak and her mother now run a non-profit that helps train educators and families to prevent and recognize signs of trafficking.
Congresswoman Ann Wagner spoke about her work getting FOSTA passed (March 2018), which allows states and victims to fight online sex trafficking. "We brought down backpage.com!" she said, to applause in the room.
(Your pooler should note that during these panels, and Gingrich's remarks, both Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner have not been in the room – they appear to have left after Barr's remarks. A White House staffer tells your pooler they will return "shortly.")
Panel: Honoring the 20th Anniversary of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act

Panel to highlight impact of the TVPA and paths forward to combat trafficking in persons internationally.
Moderator: John Richmond,Ambassador-At-Large, Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, U.S. Department of State
Panelists:
1. Sam Brownback,Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom, Office of International Religious Freedom2. Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ)3. Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO)4. Rep. Mike McCaul (R-TX)




January 31, 202012:47

Subject: #5 Supplemental pool note - trafficking summit POTUS remarks 
At 12: 21, Ivanka Trump was reintroduced and walked back into the East Room alongside President Trump and Vice President Pence. I would imagine the POTUS pool will grab most of his remarks, but some highlights:
Trump, during the shout-out portion of his remarks, said that there were a number of Senators who "wanted to be here, but I said, ‘Stay where you are and do your job,'" a reference to the ongoing impeachment proceedings on Capitol Hill.
Trump also thanked Ivanka Trump for her efforts with both human trafficking and jobs, saying, "She has taken this under her wing. … This issue has been so important to her – this, and being sure people are ready to work."
Trump addressed the "worldwide problem of human trafficking" which he says is made worse "because of the Internet," which he said was responsible for a lot of good things, but also "lots of really bad things" and "this is probably the worst of the bad things."
Trump later introduced Bella Hounakey, a young woman and survivor of human trafficking. Hounakey gave brief remarks, touting her accomplishments since being trafficked a very young age. She is now a college graduate, an American citizen and the newest member of the US Advisory Council on Human Trafficking. She received a standing ovation at the end of her remarks, which closed with her message to other victims and survivors: "You're not alone, you're not alone, you're not alone."
Prior to sitting at the small desk to sign the executive order to create the new position for the Domestic Policy Council, Pence also gave remarks. Trump then invited supporters and the survivors to gather around while he signed. He handed the first commemorative pen to Hounakey.




Pool Reports by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




January 31, 202016:57

Travel pool report 1 - arrival at JBA 
Greetings from Joint Base Andrews, where it's 45 degrees and sprinkling lightly. Marine One landed at 4:50 pm. Potus and FLOTUS and her parents stepped off the helo at 4:55. Melania is in a chic camel colored cape. Mulvaney followed.. Potus waved, everyone boarded.
Rolling shortly for Palm Beach International Airport.



January 31, 202019:18

Travel pool report 2 - PBA arrival  Date: January 31, 2020
Air Force One landed at rainy Palm Beach International Airport at 7:01 pm.
Potus and FLOTUS descended stairs Of AF1 at 7:14. Potus carrying umbrella, waved to crowd of cheering onlookers behind metal barriers a distance away. FLOTUS also carried umbrella, waved. They went right into beast. It's pouring rain.
Motorcade rolling at 7:16 pm.



January 31, 202019:33

Travel pool report 3 - arrival at Mar-a-Lago 
Motorcade arrived at Mar-a-Lago at 7:27 pm.
Despite rain, onlookers stood along the route, some holding signs, such as:
4 more years
Keep on tweeting the truth
Co-pooler Emily Goodin notes: Melania's gorgeous cape is by Chloe, $2080, per DailyMail.com.



January 31, 202019:37

Travel pool report 4 - kid 
Travel/photo lid called at 7:36 pm.




  