
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




January 26, 202307:26 EST

SGOTUS travel pool report #1 - JBA departure
Good morning from JBA, where it's 36 degrees.
We're headed to Krakow, Poland, for the first leg of Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff's trip to Europe.
SGOTUS boarded the plane at 7:17 am ETand came to the back of the plane to say hello to staff, including Amb. Deborah Lipstadt, US special envoy to monitor and combat antisemitism. We're wheels up shortly.
I've copied the trip guidance below. Please reach out with any questions.
-
TRAVEL GUIDANCE FOR SECOND GENTLEMAN DOUGLAS EMHOFF THURSDAY, JANUARY 26 –?TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2023
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will visit Krakow, Poland, and Berlin, Germany, to advance the Biden-Harris Administration's efforts to combat antisemitism around the world and support Holocaust remembrance. The Second Gentleman will be in Krakow, Poland from January 26-29 and in Berlin, Germany from January 29-31.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2023
The Second Gentleman will depart Washington, D.C. en route Krakow, Poland. This departure from Joint Base Andrews will be closed press.
The Second Gentleman will arrive at John Paul II International Airport. This arrival will be pooled press and open to pre-credentialed media.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2023
The Second Gentleman will visit the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Memorial and Museum and receive a tour. As part of that tour, he will participate in candle-lighting and wreath-laying ceremonies. Later, to mark International Holocaust Remembrance Day, he will attend the commemoration of the 78th anniversary of the liberation of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz. Portions of this visit will be covered by an expanded pool.
The Second Gentleman will attend a Shabbat dinner hosted by the Jewish Community Center with members of the Krakow Jewish community. This dinner will be closed press.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 2023 
The Second Gentleman will visit Schindler's Enamel Factory Museum. This visit will be covered by an expanded pool.
The Second Gentleman will participate in a roundtable with community leaders in Krakow on addressing antisemitism. This roundtable will have a pool spray at the top.
The Second Gentleman will meet with Ukrainian refugees and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) officials at a UNHCR community center. Portions of this visit will be covered by an expanded pool.
The Second Gentleman will participate in a meet and greet with staff of the U.S. Consulate General Krakow. This meeting will be closed press.
SUNDAY, JANUARY 29, 2023
The Second Gentleman will meet with local Jewish community leaders and participate in a tour of Kazimierz, also known as Krakow's Historic Jewish Quarter. This will be covered by an expanded pool.
The Second Gentleman will meet with community leaders and visit historic sites in Gorlice, Poland. This meeting will be covered by pooled press and open to pre-credentialed media.
The Second Gentleman will depart John Paul II International Airport en route to Berlin Brandenburg Airport. This departure will be pooled press and open to pre-credentialed media.
The Second Gentleman will arrive at Berlin Brandenburg Airport. This arrival will be pooled press and open to pre-credentialed media.
MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2022
The Second Gentleman will participate in a Convening of Special Envoys and Coordinators on Combating Antisemitism for a discussion on combating antisemitism around the world. This convening, at the Topography of Terror Museum, will have a pool spray at the top.
The Second Gentleman will receive a tour of the Topography of Terror Museum. This visit will be pooled press.
The Second Gentleman will visit the Museum of Jewish Life. This visit will be pooled press.
The Second Gentleman will participate in a meet and greet with staff of U.S. Embassy Berlin. This meeting will be closed press.
The Second Gentleman will attend a dinner with German community leaders and government officials hosted by Ambassador Amy Gutman. This dinner will be closed press.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2023
The Second Gentleman will participate in a roundtable with Jewish, Muslim, and Christian faith leaders on interfaith dialogue and understanding. This roundtable will have a pool spray at the top.
The Second Gentleman will visit Oranienburgerstrasse Synagogue. While there, he will meet with Ukrainian refugees. These meetings will be covered by an expanded pool.
The Second Gentleman will visit the Memorial to the Victims of the Nazi 'Euthanasia' Murders; the Memorial to the Sinti and Roma Victims of National Socialism; the Memorial to the Persecuted Homosexuals under National Socialism, and the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, also known as the Holocaust Memorial. At these memorials, he will engage with German officials. Each visit will be covered by an expanded pool.
The Second Gentleman will meet with Holocaust survivors at the Holocaust Memorial. This meeting will be closed press.
The Second Gentleman will depart Berlin Brandenburg Airport en route to Washington, D.C. This departure will be pooled press and open to pre-credentialed media.



January 26, 202322:35 CET

SGOTUS travel pool report #2 - wheels down in Poland
We were wheels down at John Paul II International Airport at 10:01 pm local time after about an 8 1/2- hour flight. It's 30 degrees here in Krakow.
SGOTUS and Amb. Deborah Lipstadt separately came to the back of the plane for a brief OTR chat during the flight. We are flying a C-40 (tag no. 90540 for those who are interested).
SGOTUS stepped off the plane at 10:17pmlocal time and walked over to the greeters (listed below). He waved but did not stop to talk to press before he got into the motorcade.
We're rolling for RON at 10:21pm local time.
Greeters, per WH:
U.S. Consul General Erin NickersonAirport Military Base Commander Stawomir ByliniakLt. Piotr Wolak, Poland Military Base (Translator)




  