
    To the Congress of the United States:
This budget for fiscal year 1980 is lean and austere. It recommends a spending level well below that suggested by the recent momentum of Federal spending. It will disappoint those who seek expanded Federal efforts across the board. It meets my commitment to a deficit of $30 billion or less.
This policy of restraint is not a casual one. It is an imperative if we are to overcome the threat of accelerating inflation.
If that threat is realized, it would severely disrupt our economy and the well-being of our society. Americans with low and fixed incomes would suffer the most. Restraint would eventually become an inescapable necessity. But the longer we wait, the more severe and costly the inevitable restraint will be. By contrast, this budget supports a balanced fiscal policy. It is sufficiently restrained to ease inflationary pressures, but it will permit continued economic growth.
The Federal Government cannot overcome inflation by itself. Success will require cooperation from business, from labor, from consumers, from State and local governments—in short, from everyone. I have called for that cooperation as part of my anti-inflation program. However, only through its leadership and its example can the Federal Government secure this cooperation. This budget provides that leadership. It restrains Government's demand on the economy. At the same time, it makes the Federal dollar work harder and better.
The key to effective Federal leadership against inflation, unemployment, and poverty lies in more effective allocation and management of available resources. We must reduce the growth of total Federal spending while protecting the security of our Nation and the well-being of the American people.
This budget provides the necessary discipline over Federal spending by:
—eliminating programs that are unworkable;
—improving programs to make them more effective;
—focusing assistance on the disadvantaged and the poor; and
—reorganizing and consolidating Federal activities to improve efficiency and avoid waste, abuse, or mismanagement.
I believe this discipline represents an opportunity to reassess and build strong foundations for future Government activity, an opportunity to change Government for the better. It is my firm intention to continue these policies in future years, to reduce the size of the deficit, and to achieve a balanced budget as soon as economic conditions permit. My budget provides for total outlays in 1980 of $532 billion, an increase of $38 billion, or 7.7%, over 1979, and receipts of $503 billion. For 1981 and 1982, it provides for total outlays of $578 billion and $615 billion, respectively. Budget outlays will decrease as a share of the Nation's gross national product from 22.1% in 1978 to 21.2% in 1980 and 20.3% in 1982. This reduction in the share of our national product spent by the Federal Government is a fundamental goal of my policy, equally as important as reducing the deficit.
THE BUDGET TOTALS
[In billions of dollars]
1978 1979 1980 1981 1982
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate
Budget receipts------------------------ 402 456 503 577 653
Budget outlays------------------------- 451 493 532 578 615
Surplus or deficit (—)----------------- — 49 — 37 — 29 — 1 38
Budget authority----------------------- 502 560 616 651 696
The expenditures I recommend are specifically focused on overcoming our Nation's crucial problems. Through rigorous zero-base analyses, priorities have been established to help us get the best Government possible for the resources we can afford. Careful attention to efficiency and productivity will enable Federal managers to achieve our most important priorities with less money and fewer people.
The spending restraint in this budget means that in some areas the Government will simply not be able to do as much as it has in the past. Inevitably, real sacrifices must be made if we are to overcome inflation. In formulating this budget, I have made every effort to spread that burden fairly and objectively. Restraint has not been applied arbitrarily.
However, there are areas where we cannot make major reductions. I have sought to reconcile the need for extraordinary restrictions on Government spending with the need to maintain a strong defense; to implement a national energy policy; to assist people in need; and to continue important public services and investments.
First, as President, it is my central responsibility to ensure that our defense forces are strong enough to deter aggression. This budget does that.
In May of 1977 I met with our NATO allies and urged that we work together to strengthen our common defense. They are meeting the goal that we agreed upon. We must and will do our share.
In total, the 1980 defense budget provides for growth in outlays in real terms of 3% above the current year's spending. Most of this increase will be for strengthening our NATO forces and maintaining the strategic balance. The budget continues my policy of steady modernization of our strategic forces, and improved combat readiness of our tactical forces. It also emphasizes research and development to meet future challenges to our security. At the same time, however, it restrains defense costs by introducing important economies in purchasing, supply management, and personnel costs and numbers.
Second, the 1980 budget recognizes the vital importance of energy to the Nation. Because of Our dependence on foreign oil, we continue to be in danger of having supplies disrupted as they were 5 years ago. It is essential that we continue to move forward with an effective national energy program that will decrease our demand for foreign oil and protect against disruption of foreign oil supplies.
The 1980 budget provides for the continued buildup of the strategic petroleum reserve. It continues to assist in the development of technologies to tap our domestic energy resources more effectively. I have given special emphasis to developing advanced solar power technologies. The budget proposals give increased attention to more efficient use of uranium, to nuclear proliferation and environmental problems, and to effective measures to deal with nuclear waste.
Third, even when budget restraint is essential, we will continue as a compassionate society to meet our commitments to the disadvantaged. Therefore, I have ensured that my budget include adequate funds for programs that help those Americans most truly in need. To make these funds as effective as possible, the budget includes recommendations for adjustments in direct payment programs, better targeting of existing programs, and improved management so that funds are not wasted but go to the people for whom they were intended.
My administration is developing a national health plan. Consistent with the development of that plan, the budget emphasizes programs to address critical health needs. As early steps toward this plan, my proposals extend health services to 2 million more low-income children and pregnant women who cannot afford health care that they need, and bring new health care resources to people who live in medically-underserved areas. The budget includes new and expanded programs to reduce activities that cause ill health, such as drug and alcohol abuse, as well as to protect individuals and communities from pollution and other toxic substances; increased funding for mental health research; and expanded health-related services such as nutrition programs for low-income mothers and children.
I am again proposing legislation to contain the exorbitant nationwide rise in hospital costs. The 320% rise in these costs in the past 10 years has been a major inflationary force and an unacceptable drain on family incomes. The Congress must act on this problem.
Curbs on hospital costs will benefit State and local budgets—and those of private citizens—as well as the Federal budget. They will strike directly at inflation in a sector where price increases have been chronically high.
The budget recommends a number of changes in the social security system to streamline it and eliminate unnecessary benefit payments. They will reduce the future costs of this largest of all Federal programs—and, ultimately, hold down the taxes imposed on workers and employers. I will consider future social security tax reductions in conjunction with these savings.
In the past 2 years, total employment in the U.S. has increased by 7.4 million jobs. This is an average rate of 4.1% per year, one of the most rapid expansions in our history. The proportion of our civilian population employed is higher, at almost 60%, than it has ever been before. But despite these gains, unemployment, particularly among the disadvantaged and minorities, remains too high.
Continued high structural unemployment in an inflationary economy requires a redirection of our efforts. Programs targeted to employ the truly disadvantaged are continued at their current high levels as established by this administration. More general employment programs, not directed specifically to those most in need, must be reduced to reflect improvements in the economy and our need to establish priorities. Our youth employment and CETA programs reflect my continued strong commitment to fight unemployment of the needy. The employment tax credit enacted last year is encouraging the private sector to provide increased employment opportunities for the disadvantaged, primarily youth. This incentive will be reinforced by a private sector employment initiative, for which I am requesting a $400 million supplemental appropriation for 1979.
This budget also provides strong support for economic development programs, and again proposes a National Development Bank to help fund these efforts. The budget provides for a 36% increase in assistance to minority business enterprises.
Finally, I believe that the Federal Government must lead the way in investing in the Nation's future. This budget, therefore, continues my policy of providing real growth in Federal support of basic research. This support amounts to a relatively small part of the total budget—$4.6 billion in 1980—but it is vital to the future of our Nation. The knowledge created through basic research holds the potential for breakthroughs to the solution of problems we face or may face in such critical areas as agriculture, health, environment, energy, defense, and the overall productivity of our economy. Higher productivity gains in the future, moreover, will make an important contribution to reducing inflation.
Meeting the essential needs of the Nation, while restraining growth in overall spending, makes efficient management not just desirable, but essential.
In 1977 I proposed—and the Congress approved—a Cabinet-level Department of Energy, a streamlined Executive Office of the President, and a consolidation of our international information activities.
In 1978 I proposed—and the Congress approved—reorganizations of the Federal civil service system, emergency preparedness and disaster relief programs, civil rights enforcement, and the pension plan insurance system in order to make them more responsive and effective.
In 1979 I will resubmit my proposal to establish a Department of Education and propose further reorganization and consolidation in economic development assistance, natural resources management, and surface transportation.
For the second year, my budget reflects detailed, Government-wide, zero-base budgeting. Agency programs were explicitly ranked by priority, and programs were ranked across agencies, in a new interagency, zero-base budgeting process.
For the first time, the budget reflects the 3-year budget planning system I have instituted to gain better control of the longer-range effects and direction of Government policies.
In this budget I am proposing a new system to control the growth of Federal credit activities, particularly federally guaranteed credit.
Other important steps will be taken to improve the way the Government operates and the way it affects the private sector. To increase the efficiency of the private sector, the administration will eliminate unnecessary regulation where possible, and will minimize the redtape involved in necessary environmental and safety regulation. Further efforts will be made to reduce excessive paper work. State and local governments, private institutions, and citizens will benefit from simplified conditions for receiving Federal assistance. In particular, a number of programs have been consolidated to simplify the grant system, and more will be proposed in the future. The Government's own management will be improved through more effective cash management, application of the Civil Service Reform Act, and use of new offices of Inspectors General to identify waste and search out fraud and corruption.
Preparing this budget reminds me once more of the overwhelming demands upon the Federal budget and of the limits on our resources.
I believe that we must firmly limit what the Government taxes and spends. We must balance public and private needs. We must set priorities more carefully. We must change some old priorities and establish new ones. We must defer some of our demands if we are to meet adequately today's most critical needs.
These principles have guided my actions in shaping this budget and they will continue to do so in the future:
—the budget must be kept within the bounds of what is appropriate in today's economic circumstances;
—the Government has no resources of its own, its only resources are those it collects from the taxpayer;
—Government action must be limited to those areas where its intervention is more likely to solve problems than to compound them; and,
—we have an obligation to manage with excellence and to maintain proper priorities within the $532 billion proposed in this budget.
I know that the Congress shares these beliefs. You, as well as the executive branch, are sensitive to the American people's concerns about the scope of Government, the burdens of taxes, the needs of our citizens, and the efficiency of public management. Indeed, the Congress in the last few years has taken important steps-in particular, through the establishment of the congressional budget process—to improve its own means of establishing priorities. I have worked closely with the Congress, and will continue in this spirit of cooperation.
I look forward to working with the Congress and its leadership on this budget.
The decisions I have made are difficult ones. They involve, not figures on a balance sheet, but the lives and future of the American people. I have chosen restraint in Government spending because inflation must be controlled. I have tried to be equitable in ordering priorities. Yet I have continued to support those programs that represent our most pressing needs. To do so I have terminated, reduced, or deferred other programs.
It is difficult to maintain a sense of strong national purpose when we do not face a clear and immediate crisis. But it is equally important. These are times when responsible leadership means anticipating those day-to-day actions that enable us to avoid crises and to build toward the future. This has been the fundamental purpose behind the decisions considered here, and that is the intent of this budget.
JIMMY CARTER
January 22, 1979.
  