
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Maine Statewide Steering Committee. This group of current and former Republican Legislators will be responsible for growing and organizing Governor Romney's strong grassroots support in the Pine Tree State.
"Maine Republicans know the importance of building a stronger America, with a strong economy, strong military and strong families," said Governor Romney. "This team of Republican leaders will play a critical role in growing grassroots support for the campaign in Maine. Together, we will talk to voters about my vision to bring change to Washington and tackle a new generation of challenges facing our country."
"Governor Romney has an extraordinary record of taking challenges head on and meeting them," said former State Senator Chandler Woodcock. "Whether in the private sector, at the Winter Olympics, or as Governor, he was able to achieve what many considered impossible. Maine voters can trust he will bring that same energy and vision to Washington to cut taxes, reduce spending, reform health care and strengthen families."
Background On The Romney For President Maine Statewide Steering Committee:
Republican National Committeeman Peter Cianchette – Cianchette was the Republican candidate for governor of Maine in 2002. During his campaign he made strengthening Maine's economy the centerpiece of his gubernatorial bid, and he continues to focus on economic development in his work with clients of The Cianchette Group. Cianchette also is a Partner in the Maine-based private equity firm, CHK Capital Partners, LLC and serves as President of SeptiTech, Inc. He also served in Maine's House of Representatives from 1996-2000, representing South Portland and Cape Elizabeth. In Augusta, he served on the Joint Standing Committee on Taxation. Cianchette currently serves as Maine's National Republican Committeeman and served as the Maine General Chairman of the Bush-Cheney '04 campaign. He and his wife, Carolyn, have two children and reside in South Portland.
Former Republican Senate Leader Paul Davis – Before joining the Senate, Davis served in the Maine State Police for 23 years. He also served on the SAD#4 School board for 9 years. Davis was a member of the Maine State Senate for 8 years, 6 of which were in leadership positions. Davis have been married for 38 years and has two children and four grandchildren.
State Senator Jon Courtney – Courtney is serving his second term in the Maine State Senate, representing District 3, which includes central York County. He is currently the lead Senate Republican on the Joint Standing Committee on Business, Research and Economic Development for the 123rd Legislature. Prior to his election, the Senator was a Town Meeting member, and a member of the Sanford Warrant Committee. Senator Courtney owns a small business in southern Maine, and is past President of Shoppers Village Merchants Association and a member of the Economic Development Committee for the Sanford Chamber of Commerce. Courtney lives in Springvale and is the father of three grown children.
State Senator Richard Nass – Nass is currently serving his third term in the Maine Senate where he represents parts of York County, and serves as the lead Senate Republican on the Joint Standing Committee on Taxation. Prior to his election, he served four terms in the Maine House of Representatives. A businessman, Nass has 18 years of experience as a consultant, business broker and trade association executive. Nass is a veteran of the U.S. Army, and served his country from 1966 to 1972. Nass and his wife, Representative Joan Nass of House District 144, have two sons and one grandson, and are both residents of Acton.
State Senator Doug Smith – Smith is serving his first term in the Maine Senate, where he represents District 27. The Senator previously served in the Legislature from 1971 to 1977 as a member of the Maine House of Representatives. For the 123rd Legislature, Smith serves as the lead Senate Republican on the Utilities and Energy and Natural Resources Committees. He has been a practicing attorney in Dover-Foxcroft for 31 years, and recently retired as Piscataquis County Judge of Probate, a position he held for 27 years. Smith, a Maine native and life-long resident of the district he is currently representing, lives in Dover-Foxcroft with his wife Cartha. They have 2 grown children; Deron, and Amy.
Senator Lois Snowe-Mello – Snowe-Mello is currently serving her second term as State Senator for District 15. Prior to her election, she served four terms in the Maine House of Representatives. For the 123rd Legislature, she sits on the Insurance and Financial Services and Marine Resources Committees. Locally, she has served as a member of the Lewiston Chapter of the Fraternal Organization of the Order of the Elks, the Androscoggin Chamber of Commerce, the Sportsmen Alliance of Maine (SAM), and the Poland Historical Society. Snowe-Mello has been recognized for her civic involvement by the Maine Merchants Association, having earned their Citizen of the Year award, and the Maine Christian Education Association, earning their Legislator of the Year award. She is currently an Ambassador of Peace for the Middle East Peace Initiative and has traveled to Korea and to Israel working for peace. Senator Snowe-Mello currently resides in Poland with her husband, Brian, where they enjoy spending time with her three step-children and their eight grandchildren.
State Senator Chandler E. Woodcock – Woodcock served his third term in the Maine State Senate. During his tenure he served on the Inland Fisheries and Wildlife Committee, Legal and Veterans' Affairs Committee, Assistant Senate Republican Leader, and the Judiciary Committee. He previously served for five years (one as Chairman of the Board) on the Board of Selectmen in Farmington, Maine. Prior to serving as an elected official, Woodcock taught at various public high schools in the state. In addition, he is a veteran of the Army who served a tour of duty in the Vietnam War.
  