
    Today, President Donald J. Trump will award the Presidential Medal of Freedom to Jim Jordan. This prestigious award is the Nation's highest civilian honor, which is awarded by the President to individuals who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors.
In 1994, Jordan was elected to the Ohio State House of Representatives and 8 years later to the State Senate. For the past 14 years, he has served the people of Ohio's 4th district. In 2007, Jordan was appointed to the House Oversight Committee. As a member of that Committee, he helped uncover a gun running program known as "Fast and Furious" that gave AK-47s to Mexican drug cartels. Jordan helped identify millions of dollars of wasteful spending in the last administration's numerous Green Energy Programs. He also fought against the Justice Department program known as "Operation Chokepoint"—an early form of cancel culture and "de-platforming" directed at law-abiding gun owners.
In 2012, Jordan led the effort to unearth one of the worst scandals in the history of the Treasury Department. As a result of his investigation, the Treasury Department Inspector General and the Oversight Committee found that the IRS was systematically targeting conservative organizations. In 2016, Jordan worked with then-Representative Mike Pompeo to investigate and publish a report on the deadly attack against our embassy in Benghazi, Libya. Moreover, he also worked to unmask the Russia hoax and take on Deep State corruption — confronting senior Justice Department officials for obstructing Congress and exposing the fraudulent origins of the Russia collusion lie. His work helped to unearth malfeasance at the highest levels of the United States Government.
At the beginning of last year, Jordan was named ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee and led the effort to confront the impeachment witch hunt. He is an inspiration to freedom-loving Americans everywhere and has distinguished himself as one of the most consequential members of Congress of his generation.
  