
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Medal of Honor recipients Sergeant John F. Baker, Jr. (U.S. Army, Ret.) and Captain John James McGinty, III (USMC, Ret.)
"It is my high honor to earn the endorsement of Sergeant Baker and Captain McGinty," said Mitt Romney. "These two men sacrificed enormously for their country and received the nation's highest military decoration. As president, I will never forget the sacrifices of all our veterans and will work to make sure that America is always a beacon of freedom for all the world."
Former Kansas Senator and two-time Purple Heart recipient Bob Dole said, "From the soldiers of my time—on the sands of the south Pacific and the fields of France— to the men and women of today—in the deserts of the Middle East and on ships throughout the world—our armed forces have kept us safe and free for generations. We need a commander-in-chief who will stand squarely behind them and ensure that we are ready for the challenges of a dangerous world. That man is Mitt Romney.  Those in uniform have no better friend than him."
"America is a truly exceptional nation," said Sergeant John F. Baker Jr.  "Mitt Romney understands our special place in the world and knows that a strong America is the greatest deterrent to war and upheaval.  He is committed to building up our armed forces, so that no nation will ever dare challenge us. I am proud to support him."
Announcing his support, Captain John James McGinty, III said, "It is my pleasure to endorse a patriot like Mitt Romney. He has a deep understanding of the complex world our current military faces and will be ready to assume the duties of commander-in-chief on day one. For those who are looking for a candidate with the knowledge to navigate in an unpredictable world, they need to look no further than him."
Background On Sergeant John F. Baker, Jr. (U.S. Army, Ret.):
Master Sergeant Baker was awarded the Medal Of Honor in 1968. Baker was born in Davenport, Iowa and served in the U.S. Army for twenty-four years. He is a veteran of the Vietnam War.
Background On Captain John James McGinty, III (USMC, Ret.):
Captain John James McGinty was awarded the Medal Of Honor in 1968 and retired in 1976. McGinty served in the U.S. Marine Corps for nineteen years and was born in Boston, Massachusetts. He is a veteran of the Vietnam War.
Endorsers are retired or not on active duty.  Use of military rank and job titles does not imply endorsement by the Department of Defense or any department thereof.
  