
    Mayor Breed will also serve as the first Chair of African Americans for Mike
SAN FRANCISCO — Today, Mike Bloomberg 2020 announced that San Francisco Mayor London Breed – the 45th Mayor of San Francisco and the first African American woman mayor in the city's history – has endorsed Mike Bloomberg for President. Mayor Breed will also serve as the first Chair of African Americans for Mike, with others joining Mayor Breed as Co-Chairs soon.
Mayor Breed has been an important leader in the fight to create a more equitable and just San Francisco for all. She is endorsing Mike because of his detailed policy proposals on jobs, climate, and closing the wealth gap, as well as his track record as the Mayor of New York City.
Mayor Breed released the following statement:
"In a field of strong Democratic candidates, I am proud to support Mayor Mike Bloomberg for President, and I am doing so for three main reasons:
"First, Mike is a pragmatic leader who is committed to improving the nation's cities, and has a track record of actually doing it. His efforts to fight climate change, make local governments more effective and efficient, tackle homelessness, and improve public health are making a real difference, and I believe he'll bring this kind of leadership to the presidency.
"Second, Mike is the only candidate for president who has a fully articulated plan to improve the lives of African Americans. The recently announced Greenwood Initiative provides an actual roadmap to create generational wealth and economic empowerment for Black Americans. By boosting home ownership, doubling the number of Black-owned businesses, and investing $70 billion in the nation's most distressed communities, this plan could be transformative for the lives of Black Americans and our nation as a whole.
"Finally, I am supporting Mike because he has the best chance of beating Donald Trump, and ending this administration's assault on the poor, on communities of color, on women, on the Constitution, and on common decency. Mike is all in, and so am I."
Since becoming Mayor, Breed has focused on helping the city's homeless population into care and shelter, and is on target to open 1,000 new shelter beds by the end of this year. In 2018, the City helped 2,146 people exit homelessness – more than any prior year. To make San Francisco more affordable in a time of increased housing costs, she is focused on adding more housing for low-and middle-income residents by streamlining bureaucracy and cutting permitting times while also investing in affordable housing, including moving forward a $600 million affordable housing bond. She also shares Mike's commitment to fight climate change and has championed ambitious environmental goals, including transitioning to 100% renewable energy by 2030.
"Voters re-elected London Breed by a wide margin because she is taking on the biggest and toughest issues – and she puts progress over politics," said Mike Bloomberg. "I'm honored to have her support and look forward to working with her not only to win this election, but to help make San Francisco and all of California stronger, fairer, and greener – with more affordable housing, more good jobs, and health care for all."
Mayor Breed took office in a special election to replace Mayor Ed Lee in 2018, and was elected to her first full term in 2019 winning 70% of the vote. Prior to Breed's time as mayor, she was elected to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 2012, and elected its president in 2015. Breed was raised by her grandmother in Plaza East public housing in the Western Addition neighborhood of San Francisco. Breed graduated from the University of California, Davis and earned a master's degree in public administration from the University of San Francisco in 2012.
  