
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi. Attorney General Bondi will serve as the Chairman of the Romney for President State Law Enforcement Relations Policy Committee. In that role, Bondi will help facilitate a dialogue and work to develop solutions for a variety of law enforcement issues that involve both federal and state agencies, including border security, human trafficking, illegal prescription drug distribution, and terrorism.
"I am proud to have earned the support of Attorney General Pam Bondi," said Mitt Romney. "Attorney General Bondi has distinguished herself as a tough prosecutor and a tireless advocate for restoring conservative principles to Florida's government. She has become a national champion for constitutional conservatives as the leader of the multi-state legal challenge to Obamacare.  Her counsel and leadership will be an important part of my campaign, and I am honored to have her on my team."
"Mitt Romney has the vision and experience necessary to turn our economy around and restore prosperity to our nation," said Attorney General Pam Bondi.  "Governor Romney will bring principled leadership and conservative values to the White House, and I am honored to support his candidacy for President."
Background on Attorney General Pam Bondi:
Pam Bondi became Florida's 37th Attorney General after being elected on November 2, 2010. She was awarded the Distinguished Alumna Award in 2011 by Stetson Law School for extraordinary service to Stetson Law and to the legal profession. During her career as a prosecutor, Attorney General Bondi was awarded the Lawyers of Distinction Award by the Tampa Bay Review for outstanding performance. Attorney General Bondi is a graduate of the University of Florida and Stetson Law School and has served as a prosecutor for more than 18 years. As an assistant state attorney for the 13th judicial district, her investigative and courtroom experience includes the successful prosecution of numerous first-degree murder cases and two capital cases. 
  