
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that former Missouri Speaker Pro Tem Representative Carl Bearden joined the Romney for President team.
Former Representative Bearden said, "Washington is broken and we're not going to fix it by sending the same people back just to have them sit in different chairs. We need someone with real-world experience. Governor Romney has actually worked in the private sector – he understands how the economy works and how to create jobs. Governor Romney understands that middle class Americans want to keep more of their own money, so he has proposed a robust tax cut plan that would end the death tax once-and-for-all, and eliminate all taxes on savings, capital gains, and dividends for middle income families. And Governor Romney would rein in the growth of government spending by vetoing pork-barrel spending and capping discretionary spending at inflation minus one percent. We need a leader who can fix Washington and Governor Mitt Romney is that leader."
Making today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "I appreciate Representative Bearden's endorsement. With experience fixing businesses, the Olympics, and Massachusetts, I can't wait to get my hands on Washington. I look forward to working with Representative Bearden to earn the support of as many Missouri voters as possible."
Background On Former Representative Carl Bearden:
Representative Bearden Was Formerly One Of The Leaders In Missouri Of The Thompson For President Campaign. He was first elected in 2000 to serve the citizens of Missouri's 16th District. Representative Bearden was appointed to serve as Budget Chairman during his second term of service in the legislature. He led the charge to balance Missouri's $19 billion state budget through increased efficiency and elimination of waste, fraud, and abuse. Representative Bearden stood firm in his position against unnecessary tax increases that would have driven Missouri jobs to neighboring states, and provided the largest education budget in state history. He and his wife Debbie have two daughters Allison and Amber (Mike) Chavez and a granddaughter Sydney Chavez.
  