
    Senator Klobuchar Now Has the Support of 16 Legislative Endorsers
DES MOINES, IA — Iowa State Senator Rob Hogg, Iowa State Representative Chris Hall, and Iowa State Representative Monica Kurth today endorsed U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for President, bringing her number of legislative endorsers to 16 -- the most of any candidate in the field.
Senator Hogg, a four-term Senator who represents a large portion of Cedar Rapids, held independent conversations on climate change with 19 presidential candidates throughout 2019. In announcing his endorsement of Amy Klobuchar, Senator Hogg cited her "working family background, extensive experience on farm and rural issues, and strong commitment to civil rights."
"Like many of our candidates, Senator Klobuchar is a strong leader for climate action," said Iowa State Senator Rob Hogg. "Her visits to flood-affected Iowans shows that she knows that Americans today are already being hurt by climate-related disasters. I believe her plan for quick action on climate – (1) re-enter the Paris Agreement, (2) restore the Clean Power Plan, (3) reinstate the Clean Car Standards, and (4) submit comprehensive climate legislation to Congress to address climate resilience, green infrastructure, and a price on carbon pollution – is achievable and is guided by climate science. Her plan would also lay the foundation for even more action on climate at home and around the world in the decade of the 2020s."
Hall, who represents House District 13 in Sioux City, had previously endorsed Former U.S. Representative Beto O'Rourke. In announcing his endorsement of Klobuchar, Representative Hall cited her "Many Paths to Success" Post-Secondary Education Plan and her knowledge of Iowa's agriculture and biofuel industries.
"I have chosen to endorse Amy Klobuchar because she best understands the challenges and opportunities that Iowans have in front of them," said Iowa State Representative Chris Hall. "She recognizes there are many paths to success, and her commitment to increase access to one and two-year community college degrees and technical certifications will be transformative for people in my district and throughout Iowa. She's extremely familiar with Iowa's agriculture and biofuel industries, and knows how damaging this administration's policies have been for us. Iowans deserve a president who will stand up for our farmers, our workers and our students -- and Amy Klobuchar is uniquely qualified for the role.
Kurth, who represents the west-central part of Davenport and is in her second term in the House, had previously endorsed Senator Cory Booker. A retired community college instructor, Kurth cited Klobuchar's support for community college and technical school education in announcing her endorsement.
"As a former counselor and community college instructor, I've seen firsthand the value of a community college education," said Iowa State Representative Monica Kurth. "Amy understands how important it is to make one and two year degrees and technical certifications an accessible, exciting, and respected option for students, and she has developed the plan to do so. I am proud to endorse her today and look forward to caucusing for her on February 3rd."
Klobuchar, who has been widely praised for her legislative record in the U.S. Senate, has received endorsements from a large number of local and state elected officials in Iowa. With Hogg, Hall and Kurth's endorsements, she now has the support of 16 sitting members of the Iowa legislature -- the most of any candidate in the field. Each time she has led the ticket as a Senate candidate in Minnesota, Democrats have flipped the State House of Representatives from Republican to Democratic control.
Other sitting legislators supporting Klobuchar include:• Iowa Senator Kevin Kinney• Iowa Senator Liz Mathis• Iowa Senator Rich Taylor• Iowa Senator Todd Taylor• Iowa Representative Marti Anderson• Iowa Representative Bruce Bearinger• Iowa Representative Karin Derry• Iowa Representative Molly Donahue• Iowa Representative Ruth Ann Gaines• Iowa Representative Charlie McConkey• Iowa Representative Andy McKean• Iowa Representative Sharon Steckman• Iowa Representative Cindy Winckler
  