
    
  Trump Campaign Continues to Expand in Georgia with Statewide Leadership Team

(New York, NY) January 14th, 2016 — Today Donald J. Trump announced the expansion of his campaign operation in Georgia with a statewide leadership team led by honorary chair, and former Georgia Republican Party Chair, Sue Everhart. Following a successful campaign headquarters grand opening with a record crowd in Cobb County, the Trump campaign received the endorsement of Sue Everhart and a group of prominent community leaders, including grassroots activists, business executives, veterans, elected officials, former GOP party leaders, former Democrats, and many more.
Mr. Trump stated, "It is my great honor to receive the endorsement of the highly respected Sue Everhart in addition to so many other terrific people in Georgia. We have had a tremendous response across the state and I look forward to visiting again soon to share my message to Make America Great Again!"
Sue Everhart added, "Mr. Trump is the future of the Republican Party and I am proud to endorse his candidacy for President of the United States. I look forward to working with his Georgia campaign team to share his message to make our country better than ever before."
The Georgia Leadership Team will be working with the five staffers already on the ground building out a grassroots operation. The Georgia team is led by State Director Brandon Phillips and its headquarters is located at 1000 Circle 75 Parkway, Suite 700, Atlanta, GA 30339.

Georgia State-Wide Leadership Committee:
Sue Everhart, Honorary State Chair
Senator Burt Jones, State Co-Chair
Senator Michael Williams, State Co-Chair
Rayna Casey, State Co-Chair
Bruce LeVell, State Co-Chair
Tyler Van Landingham, Metro Atlanta Regional Coordinator
Carolyn Roddy, Metro Atlanta Regional Deputy Coordinator
Jordan Howard, 1st District Manager
Ritch McCutchen, 2nd District Manager
Bob Blackburn, 3rd District Manager
Anthony Morris, 8th District Manager
Terry Wellham, 9th District Manager
Mitch Mitcheltree, 10th District Manager
Lee Burton, 12th District Manager
Seth Owens, 14th District Manager
Vivian Childs, GOP Grassroots Liaison
Bob Mayzes, Ballot Access Chairman
Mitchell Kaye, Local Elected Officials Chair
Shawn Hanley, Veterans for Trump Chair
Chad Ethridge, Farm Team Chair
Jennifer Maloney, Women for Trump Chair
Eugene Yu, Asain Americas for Trump Chair
Weston Kirk, Young Professionals for Trump Chair
Cody Lautner, Students for Trump Chair
Carmenza Perdomo, Hispanics for Trump Chair
Dennis Bell, Law Enforcement for Trump Chair
  