
    Thank you. First of all, Senator Schumer has got to go to New York, and one of the things that I did not completely solve as President was the minor congestion we sometimes have at our airports. [Laughter] So let's give Senator Schumer a big hand, because he's got to go. [Applause] Thank you.
Well, I want to thank Walter and Thelma and Cathy. Thank you, all of you who worked on this wonderful party for Hillary tonight. I want to thank the people of New York for being so good to my wife and to me and Al Gore for 8 years.
This is a special day for Hillary's mother and her brothers and my family, but especially for Chelsea and me. We were in the Senate gallery today at noon, Chelsea and I were, holding hands, trying to keep from laughing out loud and embarrassing Senator Clinton. [Laughter] I resisted all temptation. I didn't take one of those little Kodak cameras in there. [Laughter] I did everything I could to avoid spoiling what was, for me, one of the truly wonderful moments in my life and our family's life. So, for all of you who helped Hillary over this last almost year and a half, I want you to know I am profoundly grateful to you.
You also have taken a huge load off my mind. [Laughter] Because, you know, for 30 years, I've been guilt-ridden that I, when Hillary came to Arkansas and married me, that I kept her out of a career in politics that she should have had. So I don't have to feel bad about it anymore. [Laughter] And I really thank all of you for doing that. I say it laughingly, but I'm dead serious about it. I have always felt that Hillary had the best combination of mind and heart and passion and strength about the issues that we have always cared about than anyone I ever knew.
And I also believe that the American people understand now that there really is a connection between the ideas you have and the level of commitment you have to implementing them, and what happens out there in the country. And if you have any doubt, you're about to find out. [Laughter] Because—[applause]—wait a minute—I say that in all seriousness. There were, in this election, which was so closely fought out in so many places, there are real differences between the way we view the world. And they are honest and heartfelt. But at least our ideas have been tested for 8 years, and most of them have worked pretty well.
Quite apart from the enormous personal pride I have in Hillary and the enormous gratitude I feel and the incredible—just sheer happiness that we all felt today, I am gratified to know that when my term of service as President ends, there will be one more magnificent voice sticking up for the folks that are too often forgotten and the causes that have too often been left behind.
I'll leave you with this thought. Public service, like a political campaign, is a team sport. It's not like tennis; it's not something you play by yourself. It's a team sport. And even if you get to be quarterback, no matter how good you are, you'll lose if you don't have a good team. I have been blessed to have supporters like you, people like you, all over this country. Don't ever forget it's a team sport. You stick with Hillary, and you guys will do great things for America.
Thank you, and God bless you.
  