
    
  Curt and Norma Join Speaker of the House Kraig Paulsen, Bruce Rastetter and other prominent Iowa Leaders

For Immediate Release:
Friday, January 8, 2016
MORRISTOWN, NJ - Today, two of the most influential Linn County Republicans and business owners announced their endorsement of Governor Christie for President of the United States and urged fellow Iowans to caucus for him. The Hames join the following Linn County Republicans who have already endorsed Governor Christie: Speaker of the House Kraig Paulsen, Linn County Supervisor John Harris, Cedar Rapids City Councilman Scott Olson, Cedar Rapids City Councilman Scott Overland, Kathy Pearson, Allan Thoms, Mark Hudson, Gary Grant, Dan Seufferlein, and more.
"America needs a Governor as president. Unlike other candidates, Governor Christie has fought the tough battles with a fully democratic legislature and won nearly every single time. This experience of being a Governor in a blue state has prepared him to be able to do the job on day one in the Oval Office," said Curt and Norma. "We've watched Governor Christie come to Iowa in support of Governor Branstad and others for the past five years and have admired his candor and ability to tell it like it is. Now, with recent world events, his experience as a U.S. Attorney makes him the most tested, mature, and ready candidate in the field. We are strongly supporting him and think that all Iowa Republicans should do the same."
Curt and Norma Hames are the owners of Hames Homes, a manufactured housing business based in Marion, Iowa since 1969. Curt served in the US Army from 1955 through 1969, including a tour in Vietnam, and retired as a Sergeant Major. Norma also served her country in the Army. They have been involved in Republican politics for decades and were named Honorary Colonels in Governor Branstad and Lt. Governor Reynolds' 2015 Inauguration. They are involved in their local church and a number of local philanthropic organizations. They are in the IMHA Hall of Fame and Linn County Republican Hall of Fame.
"I'm incredibly honored to have the support of Curt and Norma Hames today as we head into the final weeks before the Iowa caucuses," Chris Christie said. "As strong members of their community and the Republican Party in Iowa, Curt and Norma are invaluable additions to our growing team of supporters in the state."
View Christie's full Iowa leadership team here.
  