
    Former US Senator, Presidential candidate cites Obama's ability to bring people together for change, win general election
Manchester, NH -- Former United States Senator (D-NJ) and candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination, Bill Bradley, announced today his endorsement of Senator Barack Obama's candidacy. Bradley, who ran a very strong NH campaign, attracting strong support from Democrats and Independents, said Obama's ability to bring people together for change makes him the best Democrat to reclaim the White House and win a broad mandate to tackle our biggest challenges.
"Barack Obama is building a broad new coalition that brings together Democrats, Independents, and Republicans by once again making idealism a central focus of our politics," said Senator Bradley. "Because of his enormous appeal to Americans of all ages and backgrounds, Obama is the candidate best positioned to win in November. Barack knows above all that unless people can once again believe in our democracy, we won't be able to do the things that need to be done on health care and education or to break our dependence on foreign oil. His movement for change could create a new era of American politics — truly a new American story."
"Bill Bradley has always called on Americans to reach for what is possible in our politics," said Barack Obama. "As a Senator, he was a thoughtful and tireless reformer, expanding health care for children and college education, and working to heal economic and racial divides. As a presidential candidate and author, he has continued to challenge us to build a mandate for pragmatic solutions and progressive change, and I am truly grateful that he has endorsed my candidacy."
Bill Bradley ran for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 2000, after representing New Jersey as a United States Senator from 1979-1997. In the Senate, Bradley compiled a track record of fighting special interests, expanding health care, and promoting good economic growth. Prior to entering politics, Bradley played professional basketball for the New York Knicks. He was inducted into the National Basketball Association (NBA) Hall of Fame in 1982 and has written six books about American culture and politics.
  