
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am today transmitting to the Congress a proposal for legislation to extend until September 30, 1979, the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury under Section 303(d) of the Tariff Act of 1930 to waive the application of countervailing duties. The Secretary's authority to waive the imposition of countervailing duties expired on January 2, 1979. Expansion of this authority is essential to provide the Congress with time to consider the results of the Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN). Failure to extend this authority is likely to prevent the reaching of a conclusion to these negotiations and could set back our national economic interests. Accordingly, I urge that the Congress enact the necessary legislation at the earliest possible date.
As stipulated by the Congress in the Trade Act of 1974, negotiation of a satisfactory code on subsidies and countervailing duties has been a primary U.S. objective in the Tokyo Round. We have sought an agreement to improve discipline on the use of subsidies which adversely affect trade. I am pleased to report that in recent weeks our negotiators have substantially concluded negotiations for a satisfactory subsidy/countervailing duty code which includes: (1) new rules on the use of internal and export subsidies which substantially increase protection of United States agricultural and industrial trading interests, and (2) more effective provisions on notification, consultation and dispute settlement that will provide for timely resolution of disputes involving trade subsidies in international trade.
My Special Representative for Trade Negotiations has informed me that negotiations on almost all MTN topics have been substantially concluded, and that those agreements meet basic U.S. objectives. However, final agreement is unlikely unless the waiver authority is extended for the period during which such agreements and their implementing legislation are being considered by the Congress under the procedures of the Trade Act of 1974.
Under current authority, the imposition of countervailing duties may be waived in a specific case only if, inter alia, "adequate steps have been taken to eliminate or substantially reduce the adverse effect" of the subsidy in question. This provision and the other limitations on the use of the waiver authority which are currently in the law would continue in effect if the waiver authority is extended. Thus, U.S. producers and workers will continue to be protected from the adverse effects of subsidized competition.
A successful conclusion to the MTN is essential to our national interest, as well as the continued growth of world trade. If the waiver authority is not extended, such a successful conclusion will be placed in serious jeopardy. Accordingly, I urge the Congress to act positively upon this legislative proposal at the earliest possible date.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 15, 1979.
Proposed amendment to Section 303 (d) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, by Section 331(a) of the Trade Act of 1974, (19 U.S.C. 1303).
At the end of paragraph (d) of Section 303 add the following new paragraph:
(4) Notwithstanding subparagraph (d) (2), the four-year period referred to therein is extended until September 30, 1979, and all determinations reached by the Secretary pursuant thereto prior to the enactment of this subparagraph shall continue in effect until such date, unless the Secretary revokes his determination as provided in subparagraph 303(d) (3). Any other determination by the Secretary to waive countervailing duties as to which an intention to do so was announced prior to the enactment of this subparagraph shall be effective as of the date notice of intent to waive was published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
  