
    In the video above, New Hampshire Speaker Bill O'Brien explains why Newt has the right knowledge and experience to change Washington, which he also wrote about in today's Union Leader.
After spending considerable time reviewing the candidates for President, and coming to like and admire many of them—perhaps most of them — based on what I have learned as New Hampshire House Speaker about the focus, energy and principles needed to achieve fundamental change in government, one person rose to the top as the person certain to bring positive, transformative change to Washington, and that person is Newt Gingrich. Newt is the one candidate who most certainly will get America back to the ideals that made our country great. Newt Gingrich unequivocally will restore fiscal discipline to Washington.
Newt's past performance and record of accomplishments are exactly what we need in Washington. While revisionist historians would like to credit the tremendous success of the 1990s to Bill Clinton, all Bill Clinton had to show before Newt Gingrich's leadership in the House was a failed stimulus plan, a failed attempt at national health care, a major tax increase, a bill to restrict Second Amendment rights, and midnight basketball. Then, Newt took over and reform came to Washington.
It was not Bill Clinton who displayed the political courage to hold the line on federal spending, leading to the first balanced budget in four decades and four consecutive balanced budgets. It was the House of Representatives, led by Newt Gingrich. It was not Bill Clinton who crafted the welfare reform that lifted millions out of poverty. Instead, Clinton twice vetoed welfare reform. It was wholly a consequence of the dogged determination of Newt Gingrich's House of Representatives that Bill Clinton finally agreed to making welfare a bridge to work and not a dead end of dependency.
Congress, and not Bill Clinton, pushed the tax cut of 1997 with a capital gains cut that produced millions of jobs. These huge accomplishments would not have taken place without Newt Gingrich's vision and leadership. We desperately need that leadership in the Oval Office today.
These changes will be hard. I know firsthand from what we are trying to accomplish in New Hampshire. The only way to get there is with someone who has a clear goal for America, an ability to articulate complex ideas simply and understandably, and uncompromising determination to see things through. Newt Gingrich is not only that person, but he has shown us repeatedly that he is that person. He is the right man at the right time for the presidency. We need to support him in delivering the leadership America so desperately needs today.

Read the full column here.
  