
    Memorandum for the Secretary of Transportation
Section 6 of the Bus Regulatory Reform Act of 1982 imposed a moratorium on the issuance of certificates or permits to motor carriers domiciled in, or owned or controlled by, persons of a contiguous foreign country. The Act authorized the President to remove the moratorium in whole or in part for any country or political subdivision thereof upon determining that such action is in the national interest. Sixty days' advance notice to the Congress is required whenever the removal or modification applies to a foreign contiguous country or political subdivision thereof that substantially prohibits the granting of motor carrier authority to persons from the United States.
As set forth in the Statement of Administrative Action regarding the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) that I submitted to the Congress on November 3, 1993, the moratorium with respect to Mexico will be lifted in phases to coincide with the schedule of liberalization in the relevant provisions of the NAFTA. The NAFTA specifically states that the moratorium will not apply to the provision of cross-border charter or tour bus services as of the date of entry into force of the Agreement.
This is to give public notice that, pursuant to section 6 of the Bus Regulatory Reform Act of 1982, 49 U.S.C. section 10922(l)(2)(A), on November 3, 1993, I gave the Congress notice of my intention to make a limited modification to the moratorium imposed by that section and all actions taken by my predecessors under that section on the issuance of certificates or permits to motor carriers domiciled in, or owned or controlled by, persons of Mexico. This modification will take effect on January 1, 1994, the 60th day after my notice to the Congress.
The moratorium is modified only to authorize the Interstate Commerce Commission to grant Mexican motor carriers authority to transport passengers in charter or tour bus operations, in foreign commerce, in round-trip or one-way service between Mexico and the United States.
This action applies only to international charter or tour bus operations, does not allow for point-to-point bus service within the United States, and does not authorize companies to conduct cross-border regular route bus service.
Effective January 1, 1994, the Interstate Commerce Commission will begin to accept and process expeditiously all applications for operating authority from Mexican owned, controlled, or domiciled charter and tour bus firms.
This determination shall be published in the Federal Register.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, January 1, 1994.
  