
    Lance M. Africk, of Louisiana, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Edith Brown Clement, elevated.
Percy Anderson, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Kim McLane Wardlaw, elevated.
Michael M. Baylson, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Robert F. Kelly, retired.
Stanley R. Chesler, of New Jersey, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Anne Elise Thompson, retired.
Ronald H. Clark, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, vice Howell Cobb, retired.
Joy Flowers Conti, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Alan N. Bloch, retired.
Legrome D. Davis, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Edmund V. Ludwig, retired.
Leonard E. Davis, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, vice Paul N. Brown, retired.
David C. Godbey, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas, vice Robert B. Maloney, retired.
William C. Griesbach, of Wisconsin, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, vice a new position created by Public Law 106-553, approved December 21, 2000.
Andrew S. Hanen, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Filemon B. Vela, retired.
Henry E. Hudson, of Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice a new position created by Public Law 106-553, approved December 21, 2000.
Joan E. Lancaster, of Minnesota, to be United States District Judge for the District of Minnesota, vice Paul A. Magnuson, retired.
Ronald B. Leighton, of Washington, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Washington, vice Robert J. Bryan, retired.
Kenneth A. Marra, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice a new position created by Public Law 106-553, approved December 21, 2000.
Jose E. Martinez, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Edward B. Davis, retired.
William J. Martini, of New Jersey, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice John C. Lifland, retired.
Samuel H. Mays, Jr., of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee, vice Jerome Turner, deceased.
Terrence F. McVerry, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Donald E. Ziegler, retired.
Frederick W. Rohlfing III, of Hawaii, to be United States District Judge for the District of Hawaii, vice Alan C. Kay, retired.
Thomas M. Rose, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio, vice Herman J. Weber, retired.
Cynthia M. Rufe, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Norma Levy Shapiro, retired.
Arthur J. Schwab, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Maurice B. Cohill, Jr., retired.
John F. Walter, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice John G. Davies, retired.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Scott A. Abdallah, of South Dakota, to be United States Attorney for the District of South Dakota for the term of four years, vice Elizabeth Karen Schreier, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on November 30, 2001.
  