
    
"with confidence and enthusiasm"
The New York Times just joined the growing list of newspapers backing Hillary Clinton for president. Here's why she's the Democratic presidential pick of the national paper of record:
She's a policy expert—and she's offering smart, in-depth solutions to America's challenges.


  " It's not just that she's done her homework—Mrs. Clinton has done her homework on pretty much any subject you'd care to name."

She's spent her life fighting to make life better for working Americans.


  " Her lifelong fight for women bolsters her credibility in this area, since so many of the problems with labor law hit women the hardest, including those involving child care, paid sick leave, unstable schedules and low wages for tipped workers."

She was a phenomenal secretary of state.


  " She was the secretary President Obama needed and wanted: someone who knew leaders around the world, who brought star power as well as expertise to the table."

She isn't afraid to stand her ground—but she knows how to build consensus to get things done.


  " Mrs. Clinton has honed a steeliness that will serve her well in negotiating with a difficult Congress on critically important issues like climate change."

The Times isn't the only paper to enthusiastically back Hillary.
She's also earned the endorsement of the Boston Globe.?


  " The best reason to support Clinton isn't the weaknesses of her opponents; it's her demonstrated strengths and experience."

And Iowa's Des Moines Register, Iowa Starting Line, and Iowa Press-Citizen:


  " True inspiration doesn't come in chanting slogans, waving signs or enjoying a candidate's soaring speech. Real inspiration happens in the real lives we change through progress born out of grueling, hard-won fights."Iowa Starting Line

And in New Hampshire, she has the support of the Concord Monitor, Portsmouth Herald and Foster's Daily Democrat, and the Keene Sentinel:


  " No contender's resume can come within miles of matching Clinton's. She's ready to take up the nation's top job on day one and her knowledge of domestic issues and foreign policy is encyclopedic."Concord Monitor

  