
    MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS): "Farmers and ranchers are the lifeblood of our rural communities and backbone of our country. It's refreshing to see a President take such personal interest in the rural American constituency. President Trump has listened to my concerns on numerous occasions, as evidenced by today's speech, and those concerns have certainly not fallen on deaf ears. I look forward to working with President Trump as we write the upcoming Farm Bill."
Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA): "Over the last year, this Administration has made great strides in providing relief to rural Americans and our agricultural community, including the sweeping tax reform that was just signed into law, which reduces the tax burden for rural Iowans. …At the direction of the President, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity has worked to collect feedback from rural communities around the country. The priorities included in the report can play a vital role in strengthening our agricultural communities. America is vital to our nation's economy, and it's my hope that these recommendations are turned into action for Iowans and rural communities across the nation."
Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC): "I applaud President Trump for his speech to the American Farm Bureau today showing his commitment to the agricultural industry and building on the work his administration has done over the last 12 months to uphold his promise to farmers across the country."
Sen. Deb Fischer (R-NE): "The president's remarks today illustrate once again his strong commitment to rural America and the hardworking farmers and ranchers in this country. I was happy he highlighted important policy initiatives like additional regulatory relief and signed an executive order to promote increased broadband access for agriculture."
Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV): "I'm so happy the Trump administration is drawing attention to the needs of rural communities and working to find solutions that can improve the lives of those who call these communities home."
Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ): "It's been 26 yrs since a sitting president attended the @FarmBureau Convention. As a friend of the Farm Bureau myself, I appreciate @realDonaldTrump for speaking at #AFBF18. Rural America is USA's backbone. Our economy, our cupboards & our culture would be sparse w/out farmers!"
Rep. John Moolenaar (R-MI): "Increasing broadband Internet access is crucial to helping residents of Michigan's rural communities take advantage of today's economic opportunities. I have heard from residents about how important this issue is to them and I support the president's decision to sign two executive orders that will help increase rural Internet access."
Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND): "Thank You @POTUS for commitment to expand rural broadband access @FarmBureau speech!"
Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY): "I agree with @POTUS that we need to expand broadband access to our rural communities and look forward to working with him on this issue."
Rep. Ralph Norman (R-SC): "Thank you Pres. @realDonaldTrump for signing 2 executive orders today to expand rural broadband access. For too long, rural America has been left behind. Great to see Trump Admin. rebuilding rural America."
Rep. Diane Black (R-TN): "Farmers feed & fuel our economy in #TN & I'm grateful to stand beside our President to welcome over 6,000 farmers to #AFBF18!"
Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN): "For far too long, rural America has been left behind. Thank you @realDonaldTrump for taking action on such an imperative issue for farmers and their businesses, by signing 2 executive orders for rural broadband access. Our internet standards are unacceptable. It's time for change."
Rep. Scott DesJarlais (R-TN): "Our rural Fourth District strongly supports the President's efforts, in tandem with Congress, to lift the burden of bureaucracy and high taxation from farmers' backs. Many family farms are small businesses that will benefit from tax cuts, dependable domestic energy and infrastructure improvements, including rural Internet. My constituents deserve the same chance to succeed as any American, as well as safety and security."
Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN): "Thank you @realDonaldTrump! Our farmers deserve nothing but the best, and it is about time rural America is on a level playing field with fast, reliable, quality broadband internet."
Rep. David Kustoff (R-TN): "It was an honor to join President Trump today in Tennessee as he addressed American farmers and unveiled his comprehensive plan to revive rural America and support our agriculture industry…. I stand ready to work with the Administration and my colleagues as we enact critical reforms that will help our rural communities prosper in Tennessee and across the nation."
Rep. Phil Roe (R-TN): "It was an honor to join President Trump aboard Air Force One today, and to attend his speech in Nashville as he discussed increasing prosperity in rural America. I agree wholeheartedly with the president that we must take steps to address issues such as the opioid crisis and other public health challenges; the need for high-speed connectivity and the steps we can take to create jobs and build a skilled workforce in Tennessee and across rural America."
Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI): "Proud to stand with @POTUS @realDonaldTrump on tackling the issues facing rural Americans, especially the reforms my colleagues and I are advocating for in our Rural Relief Initiative."
STATE OFFICIALS
Gov. Bill Haslam (R-TN): "Good to have @POTUS in Tennessee and great to hear his appreciation for the agriculture industry and its importance to our economy."
Gov. Doug Burgum (R-ND): "We're grateful to President Trump, Secretary Perdue and the American Farm Bureau Federation for focusing on the needs of rural America, especially in North Dakota where roughly half of our residents live in rural areas…. We look forward to working with the administration to help bring these recommendations to fruition for the benefit of current and future generations."
North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner Doug Goehring: "I congratulate President Trump and the American Farm Bureau for being engaged at the grassroots level to hear from rural America about needs for the future. Secretary Perdue and the task force have developed key recommendations to enable our rural areas not only to survive, but to thrive. I applaud the changes they are proposing which include regulatory reform, tax reform, research, infrastructure development and more. Secretary Perdue has been a pleasure to work with this past year with the drought and other issues. The task force focused on rural America is a great first step and I look forward to being involved in the implementation of this vision."
Arkansas Secretary of Agriculture Wes Ward: "We applaud the President for supporting agriculture and rural America and we applaud Secretary Perdue, and other senior federal government officials, for their work on the Agriculture and Rural Prosperity Task Force. As our largest industry, agriculture and the rural areas where agricultural production takes place are tremendously important to our state."
Connecticut Commissioner of Agriculture and National Association of State Departments of Agriculture (NASDA) President Steven K. Reviczky: "We are encouraged by the focus on agriculture and rural America from the Administration in this report. We look forward to engaging with the Administration and Congress to advance the economic vitality of our rural communities, especially in the areas of connectivity, a reliable workforce, and enhanced markets for producers – particularly abroad. It is critical we work together to ensure safe, affordable, and available food, as well as a thriving and livable rural America."
Kentucky Commissioner of Agriculture Ryan Quarles: "It hasn't even been a full year into President Trump's administration and rural Americans are already seeing results…. Earlier today at the American Farm Bureau Annual Conference in Nashville, President Trump presented a vision to keep the momentum going and increase prosperity for rural Americans in the 21st century."
Alabama Commissioner of Agriculture and Industries John McMillan: "The title of a proposal often is a sign of whether it's going to be one of great merit or simply another example of government by press release. 'Rural Prosperity' speaks volumes about the keen understanding of President Trump and Secretary Perdue as to what the goal should be, and that is prosperity for Rural America. It's the rising tide that lifts all boats, as another American President aptly described the effects of growth in the income of working families. Now, at last, we have a solid plan that will lift the well-being of many Alabama families."
Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge: "This comprehensive effort creates the framework that will assist Arkansas farmers, ranchers, foresters, producers and rural communities who have felt neglected and deserve access to high-speed internet, affordable health care, workforce development and regulatory relief. This report, if fully implemented, will not only change rural America, but it will empower these communities for generations.
Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette: "Michigan is a farming state. Great to see @POTUS supporting one of our top industries and the people who help power our economy and form the backbone of our state."
CABINET MEMBERS AND FEDERAL AGENCIES
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue: "Since his inauguration, President Trump has made agriculture and rural America a high priority. On the day he swore me in to office, he tasked me with chairing the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity. … No doubt, rural America has struggled under burdensome regulations with no voice in Washington, but under President Trump's leadership, and with the work of this task force, we can turn that around and restore rural prosperity once and for all."
Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke: "President Trump's order will help bridge the digital divide for the millions of Americans who live in rural areas. Whether it's a student taking a class via distance learning, a small clinic practicing telemedicine, or a mom-and-pop garage small business using e-commerce platforms, expanding high-speed broadband access will have incredible benefits for rural America."
Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta: "President Trump's commitment to reducing the barriers that stand in the way of rural development is already having an impact. For instance, after losing jobs in 2016, mining and logging industries created more than 54,000 jobs in 2017. The Department of Labor is committed to ensuring that every American has access to demand-driven education to bridge the skills gap and fill the open jobs being created in our growing economy."
United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer: "President Trump's economic strategy is designed to create jobs and promote prosperity for all Americans, including those who live and work in our rural communities…. USTR is committed to this administration-wide effort to break down barriers for rural America, grow our economy and ensure the United States remains the world's leader in agriculture trade."
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt: "More than ever, American farmers and ranchers deserve regulatory certainty. These recommendations renew our commitment to empowering rural America and improving environmental outcomes across the country. I look forward to building on these efforts at EPA to revitalize rural America."
U.S. General Services Administration: "GSA is committed to the President's effort to provide reliable & affordable broadband internet service to rural communities across America. We look forward to evaluating our current application process in order to remove any obstacles to broadband services and efficiently utilize government resources."
AGRICULTURE AND TECHNOLOGY LEADERS
American Cable Association President and CEO Matthew M. Polka: "ACA applauds the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity, which President Donald J. Trump established earlier this year, for issuing a report and a lengthy series of recommendations on ways to improve the lives of Americans living in rural areas…. ACA and its members look forward to working with the Trump Administration as it continues its work to ensure rural communities thrive, especially by having access to high performance broadband service."
American Seed Trade Association President and CEO Andrew W. LaVigne: "We're pleased that the Trump Administration recognizes the critical importance of U.S. agriculture and the rural economy. Under the strong leadership of Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, the Agriculture and Rural Prosperity Task Force is taking positive steps to identify and address some of the key challenges faced by rural America."
Competitive Carriers Association President and CEO Steven K. Berry: "I commend the Rural Prosperity Task Force for its important work on behalf of rural America and couldn't agree more that robust broadband connectivity in these areas is absolutely essential to everyday life…. Encouraging investment in broadband infrastructure will strengthen the U.S.'s position as a global broadband leader, will help boost the economy and, most importantly, will help close the digital divide so that no American will be left behind in a connected world. I thank the Task Force for its work on the Report and look forward to our continued work with the Administration on this critical issue."
Connected Nation Chairman and CEO Tom Ferree: "We're very excited that the President is taking action and that this report is shining a light on the immediate needs of farmers and rural communities across America."
CTIA President and CEO Meredith Atwell Baker: "CTIA and the wireless industry welcome President Trump's call today to accelerate rural access to mobile broadband. Wireless providers are committed to further enhancing mobile connectivity for all Americans and the President's emphasis on cutting red tape and streamlining wireless permitting will help meet this important goal."
Farm Credit Council President and CEO Todd Van Hoose: "Farm Credit thanks President Trump and his administration for focusing on rural America. We look forward to working with the president and Congress to pass a strong Farm Bill, expand trade opportunities for farmers and rebuild rural infrastructure."
The Fertilizer Institute: "The Fertilizer Institute (TFI) expresses its appreciation for President Trump's leadership and his support for rural America. TFI supports the recommendations outlined by the report unveiled today by the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity to improve rural economic development, innovation and technology, workforce development, and quality of life."
International Dairy Foods Association President and CEO Michael Dykes: "The International Dairy Foods Association commends President Donald Trump and his administration for prioritizing rural workforce development in a new commitment to bring prosperity back to rural communities…. With the training and educational investments, expanded apprenticeship programs and access to career development programs the President outlined today, dairy companies will be able to continue providing job opportunities in thousands of rural communities across the United States."
National Cable & Telecommunications Association: "As an industry that already offers broadband to 93 percent of US households, including millions in rural America, we fully support the Administration's efforts to reduce barriers to investment in rural America. We especially agree with focusing on continuing the significant improvement that has been made in recent years connecting the disparate communities that currently are not served."
National Farmers Union President Roger Johnson: "National Farmers Union applauds the Task Force and Secretary Perdue on their efforts to help rural America grow and thrive. For too long, rural communities have lagged behind their urban counterparts, both socially and economically, and the federal government has not provided the tools or funding necessary to bridge the gap. The priorities outlined in the report are essential to tackling longstanding disparities, by both bolstering the economies of as well as improving the quality of life within rural communities."
National Pork Producers Council President Ken Maschhoff: "Addressing workforce issues and federal rules and maintaining export markets, coupled with the recently approved tax cuts, will help revitalize rural America. President Trump, Agriculture Secretary Perdue and the team at the White House National Economic Council are to be commended for putting together a plan that will aid farmers and ranchers. This administration recognizes that rural America plays a vital role in the U.S. economy and, importantly, in ensuring our food security, and it's working to bolster the farm economy. It is taking actions that will allow us to do what we do best: produce the safest, most nutritious and most abundant food at the lowest cost in the world."
USTelecom President and CEO Jonathan Spalter: "The focus on broadband deployment in the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity reflects a national imperative to ensure every American can be connected, no matter where we live. This 'broadband first' approach is an important step toward our shared goal of serving the connectivity needs of America's rural communities."
  