
    News clips from first week of Huckabee's Americans First tour in Iowa
The Iowa Republican, editor Craig Robinson: "I think Huckabee is another dark horse. Huckabee announced that he plans to hold 150 campaign events in the month of January. That means he's going to be everywhere, and for someone as likeable as Huckabee, that's a smart strategy."
Ames Tribune: "Huckabee said his experience as a governor, presidential candidate and known opponent to the 'Clinton political machine,' separates him from the rest of the pack. That is exactly why Ivan Moore drove from Story City to hear Huckabee speak. 'He has the experience as a governor, and I really think that governors have a real advantage over senators and representatives because he has actually governed something and they haven't,' Moore said. One of those issues that Moore was glad to hear Huckabee speak of was tax reform and his support of the FairTax... 'I think that would be so beneficial to our country,' Moore said."
Des Moines Register: "Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee on Monday blasted President Obama's plan to use executive authority to tighten gun rules in the United States. Huckabee, during his first of five Monday campaign stops, also had strong words for Republicans in Congress: 'Grow a spine and stand up to Obama and tell him 'no' rather than wring your hands and say 'there's nothing we can do.' Well, if there's nothing you can do, resign and send other people to Congress who would be willing to oppose it.'"
Siouxland Matters: "Janet Huckabee hosted a meet and greet at a local indoor shooting range and expressed her reaction to President Obama's executive action gun plan. As Janet Huckabee was in Sioux City brushing up on her shooting skills, she made it known that it was important to her as a concealed carry license holder. She plans to visit Council Bluff, Storm Lake and Pocahontas to wrap up her visit in northwest Iowa and says people want the president to be someone with experience and her husband, Mike Huckabee, has a track record to prove he's the right one for the job."
Mason City Globe Gazette: "Huckabee said he will be a president that can successfully handle the issues of immigration, terrorism and the overall economy. Marcia Tweeten said Huckabee's background as a Baptist minister appeals to her. But, she is also interested in his stance on Social Security and Medicaid. 'Huckabee is willing to protect Social Security and Medicaid,' Tweeten said. Jim Haake of Forest City was at Huckabee's stop to learn more about the candidate. 'There is something about shaking a man's hand,' Haake said. 'I believe Gov. Huckabee not only has the capability to be president but he has the character. That's important,' Haake said. America needs 'a solid leader. We need a statesman.'"
  