
    Senator Klobuchar Now Has the Support of More Sitting Iowa Legislators Than Any Other Candidate
DES MOINES, IA — Iowa State Senator Rich Taylor today endorsed U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for President, citing her knowledge of the agriculture industry and strong support for labor in his decision. With Taylor's endorsement, Klobuchar now has the support of more current Iowa legislators than any other candidate in the field.
"Amy Klobuchar has a deep understanding of agriculture and labor, two issues critical in Iowa," said Iowa State Senator and Assistant Democratic Leader Rich Taylor. "As a Senator from the heartland and a Senior Member of the Agriculture Committee, Amy knows the importance of supporting our farmers. As the daughter of a union teacher and granddaughter of an iron ore miner, Amy has seen firsthand how labor helps working families and knows that we must protect these hard-fought rights. I am proud to endorse Amy's candidacy for president, and excited to be part of the broad coalition of Iowa legislators supporting her."
Taylor is currently serving his second term in the Iowa Senate representing Henry and Lee Counties, in addition to parts of Washington and Jefferson Counties. He is the ranking Democrat on the Iowa Senate's Veterans Affairs Committee. Taylor also serves on the Agriculture, Judiciary, and Labor and Business Relations Committees.
A longtime labor and public safety activist, Taylor is a member of AFSCME Local 2989, for which he previously served as Treasurer.
Klobuchar, who has been widely praised for her legislative record in the U.S. Senate, has the support of more than 20 current and former members of the Iowa Legislature -- the most of any candidate. Each time she has led the ticket as a Senate candidate in Minnesota, Democrats have flipped the State House of Representatives from Republican to Democratic control.
Earlier this week, Amy For America announced it would hold a "Full Klobuchar Day of Action," which will consist of grassroots organizing events in all of Iowa's 99 counties in a single day -- this Saturday, January 11.
Other sitting legislators supporting Klobuchar include:• Iowa Senator Kevin Kinney• Iowa Senator Liz Mathis• Iowa Senator Todd Taylor• Iowa Representative Marti Anderson• Iowa Representative Bruce Bearinger• Iowa Representative Molly Donahue• Iowa Representative Ruth Ann Gaines• Iowa Representative Andy McKean• Iowa Representative Sharon Steckman• Iowa Representative Cindy Winckler
  