
    Hello everyone, it's another night we get to spend together for our nightly chat. Please remember to keep sending me your thoughts and questions by texting the number 275-236 (ASKBEN). Let's jump right in!
First, I wanted to thank the thousands of you who sent me your prayers and well-wishes yesterday before the debate — it always centers me and puts me in the right frame of mind to know who I am fighting for, We the People. So much attention has been given to "sound-byte sensationalism" and pitting this person against that one — we must always remember that this is not about 'them', it is about us. The future we sow for will be what our children reap, and I am confident, together, we will be planting the seeds for our children to bear the fruit of a prosperous tomorrow.
Division and demonization are not the answer — it is healthy to recognize 'differences' that are inherent in our 'melting pot' society steeped in tradition and common purpose, unique perspectives and voices are at the very essence of our nation's formation. However, when we lose sight of our commonality — to the point of demeaning rhetoric and dehumanizing insult — our neighbor becomes nothing more than an accumulation of 'material', without dignity and meaning.
I refuse to belittle, We the People are bigger — it's time "politicians" learn how to lift ideas up rather than pushing other people down. This election means more than the person who will hold the office of President because the American people ultimately govern from that desk, and I'm not quite sure there's enough room for one man's ego and We the People to fit at the same time.
Before I head off to bed, I'd like to answer Don's question about last night; he asked "were you frustrated about the lack of time and questions you got during the debate?" This was a common response from many of you, so I wanted to make sure I shared my thoughts with you on this.
Yes and no, Don. No, I wasn't personally frustrated over the lack of time I was given — I don't think it takes a verbose and drawn-out answer to get to the point. According to the reporting, I had the "lowest time" answering on stage, but I always prefer quality over quantity. On the same note, however, I do wish that more time was spent getting to the focus of this debate: the American people. There was plenty of "back and forth", from side to side on that stage, not enough discussion about giving this country back to We the People, forthright solutions that speak directly to a divided America. Let's leave the bickering on the playground, this is not a game.
I stand with you — not over you. We the People are united in actually solving problems, telling it like it is — who cares about scoring political points when the score always ends up zero. We all lose when fall divided, but, united we stand. Let's get back to winning again. I am confident we will secure the victory Americans are known for, time and time again, leading the way for others to follow.
As always, thank you for allowing me into your homes for another night together, just We the People connecting without all the noise. It's always a highlight of my day.
Goodnight,
Ben
  