
    Over final 36 hours before the New Hampshire primary, Edwards will highlight his plans to stand up for the middle class and take on the entrenched interests in Washington
Manchester, New Hampshire – In the final hours leading up to the New Hampshire primary, John and Elizabeth Edwards will hold a 36-hour "Marathon for the Middle Class" in New Hampshire. Starting today at noon, John and Elizabeth will campaign for 36 hours straight to talk to thousands of voters at rallies and town halls across the Granite State.
As he makes his closing argument to New Hampshire voters, Senator Edwards will highlight his bold plans to stand up to the powerful entrenched interests and give hard-working, middle class families a voice in Washington.
"Families in New Hampshire and across America are struggling to afford the skyrocketing costs of health care, $100-a-barrel oil, and the rising cost of college," Edwards said. "The truth is, middle class families are working harder everyday just to get by, and they deserve a president who works just has hard for the real change our country so desperately needs.
"Over the next 36 hours, I'm looking forward to meeting with New Hampshire voters who are as restless as I am for change – and who understand that making change happen is going to take a fight. If we don't send someone into the White House who will fight for regular Americans, nothing is going to change. But if we stand up together, we can take on the entrenched interests and restore the promise of America."
Edwards will kick off the "Marathon for the Middle Class" today at a town hall at noon in Manchester. Over the course of the next 36 hours, Edwards will crisscross the state meeting with voters and supporters in Keene, Derry, Nashua, Berlin, Claremont, Lakeport, Bedford, Hampton, Dover, Somersworth, Rochester, and Durham. The marathon will end with a Graniteroots event at the John Edwards for President office in Portsmouth at 12:30 AM on Tuesday.
On Friday morning, Edwards kicked off a four day "Main Street Express – Real Change Starts Now" tour. Leading up to the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday, Edwards has been joined by his wife Elizabeth and their children Cate, Emma Claire and Jack as well as John's parents Bobbie and Wallace. Today, Elizabeth joins Senator Edwards at the events in Manchester, Derry and Nashua, as well as the majority of events on Monday.
Also joining Edwards on the "Main Street Express" are Edwards' supporters James and Cindy Lowe, Sandy Lakey, and the family of Nataline Sarkisyan, as well as celebrities Tim Robbins and Susan Sarandon.
The schedule for Edwards' 36-hour New Hampshire "Marathon for the Middle Class" is available here.
  