
    To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Section 204(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C. 1703, I hereby report to the Congress that I have today exercised the authority granted by this Act to take certain measures with respect to property of the Government of Iran and its controlled entities and instrumentalities.
1. On November 14, 1979, I took the step of blocking certain property and interests in property of the Government of Iran and its controlled entities and instrumentalities. This action was taken in response to a series of aggressive actions by Iran, including the attack on the United States Embassy in Tehran, the holding of U.S. citizens and diplomats as hostages, and threats to withdraw assets from United States banks, and otherwise seek to harm the economic and political interests of the United States. Subsequently, on April 7, 1980, and April 17, 1980, I took further action restricting various kinds of transactions with Iran by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
2. Agreement has now been reached with Iran concerning the release of the hostages and the settlement of claims of U.S. nationals against Iran. Among other things this agreement involves the payment by Iran of approximately $3.67 billion to pay off principal and interest outstanding on syndicated loan agreements in which a U.S. bank is a party. This includes making all necessary payments to the foreign members of these syndicates. An additional $1.418 billion shall remain available to pay all other loans as soon as any disputes as to the amounts involved are settled and to pay additional interest to banks upon agreement or arbitration with Iran. In addition, there will be established an international tribunal to adjudicate various disputed claims by U.S. nationals against Iran; and the deposit of $1 billion by Iran from previously blocked assets as released, which will be available for payments of awards against Iran. Iran has committed itself to replenish this fund as necessary. This tribunal, among other things, will also hear certain disputes between Iranian nationals and the United States Government and contractual disputes between Iran and the United States.
In connection with this agreement, and to begin the process of normalization of relations between the two countries, I have issued and will issue, a series of Orders.
3. First, I have signed an Executive Order authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to enter into or to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to enter into escrow and depositary agreements with the Bank of England.
Under these agreements, assets in the escrow account will be returned to the control of Iran upon the safe departure of the United States hostages from Iran. I have also by this Order instructed the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the United States, to receive other blocked Iranian assets, and, as further directed by the Secretary of the Treasury, to transfer these assets to the escrow account.
4. Second, I have signed an Executive Order directing the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to transfer to its account at the Bank of England and then to the escrow account referred to in the preceding paragraph, the assets of the Government of Iran, both transfers to take place as and when directed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
In order to assure that this transaction can be executed, and having considered the claims settlement agreement described above, I have exercised my authority to nullify, and barred the exercise of, all rights, powers or privileges acquired by anyone; I have revoked all licenses and authorizations for acquiring any rights, powers, or privileges; and I have prohibited anyone from acquiring or exercising any right, power, or privileges, all with respect to these properties of Iran. These prohibitions and nullifications apply to rights, powers, or privileges whether acquired by court order, attachment, or otherwise. I have also prohibited any attachment or other like proceeding or process affecting these properties.
5. Third, I have signed an Executive Order which directs branches and offices of United States banks located outside the United States to transfer all Iranian government funds, deposits and securities held by them on their books on or after November 14, 1979 at 8:10 a.m. EST to the account of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the Bank of England in London. These assets will be transferred to the account of the Central Bank of Algeria, as escrow agent. The transfer is to include interest from the date of the blocking order at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, any banking institution that has executed a set-off subsequent to the date of the blocking order against Iranian deposits covered by this order is directed to cancel the set-off and to transfer the funds that had been subject to the set-off in the same manner as the other overseas deposits.
This Order also provides for the revocation of licenses and the nullifications and bars described in paragraph 4 of this report.
6. Fourth, I will have signed an Executive Order directing American banks located within the United States which hold Iranian deposits to transfer those deposits, including interest from the date of entry of the blocking order at commercially reasonable rates, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, to be held or transferred as directed by the Secretary of the Treasury. Half of these funds will be transferred to Iran and the other half (up to a maximum of $1 billion) will be placed in a security account as provided in the Declaration and the Claims Settlement Agreement that are part of the agreement we have reached with Iran. This fund will be maintained at a $500 million level until the claims program is concluded. While these transfers should take place as soon as possible, I have been advised that court actions may delay it. This Order also provides for the revocation of licenses anal the nullifications and bars described in paragraph 4 of this report.
7. Fifth, I nave signed an Executive Order directing the transfer to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York by nonbanking institutions of funds and securities held by them for the Government of Iran, to be held or transferred as directed by the Secretary of the Treasury. This transfer will be accomplished at approximately the same time as that described in paragraph 6.
This Order also provides for the revocation of licenses and the nullifications and bars described in paragraph 4 of this report.
8. Sixth, I will sign, upon release of the hostages, an Executive Order directing any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who is in possession or control of properties owned by Iran, not including funds and securities, to transfer the property as directed by the Government of Iran acting through its authorized agent. The Order recites that it does not relieve persons subject to it from existing legal requirements other than those based on the International Emergency Economic Powers Act. This Order does not apply to contingent liabilities. This Order also provides for the revocation of licenses and the nullifications and bars described in paragraph 4 of this report.
9. Seventh, I will sign, upon release of the hostages, an Executive Order revoking prohibitions previously imposed against transactions involving Iran. The Executive Order revokes prohibitions contained in Executive Order No. 12205 of April 7, 1980; and Executive Order No. 12211 of April 17, 1980; and the amendments contained in Proclamation No. 4702 of November 12, 1979. The two Executive Orders limited trade and financial transactions involving Iran and travel to Iran. The proclamation restricted oil imports. In revoking these sanctions I have no intention of superseding other existing controls relating to exports including the Arms Export Control Act and the Export Administration Act.
10. Eighth, I will sign, upon release of the hostages, an Executive Order providing for the waiver of certain claims against Iran. The Order directs that the Secretary of the Treasury shall promulgate regulations: (a) prohibiting any person subject to U.S. jurisdiction from prosecuting in any court within the United States or elsewhere any claim against the Government of Iran arising out of events occurring before the date of this Order arising out: (1) the seizure of the hostages on November 4, 1979; (2) their subsequent detention; (3) injury to the United States property or property of United States nationals within the United States Embassy compound in Tehran after November 1979; (4) or injury to United States nationals or their property as a result of popular movements in the course of the Islamic Revolution in Iran which were not an act of the Government of Iran; (b) prohibiting any person not a U.S. national from prosecuting any such claim in any court within the United States; (c) ordering the termination of any previously instituted judicial proceedings based upon such claims; and (d) prohibiting the enforcement of any judicial order issued in the course of such proceedings.
The Order also authorizes and directs the Attorney General of the United States immediately upon the issuance of such a Treasury regulation to notify all appropriate courts of the existence of the Executive Order and implementing regulations and the resulting termination of relevant litigation. At the same time, I will create a commission to make recommendations on the issue of compensation for those who have been held as hostages.
11. Finally, I will sign, upon release of the hostages, an Executive Order invoking the blocking powers of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act to prevent the transfer of property located in the United States and controlled by the estate of Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, the former Shah of Iran, or by any close relative of the former Shah served as a defendant in litigation in United States courts brought by Iran seeking the return of property alleged to belong to Iran. This Order will remain effective as to each person until litigation concerning such person or estate is terminated. The Order also requires reports from private citizens and Federal agencies concerning this property so that information can be made available to the Government of Iran about this property.
The Order would further direct the Attorney General to assert in appropriate courts that claims of Iran for recovery of this property are not barred by principles of sovereign immunity or the act of state doctrine.
12. In addition to these actions taken pursuant to the International Economic Emergency Powers Act, other relevant statutes, and my powers under the Constitution, I will take the steps necessary to withdraw all claims now pending against Iran before the International Court of Justice. Copies of the Executive Orders are attached.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 19, 1981.
  