
    MANCHESTER — New Hampshire State Representative and Assistant Majority Floor Leader Michael Cahill and Bow Selectman Harry Judd today endorsed Michael Bennet for president of the United States.
Rep. Cahill has represented the Rockingham 17 District since 2012. He serves on the Committee on Labor, Industrial, and Rehabilitative Services.
"I think it is critically important that we nominate and elect someone with a balanced perspective, someone who has demonstrated the ability to work with members of both parties and reach agreement," Cahill said. "That's why I endorse Senator Michael Bennet for president."
Selectman Judd, who has represented Bow since 2002, hosted an event at his home as part of Bennet's 50 town hall tour last weekend.
"There is nobody in politics I know that has a stronger personal ethic and character than Michael Bennet," Judd said. "Michael knows how to find consensus in Washington and in swing states—and he'll know how to knit the country together again. Our country longs for our government to work, and for our elected officials to work together and do more than say they want bipartisanship. Michael has a proven record of finding areas of agreement with other senators, even when they disagree on many things, and working together to craft solutions. As my friends and neighbors make their choices, I ask all of them to join me in supporting him."
Bennet's New Hampshire endorsements range from Southern New Hampshire University President Paul LeBlanc to Representatives Marjorie Smith, Bob Backus, David Luneau, Joyce Fulweiler, and Sherry Dutzy to Former Concord School Board Chairs Claudia Damon and David Ruedig to Former Gov. Hassan Legal Counsel Lucy Hodder.
Bennet represents Colorado in the Senate, but he has not spent a lifetime in politics. He turned around failing businesses in the private sector and improved outcomes for kids as superintendent of the Denver Public Schools. Bennet is the only candidate in this race who has won two elections in a swing state.
Earlier this month, Bennet unveiled The Real Deal agenda, his comprehensive vision to make lasting progress for families and workers across the country with a plan that is progressive, paid for, and widely popular among the American people. The Real Deal is a political and policy blueprint designed to guide our country's priorities for the next 20 years.
  