
    Continuing Hillary's momentum across the country, the Hillary Clinton for President Campaign held multiple events and conference calls across the country yesterday, featuring community leaders and elected officials highlighting their strong support for Hillary's candidacy.
Highlights from the stories include:
In Arkansas: Energized by Clinton's win in the New Hampshire Democratic primary over rival Barack Obama, her supporters rallied Wednesday at the New York senator's Arkansas campaign office in Little Rock. Rep. Marion Berry, D-Ark., told a crowd of about 60 people that it was important that Clinton win the Feb. 5 primary in the state where she served as first lady for 12 years... So far, that effort seems to have paid off. She won the endorsement of most of the state's top Democrats, including Gov. Mike Beebe and U.S. Sen. Mark Pryor. She also has raised the most of any presidential candidate in the state, including former Gov. Huckabee. - Arkansas Democrat Gazette
In Colorado: Full of enthusiasm after the New Hampshire primary victory of Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, campaign workers gathered to make I-told-you-so statements at her Denver headquarters and several other rallies across the country Wednesday. - Denver Post
In Minnesota: Former U.S. Sen. Mark Dayton, Minnesota House Speaker Margaret Kelliher and St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman were just some of those who talked about why they think Clinton is the best candidate. They said she has the most experience, that her chances of becoming the first female president would be groundbreaking and that she would stand up for middle class voters. - Minnesota AP
In Alabama: "Her ability to deal with the economy, her interest in agriculture, rural America ... Alabama, you've got to remember we are a rural state, we are an agricultural state" I believe she understands the issues, and I believe that will help her continue her lead," said Agriculture Commissioner Ron Sparks during a conference call with reporters. - Montgomery Advertiser.
In New York: There is new life to Sen. Hillary Clinton's campaign for president in the wake of her come-from-behind victory in New Hampshire on Tuesday night. - WCBS
In Missouri: After her surprise win in New Hampshire, Hillary Clinton saw a big surge in support in Missouri. It seems everyone loves a winner. - St. Louis Fox Affiliate
[Click here] to view the full text of the stories.
  