
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 12
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the president for National Security Affairs.
January 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Marvin S. Cohen, Chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board.
The White House announced that the President received the report of the Emergency Board that he appointed on December 14, 1979, to investigate the Long Island Railroad Company labor dispute and has expressed his appreciation to the Board for its diligent efforts during the last 30 days. He has directed the National Mediation Board to resume its efforts immediately to mediate the dispute and to bring the parties to a resolution of their differences as quickly as possible.
January 15
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President attended a Requiem Mass for George Meany at St. Matthews Cathedral.
January 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice Mayor Jessie Rattley of Newport News, Va., president of the National League of Cities;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The White House announced that at President Carter's invitation, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal Republic of Germany will pay an official visit to Washington on March 5 for meetings with the President and other top administration officials. Chancellor Schmidt's visit will provide an opportunity for him and the President to review recent international developments and to coordinate the United States and FRG policies regarding problems of mutual interest. Recent developments in Southwest Asia, and in particular the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the continuing crisis in Iran, will be subjects of particular interest. Chancellor Schmidt will be accompanied by Mrs. Schmidt. Chancellor Schmidt and President Carter most recently met in Washington in June 1979 during the Chancellor's private visit to the United States. The President paid a state visit to the Federal Republic in July 1978 and Chancellor Schmidt paid an official visit to the United States in July 1977.
January 17
The President met at the White House with Dr. Brzezinski.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on administration programs and policies given for community and civic leaders from Oklahoma in the East Room at the White House.
The White House announced that President Carter and Australian Prime Minister J. Malcolm Fraser have agreed to meet in Washington on January 31 to discuss the changed and dangerous situation in Southwest Asia. The Australian Government has strongly supported efforts to demonstrate to the Soviet Union the very serious consequences of its actions in Afghanistan. Because both of our Governments believe that this Soviet aggression has far-reaching implications, consultations at the highest levels of government are necessary and desirable.
January 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan.
The President has appointed Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller as a member of the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
The President went to the National Naval Medical Center for his annual physical examination. He then went to Camp David, Md., for a weekend stay. Rear Adm. William M. Lukash, USN, Physician to the President, later announced that the President remains in excellent health.
  