
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, the Cruz for President campaign announced the endorsement of Glenn Beck. Nationally syndicated TV and radio host, Beck is a conservative political commentator, author, television network producer, filmmaker, entrepreneur and one of America's leading conservative voices. His radio show, The Glenn Beck Program is heard by millions across the country on over 400 radio stations.
"Glenn is a good friend and a fearless and reliable conservative," said Cruz. "Glenn has been a relentless fighter for liberty, for limited government, and for restoring the country we all love so much. His powerful voice and passion played a critical role in my Senate victory and I am now proud to have him in our corner in 2016."
Beck inspires millions of conservatives by consistently and fiercely defending the Constitution, advocating for limited government, opposing Obama's lawless actions, and defending life and marriage and our second amendment right to keep and bear arms. He was a leading figure in the rise of the Tea Party movement to take the power away from Washington and restore it to the American people.
"We need a new George Washington," said Beck. "Today's Washington will not be found in the garish light of gold, but rather, in the bold service of a man who stands tirelessly for what he deeply believes — that government should be of the people, by the people, and for the people. That is why I am endorsing Senator Ted Cruz as the next President of the United States of America."
Beck grew up in Mount Vernon, Washington and started his career in radio at the early age of 13. He started hosting his own talk radio show on WFLA-AM in Tampa, Florida. Soon after, he was offered the opportunity to go national with The Glenn Beck Program that first debuted on 47 stations and is now nationally syndicated on over 400. He was given the 2008 Marconi Award for Network/Syndicated Personality of the Year from the National Association of Broadcasters and is the author of seven #1 New York Times Bestsellers.
  