
    
  Independent Baptist leaders coalesce around Cruz

HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Dr. Chuck Harding and Pastor Michael Creed, leaders of a Christian ministry committed to the education, engagement, and encouragement of the nation, particularly among Independent Baptists.
In a written statement, Harding and Creed praised Ted Cruz for his integrity, his grasp of the Constitution, his defense of the unborn, and his economic platform. "Ted Cruz is the man who can lead America back to moral and financial strength, restore cultural unity, and re-establish the principles which this great nation was founded upon," they concluded.
"Both my father and I have been encouraged by the ministry of Dr. Harding and Pastor Creed," said Cruz. "Their work to mobilize Christians and cultivate integrity in government is desperately needed, and their impact in Washington is tangible. I am grateful to have their support and look forward to working together to awaken people of faith in our nation."
Dr. Chuck Harding is a missionary evangelist. He has conducted Constitutional Awareness conferences throughout the United States for the past 14 years, educating people of faith about their role in the political process and opportunities to impact public policy.
Pastor T. Michael Creed has pastored the Independent Baptist Church in Clinton Maryland for 22 years, and works together with Dr. Harding to enlist fellow Christians in encouraging lawmakers spiritually. Dr. Harding and Pastor Creed host annual conferences for pastors and their congregations at the nation's Capitol, facilitating an understanding of government, defending religious liberty and Christian values, and praying for government leaders.
Pastor Creed and Dr. Harding cited historical precedence for political endorsements from leaders of faith. In the 18th century, Pastor John Leeland met with James Madison to lend his support of Madison as a delegate to the Constitutional Convention. Madison went on to author the Bill of Rights and advocate for its adoption within the convention.
*Titles and affiliations of both men provided for identification purposes only.
  