
    "Ending chain migration and also ending the visa lottery will allow us to have commonsense immigration rules that promote assimilation and wage growth." - President Donald J. Trump
PRIORITIZING NUCLEAR FAMILY IMMIGRATION: President Donald J. Trump has proposed an immigration framework that would implement needed changes to our legal immigration system while protecting close family relationships.

President Trump has released an immigration framework that confronts the problems facing our immigration system. 
The President's framework would limit family-sponsored immigrants to spouses and minor children, thus promoting nuclear family immigration and ending extended-family chain migration. 

ADDRESSING EXTENDED-FAMILY CHAIN MIGRATION: Now is the time to enact common-sense reforms to base immigration on individual merit and skill and to emphasize close familial relationships. 

Under our current immigration law, a single immigrant may sponsor numerous relatives to resettle in the United States as lawful permanent residents, including relatives beyond their nuclear family.

Each family member of the principal immigrant who comes to the United States as a permanent resident can, in turn, sponsor relatives beyond his or her own nuclear family. 
The result is that a single immigrant may create a pathway for the migration of far-extended family members, or extended-family chain migration. 
Of course, all aliens who come to the United States as lawful permanent residents may be able to eventually obtain United States citizenship. 


Currently, far more immigrants resettle in the United States based on family relations than on skill or merit. Each year, the United States accepts enough family-based immigrants:

to fill a large high school every day; 
to fill a college basketball arena every week; and 
to fill an entire football stadium every month. 


Between two-thirds and 70 percent of legal immigration into the United States is based on family relations. 
Between 2005 and 2015, the United States admitted 9.3 million immigrants based on family relations. 
Extended family migration has served as a leading source of low-skilled immigration into the United States, ultimately hurting vulnerable American workers.

One in every fifteen of the immigrants that enters the United States through our legal immigration system does so on the basis of individual skill or a job. 
Half of all immigrant-headed households use at least one welfare program. 
The flood of low-skilled immigrants into the United States has suppressed wages, harmed American workers, and strained Federal resources. 


In a recent Harvard-Harris poll, 79 percent of those polled believed our immigration system should be based on an alien's ability to contribute to America as measured by their education and skills.

A merit-based system would properly match the needs of the modern United States economy and protect vulnerable blue-collar American workers. 


Other advanced countries like Canada and Australia use a merit-based immigration system that benefits both the immigrants and those nations.

  