
    
January 13, 2016
Marco's campaign continues to add to its strong organization in Iowa by announcing a growing team of elected officials that are endorsing Marco. 
More and more conservative leaders in Iowa are inspired by Marco's vision for this country, and are committed to helping Marco win the caucuses on February 1. Polk County Supervisor Robert Brownell is backing Marco because he can unite the Republican Party and win:
I am proud to endorse Marco Rubio for president. It is time for America to turn the page and begin a New American Century.
Marco's plan to revive our economy combined with his deep national security experience makes him the candidate who can unite Republicans and bring new voters to our side.
State Rep. Megan Jones talked about Marco's ability to reach voters:
Marco Rubio is the right choice for president because he is an inspiring, next generation candidate who can defeat Hillary Clinton in the general election.
Not only is Marco consistent on the issues important to Iowa, he also can relate to the struggles American families face. Nobody else in the field can match his ability to communicate our conservative principles in an optimistic way.
This is yet another sign of Marco's growing support in Iowa and across the country!
Marco Rubio's Iowa Elected Officials Leadership Team:
Sen. Tom Shipley, Iowa Senate
Rep. Brian Best, Iowa House of Representatives
Adam Schweers, Mayor of Carroll
Rep. Bobby Kaufmann, Iowa House of Representatives
Chris Dorsey, Former Osceola City Council
Rep. Megan Jones, Iowa House of Representatives
Mark Hanson, Dallas County Supervisor
Isaiah McGee, Former Iowa GOP State Central Commitee member, former Waukee City Council
John Mickelson, West Des Moines City Council
Jim Peters, Mayor of Adel
Jon McAvoy, Mayor Pro Tem of Adel
Sen. Dan Zumbach, Iowa Senate
Rep. John Wills, Iowa House of Representatives
Corey Becker, Fremont County Attorney
Scott Schneidermann, Rock Rapids City Council
Ed Bull, Marion County Attorney
Larry McKibben, Member, Iowa Board of Regents & Former Iowa Senate
Scott Natvig, Muscatine City Council
Alan Ostergren, Muscatine County Attorney
CJ Ryan, Muscatine County Sheriff
Bob Andeweg, Mayor of Urbandale
Bobbi Bentz, Ankeny City Council
Carmine Boal, Former Iowa House Member, current Chief Clerk of Iowa House
Robert Brownell, Polk County Supervisor
Wes Enos, Bondurant City Council
Eric Johansen, Grimes City Council
Russ Trimble, West Des Moines City Council
Ted Weaver, Clive City Council
Scott Webster, Bettendorf Alderman, Ward 5
Kevin Van Otterloo, Mayor of Rock Valley
Rick Sanders, Story County Supervisor
Sen. Rick Bertrand, Iowa Senate
Nicole Cleveland, Sergeant Bluff City Council
Jack Whitver, Iowa Senate, Minority Whip
Cam Sutton, Former State Director, Sen. Joni Ernst
  