
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 19
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a Presidential gala at USAir Arena in Landover, MD. The event was taped for broadcast later in the evening.
January 20
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton attended an Inaugural prayer service at the Metropolitan AME Church.
Following the Inaugural luncheon at the Capitol, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton went by motorcade along the parade route to the White House, where they viewed the Inaugural parade from the reviewing stand. In the evening, they attended several Inaugural balls.
January 21
The President announced his intention to appoint Harry P. Pachon as a member of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans.
January 22
In the morning, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, where, in the afternoon, he attended a meeting with Mayor Richard M. Daley and members of the Chicago school board in the Chicago Cultural Center. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ellen S. Seidman to be Director of the Treasury Department's Office of Thrift Supervision.
January 23
In the morning, the President visited the office of the Presidential Inaugural Committee to congratulate the staff for its work on the Inaugural festivities.
The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, land- and mudslides, and flooding December 25 through January 6.
January 24
The President announced his intention to appoint Kathryn Walt Hall to the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
The President announced his intention to appoint Irving Greenberg and Romana Strochlitz Primus to the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
  