
    Three Community Leaders Also Announce Their Support for Booker
In the Last Six Weeks, Booker Has Seen a Surge in Endorsements from NH Electeds, Former Electeds, Community Leaders, and Activists
Manchester, NH — New Hampshire State Representative Tim Horrigan (Durham) and several community leaders today endorsed Cory Booker for president, citing his ability to excite a diverse coalition of voters needed to win in November.
The new endorsements come on the heels of former New Hampshire State Senator Katie Wheeler (Durham) announcing her support for Booker. Booker is among the leaders for earning endorsements from New Hampshire elected officials, former elected officials, community leaders and activists.
"I'm endorsing Cory Booker because he understands what it takes to prevent gun violence in our country. His track record is unmatched," said State Rep. Tim Horrigan. "Cory knows how to overcome the biggest challenges and get the job done, and he is uniquely capable of exciting a broad coalition of voters we need to beat Donald Trump and heal our country."
Horrigan is serving his sixth term and represents Strafford County District 6 (Durham and Madbury). In the legislature, he has focused on preventing gun violence, making health care more accessible and increasing access to the ballot box for Granite Staters. Booker was the first candidate to propose gun licensing -- which many 2020 presidential candidates now support -- and has vowed to pursue a new and expanded Voting Rights Act that would end systematic attempts to limit access to the ballot box and strip citizens of their constitutionally-guaranteed right to vote.
Also endorsing Booker today are:
Katie Desrochers, a six-term Manchester School Board member
"I have followed the path of Cory Booker's journey since he was Mayor of Newark. Today, I am proud to announce that I am officially endorsing him for President of the United States. Cory's character and commitment to service is exactly what we need. Cory knows firsthand the impact of a quality public education on a child's life. That's why he'll give our teachers a much-needed raise and fight as president for every child, regardless of zip code."
Anthony Poore, the first African-American executive director of New Hampshire Humanities, a Concord-based non-profit organization. Last week, while campaigning in New Hampshire, Booker joined an intimate gathering of African-American leaders in Manchester hosted by Poore, who tweeted following the event: "I was honored to host Sen. Cory Booker this evening. He didn't rush...He listened and took the time to connect with folks in authentic ways. He earned my respect and my vote. Thank you sir."
Dierdre Reynolds, a prominent Nashua gun violence prevention activist 
"Cory is more committed to ending the epidemic of gun violence than any other candidate. I enthusiastically endorse him because he will take action to protect our children."
In addition to these new endorsers, Booker has earned the backing of three state senators, 20 additional state representatives, the state's longest-serving mayor, and dozens of key activists across New Hampshire.
  