
    By Jack Sisson, Director of Research and Rapid Response
Happy Friday night from the War Room! WHAT an unbelievable week….and it's not even over yet! Nothing—not weather, SEC linebackers, Soviet spies, not even Obama's IRS agents, can stop Team HUCK from pounding the pavement and working the great state of Iowa! Keep up the fantastic work (but be sure to get sufficient Vitamin C)….The Governor's just about to get on stage at the legendary Surf Ballroom to slap some bass guitar—so the War Room's gotta boogie-woogie. But check out (just a few) clips below….
---
HUCK TWITTER QUICK HITS=>
"I would like to be the President who ends abortion. #ProLife #MarchForLife"
"America has more than military & monetary challenges. Morality matters. It's our foundation."
"Great to join @OReillyFactor from Sioux Center last night! Nothing like being called a 'straight-talking guy' by you!"
"WEATHER ALERT: D.C. Government offices have been shut-down by Snowzilla. Oh no! Americans might actually prosper!"
"I saw a Trump spokesperson saying he was only candidate with a concealed carry permit. NOT true! Janet AND I have had one for almost 20 years."
EXCLUSIVE SNEAK PEEK…CHECK OUT THIS rough cut new video. (Private, NOT for public distribution)=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_2CVz-PvBcs&feature=youtu.be
CHECK OUT this AWESOME seven-minute WMUR clip on music, life, radio, family, grandkids and Janet=> http://www.wmur.com/special-reports/candidate-cafe-special-mike-huckabee/37564156
ABC Des Moines, Iowa.. Mike Huckabee's campaign office is busy in Urbandale with just ten days to go before the caucuses... His volunteers are treating this election just like anything else, with hard work and dedication. [Volunteer, John Shaull] "Well I'm going to be here making more calls. I know Governor Huckabee has been across the state. About 150 events across the state of Iowa in January. We call it the 'Full Grassley,' when you visit all 99-counties." Huckabee's volunteers have been keeping busy, as he announced at the beginning of January that he would host 150 events throughout Iowa. Huckabee completed his 99-county tour of the state earlier this month.
Huckabee seeks support at caucus—Le Mars Daily Sentinel...LE MARS -- Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee brought his campaign to Le Mars Thursday morning with a stop at The Living Center….Huckabee encouraged those attending to come out and support him at the Feb. 1 caucus. He started by talking about the economy and the nation's military. "As president, one of my goals would be to get this country back on track monetarily, fix the economy, make it so people aren't punished for working and rewarded for sitting on their backside and doing nothing," he said. He also stressed the country needs to get its military back. "I tell everyone even if we succeed in getting the country back monetarily and military, we are not going to be the America we need to be, want to be and have to be if we don't get ourselves back in shape morally. Because that's where the heart and soul of this country comes from," Huckabee said. In response to what he would do about Common Core in education, Huckabee said education should not be governed at the federal level. "The federal government should have zero role in education. There is no federal role in education. That agency shouldn't be there," he said. "You don't want that decided by the president and Congress. You don't want the federal government dictating education. You want it decided by the parents, local school boards and the states." "You cannot create a one-size fits all. That's the logic of Obamacare and that's a failure as well," he said. One audience member asked his views on renewable energy. "The RFS in place is a program that works. The federal government wants to end it cause it works." He said getting rid of the RFS would put over 75,000 Iowans whose jobs depend on ethanol out of work. One of the quickest ways to do that, is vote for a candidate who opposes RFS. Other topics included the Veterans Administration and its healthcare, Federal Reserve policies and the national debt.
CBS, Mason City, Iowa—Several presidential candidates will be calling Iowa home until voters cast their votes in the state caucuses... and that includes former Gov. Mike Huckabee and wife, Janet. We caught up with her today in Mason City at Cabin Coffee. There she helped campaign on behalf of her husband, by speaking with voters about the values her family stands for. Janet says she enjoys meeting voters one-on-one, because it creates a more open and honest dialogue about the issues they want to see fixed. [Janet Huckabee] "We have some major problems in America. This is not the time for on-the-job training. We need people with leadership skills. People who can say 'I've been there and done that.' We have some difficulties in America. Mike has a proven record, you can look at the state of Arkansas and see that he has been through difficulties." As part of their North Iowa stop, Mike Huckabee will be visiting the Surf Ballroom tonight - playing alongside 80's rock band, Firehouse. Doors open at 8:00.
NBC, Des Moines, Iowa—…Republican candidate Mike Huckabee is making multiple stops in Iowa today. Huckabee just finished speaking in Spirit Lake and now heads to Algona this afternoon…
NBC, Iowa City, Iowa—Republican hopefuls Ben Carson and Mike Huckabee will be in Western Iowa…
CBS, Mason City, Iowa—Janet Huckabee, the former Arkansas First Lady - Janet Huckabee will also be in Mason City today campaigning for her husband. She will be hosting a meet and greet at Cabin Coffee from 11:30 to 1:30. Meanwhile GOP candidate Mike Huckabee will also be in North Iowa. He has stops planned in Thompson and Garner. He will be at the Branding Iron at 3:45 this afternoon and at the VFW post in Garner at 5:30
Laura Ingraham National Radio …The ongoing debate in the Republican Party and the conservative movement that we've had for decades. This technique that Phyllis Schlafly reminded us about. And now we see Mike Huckabee making big news on the show by just hammering The National Review.
CBS, Sioux City, Iowa—Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee was campaigning through northwest Iowa yesterday. Huckabee held an event at the Siouxland Center for active generations in Sioux City yesterday morning. The former Arkansas governor focused on social issues... and says he plans to make 150 stops in Iowa this month... hoping to get people to the caucuses February 1st…. "I wanted to hear mister Huckabee what he had to say to help me make up my mind. ."Huckabee also made stops in Le Mars... Sioux Center... Rock Valley... and Sheldon.
Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee has announced his campaign events for Sunday and Monday—Des Moines Register
They include: SUNDAY Cedar Rapids: 1 to 2 p.m., Iowa Right to Life Presidential Forum, African-American Museum. 55 12th Ave. S.E. Cedar Rapids: 6 to 6:30 p.m., performance with blues/rock band Wooden Nickel Lottery at Parlor Pub and Eatery, 1125 3rd St. S.E. Huckabee will play his bass guitar with the group. MONDAY Hiawatha: Noon to 1:30 p.m., meet and greet, Midwest Shooting Range, 1490 Ketelsen Drive. Des Moines: 6:30 to 8 p.m., Rally for Gov. Huckabee with special performance by Josh Turner, 504 E. Locust St. Huckabee will perform with Turner. The event is free however, to obtain tickets, go to mikehuckabee.com
Huckabee Visits Sheldon—KIWA Radio...Sheldon, Iowa — Former Arkansas Governor and Republican Presidential candidate Mike Huckabee made a brief stop in Sheldon Thursday evening, visiting Jard, Inc., a local firearms manufacturer….Huckabee spoke for about 15 minutes, touting, among other things, his proposal to dismantle the Internal Revenue Service and replace the Federal Income Tax with a National Sales Tax. Huckabee told those gathered that it would be a more fair tax, because it would also collect taxes from some who avoid taxes now by accepting wage payments under the table. He said that, not only do those workers avoid paying income tax, but their employers avoid paying Social Security taxes, as well. Huckabee then spent about thirty minutes or so answering questions from the crowd, that ranged from Second Amendment issues to dealing with ISIS. Huckabee left the gathering after about 45 minutes to head to two additional campaign appearances that were scheduled for Thursday evening.
"Mike Huckabee: God Will Judge Ted Cruz's Christian Faith"—Brietbart News
GOP presidential candidate former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee said he won't judge fellow GOP presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz's Christian faith, but that God will. "I'm not going to judge his Christian faith because, look, God is going to judge mine, he's going to judge his," Huckabee said when questioned about Cruz's charitable donations and whether or not protecting marriage is a priority for Cruz during an interview on The O'Reilly Factor on Thursday. Huckabee told Fox News's Bill O'Reilly, "Nobody has caught me saying something different in New York than I say in Sioux Center. If I tell somebody something in Marshalltown, Iowa, they will hear the exact same things in Manhattan." Huckabee, a former Southern Baptist Minister, was referencing an earlier report from Politico that Cruz allegedly said he would make protecting marriage a priority while on the campaign trail, but said something different during a fundraiser in New York. "I have been asked a lot of questions," Huckabee told O'Reilly about Cruz. "And I have pointed out that if someone is going to say they are consistent, they need to be consistent. One of the things that I feel I have brought to this race is that nobody has caught me saying something different in New York than I say in Sioux Center." O'Reilly said, "You are a straight-talking guy….
Campaigning Safely in Iowa Winters- Sioux City Journal
The Iowa caucuses occur every four years in the midst of winters that can be filled with cold and snow...Republican Mike Huckabee was the first candidate to come through Sioux City following the sad death. I asked him Thursday about how candidates juggle the desire to meet as many people as possible with trying to keep safe during travels. Presidential candidates typically plan out events days in advance, when the weather ahead may not be known. Huckabee said safety governs all decisions on whether to hold to a campaign event during poor winter conditions. "There is no event that is worth taking a chance with....We have to put the people first," Huckabee said.He said he immediately sent an email to all campaign workers reminding them to be careful, and if they encounter dicey driving conditions to pull back and wait for a better time. Huckabee noted some of the staffers are not from Iowa and may have limited experience in driving on snow. He told the workers, "We want to run with every ounce of energy...but put your safety first."Huckabee said the weather during his Iowa stops during the 2015-16 winter months have worked out well, as no bad conditions have necessitated cancellation of a planned event...
FoxNews Local Broadcast "Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee: You Decide 2016"
Family: Married to Janet Huckabee with three children...Religion: Southern Baptist...On the issues:...Economy: Huckabee wants to abolish the IRS and create FairTax, which he says would lower taxes, bring manufacturing jobs back to the U.S. and guarantee criminals pay their share. He prides himself on his track record of cutting taxes as Arkansas' governor….Education: According to Huckabee, the high cost of college threatens middle class families and students. He says colleges must be reformed and the U.S. Department of Education should be abolished….Environment: The former Arkansas governor supports the Keystone pipeline, exploring the Arctic, and pursuing wind and solar energy options….Gun control/rights: As president, Huckabee says he will defend the Second Amendment, oppose new gun control laws and protect the rights of gun owners. "This issue is crystal clear. Abolishing guns because of reckless abusers makes as much sense as abolishing cars because some people drive drunk," he says on his website….Health care: He wants to repeal Obamacare and tackle what he calls out-of-control health care costs. Huckabee says he believes life begins at conception….Immigration: Huckabee opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants and supports securing the board. "If you reward people who play outside the rules and punish people who live within the rules, pretty soon nobody is going to play by the rules. We are a nation of immigrants, but we are also a nation of laws," says the former TV host….National security: As president, he wants to rebuild U.S. military superiority, restore our country's role as leader of the Free World and defeat radical Islam….Social issues: He says he will defend and protect traditional marriage.
Bill O'Reilly Confronts Mike Huckabee Over Controversy Surrounding Cruz's 'Tithing' History—The Blaze
Fox New host Bill O'Reilly confronted Republican presidential contender Mike Huckabee on Thursday night... O'Reilly questioned whether Huckabee has been too critical of Cruz, with the candidate pushing back and defending himself after a BuzzFeed story in which he was quoted saying that "it's hard to say God is first in your life if he's last in your budget….I was asked a question generally and I said, 'I don't think you can put God last in your budget if you claim that he's first in your life," Huckabee told O'Reilly. "Christian stewardship is something that I believe in"...As TheBlaze previously reported, some critics are taking aim at Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz's "tithing" history, claiming that he contributed less than 1 percent of his income to charitable causes between 2006 and 2010 — much less than the 10 percent that is embraced as the standard by many Christians...A new evangelical group called Americans United For Values is slamming Cruz in a 60-second radio ad, questioning the Texas senator's authenticity and dubbing him a "phony." The spot comes as the state's caucuses are just two weeks away, according to Politico.
  