
    AKRON, OHIO — Akron, Ohio Mayor Daniel Horrigan endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, praising his track record and agenda on climate change, common-sense gun safety laws, and a health care plan that expands on the Affordable Care Act to ensure coverage for all Americans. Horrigan will advise the Bloomberg campaign on strategy and policy, and serve as a surrogate.
"I am excited to endorse Mike Bloomberg for President because he has been a leader on the issues that impact Ohio families most," said Horrigan. "Mike has taken on the toughest fights and won. As a former mayor, he understands that true leadership is not just about talk, but about taking real action towards positive change. I am confident his policy platform will reinvest in middle America and that, when he gets to the White House, he will help communities like Akron grow and rebuild."
Mike is in Akron today to announce his proposed policy to bring more opportunities to people and places that have been shortchanged by Donald Trump. Specifically, Mike will lay out plans that are relevant to urban communities such as Chicago, Illinois; rural communities such as Wells, Minnesota; and formerly industrial communities such as Akron, Ohio. This will be his second trip to Ohio. In December, he unveiled his plan to address the opioid epidemic after meeting with Chillicothe Mayor Luke Feeney and hearing from Ohioans impacted by the crisis.
"Mayor Horrigan embodies the ingenuity and grit of Akron, and his experience and perspective will be invaluable as we engage communities across the Midwest," said Kevin Sheekey, Campaign Manager for Mike Bloomberg 2020. "Ohio is an important state and we are thrilled to have the support of one of its most trusted leaders."
Mayor Horrigan is the 62nd Mayor of the City of Akron, becoming the city's first newly elected mayor in nearly three decades. Horrigan was reelected to a second term last November.
Horrigan joins a host of regionally diverse mayors from cities across the country who have endorsed Bloomberg.
  