
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration. He also recess appointed one individual:
The President intends to nominate Richard T. Miller, of Texas, to be the Representative of the United States of America in the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the Rank of Ambassador. Mr. Miller is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the personal rank of Minister-Counselor. He currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Global Issues in the Bureau of International Organizations at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of Economic and Development Affairs in the Bureau of International Organizations at the Department of State. Mr. Miller also served as Deputy Coordinator for the original Summit of the Americas. Earlier in his career, Mr. Miller served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Wellington, New Zealand and Counselor for Political and Economic Affairs in Bridgetown, Barbados. Mr. Miller received his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas at Austin.
The President intends to nominate Richard T. Miller, of Texas, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the United Nations General Assembly during his tenure of service as the Representative of the United States of America in the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the Rank of Ambassador.
The President intends to nominate Jackie W. Sanders, of Virginia, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the Rank of Ambassador. Ambassador Sanders currently serves as United States Representative to the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva and as Special Representative of the President for the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of International Organization Affairs. Earlier in her career, she held several positions relating to national security affairs including Associate Director for National Security in the Office of Presidential Personnel at the White House. Ambassador Sanders received her bachelor's degree from Bowling Green State University.
The President intends to nominate Jackie W. Sanders, of Virginia, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the United Nations General Assembly during her tenure of service as the Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the Rank of Ambassador.
The President intends to nominate Mark D. Wallace, of Florida, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for Management and Reform, with the Rank of Ambassador. Mr. Wallace is currently an attorney at Akerman Senterfitt. Prior to this, he served as Principal Legal Advisor to the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Bureau of Citizen and Immigration Service at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to his work at the Department of Homeland Security, Mr. Wallace served as General Counsel for Immigration and Naturalization Service at the Department of Justice. He also served as General Counsel and Principal Legal Advisor to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Mr. Wallace received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Miami.
The President intends to nominate Mark D. Wallace, of Florida, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the United Nations General Assembly during his tenure of service as the Representative of the United States of America for Management and Reform in the United Nations, with the Rank of Ambassador.
The President recess appointed John Gardner, of Virginia, to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service.
  