
    Pool Reports by Mineko Tokito Abe, The Yomiuri Shimbun 



Sent:
Reports:




January 21, 202207:07

Foreign Pool Report #1 Background info ahead of the US-Japan Virtual Meeting
Good morning and Ohayou Gozaimasu.
I'm Mineko Tokito Abe with The Yomiuri Shimbun Japanese newspaper and it's my pleasure to serve as your foreign pooler today.
At 8AM ET (10PM JST), President Biden is scheduled to convene his first virtual meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Kishida Fumio (kee-SHEE-dah foo-MEE-o), who took office a little more than 3 months ago on October 4th, 2021.
*Kishida is the Prime Minister's family name and Fumio is his given name. In 2019, Japan decided to change the way Japanese names are written in English by placing the family name first, as it is traditionally written in Japanese, Korean and Chinese. This is why you will see the surname-given name order, especially for government officials in their official capacity.
Unlike President Biden's Virtual Meeting with President Xi Jinping, which allowed for in House Pool Spray at the Top, this meeting is (unfortunately for your foreign pooler) billed as Closed Press.
Nevertheless, I have compiled for you some hopefully useful background information to inform and include in your stories. I apologize in advance for the length.
Past In-Person and Telephonic Exchanges:
The two have spoken on the phone and met in-person briefly in their current capacities on two separate occasions, the first a post-election congratulatory call from President Biden to the newly-elected Prime Minister last October, and the second a brief, masked interaction at the sidelines of the COP26 U.N. Climate Summit in Glasgow in November where the two leaders were observed bumping elbows in an COVID-era greeting. According to the Washington Post, President Biden also "put his arm around the shoulder of Japanese Prime Minister Kishida and pulled him in for a squeeze."
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/04/readout-of-joseph-r-biden-jr-s-call-with-prime-minister-kishida-of-japan/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/biden-glasgow-cop26/2021/11/02/c...
During their conversation at COP26, Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden "confirmed that Japan and the United States will continue to work closely together towards further strengthening the Japan-U.S. Alliance, realizing a "Free and Open Indo-Pacific" and tackling climate change"
https://www.mofa.go.jp/na/na1/us/page4e_001194.html
After the exchange, Prime Minister Kishida told reporters that the two leaders had agreed to meet again in Washington at the earliest convenience possible to have more in depth talks, but alas, the world-wide spread of the COVID-19 Omicron variant prevented such an in-person visit from occurring before the 208th Ordinary Session of the Diet began this past Monday, on January 17th.
As of now, the Japanese side has not released their attendee information.
Topics that May Be Discussed During the Virtual Meeting:
In his speech to the full Lower House on Wednesday, the 19th, Prime Minister Kishida expressed his hope to build a relationship of trust with President Biden and to be able to work with him towards realizing a nuclear-free world, a goal that is personal to the Prime Minister who hails from Hiroshima, an atomic bombed city. The Prime Minister defined the U.S. alliance as "the lynchpin of Japan's diplomatic and security policies." He also raised the North Korean abductions of Japanese nationals and his intention to closely cooperate with President Biden to resolve the long standing issue. Finally, the Prime Minister "pledged to promote energy reforms to meet the target of reaching carbon neutrality by 2050. He said he supported the use of "innovative" nuclear fusion technology as well as renewables to meet this goal."
https://www.stripes.com/theaters/asia_pacific/2022-01-17/japan-fumio-kis...
Furthermore, Chief Cabinet Secretary Matsuno Hirokazu previewed the call as follows during his press briefing on Monday, the 17th:
"On January 21st, Prime Minister Kishida is scheduled to partake in a Japan-US Virtual Summit with President Biden. The US-Japan Alliance is the foundation of peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and the international community, as well as the cornerstone of Japan's foreign policy and national security policy.
During this Virtual Summit, the two leaders plan to cultivate trust through candid discussions on key common issues ranging from national security, economic and regional and global affairs. The leaders also plan to confirm the importance of a closer Japan-U.S. alliance and to deepen cooperation and efforts towards realizing a "free and open Indo-Pacific" as well as a "world without nuclear weapons."
Japan hopes the first virtual meeting in 2022 between the two leaders will serve as an occasion to show the world the unwavering bond of the Japan-U.S. alliance as well as an opportunity to take the alliance to a higher level.
The Government of Japan strived to coordinate an in-person summit between Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden at the earliest date, but in light of the rapid domestic and foreign spread of the latest COVID-19 variant and in order to thoroughly take countermeasures against the virus, Prime Minister Kishida decided against traveling to the United States before the resumption of the Ordinary Session this month.
At the same time, it was decided that a virtual-style summit at the earliest convenience was most prudent at this time so that both sides can deepen a trusting relationship, further strengthen the Japan-U.S. alliance and help realize a "free and open Indo-Pacific" as well as address global challenges including the creation of a "world free of nuclear weapons."'
Calls and Announcements Prior to the Virtual Meeting:
1/20 National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan Call with Secretary General of Japan's National Security Secretariat, Akiba Takeo:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/20/readout-of-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivans-call-with-secretary-general-of-japans-national-security-secretariat-akiba-takeo/
1/20 U.S. Japan Joint Statement on the Treaty on The Non Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons:
https://www.state.gov/u-s-japan-joint-statement-on-the-treaty-on-the-non...
1/20 On background from a Senior Administration official on President Biden's virtual meeting with Prime Minister Kishida of Japan on Friday January 21st.
***There will be a background call following the virtual meeting***
"President Biden's meeting with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan will highlight the strength of the U.S.-Japan Alliance, which is the cornerstone of peace and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the world. President Biden and Prime Minister Kishida will discuss ways to advance our shared vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific and a strong rules based order. They will discuss ways to deepen our alliance to address common threats, and to expand our close cooperation on critical issues like combatting COVID-19, addressing the climate crisis, and partnering on new and emerging technologies and cybersecurity, including through the Quad. The two Leaders are also expected to discuss a strong, united response that would result from further Russian aggression towards Ukraine.
Japan is a vital partner, and the U.S.-Japan Alliance is a top priority for the Biden Administration. From its earliest days, the Administration has focused on strengthening this relationship, through engagement at every level and across the whole of the U.S. government. For his first foreign-leader visit to the White House, President Biden hosted former Japanese Prime Minister Suga. After the Japanese elections, President Biden was the first leader to call Japanese Prime Minister Kishida, on the morning of his first full day in office. For their first trip abroad, Secretaries Blinken and Austin traveled to Japan. Secretary Raimondo and Ambassador Tai recently visited Japan for economic consultations regarding the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework on which you will see a deeper and more intensive economic engagement with Japan and other Indo-Pacific partners over the course of this year.
With Japan, we have made history marking the first (and second) time that the Quad met in person at the leader level. We are bolstering deterrence in the Indo-Pacific including through trilateral security cooperation with the ROK and Japan. We've enhanced collaboration in technology, economic security, and climate through a new Competitiveness and Resilience (CoRe) partnership announced last year. We are committed to further deepen ties between our governments, economies and our people with this meeting and beyond."
About Prime Minister Fumio Kishida:
Mr. Kishida, 64, hails from a political family. Both his father and grandfather were members of the country's House of Representatives
He became from the longest-serving post-war foreign minister, holding the post from 2012 to 2017
A Hiroshima native, he opposes the use of nuclear weapons, having seen the impact on his home town
Mr. Kishida arranged President Barack Obama's 2016 visit to Hiroshima, the first visit to the bombed city by a sitting US president
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-58784635
Mr. Kishida also spent part of his early childhood in Queens, when his father was assigned to a post in New York as a government trade official.
Thank you for reading.



January 21, 202208:23

Foreign Pool Report #2 --Virtual Meeting Began at 8:01AM
The President's virtual meeting with His Excellency Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, began at 8:01 AM EST.
Meeting attendees:
U.S. Manifest
The PresidentT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Jake Sullivan, National Security AdvisorT.H. Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of StateT.H. Rahm Emanuel, U.S. Ambassador to JapanT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-PacificT.H. Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and Pacific AffairsMr. Christopher Johnstone, Director for East Asia, National Security Council
Japan Manifest
H.E. KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of JapanMr. MATSUNO Hirokazu, Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. KIHARA Seiji, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. ISOZAKI Yoshihiko, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. AKIBA Takeo, National Security Advisor of JapanMr. YAMADA Shigeo, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. ICHIKAWA Keiichi, Director General, North American Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Foreign AffairsMr. IRYA Takayuki, Director, North American Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Foreign Affairs



January 21, 202209:50

Foreign Pool Report #3 --Virtual Meeting Has Ended At 9:23AM
The White House sends along the following:
The President's virtual meeting with His Excellency Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, ended at 9:23 AM EST.



January 21, 202210:16

Foreign Pool Report #4--President Biden tweets Photo and Comment
President Biden just tweeted the following:
It was an honor to meet with Prime Minister Kishida to further strengthen the U.S.-Japan Alliance — the cornerstone of peace and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the world.
https://twitter.com/POTUS/status/1484541316403023879?s=20



January 21, 202210:52

Foreign Pool Report #5-- WH YouTube video and Prime Minister Kishida speaks to reporters
The White House also put up a 15 second YouTube video of the meeting:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4L11r9CbelI
Both leaders look to be in good spirits as President Biden says with a smile, "Prime Minister, can you hear me?" while Prime Minister Kishida waves and says hi. President Biden says, "it's good to see you again" "I enjoyed our brief meeting in Glasgow" The video then ends.
Prime Minister Kishida spoke to reporters following the US-Japan virtual meeting. Some newsy items courtesy of Kyodo News:
-Japan, US leaders affirm importance of free and open Indo-Pacific
-Biden backs idea for a Quad summit held in Japan during the 1st half of this year
-Kishida says Biden positive about visiting Japan for Quad summit
-Kishida, Biden see importance of peace, stability in the Taiwan Strait
-Kishida, Biden agree to work towards a world free of nuclear weapons
-Kishida says Japan, US agree to cooperate over situation in Ukraine
-Kishida says Japan, US to launch "2+2" economic dialogue
https://english.kyodonews.net/breaking
The Yomiuri Shimbun also reports that Prime Minister Kishida said he was able to have "candid discussions" with President Biden.
The two leaders agreed to oppose China's economic oppression and attempts to change the status quo in the East and South China Seas. They confirmed the importance of finding a peaceful resolution to the Cross-Straits issues and the peace and security of Taiwan. They also discussed human rigts issues in Hong Kong and Xinjiang.
They also agreed to closely cooperate over North Korea's ballistic missile and nuclear issues. The Prime Minister brought up the abductee issue (Japanese nationals abducted by North Korea) and asked for cooperation, to which Biden obliged.
The Prime Minister communicated his determination to modify the national security and that he would strengthen Japan's defense power, fundamentally.
President Biden reaffirmed that Article 5 of the Mutual Defense Security Treaty applied to the Senkaku Islands.
The two leaders also agreed that they would work towards a world without nuclear weapons.
https://www.yomiuri.co.jp/politics/20220122-OYT1T50010/(in Japanese, translated by yours truly)



January 21, 202213:07

Foreign Pool Report #6 --on semiconductors
The NSC sends along the following on a query as to whether the semiconductor shortage was raised during the US-Japan Virtual Meeting:
NSC spokesperson: The Leaders did discuss the importance of cooperation on supply chain security, including semiconductors, and the President described what we are doing at home and underscored the importance of working together on it. He also mentioned to Prime Minister Kishida he was going into an event on this after the meeting.
The United States and Japan have been working closely in this area bilaterally through the Quad. The new ministerial-level Economic Policy Consultative Committee (the Economic "2+2") established by the Leaders today will also cover this important issue.
Separately, the White House has also released an extensive readout of the two leaders meeting.



January 21, 202213:54

Foreign Pool Report #7 --Ministry of Foreign Affairs Tweet
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan has also now tweeted out a photo from Prime Minister Kishida's point of view from the earlier virtual meeting as well as a full readout:
https://twitter.com/MofaJapan_en/status/1484593912853385217?s=20
https://www.mofa.go.jp/na/na1/page1e_000372.html




 
Pool Reports by Hans Nichols, Axios 



Sent:
Reports:




January 21, 202208:38

WH Pool 1: Meeting participants
A White House official sends along the following.
The President's virtual meeting with His Excellency Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, began at 8:01 AM EST.
Meeting attendees:
U.S. Manifest
The PresidentT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Jake Sullivan, National Security AdvisorT.H. Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of StateT.H. Rahm Emanuel, U.S. Ambassador to JapanT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-PacificT.H. Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and Pacific AffairsMr. Christopher Johnstone, Director for East Asia, National Security Council
Japan Manifest
H.E. KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of JapanMr. MATSUNO Hirokazu, Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. KIHARA Seiji, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. ISOZAKI Yoshihiko, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. AKIBA Takeo, National Security Advisor of JapanMr. YAMADA Shigeo, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. ICHIKAWA Keiichi, Director General, North American Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Foreign AffairsMr. IRYA Takayuki, Director, North American Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Foreign Affairs



January 21, 202210:00

WH Pool 2: meeting ended
From a WH official:
The President's virtual meeting with His Excellency Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, ended at 9:23 AM EST.



January 21, 202211:19

WH Pool 3: Two minute warning
Pool is assembled in the South Court Auditorium.



January 21, 202211:24

WH Pool 4: Attendees
You are watching it live. A WH official sends the following list along.
In attendance for the President's remarks on his Administration's work to increase the supply of semiconductors, make more in America, and rebuild our supply chains here at home:Secretary of Commerce Gina RaimondoSenator Sherrod Brown (OH)Senator Rob Portman (OH)Patrick "Pat" Gelsinger, CEO, Intel Corporation
Speaking Program:Secretary of Commerce Gina RaimondoPatrick "Pat" Gelsinger, CEO, Intel CorporationThe President



January 21, 202211:48

WH Pool 5: Biden answered one question at the end of the semi-conductor event
If you didn't hear it, the question was about how the U.S. could guarantee the raw materials from places like Afghanistan to build semiconductors in the U.S... You heard Biden's answer.
The president did not answer a variety of shouted questions about Russia and Ukraine, including if he plans to meet with Putin.



January 21, 202212:00

WH Pool 6: The daily press briefing will begin at 12:15PM, per the WH
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



January 21, 202212:23

WH Pool 7 Two minute warning to briefing
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



January 21, 202213:38

WH Pool 8: Departure from WH
POTUS departed Oval Office at 1:32 for the short drive to the Capital Hilton for the US Conference of Mayor's 90th Annual Winter meeting.
Motorcade arrived at 1:36.
Speech is streaming so you're in your own for quotes.



January 21, 202213:52

WH Pool 9: Speaking program
Speaking Program, from a WH official.
Mayor of Miami Francis Suarez, President of U.S. Conference of MayorsThe President



January 21, 202214:23

WH Pool 10: POTUS wraps and departs Hilton
You heard it live...Mayor Suarez gave brief, peppy remarks and introduced the president.
Your pool was seated towards the back of the event space, a good 50 yards from the stage, separated by a sea of mayors, many with unfinished chocolate cake on their tables.
Which is to say, the distance made it sub-optimal for shouting questions.
Biden's line "Where the hell -- the heck -- are we?" (about American ingenuity) drew muted chuckles, presumably over his resort to light profanity.
Throughout the speech, Biden and the crowd warmed to each other, and his remarks were interrupted by applause at several moments. At his conclusion, he received a standing ovation.
Motorcade departed the event at 2:21.



January 21, 202214:27

WH Pool 11: Motorcade arrived back at WH at 2:25
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



January 21, 202216:21

WH Pool 11: POTUS departure. No media engagement[APP Note: This report is likely misnumbered and should be Report #12.]
A coatless, masked President emerged from the Residence at 4:11 and walked to Marine One.
He did not answer shouted questions ("Will you meet with Putin?" "Geneva?" "Ukraine?")...
Skids up at 4:15.
Traveling with him:Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsYohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary of the NSCStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
That's it from your pooler. Stay warm.



January 21, 202217:03

WH Pool 12: POTUS landed at Camp David[APP Note: This report is likely misnumbered and should be Report #13.]
The President landed at Camp David at 4:47 PM, per WH
Travel/Photo lid.




  