
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 11
In the morning, the President met with President Carlos Menem of Argentina once in the Oval Office, and again later in the Cabinet Room.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas H. Baer, Elizabeth Holtzman, and Richard Ben-Veniste as members of the Nazi War Criminal Records Interagency Working Group.
January 14
In the morning, the President traveled to Alexandria, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate C. Richard Barnes to be Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gary S. Guzy to be General Counsel at the Environmental Protection Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lorraine Pratte Lewis to be Inspector General of the Department of Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate David C. Williams to be Inspector General for Tax Administration at the Treasury Department.
The President announced his intention to appoint Rear Adm. Donald E. Hickman as a member of the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.
January 15
In the morning, the President traveled to New York City, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Cheryl L. Shavers to be Under Secretary for Technology at the Commerce Department.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner and concert at the Corcoran Gallery of Art.
The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, ice, and freezing rain on December 23-29, 1998.
The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, ice, and freezing rain on December 23-29, 1998.
The President declared an emergency in Indiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by snow beginning on January 1 and continuing.
The President declared an emergency in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by near record snow on January 1 and continuing.
  