
    
  Trump Campaign Hires Four Additional Staffers and Announces Cobb County, GA Grand Opening

(New York, NY) January 7th, 2016 — Today Donald J. Trump for President Inc. announced four new hires and a new office Georgia where Mr. Trump has had tremendous crowds and continues to lead all state polls by double-digits.
Mr. Trump says, "The people of Georgia are incredible and the response to my message has been amazing. We have built a great team and with their help, we will Make America Great Again!"
Ryan Caudelle, Deputy Director, oversees the statewide political operation and administration. He has an MBA and previously worked at Barclays and has experience working for Georgia Governor Nathan Deal and Congressman Jack Kingston.
Charlice Byrd, Field Coordinator, oversees the North Georgia Field Operations. She is a former State Representative, graduate of the Coverdell Leadership Institute and veteran of several national, state and local campaigns and was selected as one of the Top 25 Most Influential Asians in Georgia by Asian Times Magazine.
Gary Wisenbaker, Field Coordinator, oversees the South Georgia Field Operations. He has a Juris Doctor and has been active in Georgia politics since his days as Georgia Young Republican Chairman in 1986. He is a former appointee to the Georgia Student Finance Commission by Governor Sonny Perdue and veteran of several state and local campaigns.
Jeanne Seaver, Grassroots Coordinator, oversees the statewide grassroots operation, volunteer onboarding and coalition outreach. She is the co-founder of the Savannah TEA Party and President of the Georgia Grassroots Coalition and veteran of Republican grassroots activities. She is also a graduate of the Coverdell Leadership Institute, former Chatham County Co-Chair for David Perdue for U.S. Senate and Chair for Herman Cain for President.
Additionally, the campaign has opened a Georgia Headquarters in Cobb County at 1000 Circle 75 Parkway, Suite 700, Atlanta, GA 30339 and will be hosting a Grand Opening, Saturday, January 9th at 10:00 a.m. The Georgia Trump campaign is led by State Director Brandon Phillips.
  