
    
January 22, 2016
We're excited to announce the formation of Marco's South Carolina Religious Liberty Advisory Board.
Marco understands religious liberty to be essential to a free society, and he seeks guidance from faith leaders working to defend it.
Randy Page is a Board Member of the South Carolina Citizens for Life and Palmetto Family Council and serves as Director of Public Relations for Bob Jones University.
He had this to say about Marco:
As a Christian who is very concerned about the future of our country, I am excited to support Marco Rubio because he has the faith, vision, and moral strength to restore American values.

Al Phillips, Director of Missions for the Greenville Southern Baptist Association, added:
Marco Rubio is a devoted husband and father who truly understands the unique challenges facing parents in this century, especially parents of faith," said Al Phillips, Director of Missions, Greenville Southern Baptist Association. "He is dedicated to defending religious liberty and the rights of all Americans to not only hold traditional values, but to practice those values openly.

Check out the full list of South Carolina leaders advising Marco on religious liberty:
Rep. Dan Hamilton — District 20 — Greenville, Bob Jones University Graduate
Randy Page — Board Member of the South Carolina Citizens for Life and Palmetto Family Council; Director of Public Relations, Bob Jones University
Al Phillips — Director of Missions, Greenville Southern Baptist Association
Monsignor Steven Brovey, Rector, The Catholic Cathedral of St. John the Baptist, Charleston
Rep. Todd Atwater, District 87 — Lexington
Dr. Marc Garcia — Christian Author, Director of The Bridge Ministries, Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.
William Renfrow — Spartanburg businessman
Chuck Hill — Pastor, Vive Community Church, Columbia
Kevin Hall — Citizens for Life award recipient and Former SC GOP Counsel, Columbia
Joezel Alicea — Pastor, Hispanic Church, Iglesia Nuevo Comienzo, Greer
David Janaro — Pastor, Fairfax Baptist Church, Allendale
Briley Hughes — Outreach Coordinator, Palmetto Family Council

*Institutional affiliations for identification purposes only
  