
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Commission on Industrial Competitiveness. These are new positions. The Commission's next meeting will be in Pittsburgh, PA, on February 2-3, 1984.
Robert H. B. Baldwin is chairman and managing director of Morgan Stanley Company, Inc., in New York, NY. He is married, has five children, and resides in New York City. He was born July 9, 1920, in East Orange, NJ.
Donald F. Ephlin is international vice president of United Auto Workers in Detroit, MI. He is married, has three children, and resides in Dearborn Heights, MI. He was born October 11, 1925, in Framingham, MA.
Samuel A. Hardage is chairman of the board of Hardage Enterprises, Inc., in Wichita, KS. He is married, has two children, and resides in Wichita. He was born March 14, 1939, in Jackson, IL.
Howard M. Love is chairman and chief executive officer of National Steel Corp. in Pittsburgh, PA. He is married, has five children, and resides in Pittsburgh. He was born April 5, 1930, in Pittsburgh.
William H. Morris, Jr., is vice president for international marketing of P & C Bituminous Coal, Inc., in Brentwood, TN. He is married, has two children, and resides in Franklin, TN. He was born January 5, 1929, in Memphis, TN.
Robert N. Noyce is vice president of Intel Corp. in Santa Clara, CA. He is married, has four children, and resides in Los Altos, CA. He was born December 12, 1927, in Burlington, IA.
Howard D. Samuel is president of the Industrial Union Department of the AFL-CIO in Washington, DC. He is married, has three children, and resides in Chevy Chase, MD. He was born November 16, 1924, in New York City.
Randolph B. Stockwell is president and chief executive officer of Community Bank in Los Angeles, CA. He is married, has three children, and resides in Pasadena, CA. He was born May 21, 1946, in Los Angeles.
Edward V. Regan is comptroller of the State of New York in Albany. He is married, has three children, and resides in Katonah, NY. He was born May 14, 1930, in Plainfield, NJ.
  