
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Paul J. Bonicelli, of Virginia, to be Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Latin America and Caribbean). Dr. Bonicelli currently serves as Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Bureau of Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance at the United States Agency for International Development. Prior to this, he served as Dean of Academic Affairs and Associate Professor of Government at Patrick Henry College. Earlier in his career, he served as a Professional Staff Member on the Subcommittee for Western Hemisphere Affairs in the House Committee on International Affairs. Dr. Bonicelli received his bachelor's degree from the University of Memphis, his master's degree from Regent University, and his PhD from the University of Tennessee.
The President intends to nominate Mario Mancuso, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Export Administration at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Mancuso currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Combating Terrorism at the Department of Defense. Prior to this, he served as Special Counsel to the General Counsel at the Department of Defense. Earlier in his career, he served as an attorney at Ropes and Gray in Boston. Mr. Mancuso received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his JD from New York University.
The President intends to nominate Patrick P. Shen, of Maryland, to be Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices at the Department of Justice for a four-year term. Mr. Shen currently serves as Director of Government Relations at Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy, LLP. Prior to this, he served as Director of Policy and Planning of the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement at the Department of Homeland Security. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Immigration Counsel of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary. Mr. Shen received his bachelor's degree and JD from Brigham Young University.
The President intends to nominate William B. Wood, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Ambassador Wood, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as United States Ambassador to Colombia. Prior to this, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary and Acting Assistant Secretary for International Organization Affairs at the Department of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Political Counselor at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. Ambassador Wood received his bachelor's degree from Bucknell University and his master's degree from George Washington University.
  