
    At early morning rally in Manchester, Edwards launches "Real Change Starts Now" tour across New Hampshire
Manchester, New Hampshire – Fueled by a strong finish in the Iowa caucuses, John Edwards delivered remarks today at a kick-off rally on day one of the "Real Change Starts Now" tour. The bus tour across the state will end January 8th, the day of the New Hampshire primary. Excerpts from Senator Edwards' remarks are included below:
"What we learned last night is that the status quo is yesterday, that change is tomorrow, and that tomorrow begins today, right here in New Hampshire. What we know is that the corporate power that has a stranglehold on your democracy is not going to give it up without a fight.
"Now we have four days in New Hampshire to decide what kind of fighter we're going to send into that arena to be the next president of the United States – and I've got a suggestion. How about a guy who ran against two celebrity candidates, who raised between them over $200 million dollars, but with a message of change and a message of fighting corporate greed and corporate power on behalf of the American people, showed last night that message and what you stand for matters more than money. Here in New Hampshire, we're not gong to have an auction, we're going to have an election in four days.
"You know the one thing I've learned from all the time I've spent in New Hampshire is the people here are a little independent minded, a little ornery, and they don't like to be told what to do. They are not going to be told either by money or the national media what they're supposed to do. Instead, they're going to look for someone who speaks from here, who truly believes in this cause, who will stand up and fight for the middle class, who will fight against the entrenched interests in Washington DC.
"You know we have just a few days to do important work here in New Hampshire. This is not about me, it's not about Elizabeth, it's about the future of this country. Because all of us have been given such an enormous responsibility.
"We have been passed a torch from our parents. And what comes with that torch is the responsibility to ensure that our children and grandchildren have the promise of America, that our children and grandchildren have a better life than we've had. This is not just about politics, this is about making certain, that all those, including our own parents and grandparents that came before us and worked and struggled and sacrificed for us, that we meet our responsibility – that we ensure that our children and all future generations get the chance that they need.
"As New Hampshire voters make that decision over the next four days, the one thing that is clear – they're not interested in the status quo. They're interested in change. They want to see a candidate of change. And so they now have two choices in making that decision. This choice is somebody who will fight for the change that makes America what it stood for again.
"It will not be about celebrity, and it will not be about glitz. It will be about who has the guts and determination to fight for the change we need – who can galvanize America to this cause. Because it is a cause, it is a movement. And so, I ask you to join us in this cause. I ask you to join us in this movement. I am not the candidate of money, I am not the candidate of glitz, I am not the candidate of glamour, nor do I claim to be. But what I am, I am a candidate for president of the United States – that is the people's candidate.
"There is not going to be an auction in New Hampshire, there's going to be an election. Because on Tuesday we're going to surprise America. All of us together, join me in this cause. Let's make America what it's capable of being. God Bless you, thank you for being here this morning, and standing with us! Thank you!"
  