
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 23
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico concerning Mexico's progress in implementing its economic stabilization package and the legislation in the U.S. Congress concerning a loan guarantee package for Mexico.
January 24
The President announced his intention to appoint Miguel Angel Corzo to be a member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Paul Cole, Terrance L. Craney, Yvette Herrera, and Esteban Soriano to the National Skills Standard Board.
January 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Kutztown, PA. Following his arrival, he went to Kutztown State University where he met with students, teachers, and area business people and residents in the Keystone Gymnasium.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Panel of Arbitrators and/or Conciliators of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes:
—Antonio J. Colorado, conciliator;
—Frederick Frank, conciliator;
—O. Jerome Green, conciliator;
—D. Holly Hammonds, conciliator;
—David Michael Ifshin, arbitrator;
—Carolyn B. Lamm, arbitrator;
—Lawrence B. Low, arbitrator;
—Robert B. Owen, arbitrator.
The President appointed Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel to head the Presidential delegation to the commemoration marking the 50th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration and death camp to take place on January 26-27 in Krakow, Poland.
The White House announced that the President has invited Chancellor Helmut Kohl to make an official visit on February 9.
The White House announced the President will meet with President Issaias Afeworke of Eritrea on February 1 at the White House.
January 26
The President announced his intention to nominate Kirsten S. Moy as the administrator of the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund.
The White House announced the President has made the following appointments to the White House Staff:
—Kathryn O'Leary (Kitty) Higgins, currently Chief of Staff at the Department of Labor, will be the new Cabinet Secretary, with the title of Assistant to the President for Cabinet Affairs;
—Bob J. Nash, currently Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Economic and Community Development, has been named Assistant to the President and Director of Presidential Personnel;
—Rahm Emanuel, currently Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Communications, has been appointed to the new position of Director of Special Projects;
—John B. Emerson, currently a Deputy Assistant to the President, has been named Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Intergovernmental Affairs;
—Stephen B. Silverman, currently a Special Assistant to the President and acting Cabinet Secretary, will resume his role as Deputy Cabinet Secretary, with the title Deputy Assistant to the President for Cabinet Affairs.
January 27
In the late afternoon, the President met with the U.S. Conference of Mayors in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The White House announced that the President has directed a team of U.S. disaster experts to travel to Japan on January 30 to tour areas affected by the recent earthquake.
The President announced his intention to appoint Frank J. Biondi, Jr., to be a member of the President's Export Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint Stephanie Gonzales to the President's Commission on White House Fellowships.
The President announced his intention to appoint Clayton Lukow as Chair and Federal Representative of the Big Blue River Compact Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following members of the Advisory Committee for the 1995 White House Conference on Aging:
—James E. Birren;
—David K. Brown;
—Robert Butler;
—Karyl Eckles;
—Charles J. Fahey;
—Evelynn C. Gioiella;
—Lou Glasse;
—Ed Haas;
—Henry Jay Hannigan;
—James Santiago Hena;
—Carmela Lacayo;
—John E. Lyle;
—Martha A. McSteen;
—Mary Mulvey;
—Ron Pollack;
—Steve Protulis;
—Eugene Rinaldi;
—Teresa Scannelli;
—E. Percil Stanford;
—Jeannette C. Takamura;
—Eric G. Tangalos;
—Don Watanabe.
  