
    Chuck Norris wrote a column endorsing Newt today saying he is the best candidate "to outwit, outplay and outlast Obama and his campaign machine."
For my wife, Gena, and I, we sincerely believe former Speaker Newt Gingrich is the answer to most of those questions and deserves our endorsement and vote.
We agree with our friend and governor of the great state of Texas, Rick Perry, when he suspended his campaign and endorsed Gingrich, that Newt "has the heart of a conservative reformer." We believe Newt's experience, leadership, knowledge, wisdom, faith and even humility to learn from his failures (personal and public) can return America to her glory days. And he is the best man left on the battlefield who is able to outwit, outplay and outlast Obama and his campaign machine.
I would only challenge and call Newt to fulfill the rallying strategy he outlined in South Carolina in November by utilizing the expertise and skill sets of the other GOP presidential candidates (even those who have bowed out) among his future administration. Newt explained:
I do approach this whole campaign, I think, differently from everybody else. We have a number of friends who are also running. We have no opponents except Barack Obama. I think that's very important. I think [Abraham] Lincoln was very wise, as was captured in a book called "Team of Rivals," in actually developing literally everybody who [was] his opponent ended up in the [presidential] Cabinet, because he needed all of them in order to be able to put together the political power during the crisis that we faced. I would say the same thing. I don't know a single person currently running who wouldn't be a very effective member of an administrative team who doesn't have real talent and in some way would bring a unique strength. I don't have any opponents on the Republican side.
Again, as Gov. Perry said during his "strategic retreat" (citing Gen. Sam Houston) from the GOP presidential race, "This mission is greater than any one man."
I'm tired of watching our country being torn to shreds by those who think the answer is more government debt and control. I'm tired of being in bondage to a tax system that robs U.S. citizens like the king of England did before the Revolution. I'm tired of watching our sovereignty being sold by foreign loans and loose borders. And I will not sit back and merely watch this decay and degradation of the U.S. and then hand it over to my children and grandchildren to deal with.
That is why Gena and I have committed the rest of our lives to help Old Glory rise again to her heights of splendor. And that is why we are endorsing and standing with Newt Gingrich, because we believe he can lead all of us who have committed to the same.
If you're ready to keep fighting the good fight and once and for all restore our republic, then I invite you to join my wife, Gena, and I by endorsing, rallying behind and voting for Newt Gingrich as GOP nominee and then president of the United States.

Read the whole column here.
  