
    DR. BIDEN: Good evening, everyone. Thank you so much for joining us tonight. But more than that, thank you for the kindness, friendship and support that you've shown us since we've begun this long journey together. We wouldn't be here without your help, and that means so much to me and Joe.
Joe and I are thrilled, and I know you feel the same way, to have Barack Obama as our President for another four years -- (applause) -- and Michelle as First Lady. (Applause.) And I may be a little biased, but I couldn't think of a better man than my husband to help our President lead our country for the next four years. (Applause.) As long as he has the privilege of serving this nation, I know that Joe will keep fighting for American people every day.
Ladies and gentlemen, please join me in welcoming my husband, our Vice President, Joe Biden. (Applause.)
THE VICE PRESIDENT: I'm going to move this away, baby.
Hello, I'm Jill Biden's husband, and I'm delighted to be with you all here. (Laughter.) Let me begin with the simplest of statements: Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you, thank you, thank you. You're the only reason that we are here. Thank you for your support. Thank you for being here. And most of all, thank you for believing in us.
Ladies and gentlemen, I've been honored to serve as Vice President. But I've been especially honored to serve as Barack Obama's Vice President. (Applause.) This man has already done an absolutely remarkable job: Historic health care reform, two Supreme Court appointees -- Justice Sonya Sotomayor and Elaine Kagan -- ending the war in Iraq and about to end the war in Afghanistan -- (applause) -- and stating forthrightly his support for marriage equality. (Applause.) And I want you to know something else about this guy Barack Obama -- he's just getting started. He's just getting started. (Applause.)
In the weeks and months ahead, we're going to reduce gun violence here in America. (Applause.) We're going to pass comprehensive immigration reform. (Applause.) And we're going to put this nation's economy on a sustainable path to the future.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's my great honor to introduce you to a magnificent, a truly magnificent First Lady Michelle Obama, and the guy she hangs out with -- my friend, President Barack Obama. (Applause.)
Hey. (Laughter and applause.) I thought you weren't coming out. (Laughter.) I thought you weren't coming. (Laughter.)
MRS. OBAMA: Hi, everybody. (Applause.) Excuse our tardiness. But you know what, when Stevie Wonder has a few words to say to you -- (laughter) -- you don't rush Stevie Wonder. (Laughter.) So pardon our delay, but thank you. Thanks so much, Jill. Thank you for that kind introduction. But more importantly, thank you for your leadership and service. (Applause.)
I love Joe Biden. (Applause.) I love Jill a little bit more. (Laughter.) But I want to thank you both for making this journey so much more fun. Our families have bonded and this has just been a phenomenal four years. And I'm ready to do four more with both of you. (Applause.)
  