
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 14 1
The President named Michael Gillette ans the first Director of the Support Implementation Group (SIG)
Janaury 15
In the morning, the President participated in a formal departure ceremony at St. Georges Hall in Moscow. Following the ceremony, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Minsk, Belarus.
Following an arrival ceremony in the late morning, the President met with Chairman Stanislav Shushkevich of Belarus in the Blue Room at the Voyskovoy Four. At the conclusion of their meeting, they participated in a U.S.-Belarus investment treaty signing ceremony.
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Vyacheslav Kebich of Belarus in the Blue Room. The President then met with opposition leaders in the upstairs suite at the Voyskovoy Four. Later that afternoon, he went to Victory Square where he placed a wreath at the World War II Memorial.
In the late afternoon, the President went to the Kuropaty Memorial where he participated in a candlelight remembrance ceremony in honor of the thousands of Belarusians who were killed during the reign of former Russian leader Joseph Stalin. Following the ceremony, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Geneva, Switzerland.
In the evening, the President met with President Otto Stich of Switzerland at the Intercontinental Hotel.
January 16
In the afternoon, the President attended a reception at the U.S. Mission.
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
January 18
In the morning, the President went to Bethesda Naval Hospital where he underwent a routine physical examination.
In the afternoon, the President had phone conversations with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany and King Fahd of Saudia Arabia.
January 19
In the morning, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA, where he surveyed the damage caused by a severe earthquake on January 17 and met with southern California residents.
In the afternoon, the President participated in discussions on disaster relief with Federal, State, and local officials.
In the late evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
January 20
The White House announced that the President has authorized additional measures to respond to the immediate needs of the victims of the southern California earthquake.
January 21
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton went to Camp David, MD, for the weekend.
The White House announced the President will hold a private meeting with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany on January 31 during the Chancellor's visit to Washington.
The White House announced that President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan will pay an official working visit to the U.S. on February 14–15.
The White House announced the President had a telephone conversation with President Guntis Ulmanis of Latvia on January 20.
  