
    The President today announced the appointment of seven persons as members of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation for terms expiring May 11, 1982. They are:
Harvey A. Abrams, an associate professor at Barry College School of Social Work in Miami, Fla., where he teaches courses in administration and organization of human services. He is a former rehabilitation planner and is a member of the Dade-Munroe District Mental Health Board.
Janet Allen-Spilka, executive assistant to the mayor of Utica, N.Y., where her duties include serving as liaison with the mental health and handicapped community. She is a founder of Parent Advocates for the Retarded, Inc., an agency working to procure services and benefits for the mentally retarded.
G. Thomas Bellamy, director of the specialized training program and research coordinator for the Center on Human Development at the University of Oregon at Eugene. He has been a teacher of retarded students and project director for several research grants studying the training of severely retarded persons.
Marlene Kopman, a board member and former president of the St. Louis (Mo.) Association for Retarded Children and first vice president of The Friends of the Retarded. She is a founder and vice president of the West County Sheltered Workshop.
Guy M. McKhann, Kennedy professor of neurology and neurologist in chief at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. He is on the advisory boards of the United Cerebral Palsy Research and Education Foundation and the Multiple Sclerosis Society.
Alba A. Ortiz, an assistant professor and director of bilingual Chicano studies at Southern Methodist University in Dallas. She is a former special education coordinator for Head Start programs and has served as a consultant on handicapped children and other educational matters to numerous groups.
Edward Zigler, a professor of psychology and head of the psychology section of the Child Study Center at Yale University. He is a former Director of HEW's Office of Child Development and Chief of the Children's Bureau.
  