
    Pool Reports by Jim Puzzanghera, The Boston Globe



Sent:
Reports:




January 28, 202010:29

White House in-town pool report 1
Good morning from the White House. There are no changes so far to the president's schedule, below, that came out last night.
11:55AM       THE PRESIDENT greets the Prime Minister of the State of Israel
Blue Room
Closed Press
12:00PM       THE PRESIDENT delivers Joint Remarks with the Prime Minister of the State of Israel
East Room
Pre-Credentialed Media
12:35PM       THE PRESIDENT bids farewell to the Prime Minister of the State of Israel
Diplomatic Reception Room
Closed Press
2:00PM       THE PRESIDENT receives his intelligence briefing
Oval Office
Closed Press
4:40PM       THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to Joint Base Andrews
South Lawn
Open Press
4:50PM       THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base Andrews
Joint Base Andrews
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
5:00PM       THE PRESIDENT departs Washington, D.C., en route to Egg Harbor Twp, NJ
Joint Base Andrews
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
5:45PM       THE PRESIDENT arrives at Atlantic City International Airport
Egg Harbor Twp, NJ
Pre-Credentialed Media
5:55PM       THE PRESIDENT departs Egg Harbor Twp, NJ, en route to Rio Grande, NJ
Egg Harbor Twp, NJ
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
6:15PM       THE PRESIDENT arrives at Cape May County Airport Landing Zone
Rio Grande, NJ
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
6:25PM       THE PRESIDENT departs Rio Grande, en route to Wildwood, NJ
Rio Grande, NJ
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
6:35PM       THE PRESIDENT arrives at Wildwoods Convention Center Oceanfront Arena
Wildwood, NJ
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
7:00PM       THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks at Keep America Great Rally
Wildwood, NJ
Pre-Credentialed Media
8:30PM       THE PRESIDENT departs Wildwood, NJ, en route to Rio Grande, NJ
Wildwood, NJ
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
8:40PM             THE PRESIDENT arrives at Cape May County Airport Landing Zone
Rio Grande, NJ
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
8:50PM       THE PRESIDENT departs Rio Grande, NJ, en route to Egg Harbor Twp, NJ
Rio Grande, NJ
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
9:10PM       THE PRESIDENT arrives at Atlantic City International Airport
Egg Harbor Twp, NJ
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
9:20PM       THE PRESIDENT departs Egg Harbor Twp, NJ, en route to Washington, D.C.
Egg Harbor Twp, NJ
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
10:10PM       THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base Andrews
Joint Base Andrews
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
10:20PM       THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White House
Joint Base Andrews
Out-of-Town Travel Pool
10:30PM       THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House
South Lawn
Open Press



January 28, 202012:00

White House in-town pool report 2
Press is gathering in the East Room for POTUS remarks with Netanyahu. There's a lot of foreign press in attendance so your pooler does not have a good enough view to point out any attendees.



January 28, 202012:12

White House in-town pool report 3
POTUS and Netanyahu entered at about 12:08 pm to applause.
Some attendees courtesy of Debra Saunders of the Las Vegas Review-Journal, who has a better viewpoint.
Sheldon and Miriam AdelsonJoe LiebermanKevin HassettReps. Mark Meadows and Steve Scalise
Your pooler also spotted House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy.



January 28, 202013:06

White House in-town pool report 4
Judd Deere passed this on.
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom. The two leaders discussed critical regional and bilateral issues, including telecommunications security.



January 28, 2020
[APP Note: Report #5 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


January 28, 202017:03

White House in-town pool report 6
POTUS emerged from the Oval Office at 4:50 p.m. with what appeared to be actor Jon Voight. They spoke for a minute and then POTUS walked to Marine One, waving but ignoring shouted questions from the media. He boarded Marine One, which departed at 4:56 p.m. Spotted boarding after him was Kellyanne Conway, Dan Scavino and Stephen Miller.



January 28, 202022:30

White House in-town pool report 7
Marine One was wheels down on the South Lawn of the White House at 10:26 pm. POTUS walked into the White House without stopping for questions.



January 28, 202023:01

White House in-town pool report 8
The White House called a travel photo lid. Good night.




Pool Reports by Richard Latendresse, TVA Nouvelles



Sent:
Reports:




January 28, 202014:03

Foreign Pool Report - PM Netanyahu's Remarks
The President's and Prime Minister Netanyahu's comments were available on cable TV networks and on whitehouse.gov
Some general highlights of Benyamin Netanyahu's speech...
"This is an extraordinary voyage.
President Trump, Donald, I'm honored to be here today.
With the Ambassadors of the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Oman, what a pleasure to see you here! And what a sign... I was going to say for the future... what a sign for the present!
Mr. President, I believe that down the decades and perhaps down the centuries, we will remember January 28, 2020, because on this day, you became the first world leader to recognize Israel's sovereignty over areas in Judea and Samaria that are vital to our security and central to our heritage.
On this day, you chartered a brilliant future for Israelis, Palestinians and the region by presenting a realistic path to durable peace.
You, Mr. President, you recognize that Israel must have sovereignty over the Jordan valley and the other strategic areas of Judea and Samaria.
For the long, the very heart of the land of Israel where our patriots prayed, our prophets preached and our kings ruled has been outrageously branded as ‘illegally occupied territory'. Well today, Mr. President, you are puncturing this big lie.
You recognize Israel sovereignty over all the Jewish communities in Judea and Samaria, large and small alike.
Thanks to you, Mr. President, these areas and so many others... will now be recognize by the United States as a permanent part of the Jewish state.
Because of this historic recognition and because your peace plan strikes the right balance where others plans had failed, I've agreed to negotiate peace with the Palestinians on the basis of your peace plan. It's a great plan for Israel, it's a great plan for peace.
You have been the greatest friend that Israel has ever had in the White House.
>From our very first meeting here in the WH, 3 years ago, you repeatedly made clear your commitment to help Israel achieve peace with the Palestinians and peace with the rest of the Arab world. I share that commitment and I I look forward to working with you to achieve a peace that will protect Israel security, provide the Palestinians with dignity and their own national life and improve Israel relations with the Arab world.
Your peace plan advances all these goals.
First, it addresses the root cause of the conflict by insisting that the Palestinians will finally have to recognize Israel as the Jewish state.
Second, it stipulates that Israel will retain security control on the entire area west of the Jordan River, thereby giving Israel a permanent eastern border to defend ourselves across our longest border.
Third, your plan calls for Hamas to be disarmed and Gaza to be demilitarized.
Fourth, it makes clear that the Palestinian refugee problem must be solved outside the state of Israel.
Fifth, it calls for our ancient capital, Jerusalem, to remain united under Israel sovereignty.
Sixth, your plan does not uproot anyone from their homes, Israelis and Palestinians alike.
Mr. President, Israel wants the Palestinians to have a better life. We want them to have a future of national dignity, prosperity and hope. Your peace plan offers the Palestinians such a future. Your peace plan offers the Palestinians a pathway to a future state.
If the Palestinians are genuinely prepare to take that path, if they're genuinely prepare to make peace with the Jewish state and if they agree to abide by all the conditions you have put forward in your plan, Israel will be there. Israel will be prepared to negotiate peace right away.
I hope that our other Arab neighbours embrace your vision and forge a path of reconciliation with Israel that can create for all of us a brilliant future.
Mr. President, your deal of the century is the opportunity of the century and rest assured, Israel will not miss this opportunity."




Pool Reports by Thomas Howell, The Washington Times



Sent:
Reports:




January 28, 202017:11

WH travel pool #1— JBA departure
Greetings from Joint Base Andrews.
The president is heading to South Jersey for a rally with party-switching Rep. Jeff Van Drew at the Wildwoods Convention Center.
POTUS touched down in Marine One just after 5 p.m. and went up the stairs of the big Air Force One in a red necktie and overcoat after giving thumbs up in direction of pool. Didn't talk.
The pool also spotted Scavino, Stephen Miller, and Kellyanne Conway with her kids, who greeted her on tarmac.
We'll be wheels up for Atlantic City International Airport shortly.



January 28, 202017:59

WH travel pool #2 — AC arrival
AF1 touched down at Atlantic City International Airport at 5:45 p.m.after a brief, uneventful flight.
Fox News politics/impeachment coverage was on the TVs.
We had no visitors in press cabin.
WH says Van Drew was on plane
President Trump waved as he came down steps and then boarded Marine One
The pool is boarding Ospreys to get to Cape May County Airport Landing Zone



January 28, 202018:02

Travel pool #3- Greeter in AC
From the White House
The President was met by:
Col Bradford EvermanCommander, 177th Fighter Wing, New Jersey Air National Guard



January 28, 202018:37

WH travel pool #4 — Cape May landing zone
Pool left AC at 6:05 pm and landed at Cape May landing zone at 6:20 pm.
Couldn't really see much during Osprey flight except building lights dotting landscape.
POTUS arrived at about 6:30 pm. and pool spotted him briefly as he boarded motorcade.
We're rolling to Convention Center venue in vans



January 28, 202018:55

WH travel pool #5— Wildwoods Convention Center arrival
Motorcade passed throngs of excited onlookers bundled against the seaside cold on neighborhood-like streets on way to venue.
There were many, many people, would say hundreds, along the various streets and around each turn.
They cheered, took photos, waved Trump banners and American flags.
There was a second wave of folks deeper into Wildwood, flocking curb by McDonald's and various businesses.
Sounded like one guy yelled "thank you!" as motorcade passed.
Arrived at venue at 6:50 pm.
Guns n Roses thumpin on loudspeakers



January 28, 202019:15

WH travel pool #6 — Venue
Crowd is packed into middle part of floor at convention center; rising seats are all around the edges; lots of people in MAGA hats and red apparel; atmosphere waiting for Trump, bopping around to that big part of Bohemian Rhapsody; lots of Trump/Pence signs



January 28, 202019:21

Travel pool #7 Photos of stage and perimeter
Will endeavor to send color and highlights from room; poor signal/wifi so bear with me; Trump remarks can be found streaming at https://www.c-span.org/video/?468445-1/president-trump-holds-rally-wildw...



January 28, 2020
[APP Note: Report #8 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


January 28, 2020
[APP Note: Report #9 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


January 28, 202020:18

Travel pool #10 - Hour in, some color
Most of the signs in the room are "Keep America Great," rather than MAGA sloganThere is a large American flag on wall behind Trump; also there is a concentration of female supporters behind Trump with "Women for Trump" signsMost people have stayed with a few empty places scattered in the upper seats.One man near pool shouted, cheekily, "Mr. Trump, I'm leaving!" as if Trump could possibly hear him and would politely excuse him; it drew chuckles nearbyTrump mentioned the border wall and then the "public charge" decision from Supreme Court, which drew big cheers and thumbs up from the crowd.Trump is sprinkling in some local flavor, mentioning nearby military bases



January 28, 202020:37

WH travel pool #11 Trump finishes up
Trump wrapped up at 8:27 pm.
He listed NJ towns across the state to big cheers and chants of "four more years"
Earlier, the crowd revived the "drain the swamp!" chant
Pool is in vans and motorcade is moving to Cape May landing zone at 8:36 pm
Pool did not see POTUS exit venue



January 28, 202020:54

WH travel pool #12 - landing zone arrival
Motorcade arrived at Cape May landing zone at 8:50 pmSaw more bystanders cheering in cold on way back, especially in the heart of Wildwood
POTUS exited motorcade for Marine One
Pool heading for Ospreys to get to AC airport



January 28, 202021:31

WH travel pool #13 Departure from AC
Ospreys landed at Atlantic City airport at 9:12 p.m.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 9:35 pm without stopping for press.
Will be wheels up for Joint Base Andrews shortly



January 28, 202022:18

WH travel pool # 14 — JBA arrival
AF1 touched down at JBA at 10 p.m.
after an uneventful flight.
No visitors to press cabin.
POTUS exited plane alone, and did not talk to press before boarding Marine One.
His chopper took off at 10:16 pm
Handing off to in-town pool.
Thank you, and have a pleasant evening.




  