
    * Clear Winner: The Las Vegas Sun said Hillary was the "clear winner" in last night's debate after a commanding performance. "All in all, this was an engaging and substantive debate, one in which Clinton demonstrated why she is the best-prepared, best-qualified Democratic candidate." [Read More Here]. * Getting Results: Hillary made clear in last night's debate that she not only has a vision for America, but the strength and experience to implement it. Read about it here. * 7,800 Strong: President Clinton "electrified a raucous audience of young voters" at a campaign rally at the University of California-Davis campus last night, drawing a crowd of 7,800. "'Look at all these people, look at the lines outside," said sophomore Chris Lorenz, who will vote for the first time in California's Feb. 5 primary. 'We're fed up and we're doing something about it.'" [Read More Here]. * Michigan Backs Hillary: Michigan Democrats overwhelmingly supported Hillary in Tuesday's primary, giving her 55% of the vote despite paid efforts against her. [Read More Here]. * Florida's Voice: Senator Obama's campaign released a memo yesterday insisting that the voices of Florida Democratic voters should not be heard. While Senator Clinton will continue to abide by the DNC rules, the campaign made clear that the voices of Florida voters should be heard. [Read More Here]. * On The Issues: Hillary outlined her approach to providing quality, affordable health care to every American, ending the war in Iraq and reforming education in a Q&A with the Charleston Post and Courier. More here. * Connecting with Latinos: Newsweek finds that Hillary leads among Latinos due to an aggressive outreach effort. "Clinton 'has shown that she listens to us. Today, northern Las Vegas shines with the presence of Hillary Clinton not because she's a woman, not because she has a certain last name--no, [but] because for the first time, the community was seen,' said Esperanza Solorio, 51, a Las Vegas resident who met with Hillary during a recent neighborhood canvass." Read the article here.
  