
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 22
The White House announced the President was releasing additional funds of $283 million to continue disaster relief operations to assist Californians affected by the January 17th earthquake.
January 23
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned to the White House from a weekend stay at Camp David, MD.
January 24
The President announced that he intends to appoint D. James Baker to be a Commissioner and Michael F. Tillman to be a Deputy Commissioner of the International Whaling Commission.
January 25
The White House announced that the President, on January 24, recess-appointed John C. Truesdale to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board.
January 26
The President sent to the Congress requests for the fiscal year 1994 supplemental appropriations that would result in a total Federal commitment of $7.5 billion to the areas affected by the January 17th earthquake in southern California.
The White House announced the President will meet with Prime Minister John Major of the United Kingdom during his visit to the United States on February 28.
January 27
The White House announced the President will meet with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan in Washington, DC, on February 11.
The President appointed the following Senior Executive Service members:
Department of Defense
Lance Davis, Director, Office of Technology Transition;
William Cassidy, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Installation Conversion Management;
John Michael Myers, Director of Policy, Office of Humanitarian and Refugee Affairs;
Patricia A. Rivers, Assistant Deputy Undersecretary, Cleanup;
John V. Ruberto, Director, Defense Diversification;
James A. Ryan, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, Reserve Affairs;
Department of State
Martha Caldwell Harris, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Export Controls;
Philip W. Yun, Senior Adviser, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs;
Department of Agriculture
Anne F. Thompson Reed, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Administration;
Department of Transportation
John E. Graykowski, Deputy Administrator, Inland Waterways, and Great Lakes, Maritime Administration;
Ana Sol Gutierrez, Deputy Administrator, Research and Special Programs Administration.
January 28
In the afternoon, the President went to Piney Point, MD, where he attended a luncheon at the House Democratic Caucus Issues Conference at the Paul Hall Center for Maritime Training and Education. Following his return to the White House later in the afternoon, the President met with mayors in the East Room at the White House.
  