
    Strong organizations in New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina will build on yesterday's momentum from Iowa
Las Vegas, Nevada – Following a strong second-place finish in the Iowa Caucuses last night that included a victory over Hillary Clinton, the John Edwards for President Campaign announced that the Nevada campaign is receiving an infusion of staff and resources from Iowa to increase the size and scope of its operation. Veteran senior staff and organizers with deep knowledge and experience in the caucus process will be arriving in Nevada soon for the final two weeks of the campaign.
In a clear sign of Edwards' momentum, the campaign also announced record-breaking online fundraising totals, putting the campaign on track for its best online fundraising day to date. Half of the contributions are from new donors.
In Nevada, a strong organization, grassroots energy, political support and labor support have put the campaign in position to capitalize on major momentum from the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire primary. The campaign has recently opened a third office in Elko and a dozen Edwards Information Centers to give residents in rural communities access to information on John Edwards along with phone bank locations and staging areas for canvassing.
The campaign's strong organization in New Hampshire is ready to follow on the heels of momentum from Iowa and propel Senator Edwards to another strong finish on Tuesday night. As the primary approaches, Senator Edwards has been rising in the polls and is within single digits of Senator Obama. As of Wednesday night, staff and volunteers have made more than two million phone calls and have knocked on over three hundred thousand doors.
Following New Hampshire and Nevada, the campaign moves to South Carolina, which is also receiving staff from Iowa. Edwards also remains well positioned to compete in his home state– which he won in 2004 by 15 percentage points. And to help Edwards compete in the February 5th states, last night the coalition of 12 SEIU state councils that have endorsed Edwards announced they would spend an additional $1.5 million on communication and voter turnout among the more than 750,000 SEIU members in those states.
In Iowa, voters overwhelmingly called for change and voted against the status quo. Now, New Hampshire and Nevada voters will have an opportunity to decide which type of change they want. Senator Edwards has been fighting – and winning -- for the middle class and working families his entire life.
  