
    India and the United States of America, despite differences of history and culture, are one in the recognition that the ultimate sanction of power and of public policy rests in the respect for the dignity and well-being of the individual. Regardless of race, sex, religion or social status, every human being is entitled to life and liberty, to freedom from want and, without threat or coercion, to freedom of expression and worship.
We share an unwavering faith in the democratic form of government, which guarantees to all citizens fundamental freedoms under law and the right to choose their representatives and determine their own future.
At the same time, we believe that a cooperative and stable world order depends on the right of each people to determine its own form of government and each nation its own political, social and economic policies.
We are gratified that the process of decolonization has democratized the international state-system, giving most nations for the first time an opportunity to participate in making decisions relating to international peace and cooperation.
The disparities in economic strength that exist among nations must be bridged and a more equitable international economic order fashioned if we are to secure international peace.
We recognize that broad economic development is essential for a modern state, but also that such progress is hollow if its benefits do not reach all the people.
The present-day world commands scientific and technological skills to enrich the quality of life and give greater social justice within and among nations. We call on an inter-dependent community of nations to work together to protect and nurture the common heritage of our planet's resources and environment.
We declare that war is not an acceptable means to settle political disputes. Our countries will do their utmost to resolve disputes with others amicably and, within the framework of the United Nations, to help in resolving the disputes of others.
The spectre of war has hung over the world for too long. Existing stockpiles of nuclear weapons must be reduced and eventually eliminated, and the danger of proliferation of nuclear weapons must be arrested. Further, every effort must be made progressively to reduce conventional arms and to redirect the productive forces so released to the betterment of mankind. We commit ourselves to work towards these ends.
Beyond the realms of politics and economics, the world today affords opportunities for freer and fuller intellectual and scientific exchanges. Freedom of ideas and the promotion of cultural and artistic interplay, in a world where the mind is without fear, can create an environment where tolerance and understanding can flourish.
Beyond the traditional ideas of statecraft, Indians and Americans recognize an obligation to themselves and to others that ends can never justify evil means. Nations, like individuals, are morally responsible for their actions.
New Delhi: January 3, 1978
JIMMY CARTER
President of the United States of America
MORARJI DESAI
Prime Minister of India
  