
    Most widely read Spanish language newspaper in Nevada declares Hillary "the ideal candidate of the Democratic Party for the presidency of the United States."
Today, Senator Hillary Clinton received the endorsement of El Mundo, Nevada's largest and oldest Spanish language newspaper, in the upcoming presidential primary.
In their endorsement editorial, El Mundo declared that "none of the presidential candidates has the candid love that Hillary has for families, distancing herself from the bureaucratic wrangling that normally accompanies the children and family protection programs."
The editorial board also praised Hillary for "an in depth understanding of what the White House is all about, a quality which all the other candidates lack."
The El Mundo editorial follows:
For months, US voters have followed the presidential candidates of both parties very closely, as they have covered all of the issues that are so important to the country.
On the Democratic side, one by one, the candidates - in a very centered and respectable manner - have laid out their points of views on Social Security, health care, the war in Iraq, and immigration. And as a general rule, we have noticed that the Democratic candidates think alike, and that even though they do share some differences, these differences are nothing like the ones between their Republican counterparts.
Republicans took a hard-line stance on the issues on which Democrats have been constantly comprehensive, intelligent, compassionate and human. That being said, we have nothing against the Republicans, who have formidable candidates - honorable people, worthy of their party's nomination.
Strictly focusing on Hispanic-oriented issues, we have clearly and less pragmatically seen that Republicans will not offer practical solutions to problems like immigration and the war in Iraq.
The primaries are also a medium by which candidates can drive their views and points across, so that voters can decide in their caucus and primaries who's the best candidate -- a clearer sense of who to support.
During all the campaigning we saw in 2007, the Democratic Party has undergone a small internal war, where the presidential candidates have debated on all the issues affecting the country. And while some very positive things have been said, other arguments have been brought about in the heat of the moment, and have had nothing to do with major ideological differences.
We have seen how some candidates have been mature enough to change their opinions, to realign themselves with a vision of government that can achieve victory, so that they can implement solutions, once in power; aiming not to make false promises.
In the debates Senator Hillary Clinton's personality has, without a doubt, towered as one of a woman of a lot of courage in a man's world.
During the first months of the campaign, Hillary was the target of all the political venomous darts of Republican and Democratic presidential candidates alike. With dexterity and a lot of presence, she was able to dodge them all, and come out on top, with her personality and prestige untainted.
Her many years of political experience, as a volunteer for the Jimmy Carter campaign, to her eight years as First Lady of the United States, and her seven years as a United States Senator for the state of New York, have surfaced.
At all moments Hillary Clinton was up to par with the debates, always showing her preoccupation for the debacle that 12 million undocumented people find themselves in. It is true that to some extent every Democrat showed concern, but Clinton was in the Senate at the time the Immigration Reform vote took place, in total support of Senator Reid.
Furthermore, none of the presidential candidates has the candid love that Hillary has for families, distancing herself from the bureaucratic wrangling that normally accompanies the children and family protection programs.
It is true that as First Lady she did not have access to the confidential documents that the President had, but certainly enough she was really close to the source of power of the world's top power, enough to have an in depth understanding of what the White House is all about, a quality which all the other candidates lack.
It was very difficult for the Editorial Board of El Mundo to choose Hillary Clinton over the Governor of New Mexico. He is of Hispanic origin, and as a politician he too has a valuable and extensive political record.
But because of the reasons mentioned above in this Nevada's Spanish language newspaper, El Mundo endorses Hillary Clinton as the best candidate within the Democratic Party to become the next President of the United States.
Victory will be Hillary's in November.
  