
    
BURLINGTON, Vt. – On the eve of a two-day campaign swing in New Hampshire, a new Granite State poll released Wednesday night in the general election battleground state found that Bernie Sanders leads Republican front-runner Donald Trump by a 23-point landslide margin.
Clinton
Clinton 44, Rubio 45 (-1)
Clinton 43, Kasich 43 (Tie)
Clinton 45, Christie 42 (+3)
Clinton 47, Cruz 41 (+6)
Clinton 48, Trump 39 (+9)
Sanders
Sanders 55, Rubio 37 (+18)
Sanders 54, Kasich 33 (+21)
Sanders 57, Christie 34 (+23)
Sanders 56, Cruz 33 (+23)
Sanders 57, Trump 34 (+23)
Sanders also racked up double-digit margins over U.S. Sens. Marco Rubio of Florida and Ted Cruz of Texas and Governors Chris Christie of New Jersey and John Kasich of Ohio.
Sanders polled nearly three times better than Hillary Clinton in head-to-head contests with Trump. The former secretary of state also languished behind Sanders in general election matchups against the other Republican White House hopefuls, according to the poll for WMUR-TV and CNN.
Results released on Tuesday from the same University of New Hampshire Research Center survey found that 60 percent of likely Democratic Party primary voters say they would vote for Sanders compared to 33 percent for Clinton.
"There is excitement and energy for Bernie that no other candidate can match," said Jeff Weaver, Sanders' campaign manager. "His message that it is time to do something about the rigged economy propped up by a corrupt campaign finance system is resonating with voters in New Hampshire and other states.
Sanders "currently has double digit leads over five potential Republican challengers in New Hampshire" while Clinton leads Trump "but is deadlocked with four other potential challengers," according to the University of New Hampshire Research Center.
"Hillary Clinton says Democrats should look at which candidate is the most electable and we couldn't agree more," Weaver added. "These new poll numbers in New Hampshire are the most recent evidence that Bernie would be the best Democratic nominee to retain the White House and help regain the Senate and elect Democrats all across the country."
In a hypothetical contest with Trump, Sanders led by 23 points in New Hampshire, outpolling the Republican real estate developer by 57 percent to 34 percent. Clinton, by contrast, has only a single-digit margin over Trump, 48 percent to 39 percent.
Driving this divide is Sanders' strength with independent voters, in contrast to Clinton who struggles with this key bloc of voters. Notably, Sanders leads Trump with independents by a 22-point margin while Clinton actually trails the real estate mogul by 9 points, a net 31-point difference.
"This same pattern emerges in all of the head-to-head match-ups with Republicans between Sanders and Clinton," said Sanders' pollster Ben Tulchin. "This real strength with independents — both overall and especially compared to Clinton — positions Sanders very well for the general election and gives him a real edge over Clinton as the more electable candidate, especially recalling that New Hampshire is a swing state that Al Gore lost in the 2000 general election."
Sanders led Christie and Cruz by 23 points, was 21 points up on Kasich and 18 points over Rubio. Clinton lost to Rubio, tied Kasich and led Christie by less than the survey's margin of error.
  