
    SOUTH CAROLINA: Hillary supporters continued the "Driving the Dream Forward: Get on Board for Hillary" bus tour. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, celebrity supporters and state and local South Carolina elected officials stumped for Hillary across South Carolina. Reps. Yvette Clarke, Gregory Meeks, Stephanie Tubbs Jones, and Sheila Jackson Lee attended worship services in Orangeburg, Pelzer, North Charleston, and Columbia, respectively. Read more. Vernon Jordan, a civil rights leader and former advisor to President Clinton, and his wife, civil rights activist Ann Jordan, attended church services in Columbia and West Columbia...Ohio Governor Ted Strickland met with local Democrats in Seneca and addressed a reception honoring Gov. Richard Riley in Greenville...Finally, Chelsea Clinton attended worship services in Columbia.
ALABAMA: A new Alabama Press-Register/University of South Alabama poll has Hillary up three over Sen. Obama, 31 to 28 percent. Read more.
ARIZONA: Congressman Ed Pastor endorsed Hillary. "She is someone who understands the daily challenges the people of Arizona are facing, and her economic stimulus plan will bring much-needed relief to this country." Read more.
CALIFORNIA: Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez recently endorsed Hillary as did State Senator Denise Ducheny. Read why here and here.
COLORADO: Rep. Diana DeGette and former Rep. Patricia Schroeder held a coffee roundtable with undecided women voters. "Hillary Clinton is a strong leader who has proven her ability to deliver the change she talks about," said DeGette. Read more.
CONNECTICUT: A new Hartford Courant poll shows Hillary leading Sen. Obama by 14 points, 41 to 27 percent. Read more.
GEORGIA: The campaign announced that President Clinton will today attend a worship service at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta and speak at Mercer University in Macon. "The response has been tremendous," said Macon City Councilwoman Elaine Lucas, who is also a volunteer on Hillary Clinton's campaign. "There are a lot of people volunteering. It's very, very overwhelming. We're very excited." Read more.
MISSOURI: The Kansas City Star recently endorsed Hillary. Read it..."An estimated 4,000 people also showed up" to hear Hillary in St. Louis on Saturday night. "An hour before the doors officially opened, the high school gym was already full – as were the halls outside, a neighboring cafeteria and another meeting room."
NEW YORK: In New York, Hillary received a "standing ovation" at Harlem's Abyssinian Baptist Church where she spoke about the civil rights movement and economic justice. She also picked up the endorsement of the church's pastor, Dr. Calvin Butts. "With the right experience comes change," he said. "I have seen first-hand the wisdom, insight and concern she brings in her approach to community development...and economic revitalization." Read more...President Clinton greeted hundreds of cheering supporters in Buffalo and emphasized the importance of Hillary's plan to jumpstart the economy. Read more...A new Siena College poll also showed Hillary with more than twice as much support as Sen. Obama. She leads by 25 points, 48 to 23 percent. Read more.
TENNESSEE: The campaign announced that President Clinton will tonight speak at historically black Fisk University. Read more.
TEXAS: Congressman Silvestre Reyes, Chair of the House Intelligence Committee, recently endorsed Hillary. Read more.
  