
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals, appoint one individual and upon appointment designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate W. Ralph Basham, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of Customs at the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Basham currently serves as Director of the United States Secret Service at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff for the Transportation Security Administration at the Department of Transportation. Earlier in his career, he served as Director for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at the Department of Treasury. Mr. Basham received his bachelor's degree from Southeastern University.
The President intends to nominate Paul DeCamp, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division at the Department of Labor. Mr. DeCamp currently serves as Senior Policy Advisor to the Assistant Secretary for Employment Standards at the Department of Labor. Prior to this, he was an Associate and Of Counsel for Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, LLP. Earlier in his career, he was an Associate at Irell & Manella, LLP. Mr. DeCamp received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University and his JD from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Edward P. Lazear, of California, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers and upon appointment designate Chairman. Dr. Lazear is currently the Jack Steele Parker Professor of Human Resources, Management and Economics at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business. He is also the Morris Arnold Cox Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution. Dr. Lazear previously served as a Member of the President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform. Earlier in his career, he was the Brown Professor of Urban and Labor Economics at the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. Dr. Lazear received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of California at Los Angeles. He went on to receive his PhD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey L. Sedgwick, of Massachusetts, to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics at the Department of Justice. Mr. Sedgwick is currently an Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst, where he has been a faculty member and administrator for over twenty years. Earlier in his career, Mr. Sedgwick served as Deputy Director for Data Analysis for the Bureau of Justice Statistics at the Department of Justice. Mr. Sedgwick received his bachelor's degree from Kenyon College. He went on to receive his master's degree and PhD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to appoint Mark Sullivan, of Massachusetts, to be Director of the United States Secret Service at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Sullivan currently serves as Assistant Director for the Office of Protective Operations for the United States Secret Service at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Director for Human Resources and Training for the United States Secret Service. He has served the United States Secret Service for over twenty years. Mr. Sullivan received his bachelor's degree from Saint Anselms College.
  