
    
DES MOINES, Iowa — U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Saturday returns to Iowa for a four-day swing. Sanders' seventeenth trip to the state since announcing his candidacy kicks off with a volunteer canvass launch in Davenport, followed by town meetings in Davenport, Clinton, Maquoketa, Decorah, Fayette, Independence, Cedar Falls, Iowa Falls, Ames, Newton, Grinnell and Des Moines. Sanders will discuss a wide range of issues, including his plan to make public colleges and universities tuition-free, the need to grow and strengthen America's middle class by taking on Wall Street and raising the minimum wage, ensuring universal healthcare for all and fighting against a corrupt political campaign finance system.
Here's the itinerary:
Saturday, January 23
1:30 p.m. Volunteer Canvass Launch, Davenport Bernie 2016 HQ, 736 Federal St, #2101, Davenport
Information for the public: This event is open to volunteers canvassing for Bernie Sanders. Those interested in attending should call the Davenport Field Office to sign-up (563) 323-0559.
3:30 p.m. Clinton Town Meeting, Clinton Masonic Center, 416 South 1st St, Clinton
Information for the public: Doors open at 2:30 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
5 p.m. Livestream National House Party
Information for the public: This event will be livestreamed across the country. Click here to register.
7 p.m. Maquoketa Town Meeting, Centerstone Inn and Suites, 1910 Nairn Dr, Maquoketa
Information for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Sunday, January 24
12:30 p.m. Decorah Town Meeting, Luther College, Regents Center, 700 College Dr, Decorah
Information for the public: Doors open at 11:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
3 p.m. Fayette Town Meeting, Upper Iowa University, Student Center, 605 Washington St, Fayette
Information for the public: Doors open at 2 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
5:30 p.m. Independence Town Meeting, Heartland Acres Agribition Center, 2600 Swan Lake Blvd, Independence
Information for the public: Doors open at 4:30 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
8 p.m. University of Northern Iowa Meeting, University of Northern Iowa (West Gymnasium), Cedar Falls
Information for the public: Doors open at 7 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Monday, January 25
9 a.m. Iowa Falls Town Meeting, Ellsworth Community College, Dale Howard Family Activity Center, 1021 River St, Iowa Falls
Information for the public: Doors open at 8:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
Noon Iowa State University Town Meeting (Presidential Caucus Series), Stephens Auditorium, Iowa State Center, 1900 Center Dr, Ames
Information for the public: Doors open at 11 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
3 p.m. Newton Meet and Greet, Bernie 2016 Field Office, 201 1st Ave. W, Newton
Information for the public: This event is invite only.
Press coverage will be pooled.
4:30 p.m. Grinnell Town Meeting, Grinnell College, Charles Benson Bear Recreation and Athletics Center, 1201 10th Ave, Grinnell
Information for the public: Doors open at 4 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
8 p.m. CNN/IDP/Drake Democratic Presidential Town Hall Forum, Sheslow Auditorium, Drake University
Tuesday, January 26
10 a.m. Meeting with United Steelworkers Local 310L, 125 NE Broadway Ave, Des Moines Information for the public: This event is invite only.
Wednesday, January 27
1 p.m. Mason City Town Meeting, Music Man Square, 308 S Pennsylvania Ave, Mason City
Information for the public: Doors open at noon. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.
  