
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Pell (D) Rhode Island)
The Administration supports favorable Senate action on S. 1281, which authorizes appropriations for the Department of State, the United States Information Agency, the National Endowment for Democracy, and related agencies. S. 1281 also provides important new authorities to the Administration to carry out the foreign policy of the United States. These include provisions that: facilitate the Secretary of State's reorganization plan that addresses the priorities of modern diplomacy; implement the President's plan for reorganizing U.S. international broadcasting services, as endorsed by the National Performance Review; and implement the U.N. Torture Convention.
Nevertheless, as the legislative process continues, the Administration will seek amendments to selected provisions which adversely affect the President's constitutional prerogatives and the Executive's conduct of foreign policy, and limit the Executive's authority and flexibility to effectively manage personnel and resources, including limitations on and earmarks of funds below the requested levels. These provisions include: the amendment to the International Claims Settlement Act; the Cambodian Genocide Investigation Office; the amendment to the Taiwan Relations Act; the Commission on Protecting and Reducing Government Secrecy; and leaser-purchase directed scorekeeping.
Pay-As-You-Go Scoring
S. 1281 could affect receipts and direct spending; therefore, it is subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) of 1990. OMB's preliminary scoring estimates of this bill are presented in the table below. Final scoring of this legislation may deviate from this estimate. If S. 1281'were enacted, final OMB scoring estimates would be published within 5 days of enactment, as required by OBRA. The cumulative effects of all enacted legislation on direct spending and receipts will be reported at the end of the congressional session, as required by OBRA.
PAY-AS-YOU-GO ESTIMATES ($ in millions)


 
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1994-1998


Net deficit reduction
2.4
28.0
28.0
28.0
28.0
114.4


  