
    
  Popular legislator attends Dr. Paul's fourth whistle stop and endorses him for the Presidency

COLUMBIA, SC — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was introduced and endorsed today by the Hon. Gary Bunker, Aiken City Councilmember for District 7.
The endorsement took place at 3:15 p.m. EST at the 12-term Congressman from Texas's Aiken Whistle Stop, which occurred at Bobby's BBQ in Warrenville.
The stop was the fourth of five such whistle stops Dr. Paul is making today before ending Friday's campaigning with a nighttime rally in Columbia.
Aiken is a city in and the county seat of Aiken County. With Augusta, Georgia, it is one of the two largest cities of the Central Savannah River Area.
"We appreciate Councilman Bunker endorsement of Ron Paul, as well as his kind words toward him. The weight the councilman's endorsement carries promises to help us achieve a strong top-three finish in tomorrow's primary election," said Dr. Michael Vasovski, South Carolina State Chairman for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign.
The following are Councilman Gary Bunker's remarks verbatim.
Hon. Gary Bunker
"Thank you very much for that kind introduction. I feel like I'm in good company standing here with Sen. Tom Davis, Sen. Danny Verdin, Dr. Mike Vasovski, and other fine South Carolinians in support of Congressman Ron Paul.
"As a member of the Aiken County Council, let me tell you why we need a Ron Paul Presidency.
"In Aiken County, we must balance our budget every year. Unlike the federal government, Aiken County can't print money, monetize the debt, or inflate the currency. Yet even a well-run county will suffer if the economy drowns in debt and the dollar tanks. A Ron Paul Presidency will restore honest budgeting and fiscal discipline to the federal government, a discipline the county must practice each and every day.
"In Aiken County, we struggle to provide basic services without raising property taxes. Yet if the unaccountable Federal Reserve Board devalues the currency and increases inflation, both the county's cost of borrowing and the county's property tax rates will skyrocket. A Ron Paul Presidency will legalize sound money and improve our country's economic security.
"In Aiken County, we can't shuffle forwards or backwards, left or right, without bumping our shins against federal mandates and regulations. A Ron Paul Presidency will rein in the out of control regulatory agencies that make a mockery of federalism and local autonomy.
"In addition, as a conservative, I applaud Ron Paul's valiant efforts to protect the unborn, defend the Second Amendment, and secure our borders.
"We must begin the restoration of America today. Seize the opportunity and vote for Ron Paul, our champion of liberty and constitutionalism, in tomorrow's Republican Presidential primary.
"Ladies and gentlemen, the next President of the United States...Ron Paul!"
Details of tonight's Columbia rally are as follows. Time is Eastern.
Friday, January 20, 2012
9:00 p.m.
Columbia Rally
Jillian's
800 Gervais Street
Columbia, SC 29201-3126
  