
    Former Richardson Supporters Back Hillary
CA Assemblymember Felipe Fuentes and CA State Senator Alex Padilla, both former Governor Bill Richardson supporters, announced today their endorsement of Hillary Clinton for President.
"I'm supporting Hillary Clinton because she has the personal strength and experience to be an extraordinary President from her first day in office," said Senator Padilla. "Her vision for California and for our country and the ability to carry it out are exactly the leadership we need in the White House."
Senator Alex Padilla was first elected to public office in 1999 to the Los Angeles City Council. Just two years later, his council colleagues elected him council president. Padilla was not only the first Latino, but the youngest person ever elected city council president. In 2006 he was sworn in as a California State Senator representing the 20th District, which includes most of the San Fernando Valley in Southern California. On his first day in the Senate, Padilla was appointed to the powerful Senate Rules Committee which confirms gubernatorial appointments and refers all bills in the Senate.

Fuentes began his career promoting immigrant and children's rights through the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law. In 2001, he was appointed Deputy Mayor of the San Fernando Valley and he also managed the Mayor's Office of the Neighborhood Advocate, Volunteer Corps, Constituent Services, and the Targeted Neighborhood Initiative. Assemblyman Fuentes was elected in a special election May 15, 2007 to represent the 39th Assembly District which includes the communities of Arleta, Mission Hills, Pacoima, Panorama City, Sun Valley and Sylmar in Los Angeles County.
"I am honored to have the support of these two distinguished leaders from the San Fernando Valley," said Senator Hillary Clinton. "I share their vision of a better America, where every American has access to affordable, quality health care and a world-class education system. As President, I will work with legislators across the country to ensure we deliver the promise of a better future.
  