
    
  Nationally-recognized Salt Lake City entrepreneur joins 'LDS for Ron Paul' nationwide coalition and stands with Ron Paul to Restore America Now

LAKE JACKSON, Texas - 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Overstock.com President Jonathan Johnson, who is also joining the "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
The following statement of endorsement from Mr. Johnson is personal, and does not represent an endorsement on behalf of any companies or organizations with which he is affiliated, including Overstock.com.
"The federal government has run roughshod on the Constitution and now intrudes into too many areas of our lives. Ron Paul's staunch adherence to the Constitution, defense of individual liberty and vision of a smaller government are the right prescription for our time," said Mr. Johnson.
Jonathan E. Johnson III has been the President of Overstock.com since 2008. Mr. Johnson joined Overstock.com in 2002 as the Company's General Counsel and has held various business and legal related positions at the company. He has been part of Overstock.com's meteoric growth, as the company has grown from a small start-up to a company with $1.1 billion in sales and over 1,400 employees throughout Utah.
Prior to joining Overstock.com, Johnson was with TenFold Corporation in various positions, including CFO and General Counsel. Before that, he practiced corporate law in Los Angeles with two international law firms. He also served as a judicial clerk at the Utah Supreme Court.
Johnson received a bachelor's degree in Japanese from Brigham Young University, studied at Osaka University of Foreign Studies in Japan as a Ministry of Education Scholar, and received his law degree from the BYU Law School.
Johnson lives in Salt Lake with his wife and five sons, and is active in the Utah Republican Party and a longtime member of the board of governors of the Salt Lake Chamber of Commerce.
Concerning the active "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" coalition, Johnson's endorsement follows the high-profile support of prominent author and chair of the Utah Tenth Amendment Center Connor Boyack, that of Utah Republican Liberty Caucus Chair Darcy Van Orden, as well as that of everyday LDS Nevadans.
All such announcements help present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney and demonstrate that no presidential candidate has a monopoly on this crucial western states voter segment.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the active "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page by clicking here. They should also send an email to Chris Kuper, National Coalitions Liaison, at hq.coalitions@ronpaul2012.com.
  