
    Press Secretary Sanders. Good afternoon. We're pleased to see that the Dow Jones Industrial Average broke through 25,000 for the first time ever today. The President's economic agenda of lower taxes, less regulation, and more opportunity for all is already paying off, and American families and workers are the big winners. With that in mind, we have a message from a special guest that I'd like to share with you.
With that, I'll ask you to tune into the screens, and then I'll continue from there.
[At this point, a video was displayed on two projection screens, in which the President made remarks as follows.]
The President. Thank you for being with us today. The historic tax cut I signed into law just 2 weeks ago, before Christmas, is already delivering major economic gains. Hundreds of thousands of Americans are seeing larger paychecks, bigger bonuses, and higher pension contribution, and it's all because of the tax cuts and the tax reform.
And I want to thank all of the companies that worked so hard to do it. Workers at AT&T, Bank of America, Comcast, Southwest Airlines, American Airlines, and many other companies are receiving bonuses of $1,000 or more. Aflac and others are investing more in employees' 401(k)s. CVS announced it will hire 3,000 new workers. Boeing, another great company, is investing hundreds of millions of dollars in employee training and infrastructure.
More than 60 companies have announced they are raising wages, including many that have voluntarily raised their minimum wage to $15 per hour—and I mean they did that voluntarily—which many politicians said could only be achieved by government mandate.
Investing in the American worker is the most important investment a business will ever make. I want to thank all of these companies for putting their tax savings to the best possible use by creating more jobs and higher wages for the American family. These great results are just the beginning.
When the dreams of the American people are unleashed, there is nothing—absolutely nothing—we can't achieve. We are going to make America great again, and it's happening a lot faster than anyone thought possible.
Thank you.
[The video concluded, and Press Secretary Sanders spoke as follows.]
Press Secretary Sanders. Thank you, Mr. President. As he said, this is only the beginning. And we are excited to see the economic growth and optimism continue to soar in 2018.
[Press Secretary Sanders continued with the press briefing.]
  