
    Pool Reports by Olivia Nuzzi, New York Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




January 14, 202210:03

VP Pool report #1 — holding at stakeout location
Good morning! As of 9:58 AM, pool is holding at the stakeout location while we wait for the VP to arrive ahead of today's swearing in ceremony for Rufus Gifford as Chief of Protocol. VP's staff says they are still aiming for a 10:15 AM start time.



January 14, 202210:19

VP pool report #2 — awaiting VP's arrival 
Pool entered the ceremonial office at 10:08 am. Awaiting the VP's arrival as members of Rufus Gifford's family pose for photos and snap selfies near the desk at the back of the room. The VP's office sends this along:
"On background from a White House Official:
He will be sworn in on an American flag from the U.S. Department State.
Standing next to him will be:
Stephen DeVincent - husbandAnne Gifford – motherSkye Trussell – nieceLila Trussell – nieceAvery Nigrelli – niece"



January 14, 202211:01

VP pool report #3 — swearing in and question on voting rights 
The VP entered the ceremonial office at 10:40 AM. After a swift swearing in, she urged Rufus Gifford's sisters and father to join the family to pose for photos. She said, "Come on dad, get in here!" The elder Mr. Gifford was moved by this and told the VP, "Thank you for calling me dad!"
Following a few seconds of silence as the group stood together, their smiles straining to be made visible behind their face masks, the VP fielded a single question from pool reporter Jasmine Wright of CNN: "Vice President Harris, what comes next on voting rights?"
The VP paused and turned her attention to the pool. She said: "Well, we keep fighting. We are committed to seeing this through however long it takes and whatever it takes, and so today, for example, I will be continuing with extensive meetings and discussions about how we can see this through."
As the VP turned to exit the room, she ignored a second question from pooler Jasmine Wright of CNN, who asked if she had a response to Senator Sinema's speech yesterday.
After a few hellos between members of the pool and new comms director Jamal Simmons, the pool was ushered back across the driveway.




  