
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 21
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md. January 22
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—representatives of the trucking industry;
—Joel W. (Jay) Solomon, Administrator of the General Services Administration;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—members of the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee of the House of Representatives.
January 23
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia;
—Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia;
—Senators Nunn, John H. Glenn, Jr., of Ohio, William S. Cohen of Maine, and Gary Hart of Colorado.
The President transmitted the following reports to the Congress:
—the 12th annual report on the Operation of the Automotive Products Trade Act of 1965;
—the 1977 annual report on Coastal Zone Management;
—the 15th quarterly report on the Activities of the Council on Wage and Price Stability;
—the eighth annual report on Hazardous Materials Control;
—the fifth report of the Director of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
January 24
The President met at the White House with:
—a group of new Senators of the 96th Congress;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President;
—Attorney General Griffin B. Bell and John H. Shenefield, Chairman, and members of the National Commission .on Antitrust Laws and Procedures, to receive the report of the Commission;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Senator Abraham A. Ribicoff of Connecticut and a congressional delegation, to discuss the delegation's visit to the Soviet Union;
—Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington. Prime Minister Kriangsak Chomanan of Thailand will be visiting the United States from February 4 to 16. During his official stay in Washington, the Prime Minister will call on the President on February 6, and on the Secretary of State on February 7. He will also meet with other senior administration officials and with Members of Congress.
January 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, and Mr. Mcintyre;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore and staff members of the Office of Congressional Liaison;
—representatives of the Junior Achievement Program's National Business Leadership Conference;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Senator Edmund S. Muskie of Maine and Representative Robert N. Giaimo of Connecticut.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President presented the National Security Medal to Leslie C. Dirks, Deputy Director for Science and Technology of the Central Intelligence Agency.
January 26
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week).
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  