
    Manchester, NH – This morning, New Hampshire State Senator Kevin Cavanaugh endorsed Elizabeth Warren for president and will be hosting campaign events though the primary.
Cavanaugh serves as a New Hampshire State Senator, the Manchester Ward 1 Alderman, and is a longtime union leader and activist. He will work with New Hampshire for Warren to talk to voters about why Elizabeth is the best candidate to defeat Donald Trump and launch canvass kickoffs and other organizing events over the next 21 days through the First In The Nation primary.
"Elizabeth is the voice working families need in the White House," said State Senator Kevin Cavanuagh. "Her record of getting things done to help all Americans – both in the US Senate and before she even held public office – should convince all Granite Staters to support her. For too long in this country, labor hasn't had a seat at the table where decisions are made – Elizabeth's building a new table. She also understands that working families depend on a secure retirement – she will stand up for workers to raise wages, and protect their hard-earned pensions and retirement savings. From trade to health care to climate change, Elizabeth's plans take into account the folks who are hurting, and she's working to build a country that works for everyone."
In a special election in 2017, Cavanaugh defeated the Repulican incumbent by 11 points. In 2018, Cavanaugh's re-election would be part of a blue wave that would return both chambers of state legislature to the Democrats. He is a leading Democratic voice in the State legislature and labor movement.
In his tenure in the statehouse, Cavanaugh has been a champion of labor unions and New Hampshire's working families, spotlighting issues such as advancing workers' rights, workforce development opportunities, and raising the minimum wage, which has stagnated at $7.25, the same as it was in 2009 and significantly lower than in neighboring states, due to Republican Governor Sununu's veto.
"I'm grateful to have Kevin in our fight for big, structural change," said Elizabeth. "Kevin has fought for Granite State workers his entire career, and he knows how we can help working families in New Hampshire build a stable life and have a real chance to get ahead."
Senator Cavanaugh's endorsement comes just days after more than 100 New Hampshire labor leaders and union members announced their support for Elizabeth because of her commitment to putting power in the hands of working people as president, her plans to empower workers, and her ability to build coalitions and make real change. He joins a slate of more than 50 New Hampshire legislators who are all in for Elizabeth.
  