
    Memorandum for the United States Trade Representative
Subject: Presidential Determination on Pedestal Actuator Imports from the People's Republic of China
Pursuant to section 421 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2451), I have determined the action I will take with respect to the affirmative determination of the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) regarding imports of pedestal actuators from China. The USITC, on the basis of its investigation (No. TA-421-1), determined that pedestal actuators from China are being imported into the United States in such increased quantities or under such conditions as to cause market disruption to the domestic producers of like or directly competitive products.
After considering all relevant aspects of the investigation, I have determined that providing import relief for the U.S. pedestal actuator industry is not in the national economic interest of the United States. In particular, I find that the import relief would have an adverse impact on the United States economy clearly greater than the benefits of such action.
In determining not to provide import relief, I considered its overall costs to the U.S. economy. The facts of this case indicate that imposing the USITC's recommended quota would not likely benefit the domestic producing industry and instead would cause imports to shift from China to other offshore sources.
Even if the quota were to benefit the primary domestic producer, the cost of the quota to consumers, both the downstream purchasing industry and users of the downstream products, would substantially outweigh any benefit to producers' income. The USITC's analysis confirms this conclusion.
In addition, downstream industries are already under pressure to migrate production offshore to compete with lower-cost imports of finished products. Higher component costs resulting from import relief would add to this pressure. Given the significantly larger number of workers in the downstream purchasing industry when compared with the domestic pedestal actuator industry, I find that imposing import restrictions would do more economic harm than good.
Finally, a quota would negatively affect the many disabled and elderly purchasers of mobility scooters and electric wheelchairs, the primary ultimate consumers of pedestal actuators.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
George W. Bush
  