
    
  Heroes hailing from Carson City, Clark, and Nye counties pledge to boost outreach efforts for fellow veteran Paul

HENDERSON, Nevada — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today new members of its active "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition. Today's additions hail from Carson City, Clark, and Nye counties, all Nevada, and pledge to spread the word among their respective communities concerning the 12-term Texas Congressman's staunch advocacy for veterans' issues.
Carson City resident Allen Adams is a retired pilot who served as a combat engineer in the National Guard, attaining the rank of Sergeant. The six-year veteran said, "Ron Paul is the only one that recognizes the problems in this country and has known them for 30 years. With a clear and consistent record, he outmatches all other candidates who don't stand a chance against President Obama."
David Gilbert lives in the Henderson area and is a former Army Staff Sergeant with 12 years of service. He gave his take speaking as someone who has sworn an oath to protect the Constitution twice, stating, "As a veteran and police officer, I serve to protect the citizens of this community so that they may exercise their freedoms and liberties as they endeavor to pursue the American dream. I witness the ever-increasing influence of the federal government and its agencies upon the local and state level through regulations."
"Federal regulations are by and large composed by special interest groups that stand to profit greatly though implementation of the regulations. I observe this firsthand often, and the answer to the need for restoring Constitutional government is Ron Paul," concluded Mr. Gilbert.
Pahrump-area Army veteran Robert Serini served 11 years in a military career that brought him to countries such as Nicaragua, Egypt, and Iraq.
The former Corporal stated, "The fact that Ron Paul was a doctor first speaks volumes about his personality and integrity. I agree wholeheartedly with his 'Plan To Restore America,' and cleaning up Washington, D.C. The fact that Ron Paul is also a veteran is just icing on my cake."
Ron Paul is the only candidate in this election possessing an honorable record of military service. A flight surgeon during the Cold War era, his commitment to veterans was recently showcased in the campaign's television ad 'He Served'. The campaign's more recent television ad titled 'Secure' highlights Dr. Paul's plan to keep America safe.
In addition to the support veterans give Dr. Paul, the congressman also receives more donations from active-dutymilitary than the rest of the field combined, according to an independent analysis.
As a function of this announcement, all of the above-mentioned persons are members of the "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, in particular its Nevada steering committee.
As a basic first step, those wanting to join the active "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official web page by clicking here. Prospective members should also send an email tonvcoalitions@ronpaul2012.com, writing the coalition name in the subject line.
  