
    Interior Secretary-designate Deb Haaland and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator-designate Michael Regan today met virtually with outdoor recreation leaders from across the country to discuss the Biden-Harris administration's plans for creating good-paying union jobs, confronting the climate crisis, and conserving and expanding access to the nation's lands and waters for all people.
In the meeting with members of the Outdoor Recreation Roundtable, Haaland and Regan observed that Americans' shared love for the outdoors provides an important foundation for bipartisan cooperation on environmental issues, as evidenced by congressional passage of the Great American Outdoors Act last year. Haaland also reflected on her experiences running marathons and exploring New Mexico's public lands, while Regan shared that his passion for the environment came from his time hunting and fishing with his father and grandfather.
Haaland today also held a listening session with CEOs of outdoor businesses who are leading members of the Outdoor Industry Association.
Participants in both meetings stressed the vital role that outdoor industries play in our national economy. They also discussed President-elect Biden's Build Back Better plan, which includes a proposal to create new jobs in the outdoors through a Civilian Climate Corps. They also discussed the president-elect's commitment to conserve 30% of the nation's lands and oceans by 2030, promote hunting, fishing and outdoor recreation access on public lands and waters, and ensure that all people in America have safe, close-to-home recreation opportunities.
The Outdoor Recreation Roundtable included leaders of several of the largest trade associations that collectively comprise the ORR, including the RV Dealers Association, the RV Industry Association, the National Marine Manufacturers Association, The Boat Owners Association of the United States, the American Sportfishing Association, and The Corps Network.
The outdoor executives in attendance for the meeting with Secretary-designate Haaland included:

Taishya Adams - Policy Director, Outdoor Afro
Eric Artz - President & CEO, REI
Luis Benitez - Vice President of Government Affairs and Global Impact, VF Corp.
Frazier Blair - Vice President Merchandise Planning and Women's Merchandising, Orvis
Cam Brensinger - Founder and CEO, NEMO Equipment
Ryan Gellert - CEO, Patagonia
Phyllis Grove - VP Marketing, Hydro Flask
Linda Hubbard - President & CEO, Carhartt
Jenny Kordick - Executive Director, Maine Outdoor Brands
Matt Liddle - Chief Operating Officer, Snow Peak
Jason McGibbon - Chief Review Officer, Snow Peak
Jen McLaren - President, Smartwool
Simon Perkins - President, Orvis
Matt Schreiner - Global Product Specialist, W.L. Gore & Associates
Ben Steele - Executive Vice President, REI
Nora Stowell - Global Sales and Marketing Leader, W.L. Gore & Associates
Kevin Winkel - Founder & GM, Wayward Collective
Larry Witt - President, OXO
Lise Aangeenbrug - Executive Director, Outdoor Industry Association

  