
    
Everyone running for president should be talking about this.
Hillary Clinton has always fought to fix the problems that keep families up at night—and for millions of families, autism is a major issue in their lives.
An estimated 3.5 million Americans—including one in 68 children—have autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Many go undiagnosed for years, and services that would vastly improve their lives are unaffordable for most families.
That's why Hillary just announced a broad plan to help people of all ages and their families who are impacted by autism. 
Here's what it will do:
1. Launch a national early screening campaign
Diagnosis is the first step in helping people with autism. Yet, studies show that in many children, especially girls and African American and Latino children, early signs of autism go overlooked for months or even years. Hillary's plan will boost early screening rates so that kids can get diagnosed and receive the services that will make a difference in their lives.
2.?Ensure health insurance coverage for autism services
When autism services aren't covered by insurance, many families can't afford them. The Affordable Care Act has gone a long way to help those with autism get the support they need—by making it illegal for insurance companies to deny coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, ending lifetime dollar limits on benefits, and allowing young adults to remain on their parents' coverage until the age of 26.
3. Invest in research to deepen our understanding of autism
We need to invest in more research to better understand autism, create better diagnostic tools, and improve treatments and services for people on the autism spectrum. Hillary will significantly increase funding for autism-related research and call for the first-ever study of the prevalence of adult autism.
4. Increase employment opportunities for those with autism
People with autism are unemployed at a much higher rate: More than half of youth with autism are not getting a job or pursuing higher education in the two years after they graduate high school. Hillary's plan will work to close the employment gap by launching a new Autism Works Initiative that will include a post-graduation transition plan for every student with autism, along with a public-private partnership to connect people with autism to employment opportunities.

Hillary is the only candidate with a?comprehensive plan?to support Americans with autism. And her proposals are drawing praise from advocates and families alike.


  Thank you @HillaryClinton for your new autism initiative for our little heroes!
#autism
https://t.co/iz7iJJZc5r pic.twitter.com/pwDjkfruLD— Jenn Medvin (@AlDenteGuida) January 5, 2016


  My vote is undecided. But as a parent to a child with autism, it feels like Hillary Clinton just reached out to me & held my hand.— Nish Weiseth (@NishWeiseth) January 5, 2016


  Spoken to @HillaryClinton about my 2 girls, one with autism, and the need for therapy and supports for families like ours. TY for listening!— Tere Ramos (@SpedAdvocates) January 5, 2016


  @HillaryClinton thank you for thinking of all the children and adults with autism. I worry everyday about my daughter. #AutismAwareness— Whatsmyname? (@tamromo) January 5, 2016


  @HillaryClinton Just read Hillary Clinton announces plans to help people with autism access services, independence. Just won me over.— Barry Hughes (@Thebarryhughes) January 5, 2016

Anyone who wants to be president should have a plan to make a real difference for families.
  