
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 13
In the morning, the President traveled from Aviano Air Base, Italy, to Taszar, Hungary.
Later, the President traveled to Tuzla, Bosnia-Herzegovina, where he had meetings with a group of religious leaders.
The President then traveled to Zagreb, Croatia, where he met with President Franjo Tudjman.
In the evening, while returning from Zagreb to Washington, DC, aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation with President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia.
The President declared major disasters in the States of Kentucky, New Jersey, North Carolina, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia, and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by the "Blizzard of 1996," beginning January 6 and continuing.
January 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA, where he laid a wreath at the tomb of Martin Luther King, Jr., and later toured the Olympic Stadium under construction. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
January 16
In the afternoon, the President met with Karekin I, Patriarch of the Armenian Apostolic Church.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas S. Foley as a member and Chairman of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard L. Morningstar to be Special Adviser to the President and the Secretary of State on Assistance to the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union.
The President announced his intention to appoint Randall Forsberg and Patricia McFate as members of the Scientific and Policy Advisory Committee of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Burrus Babson and Robert B. Rogers to the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service.
January 17
In the morning, the President attended the funeral of Ambassador M. Larry Lawrence at Arlington National Cemetery, VA.
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Republican congressional leaders to discuss the budget negotiations.
January 19
In the morning, the President met with Foreign Minister Yohei Kono of Japan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ronnie Feuerstein Heyman to the National Council on the Arts.
The President appointed Peter B. Edelman to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Planning and Evaluation as a recess appointee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Frederick Pang to the National Partnership Council.
The President appointed Charles A. Hunnicutt as Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Aviation and International Affairs as a recess appointee.
The President appointed Eileen B. Claussen as Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs as a recess appointee.
The President appointed Sarah M. Fox to the National Labor Relations Board as a recess appointee.
The President appointed Harlan Mathews as Chair and William C. Brooks and Gerald M. Shea as members of the Social Security Advisory Board as recess appointees.
The President made the following recess appointments to the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund: Robert F. Drinan, Leo K. Goto, Susan Hayase, Elsa H. Kudo, Yeiichi Kuwayama, Dale Minami, Peggy Nagae, and Don Toshiaki Nakanishi.
The President appointed Gerald N. Tirozzi as Assistant Secretary of Education for Elementary and Secondary Education as a recess appointment.
  