
    To the Congress of the United States:
My administration has faced a wide range of challenges at home and abroad, challenges stemming from our strengths, not our weaknesses: our strengths as a world leader, as a developed industrial nation, and as a heterogeneous democracy with high goals and great ambitions. Meeting these challenges satisfactorily requires that we establish priorities, recognizing the limits to even our Nation's enormous resources. We cannot do all that we wish at the same time. But we must provide for our security, establish the basis for a strong economy, protect the disadvantaged, build human and physical capital for the future, and safeguard this Nation's magnificent natural environment.
This budget provides for meeting these needs, while continuing a 4-year policy of prudence and restraint. While our budget deficits have been higher than I would have liked, their size has been determined for the most part by economic conditions. Even so, the trend has been downward. In 1976, the budget deficit equalled 4.0% of gross national product. This was reduced to 2.3% in the budget year that ended 3 months ago. The 1982 budget deficit is estimated to equal only 0.9% of gross national product.
The rate of growth in budget outlays has been. held to a minimum. In spite of significant increases in indexed programs, outlays for nondefense programs—after adjusting for inflation—decreased slightly.
The 1982 budget calls for outlays of $739 billion, an increase of 1.0% when adjusted for inflation. Nondefense spending is projected to decline by 0.2% in real terms. The tax reductions I proposed as part of the economic revitalization program have been retained, but some have been delayed or phased in over a longer period in recognition of 'the continued high inflation rate. The budget deficit—which is now projected at $55.2 billion in 1981-is estimated to decline to $27.5 billion in 1982.
In planning this budget, I have considered four major issues: • What is the economic policy that will ensure prosperity for all while minimizing inflation?
• How much of our Nation's wealth should be used by the Federal Government?
• What are desirable spending proposals and strategies for defense, human resources, and investment?
• How can the management of Government be improved?
THE BUDGET TOTALS [In billions of dollars]
1980 1981 1982 1983 1984
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate
Outlays 579.6 662.7 739.3 817.3 890.3
Receipts 520.0 607.5 711.8 809.2 922.3
Surplus or deficit (—) —59.6 —55.2 —27.5 —8.0 32.0
Budget authority 658.8 726.5 809.8 892.0 962.7
Credit budget 131.2 165.4 152.6
THE ECONOMY
During the last decade we withstood a series of economic shocks unprecedented in peacetime. The most dramatic of these were the explosive increases of OPEC oil prices. But we have also faced world commodity shortages, natural disasters, agricultural shortages, and major challenges to world peace and security. Our ability to deal with these shocks has been impaired by slower productivity growth and persistent, underlying inflationary forces built up over the past 15 years.
Nevertheless, the economy has proved remarkably resilient. Real output has grown at an average annual rate of 3% since I took office, and employment has grown by 2 1/2%. Nearly 8 million productive private sector jobs have been added to the economy. However, unacceptably high inflation remains our most difficult economic problem. This inflation requires that we hold down the growth of the budget to the maximum extent, while still meeting the demands of national security and human compassion. I have done so, as I did in my earlier budgets.
While budget restraint is essential to any appropriate economic policy, high inflation cannot be attributed solely to Government spending. The growth in budget outlays has been more the result of economic factors than the cause of them. For fiscal year 1981 alone, budget outlays must be increased by $9 billion over last year's estimate as a result of higher interest rates. Yet this increase results not only from inflation but from the monetary policies undertaken to combat it. Nearly $18 billion for 1981 reflects higher defense costs and higher automatic inflation adjustments than were anticipated a year ago.
We are now in the early stages of economic recovery following a short recession. Typically, post-recessionary periods have been marked by vigorous economic growth abetted by stimulative policies such as large tax cuts or spending pro. grams. I am not recommending such actions, because persistent inflationary pressures dictate a restrained fiscal policy. However, I continue to recommend specific tax reductions that contribute directly to increased productivity and longterm growth.
THE SIZE AND ROLE OF GOVERNMENT
We allocate about 23% of our Nation's output through the Federal budget. (Including all levels of government, the total government share of our gross national product is about one-third.) We must come close to matching Federal outlays with tax receipts if we are to avoid excessive and inflationary Federal borrowing. This means either controlling our appetite for spending or accepting the burden of higher taxes.
The growth of budget outlays is puzzling to many Americans, but it arises from valid social and national security concerns. Other developed countries face similar pressures. We face a threat to our security, as events in Afghanistan, the Middle East, and Eastern Europe make clear. We have a steadily aging population; as a result, the biggest single increase in the Federal budget is the rising cost of retirement programs, particularly social security. We must meet other important domestic needs: to assist the disadvantaged; to provide the capital needed by our cities and our transportation systems; to protect our environment; and to revitalize American industry.
I have been concerned with the proper role of the Federal Government in designing and providing such assistance. The Federal Government must not usurp functions that are best left to the private sector or to State and local governments. My administration has sought to make the proper assignments of responsibility, to resolve problems in the most efficient manner.
We have also recognized the need to simplify the system of Federal grants to State and local governments. Once again, I am proposing several grant consolidations in the 1982 budget, including a new proposal that would consolidate several highway programs. Previous consolidation proposals of my administration have been in the areas of youth training and employment, environment, energy conservation, airport development, and rehabilitation services. These consolidations are essential to improving our intergovernmental system. However, the Congress has so far agreed to consolidate only rehabilitation services grants. Therefore, I am proposing again the consolidations recommended earlier.
MAJOR BUDGET PRIORITIES
Spending growth can be constrained; not easily, not quickly, but it is possible. My budget priorities have been established, once again, to achieve this goal in a responsible manner.
Three years ago, in my 1979 budget message, I outlined the following principles:
• The Nation's armed forces must always stand sufficiently strong to deter aggression and to assure our security.
• An effective national energy plan is essential to reduce our increasingly critical dependence upon diminishing supplies of oil and gas, to encourage conservation of scarce energy resources, to stimulate conversion to more abundant fuels, and to reduce our large trade deficit.
• The essential human needs of our citizens must be given high priority.
• The Federal Government must lead the way in investment in the Nation's technological future.
• The Federal Government has an obligation to nurture and protect our environment-the common resource, birthright, and sustenance of the American people.
My 1982 budget is again based on these principles.
Tax policy and economic revitalization.—I continue to believe that large inflationary individual income tax cuts are neither appropriate nor possible today, however popular they might appear in the short run. My economic revitalization program stresses tax reductions on a timetable that we can afford, and that will fight inflation by encouraging capital formation and increasing industrial productivity. This program stresses:
• simplification and liberalization of depreciation allowances;
• modification of the investment tax credit to encourage investment by temporarily depressed firms and by growing new firms;
• an income tax credit to offset increases in social security taxes;
• a liberalized earned income credit to also offset social security taxes and to encourage low-income earners to work;
• a working-spouse deduction to make more equitable the way working husbands and wives are taxed; and
• more favorable tax treatment for Americans in certain areas overseas to help American exports and strengthen the dollar.
Defense.—Maintaining a strong defense has been a primary objective of this administration. In order to meet the security needs of the Nation, real spending for defense increased in 1979 and 1980 by more than the 3 percent target I set at the NATO ministerial meeting in 1977. This real growth rate in defense spending has been maintained despite the adverse effects of higher than anticipated inflation, and restrained budgets.
To meet critical remaining needs, this budget includes a $6.3 billion supplemental request for 1981, largely for military pay increases and combat readiness. Together with congressional add-ons to my earlier 1981 request, this supplemental will increase defense programs almost 8 percent in real terms over 1980. For 1982 and beyond, the budget charts a course of sustained and balanced improvements in defense programs that will require real annual increases in funding of about 5 percent per year.
The budget request reflects a careful balance between the need to meet all critical defense needs, while maintaining fiscal restraint. There will be advocates for higher defense levels, but after careful review I do not believe that higher spending would add significantly to our national security. My budget already provides for the three major defense requirements:
• Personnel recruitment and retention.—Our armed forces can be no better than the quality of the people who serve in them. Accordingly, I recently approved the largest pay and benefits increase in history—a $4.5 billion compensation package that provides for an average compensation increase of 16 percent. This increase in base pay, plus better housing allowances, expanded enlistment and reenlistment bonuses, and special pay enhancements for submariners and other specialists, will help attract and retain highly qualified men and women.
• Improving combat readiness.—Increased compensation will be a key factor in overcoming key personnel shortages, which are the major source of readiness problems. In addition, there have been shortages in critical spare parts and, in a few cases, inadequate funds for training. The funds recommended by this budget should alleviate these problems.
• Modernizing our forces.—I also pro. pose major investments to enhance substantially the capabilities of our forces. Strategic forces are being upgraded through continued procurement of Trident submarines and missiles, procure. ment of cruise missiles, modification of the B-52 bomber, and development of the MX missile. Army equipment, including tanks, armored vehicles, helicopters, and air defense and other missile systems, is being modernized. Fighter and attack planes are being added to Navy and Marine forces, and a continuing major shipbuilding program will add over 80 ships to our growing fleet between 1982 and 1986. The rapid deployment of our forces is being improved through the acquisition of more cargo ships and modification of airlift aircraft.
Foreign aid.—Foreign assistance remains crucial in achieving our country's international political and economic goals. From the start of my administration, I have stressed the need for substantial increases in assistance to friendly nations, many of whom are drastically harmed by constantly increasing oil prices and other external economic and security pressures. At the same time, I have insisted upon improved management of both our security and development assistance programs.
In the first 2 years of this administration, the Congress reduced my foreign aid requests but permitted some program growth. For the past 2 years, however, the Congress has failed to pass regular foreign aid appropriations. Assistance programs in 1981 are being funded under a continuing resolution that provides amounts slightly above the 1979 levels in nominal terms, and substantially below them in real terms.
I believe in the need for higher levels of aid to achieve foreign policy objectives, promote economic growth, and help needy people abroad. Foreign aid is not politically popular and represents an easy target for budget reduction. But it is not a wise one. For 1982, therefore, I am requesting a foreign assistance program level that is higher by 14% in real terms than the amount currently available for 1981. This request would reverse the recent real decline in aid and demonstrate that the United States retains its commitment to a world of politically stable and economically secure nations.
The bilateral development aid budget includes a U.S. response to the 1980 Venice Summit agreement that the major industrial countries should increase bilateral aid for food production, energy production and conservation, and family planning in the developing countries. Such an effort to increase the availability of resources on which the industrial countries depend will serve U.S. national security, and will stimulate additional actions by the private sector in the recipient countries. This U.S. effort is planned in the expectation that the other Summit countries will also increase aid in these sectors, in response to the Venice Summit agreement. We hope this initiative will lead to agreement on arrangements for increased consultation and cooperation among the major industrial countries providing increased bilateral aid to these three vital sectors.
Energy.—My administration, working with the Congress, has established fundamental new policies that will profoundly change the way the Nation produces and uses energy. They have already led to more domestic exploration and to substantial energy conservation. This energy program represents a major long-range national commitment to meeting one of our most pressing problems. It includes:
• Deregulation and decontrol of oil prices to be completed by October of this year.
• Establishment of the Synthetic Fuels Corporation, which will share with the private sector the risk in producing oil and natural gas substitutes that directly reduce U.S. oil imports.
• Support for energy research and development in technologies, such as solar and fusion energy, that the private sector would not finance.
• Development of the strategic petroleum reserve to reduce the impact of disruptions in world oil supplies.
• Energy conservation in public and nonprofit enterprises.
• Research on the environmental effects of energy production and use to assure that adverse effects on environmental quality are minimized.
Continuation of a sound energy policy is essential to the Nation's well-being in the coming decades. Such a policy must include the pricing of energy at its true cost, mechanisms to stimulate conservation, incentives for the continued development of our own domestic sources of energy, encouragement for longer-run renewable forms of energy, and equity for all our citizens as we adjust to this new reality.
Basic science and space technology Basic research is essential to the long-term vitality of the Nation's economy. Because the benefits of such investments cannot be fully realized by individual companies, the Federal Government plays a key role in supporting such research.
My budgets have reversed a long period of decline in Federal support for basic research. The 1982 budget continues that policy by providing for 4% real growth in support for the conduct of basic research across all Federal agencies. The budget also provides for greater efforts to foster cooperation among government, business, and universities in research.
In addition, we have recognized the growing importance of improving scientific technology in the Nation's universities as critical to the advancement of science and to the training of scientific and engineering manpower.
My administration's comprehensive space policy encourages the practical, effective use of information obtained from orbiting satellites and the coordinated use of the Space Shuttle, now nearing completion. Successful resolution of development problems is expected to lead to the first manned orbital flight of the Shuttle in 1981.
With these increases, Federal support for basic research will have increased by almost 58% over 1978.
Social programs.—This budget supports my deep commitment to programs that help our citizens develop their full potential, and to programs assisting the poor, the unemployed, the elderly, and the sick.
The most extensive such programs are social security and medicare. Parts of this system are expected to experience short-run financing problems because higher than expected unemployment has decreased payroll taxes below previous forecasts, and high inflation has increased benefit payments. Therefore, the administration continues to urge the passage of legislation that would permit the three major social security trust funds to borrow from each other. In addition, it is essential that the Congress and the American people give early consideration to medium-term financing concerns.
The reports of the Commission on Pension Policy, which I established 2 years ago, and the National Commission on Social Security should stimulate constructive debate on these issues. These Corn. missions will complete their final reports during the coming months.
My administration has consistently maintained a strong commitment to remedying youth unemployment and the problems it causes. This budget includes an increase of $1.2 billion in 1982 and an additional increase of $0.8 billion in 1983 for the youth initiative I proposed last year. This initiative emphasizes the mastery of basic arithmetic and literacy skills, as well as the link between the classroom and the workplace.
The Job Corps would be continued at this year's level, serving twice as many youth as when my administration took office. In addition, my budget provides 240,000 public service jobs for low income, long-term unemployed persons in 1982. This program is designed for the hard-core structurally unemployed, and includes substantial training in order to place men and women in permanent jobs. At the same time, the budget continues the countercyclical public service employment program through 1982 at the 100,000 level set by the Congress for 1981. The budget also provides a slight increase for the administration's private sector jobs initiative and essentially maintains the 1980 level of summer youth employment.
I am again proposing to augment medicaid with a child health assurance program effective by the end of 1982. This proposal, which the House of Representatives passed last year, would extend medicaid coverage to an additional 2 million children and pregnant women.
I am also proposing a number of changes in existing programs. For example, I am again proposing that retirement benefits for government employees be adjusted for inflation once, rather than twice, a year. This change would make these adjustments comparable to those for social security and most private sector automatic adjustment practices. The Congress approved a similar administration initiative last year for the food stamp program. This proposal would save $1.1 billion in 1982.
Benefits that are adjusted by statute for inflation will comprise nearly one-third of total Federal spending in 1981. During the last year, my administration has been assessing whether these adjustments are fair and equitable. We have concluded that the Consumer Price Index has several deficiencies as a measure of the true cost of living, particularly because of the manner in which it represents housing costs. I am therefore proposing, in this budget, that future benefits be based on an alternative, more representative index. The alternative index is already calculated and published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. This proposal is designed to improve the technique of indexing these programs, not to reduce benefits. Therefore, no cost savings are assumed in the budget.
The budget also includes legislation to make unemployment benefits more nearly uniform among the States and to coordinate benefits more precisely with unemployment rates. Although this proposal would save about $2 billion in 1982 under the unemployment rates being projected for this budget, a slightly higher rate of unemployment would trigger extended benefits nationally. In such a case, unemployment benefits would be very close to those under current law. Even with the projected change, under current economic projections $1.5 billion would be paid in 1982 for extended benefits in States where the program is triggered.
I remain committed to a national health plan that would assure basic and catastrophic medical coverage for all Americans, as well as for prenatal and infant care. An estimated 22 million Americans lack any private or public health insurance coverage. Another 60 million people lack adequate basic coverage or protection against catastrophic medical expenses. Given the fact that adequate cost containment does not exist and the need for overall budgetary constraints, the budget does not include specific amounts for this plan. However, it is important that our Nation attempt to meet these needs and that the incentives in our health care system be restructured. A clear demonstration of success in restraining medical care costs is an essential prerequisite to the enactment of a national health plan.
My proposals to reform our welfare system should also be an enacted as soon as possible. Such a program is essential to ensuring that no American goes hungry or lacks a reasonable income, and to provide needed fiscal relief to States, counties, and cities.
IMPROVING GOVERNMENT MANAGEMENT
This budget reinforces my commitment to use resources not only wisely, but efficiently. During my administration we have:
• installed new Offices of Inspectors General in 15 major agencies to combat waste, fraud, and abuse;
• carried out a major Governmentwide reform of the civil service system;
• reorganized important areas of the Federal Government, particularly those concerned with education and energy;
• reduced permanent Federal civilian employment by 45,000;
• achieved budgetary savings directly through improved cash management; and
• reduced paperwork and established a paperwork budget. Such efforts to streamline the way the Government conducts its business are rarely dramatic. Improved efficiency is not the product of a simple sweeping reform but, rather, of diligent, persistent attention to many aspects of Federal program management.
One important aspect of improved management has been in the budget process itself. Zero-base budgeting is now an integral part of the decisionmaking system, providing a more systematic basis for making decisions. We have also instituted a 3-year budget planning horizon so that the longer range consequences of short-term budget decisions are fully considered and understood.
In 1978 I made a major commitment to establish a system of controlling Federal credit since, in the past, the very large Federal loan guarantee programs had largely escaped the discipline of the budget process. This system is now in place.
I am gratified that the Congress has supported these efforts to improve budget control. Appropriations bills now include limits on many credit programs. The congressional budget resolutions place significantly greater emphasis on longer range budget trends and set overall credit targets.
While the credit control system provides a means of assessing and limiting Federal credit programs, I believe Federal credit programs have become unduly complex and pose an increasing threat to the effective and efficient operation of private capital markets. In particular, the Federal Financing Bank has become a major and rapidly growing source of offbudget funds for direct loans to a wide range of borrowers.
Therefore, I am recommending that a panel of outstanding financial and budget experts should be established to examine these issues. Such a panel should consider the treatment of credit activities in the budget, the adequacy of program administration, uniform rules and procedures for Federal credit programs, the role of the Federal Financing Bank, and the relationship of tax-exempt financing to overall credit and tax policies.
CONCLUSION
My budget recommendations reflect the major changes that have taken place in our country over recent decades. In 1950, social security and railroad retirement benefits accounted for less than 3% of budget outlays. Last year they accounted for more than one-fifth of the total. Mandatory outlays for entitlement programs, the levels of which are fixed by law, for interest on the public debt, and for payments under binding contracts account for three-fourths of total budget outlays. Because so much of the budget is committed under current law before either the President or the Congress begins the annual budget formulation process, controlling budget growth has been difficult, and the results uneven. It has been difficult because benefit payments and other legal obligations have too often been spared from annual budget scrutiny. The results have been uneven because budget restraint has fallen disproportionately on programs subject to the annual appropriations process.
My administration and the Congress began to redress this imbalance in the 1981 budget. The Congress passed, and I signed into law, a reconciliation bill that for the first time was used as a mechanism for changing a variety of entitlement and tax programs. I do not propose that we break faith with the American people by arbitrarily or unfairly reducing entitlement programs. However, these programs developed independently, and they should be made less duplicative, more consistent, and more equitable. The size of these programs, and our need for budget restraint, requires that we address these problems. I urge the Congress to build upon last year's experience and review all aspects of the budget with equal care.
The allocation of one-fifth of our Nation's resources through the Federal budget is a complex, difficult, and contentious process. Restraint on any program, small or large, is usually subject to heated debate. At a time when there is broad consensus that the size of the Federal budget is too large, we can no longer—as individuals or groups—make special pleas for exceptions to budget discipline. Too often we have taken the attitude that individual benefits or particular programs or specific tax measures are not large enough to require restraint. Too often we have taken the attitude that there must be alternative sources for reductions in programs that benefit our particular group. This attitude is in part responsible for the rapid budget growth we have experienced-and can no longer afford.
Given our Nation's needs and our economic constraints, my recommendations meet the fundamental demands of our society: a strong defense, adequate protection for the poor and the disadvantaged, support for our free enterprise economy, and investment in the Nation's future.
JIMMY CARTER
January 15, 1981.
  