
    "Sterling Legal And Academic Credentials" ... "A Brilliant Legal Mind" ... "Very Ethical" ... "An Exceptional Jurist"
Above The Law's David Lat On Judge Gorsuch: "Stellar Credentials..." "In my view, the choice between Judge Gorsuch and Judge Hardiman comes down to how Establishment and elitist the president wants to be. Both judges have stellar credentials, but Judge Gorsuch's shine just a little more brightly." (David Lat, "Supreme Court Update: And Then There Were Four,"  Above The Law, 1/24/17)
     •     Lat: "He's Brilliant, Conservative And Impossible To Oppose." (Mark K. Matthews And Kirk Mitchell, "What You Need To Know About Colorado Judge Neil Gorsuch, Donald Trump's Rumored Top Pick For The Supreme Court,"  Denver Post, 1/30/17)
SCOTUSBlog's Eric Citron: "[Gorsuch's] Background Is Filled With Sterling Legal And Academic Credentials." "Neil Gorsuch was appointed to the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit by President George W. Bush on May 10, 2006, and confirmed shortly thereafter. ... He is relatively young (turning 50 this year), and his background is filled with sterling legal and academic credentials." (Eric Citron, "Potential Nominee Profile: Neil Gorsuch,"  SCOTUSBlog, 1/13/17)
Constitutional Expert Jonathan Turley On Judge Gorsuch: A "Very Intelligent Person... (Has A) Coherent And Consistent View Of The Constitution..." "Constitutional expert Jonathan Turley told ABC News that Gorsuch is a ‘very intelligent person' who would not be that different from Scalia, the justice he would be replacing. He has a ‘coherent and consistent view of the constitution,' Turley said." (Audrey Taylor And Geneva Sands, "Judge Neil Gorsuch: What You Need To Know About The Possible SCOTUS Nominee,"  ABC News, 1/31/17)
Melissa Hart, University Of Colorado Law Professor And Former Clerk To Justice Stevens: Gorsuch "Just Treats People Well In Every Context." "‘He has very strong opinions, but he just treats people well in every context,' said Melissa Hart, a University of Colorado law professor. She is a Democrat who clerked for Justice John Paul Stevens, who retired in 2010." (Robert Barnes, "Neil Gorsuch Naturally Equipped For His Spot On Trump's Supreme Court Shortlist,"  The Washington Post, 1/28/17)
Tom Fitton, President Of Judicial Watch: "An Exciting Pick... A Strong Voice On The Court For His Constitutional Approach To Decision Making..." "Tom Fitton, president of Judicial Watch, tells Newsweek that Gorsuch fits the Scalia mold, which Trump has promised to adhere to in his replacement nominee. ‘I think conservatives would consider him to be an exciting pick. I think it's fair to say he's a leader in terms of conservative jurisprudence and I think he quickly would become a strong voice on the court for his constitutional approach to decision making,' he says." (Michele Gorman, "A Look At Neil Gorsuch, Possible Trump Scotus Nominee,"  Newsweek, 1/27/17)
Leonard Leo, Executive Vice President Of The Federalist Society For Law And Public Policy Studies On Judge Gorsuch: "An Exceptional Jurist..." "And if it is Gorsuch, Leo went on, ‘The story will be ‘Neil Gorsuch is an exceptional jurist whose work substantially reflects the jurisprudence, quality and style of Justice Scalia.''" (Shane Goldmacher And Eliana Johnson, "Trump's Supreme Court Pick Gets Personal,"  Politico, 1/30/17)
     •     Leo: "He Has Very, Very Distinguished Background." (Jennifer Hansler, "Trump Supreme Court Adviser Praises Judge Neil Gorsuch As Potential Heir To Scalia's Legacy,"  ABC News, 1/25/17)
Denver Post Editorial Board: "A Brilliant Legal Mind... Applied The Law Fairly And Consistently..." "Neil Gorsuch is a federal judge in Denver with Western roots and a reputation for being a brilliant legal mind and talented writer. Those who have followed Gorsuch's career say that from his bench in the U.S. 10th Circuit Court of Appeals he has applied the law fairly and consistently, even issuing provocative challenges to the Supreme Court to consider his rulings." (Editorial, "Trump Would Do Well To Consider Neil Gorsuch For Supreme Court,"  Denver Post, 1/26/17)
     •     "In Considering Gorsuch's Body Of Work And Reputation — And Yes, We Like His Ties To Colorado As Well — We Hope Trump Gives Him The Nod." (Editorial, "Trump Would Do Well To Consider Neil Gorsuch For Supreme Court,"  Denver Post, 1/26/17)
Democrat Boulder County (CO) District Attorney Stan Garnett On Judge Gorsuch: "Very Ethical... Very Smart..." "Boulder County District Attorney Stan Garnett, a Democrat, called Gorsuch ‘very ethical' and ‘very smart.'" (Alex Burness, "Boulder's Neil Gorsuch Candidate For Supreme Court Vacancy?,"  Boulder Daily Camera, 1/30/17)
Norm Eisen, President Obama's Former Ethics Czar On Judge Gorsuch: "A Great Guy!" "On Tuesday, Obama's former ethics czar, Norm Eisen, another classmate, tweeted: ‘Hearing rumors Trump's likely Supreme Court pick is Neil Gorsuch, my (and President Obama's!) 1991 Harvard Law classmate. If so, a great guy!'" (Josh Gerstein, "Neil Gorsuch: Who Is He? Bio, Facts, Background And Political Views,"  Politico, 1/31/17)
Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO): "A Very Impressive Legal Career... Very Intelligent, Thoughtful..." SALAZAR: "At the young age of 38, Mr. Gorsuch has already had a very impressive legal career. ... During our meeting, I found him to be very intelligent, thoughtful, and appreciative of the great honor it is to be nominated to the Federal bench." (Committee On The Judiciary,  U.S. Senate, 6/21/06)
John G. Malcolm, Heritage Foundation On Judge Gorsuch: "He Is Very Bright, Well-Respected And Quite Personable." (David G. Savage, "Conservative Colorado Judge Emerges As A Top Contender To Fill Scalia's Supreme Court Seat,"  Los Angeles Times, 1/24/17)
National Review's Ramesh Ponnuru On Judge Gorsuch: "Reputation For Legal Excellence..." "What recommended Gorsuch was his reputation for legal excellence and his relative lack of controversy." (Ramesh Ponnuru, "Neil Gorsuch: A Worthy Heir To Scalia,"  National Review, 1/31/17)
  