
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 13
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
January 14
Deng Xiaoping, Vice Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, in response to an invitation from President Carter, will visit the United States from January 28 through February 5. Vice Premier Deng is expected to arrive at Washington by air in the afternoon of January 28, and his formal state visit will begin on January 29. He will depart from Seattle by air for the People's Republic of China on the morning of February 5. His itinerary during his stay in the United States is as follows:
—Washington, D.C., January 29, 30, 31
—Atlanta, Ga., February 1 and 2 —Houston, Tex., February 2 and 3
—Seattle, Wash., February 4 and 5 Ambassador Leonard Woodcock, Chief of the United States Liaison Office in Peking, will accompany the Vice Premier on his travels within the United States as a Personal Representative of the President.
January 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
-the Cabinet;
—John C. White, chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
The President has approved an extension of the time, from January 15 to February 15, within which the Emergency Board to investigate the dispute between Wien Air Alaska and the Air Line Pilots Association must report.
January 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leaders;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski; —Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The President declared an emergency for the State of Illinois because of the impact of an abnormal accumulation of snow on vital transportation arteries within the State.
January 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator John C. Stennis of Mississippi;
—Representative James J. Howard of New Jersey.
January 18
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Prime Minister Ola Ullsten of Sweden;
—Vice President Mondale.
January 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Representative and Mrs. John M. Murphy of New York;
—Mr. Mcintyre and members of the reorganization staff.
The President declared an emergency for the State of Wisconsin because of the impact of an abnormal accumulation of snow on vital transportation arteries within the State.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  