
    Dear Cap:
It has come to my attention that you will appear tomorrow at Senate hearings called to consider the extension of the National Cancer Act of 1971 when it expires on June 30. I want you to know that I strongly support an extension of this Act with whatever improvements might be made in consultation between the Executive Branch and the Congress.
I continue to have strong and continuing interest in this program. I remain just as committed to the attack on cancer as I was when I signed the original legislation on December 23, 1971. Our joint efforts with the Congress in this area have provided an excellent example of the ability of the Executive and Legislative Branches to work together in dealing with a major problem.
I have followed progress on the attack on cancer carefully. In addition, I have met with Benno Schmidt and other members of the President's Cancer Panel and have reviewed their report and the report of the National Cancer Advisory Board with great interest. It is my feeling that considerable progress has been made in the attack on cancer in recent years and that there is much hope for additional knowledge that can be developed in the future.
That is why I plan to ask for an additional $100 million above last year's request of $500 million for the expanded attack on cancer in the budget that I will be submitting to the Congress next Monday. I realize that this will result in spending over $415 million more for this effort next fiscal year than was available the year I took office, but I think the dual goals of an expanded research effort to find the causes of cancer along with more intensive demonstration and education programs to help prevent and control cancer warrant this support.
I hope you will share my strong interest in this program with the members of the Committee and express my appreciation for their past efforts in enacting the National Cancer Act of 1971.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Caspar Weinberger, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington, D.C.]
  