
    Thede is a five-term state representative and a member of Iowa's Legislative Black Caucus
DES MOINES, IA - With days until caucus night, State Representative Phyllis Thede announced her endorsement of Pete Buttigieg for president. In her endorsement, Thede touted Pete's ability to bring people together.
"Pete can bring us together," said Representative Thede. "He's a listener who understands the challenges facing our country, and he's putting forward plans that can unite us in the solutions to these problems. As a mayor, a veteran, and someone who lives in a middle-class neighborhood, he'll bring the voices of working people from places like South Bend and Davenport to Washington. As president, Pete will rally this country around a vision for the future that is better for all of us, and I'm proud to be caucusing for him on February 3."
Thede represents House District 93, which includes parts of Davenport and Bettendorf, and is a member of Iowa's Legislative Black Caucus. She had previously endorsed Senator Kamala Harris. Tonight, Thede will introduce Pete at his event in Davenport.
Thede joins Congressman Dave Loebsack, State Senators Tony Bisignano and Bill Dotzler, State Representatives Jo Oldson, Scott Ourth, Kristin Sunde, and Brian Meyer, Mayors Quinton Hart of Waterloo and Matt Bemrich of Fort Dodge, Mayors Pro-Tem Paul Adams of Mason City and Mitch Gross of Coralville, former State Representative Deb Berry, and over 140 other Democratic elected officials and activists in Iowa backing Pete for president.
Iowans continue to show up in record numbers to hear Pete speak in every corner of the state. This caucus cycle he has drawn the largest crowds of any candidate in Algona, Ankeny, Atlantic, Burlington, Carroll, Cedar Falls, Cedar Rapids, Centerville, Charles City, Creston, Davenport, Decorah, Denison, Des Moines, Dubuque, Elkader, Emmetsburg, Fort Dodge, Fort Madison, Independence, Indianola, Iowa Falls, Keokuk, Knoxville, Maquoketa, Mason City, Mount Pleasant, Mount Vernon, Muscatine, New Hampton, Newton, Ottumwa, Pella, Perry, Red Oak, Shenandoah, Spencer, Tipton, Toledo, Washington, Waterloo, Webster City, West Des Moines and Winterset.
  