
    By Team Huck
Wham, bam, extra points for the Obama slams! Great debate performance tonight, but the real work begins tomorrow morning in sunny South Carolina. A few excerpts from tonight, where moral clarity shined bright, and some updates from the road………
—
Morality..."America needs a different kind of leadership. We need leadership that addresses, not just the monetary and military issues of this country, but the moral issues of this country. At the end of every political speech, most of us say 'God bless America.' But how can He do that if we continue to slaughter 4,000 babies a day?… I believe some of those old ideas, where we unapologetically get on our knees before we get on our feet, might be the best solutions we ever saw as a country."
U.S. Military..."The role of the United States military is not to build schools, it is not to build bridges, it is not to go around and pass out food packets. It's to kill and destroy our enemy and make America safe. That is the purpose."
2nd Amendment... "There is no gun show loophole. I promise you, I've been to more gun shows than President Obama. The president also says that 'it's easier to get a gun than it is to get groceries.' Again, I can assure you, it's much more difficult to purchase a firearm than purchase the ingredients for a salad in a supermarket…"
Gun Free Zones..."The one common thing in most mass shootings is that they happened in gun-free zones where law-abiding citizens, who could have stood-up and at least tried to stop it, were prohibited under the law."
Social Security... "Remember, Social Security is not the government's money—it belongs to the people who had it taken out of their checks involuntarily their entire working lives...Our problem is NOT that Social Security is just too generous to seniors. It isn't. Our problem is that our politicians have not created policies that would create economic growth."
FairTax... "I still support strongly that we get rid of the 77,000 pages of the monstrous tax code, pass the FairTax and supercharge the economy… It's time to do something bold, not something minute. This is no time for a tap of the hammer or a twist of a screw. We need to pass the FairTax. It's built on the same commonsense that we raise our kids and train dogs. You reward behavior you want more of. And you punish behavior you want less of."
—
"Huckabee to speak at renewable fuels summit" — The Des Moines Register
Mike Huckabee will be one of four Republican presidential candidates who will speak at Tuesday's 10th Annual Iowa Renewable Fuels Summit... The all-day event, which begins at 7:30 a.m., will be at The Meadows Conference Center at Prairie Meadows in Altoona…. More information can be found at iowarfa.org.
"Huckabee Warns of Making '08 Mistake Again" — Globe Gazette
DAVENPORT, Iowa — Republican presidential hopeful Mike Huckabee, criticizing President Barack Obama as too inexperienced to have been handed the White House in 2008, questioned Wednesday whether Republicans are poised to make the same mistake this year. Huckabee met with about 70 people Wednesday at the Iowa Machine Shed, the 37th of 150 stops the campaign plans to make in the final month... Huckabee also was critical of rivals who he said are currently holding elective office, but are straying from them to campaign. "I've never personally had a job that would pay me $174,000 a year where I didn't have to show up," Huckabee said. "If you don't want the job, then have the integrity to resign from that job and go seek the job you want. But don't continue to let all of us in this room pay your paycheck."... highlighted his experience in the governor's mansion, as well as his fights with the Clintons, to bolster his argument for winning the GOP nomination. But in a year when politicians with resumes have fallen out of favor with some voters, Huckabee felt the need to tell the crowd Wednesday that he's never gotten a paycheck from Washington, D.C. ... In 2008, Huckabee won Iowa. And a Tipton man who backed him then and was at the Machine Shed on Wednesday said he'll support him again. "I still believe in what he says," said Ernie Jennings, who is retired. Jennings said he had considered Cruz, but "Gov. Huckabee seems a little deeper." He added the question of experience matters to him, too. "I think they need a little more hair on their chest before they get into the race for president," he said.
"Mike Huckabee Campaigns in Davenport" — OurQuadCities
Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee ... stopped in Davenport. The former Arkansas Governor visited the Machine Shed Restaurant as part of his 'Huckabee Huddle: The Huck Stops Here Iowa Tour.' He talked about issues ranging from the president's State of the Union Address, national defense, and the economy. 'We have to get this country back on track monetarily, get our economy working for us again, put people to work. No government program is as good as a job for an American," said Huckabee. "I guess you feel what I feel, and that is not only frustration at the overreach of Obama's executive orders that are unconstitutional l and illegal, but the fact our republican congress that we sent there who has the majority surrendered and capitulated." …
(ABC) — Davenport, Iowa— The former Arkansas Governor met with voters at the Machine Shed Restaurant in Davenport yesterday. Huckabee took swipes at his competition, namely the sitting governors and senators who have missed work while on the campaign trail. ... Huckabee ... won Iowa in 2008. Huckabee is just one of the Republican candidates taking the stage in one of the last debates before the Iowa caucus..."(NBC) — Davenport, Iowa—Former Arkansas Governor and Presidential hopeful Huckabee was in Davenport holding a meet and greet at the Machine Shed restaurant. Huckabee says his experience in government is just one reason he is qualified for the job….(CBS) — Davenport, Iowa-Presidential hopefuls are in high gear when it comes to visiting the quad cities. They've got less than three weeks to gain support for the Iowa caucuses. Mike Huckabee had that on his mind today while stopping in davenport. He brought his campaign to the Machine Shed Restaurant. The former Arkansas Governor addressed the economy, national defense and slammed President Obama's recent executive orders related to gun control. "I guess you share what I feel, and that is not only frustration at the overreach of Obama's executive orders that are un-constituional and illegal, but the fact our Republican congress that we sent there who has the majority surrendered and capitulated" [Huckabee said]. ...(NBC) — Davenport, Iowa-After ten campaign stops in two days, Mike Huckabee finished his Iowa tour in Davenport this morning. He was at the Machine Shed Restaurant, pushing for voters to get out and caucus for him. He also talked about his disapproval of President Obama's executive orders, and the current minimum wage. He says the federal government shouldn't set that number. "If you set a national minimum wage, just think what this does. It costs a lot more to live in New York or San Francisco than it does in Davenport. So if you create that wage in Davenport, I'll tell you what'll happen, a whole lot of people in entry level jobs lose their jobs." (CBS) — Davenport, Iowa
Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee isn't letting low polling numbers keep him off the campaign trail. He came to Davenport today trying to rally more support. The former Arkansas Governor brought his campaign to the Machine Shed Restaurant. He responded to last night's State of the Union address. Huckabee also shared his ideas for increasing national security and improving the economy. "We have to get this country back on track monitarily, get our economy working for us again, put people to work. No government program is as good as a job for an American." - (NBC) — Des Moines, Iowa- Mike Huckabee also appeared at the Machine Shed Restaurant... but this one in davenport... it was standing room only for the former Iowa caucus winner... Huckabee said if elected he'll work to increase the size of the U.S. military and upgrade many of its weapons. he also pointed out how the polls can be misleading, and that he's still in this race to win it. "A lot of the polls don't even include me in the polling questions. It's hard to do well in the polls when that happens. So i think Iowa voters in these last few weeks will look really closely on how has the experience." Huckabee asked voters to caucus for him on February first.(ABC) — Columbia, South Carolina—Two Republican presidential hopefuls will stop right here, though in the capital city. ... Rick Santorum and Mike Huckabee attended the Palmetto Seniors Show down at the State Fairgrounds this morning....(NBC) — Columbia, South Carolina—One hundred vendors are selling their goods and services in the Goodman Building at the State Fairgrounds in Columbia. Those attending include presidential candidate Governor Mike Huckabee and Lt. Governor Henry McMaster. ... "Normally we get about 5,000 people at our show, including the home and lifestyle show his year in the building next to us. So, we should have a pretty good increase in attendance for this year..."(CBS) — Columbia, South Carolina— Presidential hopeful Mike Huckabee in the Midlands this morning, and they spoke at the Senior Show being held at the State Fairground...(FOX) — Charleston, South Carolina Mike Huckabee will be at the Palmetto Senior Show in the Goodman Building. For some this is the second day of campaigning in the Lowcountry. Several candidates met with voters yesterday including Ohio Governor John Kasich and former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee. They spoke on everything from protecting our country from terrorists to strengthening America as a whole…(NBC) — Columbia, South Carolina—Republican candidates were criss-crossing the Palmetto State yesterday to talk to voters ahead of tonight's debate in North Charleston. More than 500 people connected to the GOP committee are also expected to be in the Lowcountry ... Mike Huckabee stopped by First Baptist Church of Charleston for a "Huckabee Huddle"…
  