
    
Brian Terry was one of the two Border Patrol agents killed on the Mexican border with weapons obtained through President Obama's Fast & Furious scandal.

His sister, Kelly Terry-Willis, understands personally the risks brave men and women take to keep us safe — and she's supporting Marco Rubio.

Here's what Kelly says in the ad about the stakes of this election, and Marco's leadership:
My family knows firsthand how important it is that we secure our border. My brother, Brian, sacrificed his life while serving along a southern border that has grown out-of-control with an administration that has done nothing to change it.
For my family and millions of Americans, there is no greater priority than to ensure that our fellow Americans are safe so that no one else has to endure the same pain.
That's why I'm proud to be supporting Marco Rubio. I know and trust that with Marco we will finally secure our border, and ensure that the men and women who served alongside Brian have the support from Washington they need.
Tragically, my family knows firsthand the cost of misguided policies coming out of our nation's capital. It was these policies that put the weapons into the hands of Brian's killers. That cannot happen again.
My family knows that Brian's legacy will be honored by Marco Rubio as our next President of the United States.
She had this to say about Marco today:
My brother, Brian, sacrificed his life while serving our country on the southern border, so my family knows firsthand how important it is to once and for all secure it. And for seven years now, Barack Obama has done nothing.
Such a scandal never would have happened with someone like Marco Rubio in the White House. For my family, there is no greater priority than electing a president who will keep us safe. That's why I'm proud to support Marco Rubio.
As president, I trust him to secure the border and keep America safe. Senator Rubio is not just someone who can win the nomination. He is a standard bearer that can make it to the White House.
  