
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of over forty business leaders from Colorado.
"These leaders from the Colorado business community understand how the policies of the Obama Administration have made it harder to grow and hire," said Mitt Romney. "By over-regulating and expanding the government at the expense of the private sector, President Obama has stifled the entrepreneurial spirit of job creators in Colorado and across the country. I will work with these business leaders to lessen the regulatory burden and shrink government so that the private sector can thrive and create jobs."
"Job creators in Colorado and across the country support Mitt Romney because he knows that the only way Washington can help create jobs is by getting out of the way of innovation and entrepreneurship," said Liberty Media Corporation CEO Greg Maffei. "No other candidate, in the Republican field and certainly not in the White House, has his understanding of how the economy works and how jobs are created. With Mitt Romney in the White House, job creators can be confident that they will have a president who will encourage private sector job growth and who will make sure that Washington does not stand in the way of the American entrepreneurial spirit."
Business Leaders from Colorado Supporting Mitt Romney:
Greg Maffei, CEO, Liberty Media Corporation
Philip F. Anschutz, Chairman & CEO, The Anschutz Company
Wil Armstrong, CEO Blueberry Systems, LLC
Bob Manning, Managing Principal, M2P Capital
W.  Phillip Marcum, Denver
Mike Moniz, CEO, Circadence
Gary A. Wright, CEO G.A. Wright, Inc.
Jim Possehl, Chairman of the Board, Republic Financial Corporation
John M. Fox, Chairman, Mak-J Energy
David D. Jenkins, Partner, Norwood Development 
Steve Lockton, Exec. Vice President, Lockton Companies, LLC
John Sevo, Managing Director, Spectrum Retirement
Jack Overstreet, President, Next-Energy, LLC
Travis Martinez, Owner of Urban West LLC
Paul Archer, Owner, Automated Business Products
Don Bailey, Chairman & CEO, Triton Investments
Bob Beauprez — Former U.S. Representative and Rancher
Scott Congel, Chairman, SRC Development, LLC
Jim Hooper, Attorney, Wheeler, Trigg O'Donnell LLP
Lou Hutchison, Co-Founder, HealthTrans & CEO, Apokalyyis, Inc.
Bill Hybl, Colorado Springs
JJ Ament, Littleton, CO
Ralph Klomp, Owner, Trice Jewelers
Bruce Payne, President & Chief Financial Officer, Laramie Energy
Charlie McNeil, CEO, NexGen Resources Corporation
Kevin Mitchell, Partner, RedCloud Capital, LLC
Blair Richardson, Managing Partner, Bow River Capital
Bill Smith, President, Wm. Smith & Co.
Walker Stapleton, Colorado Treasurer
Paul Zecchi, CEO & President, Central Resources, Inc.
Earl Wright, CEO, AMG National Bank
Carl Williams, Retired CEO, Carl M. Williams & Assoc., Inc.
Bob Greenlee, Managing Partner, Greenlee Capital Parners, LLLP
Max Caulkins, Principal, Thrumcap Capital
Ted Millice, President, The Millice Group, Ltd.
Victor Mitchell, CEO & Chairman, Relogic
Kevin O'Hara, CEO, Integra Telecom
Jerry Natividad, President, American Facility Services Group, Inc.
John Harpole, CEO, Mercator Energy
Thomas Roche, CEO, Roche Constructors, Inc.
Dick Robinson, Robinson Dairy
Doug Robinson, Managing Director, St. Charles Capital
Dick Saunders, Founder & Chairman Emeritus, Saunders Construction
Jon L. Kinning, Vice President, RK Mechanical, Inc.
Charlie Peck, CEO, Destination Hotels & Resorts, Inc.
Neal Groff, Founder & Chairman, The Madison Group
Katherine Loo, Colorado Springs
Jay Cimino, CEO, Phil Long Dealerships
 
*Company/business names are provided for identification purposes only.
  