
    On Tap: In California, Hillary today holds two economy town halls. In Northridge, she'll join Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa in taking questions from families struggling to make ends meet. In Burbank, she'll address the importance of creating "green collar jobs."
On the Trail: In Reno, Hillary yesterday hosted a roundtable with voters concerned about the economy and the subprime mortgage crisis. "She listened to stories of coping with a slumping economy, offering an empathetic ear and a series of campaign promises to make their lives better." [Read More Here].
On the Phone: Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm and New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine yesterday praised Hillary's economic stimulus package during a conference call with reporters. In Michigan on Tuesday, voters who identified the economy as their primary concern voted for Hillary by a significant margin.
On TV: On Bloomberg, NBC and CNBC, Hillary yesterday explained how her proposal to provide emergency housing and energy assistance, expand unemployment insurance, and protect struggling homeowners from foreclosures will jumpstart our ailing economy. Watch.
On the Ground: In New Mexico, Albuquerque Mayor Martin Chavez will today endorse Hillary... In New Jersey, a new poll has Clinton ahead of Obama 42 to 30 percent...In Massachusetts, a new poll shows Hillary Clinton leading Barack Obama 37 to 25 percent.
On Presidential Leadership: Hillary and NBC's Brian Williams yesterday spoke about presidential leadership and management. Said Clinton: "I was taken aback when Senator Obama said that he didn't intend to try to manage or run the government that he was going to have advisors to do that. That is very reminiscent of what we've had for the last seven years. I intend to run the government. I intend to manage the economy. I intend to take personal responsibility. And I intend to hold the government of the United States accountable to the taxpayers and the citizens of America."
On a Jet Plane: Senator Clinton yesterday welcomed reporters aboard the campaign's new chartered jet: "Thank you for joining us on 'Hill-Force One.' We know you have choices when you fly so we are grateful that you chose the plane with the most experienced candidate."
  