
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Inter-Agency Task Force for Preparation for the World Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance
The United Nations has held two world conferences on racism, one in 1978, and another in 1983. These two conferences focused on the world's obligation to victims of racial discrimination and the importance of national legislative, judicial, and administrative action in addressing the problem of racism.
In recognition of the fact that the objective of eliminating racial discrimination has not yet been attained, the United Nations in a 1997 resolution called for a Third World Conference on Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance (Conference). The Conference will be held in South Africa in September 2001.
This Administration has consistently demonstrated a strong commitment to issues of race and race relations and believes that the United States will play an important role in this international event. Our effective participation in the Conference requires the continued involvement and coordination of many executive departments and agencies, as well as input from nongovernmental organizations. This Administration is strongly committed to the success of the Conference and, to that end, I direct as follows:
(1) There is established an "Inter-Agency Task Force for the United Nations World Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance" (Task Force).
(2) The Task Force shall be comprised of representatives from the Departments of Justice, State, the Interior, the Small Business Administration, and such other agencies as the Chair deems appropriate. The Chair of the Task Force shall be the representative from the Justice Department. The Task Force shall report to the President, through the White House Chief of Staff.
(3) The Task Force shall coordinate all planning efforts related to the United States' participation in the Conference. This coordination shall include such matters as outreach to nongovernmental organizations, participation in national and international discussions concerning the Conference's agenda, its objectives and scope, and government-wide preparations for participation in the Conference.
(4) The Department of State shall provide the funding for the Task Force and bear all administrative costs.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  