
    JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. -- Former Arkansas Governor and Presidential Candidate Mike Huckabee announced the endorsement of 31 Missouri legislators during a news conference Tuesday in Jefferson City, Mo. Huckabee spoke to a standing-room-only crowd of about 250 people in a conference room of the Associated Industries of Missouri building.
Since he is from neighboring Arkansas, Huckabee said he has certain kinship with Missouri.
"I want to turn the nonsense of our tax system to the common sense of what's often called the FairTax," Huckabee said. He also discussed being pro-life was well as his stance on homeland security, terrorism and the economy.
State Senator Delbert Scott and State Rep. Scott Lipke, two co-chairs of Huckabee's Missouri campaign, introduced Huckabee and then presented the other state legislators supporting him.
"He is a solid conservative who isn't afraid to tell it like it is," Lipke said . "As governor, Huckabee cut taxes where he could and made good use of the revenues he had improving roads and education in Arkansas. That is the kind of common sense leadership the country needs right now."
Besides Scott and Lipken, the other co-chairs of the Huckabee campaign are Rep. Brian Yates and Rep. Mike Sutherland.
Other Missouri legislators endorsing Huckabee include:
Missouri Faith and Family Chair, Senator John Loudon
Representative Jim Avery
Representative Brian Baker
Senator Matt Bartle
Representative Mark Bruns
Representative Wayne Cooper
Representative Cynthia Davis
Representative Ed Emery
Representative Barney Fisher
Representative Ward Franz
Representative Steve Hunter
Representative Will Kraus
Senator Brad Lager
Representative Bob May
Senator Rob Mayer
Representative Brian Munzlinger
Representative Bob Nance
Representative Brian Nieves
Representative Darrell Pollock
Senator Chuck Purgason
Representative Don Ruzicka
Representative David Sater
Representative Rodney Schad
Representative Charlie Schlottach
Representative Tom Self
Representative Jason Smith
Representative Don Wells
Representative Dennis Wood
  