
    Campaign Will Also Invite One Voter To Travel To New York To Ask Hillary A Question In Person
The Clinton campaign today announced that it will broadcast Hillary's Voices Across America: A National Town Hall live on Hallmark Channel. The town hall will be broadcast live on television and online on the eve of Super Tuesday, Monday, February 4, 2008 at 9 p.m. EST. Voters will be able to participate in this historic town hall by attending the anchor event in New York or one of the other 21 satellite simulcast events across the country, watching it live on television, and viewing a real-time stream of the event at hillaryclinton.com.
The first 60 minutes of the 90-minute town hall will be broadcast on Hallmark Channel. The campaign purchased the time on the cable network on Wednesday.
"The stakes in this election are high and this 21st century town hall is a chance for voters to make their voices heard. My campaign is about delivering solutions to the economy, the war and other challenges facing the nation. I hope that Americans throughout the country are able to join in. Our aim is to have the largest and most interactive town hall in political history," said Clinton.
The Clinton campaign also announced that one person who asks Hillary a question via the campaign Web site will get the opportunity to ask the question in-person at the town hall in New York. They will also have the chance to meet Hillary backstage after the event. Questions can be submitted by voters online at www.hillaryclinton.com/townhall.
The 22 cities where the campaign will host events are Birmingham, AL; Phoenix, AZ; Little Rock, AR; Los Angeles, CA; San Francisco, CA; Denver, CO; Hartford, CT; Wilmington, DE; Athens, GA; Boise, ID; Chicago, IL; Wichita, KS; Boston, MA; St. Paul, MN; Kansas City, MO; Cherry Hill, NJ; Albuquerque, NM; New York, NY; Grand Forks, ND; Tulsa, OK; Knoxville, TN; Salt Lake City, UT.
Hillary Clinton will anchor the town hall in New York, while President Bill Clinton, Chelsea Clinton, and national and local surrogates will serve as hosts at events in the other states. Voters attending the events will be able to ask questions from these satellite events directly to Hillary Clinton in New York.
Hallmark Channel is a 24-hour basic cable network that provides a diverse slate of high-quality entertainment programming to a national audience of 84 million subscribers. The top tier program service is distributed through more than 5,300 cable systems and communities as well as direct-to-home satellite services across the country. Hallmark Channel consistently ranks among the top 10 ad-supported cable networks in Prime Time and Total Day household ratings and is the nation's leading network in providing quality family programming. For more information, please visit www.hallmarkchannelpress.com.
  