
    Former Richardson Supporters Cite Clinton's Record of Delivering Results for America's Families
Today, two prominent supporters of Governor Bill Richardson's presidential campaign, former U.S. Ambassador Edward Romero and Henry Cisneros, the first Hispanic to serve as the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), announced their endorsements of Hillary Clinton for President today.
"These two men each in their own way broke historic ground and embody what the American dream is all about. I am honored to have their support, experience and passion behind me as I continue my conversation with American families about my bold vision for the future and my record of delivering real change for this country," said Senator Clinton.
Cisneros served in President Bill Clinton's administration as the Secretary of HUD from 1993 to 1997. Cisneros is credited with initiating the revitalization of many of the nation's public housing developments and formulating policies that have contributed to today's record homeownership rate.
"I am proud to stand with Senator Clinton because she has always stood for America's children and families. Hillary Clinton has the right combination of passion, leadership and heart that will make her the best President," said Cisneros. "We all need a President who can start on day one fixing the problems left in the wake of the Bush Administration."
Former U.S. Ambassador to Spain and Andorra Edward L. Romero, who had served as the National Finance Chair to Governor Bill Richardson's presidential campaign, cited Senator Clinton's record of delivering results to America's children.
"I asked myself two questions: Who will be the best President and who can win in November? For me, the choice was clear. Senator Clinton time and again has worked hard and has a strong record of delivering real results for this country. She is best equipped to get this country back on track," said Romero.
Ambassador Romero has previously served on the national finance committees for the Carter and Clinton administrations as well as Vice President Al Gore. He also helped to raise money for Presidential candidate John Kerry.
  