
    Governor Romney On The Need For Change In Washington (Fox News' "Your World," 1/14/08):
Governor Romney: "I think people recognize that Washington is fundamentally broken. For years, it has been promising help for Michigan, it hasn't delivered. It said it would solve Social Security, didn't get the job done. It would stop illegal immigration, hasn't gotten that job done. Said it would get us off foreign oil, didn't get that job done. And so people recognize that just sending back the same old folks, both parties, just to take different chairs in Washington is not going to get America on track again. We're going to have to have new faces that bring a new vision to Washington and deal with the problems that we have. And I'm not a life-long politician. I'm used to the private sector where if all you can do is talk, you get fired. You got to get the job done, and I'm going to Washington to get the job done."
To watch Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bHzXqck1fas
Governor Romney On The Auto Industry (Fox News' "Your World," 1/14/08):
Fox News' Neil Cavuto: "The criticism has been of the auto industry, Governor, fair or not, that they have a tin ear to what the market is demanding and what buyers are hoping to get, that is more fuel-efficient vehicles or the kind of vehicles they can get more from abroad than they can get here. What do you say about that?"
Governor Romney: "Our domestic manufacturers actually do a terrific job, particularly when you consider what they have to carry on their backs. One, they have the cost of CAFE standards. Two, they have the cost of very high legacy costs from retirees. Three, they have excessive healthcare costs on their back. Four, they have very large corporate taxes, embedded taxes. Foreign cars coming here have their local taxes refunded to them. They come here, and they've got American car companies are competing with that have all the taxes embedded in the products. We've got extraordinary disadvantages. Despite that cost disadvantage, our cars are pretty darn competitive. We need to take those burdens off the American manufacturers so we have a more level playing field, and I think America wins when the playing field is level."
To watch Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TyQjLr4snVk
  