
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Tonight, Governor Mitt Romney will air a two-minute television ad, "Tomorrow," in which he speaks directly to the people of New Hampshire about the need for conservative change in Washington if we are to confront a new generation of challenges. For decades, Washington has promised action on issues like energy independence, health care reform and border security, but the American people have only heard more talk. We need new ideas in Washington.
Throughout his career, Governor Romney has been confronted with seemingly impossible challenges and always met them. He turned around businesses. He saved the 2002 Winter Olympics and he solved Massachusetts' fiscal crisis. He's the only candidate who has brought change in the real world. If the people of New Hampshire want to change Washington, Governor Romney is asking for their vote.
To watch "Tomorrow," please see: http://tv.mittromney.com/?showid=728849
Script For "Tomorrow" (TV 2:00):
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney.
"This is an important moment in our nation's history. There's a tide of change sweeping New Hampshire and America. Everywhere I go people say Washington is broken.
"And they know that those who've spent their careers in Washington can't change Washington.
"For decades, they've heard Washington politicians say they would reduce our dependence on foreign oil. They haven't.
"For years, they said they'd fix our schools. They haven't.
"For years, they said they'd fix healthcare. They haven't.
"And for just as many years, they've said they'd secure our borders. They haven't.
"It's long past time to bring real change to Washington. That's never going to happen if all we do is send the same people back to Washington to sit in different chairs.
"We need new energy, we need new ideas, and we need new leaders. We need people who can turn around Washington.
"I'm the only candidate for President who's done that in the real world.
"I've done it in business, at the Olympics and as Governor.
"I'm going to bring that real world turnaround experience with me to Washington.
"Your vote tomorrow is going to affect your job, your children's schools and how long you sit in the doctor's waiting room.
"But it's also going to determine whether America will continue to lead the world as the great superpower it is today.
"We're going to see more dramatic change in the next decade than we've seen in our entire lifetimes.
"How will all the change affect you?
"Will someone in China or India take your job? Or will your job be selling American products to them?
"Will your children fear attack from violent Jihadists?
"Or will they be safe and secure in a stronger America?
"America needs to get ready for these and many other new challenges.
"There isn't a single challenge we can't overcome with the spirit, determination and imagination that has always been at the heart of the American people.
"If you want to change Washington, and get America ready for the future, America needs you now.
"I'm Mitt Romney, and I not only approve this message, I'm asking for your vote."
To watch "Tomorrow," please see: http://tv.mittromney.com/?showid=728849
  