
    Little Rock, AR - Former Arkansas Governor and Presidential Candidate Mike Huckabee launched two new 30-second television ads in Iowa Monday, "Our Values" and "Tax Cuts Matter."
"Our Values" emphasizes Huckabee's conservative record of proven leadership as governor of Arkansas and commitment to issues related to life, family and freedom. The second television ad, "Tax Cuts Matter," which highlights his fiscally-conservative record, is airing in Iowa and New Hampshire.
"The purpose of these ads is to highlight the things that truly matter - while underscoring my conservative record of leadership and my vision for America moving forward," said Huckabee.
"As we enter the closing days of the first-in-the-nation Iowa caucuses, there are a lot of things being said on television and sent to mailboxes across the Hawkeye state. I urge Iowans to look beyond the rhetoric and seek the truth about my record and optimistic plans for our nation's future. It is critical that we have an American president who understands our values, and has the experience and knowledge to guide us forward. I believe I am the best candidate for the job, and I'll continue to ask the good people of Iowa for their vote on January 3rd," he said.
Copies of the new ads are available on the campaign web site: www.mikehuckabee.com
Following are scripts of each ad:
"Our Values":30 TV
Gov. Huckabee on Camera: "I'm Mike Huckabee and I approve this message."
Gov. Huckabee on Camera and Voice-over Footage of Gov. Huckabee with Iowans:
"The pro-life position was the one espoused by our Founding Fathers when they said that all of us are created equal, endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights. The first one they listed was life. Nobody has a greater level of intrinsic worth or value than another person. Being unborn doesn't make you less valuable. Maybe instead of having our values trampled all over every single day and night, we would express to America what those values are: family, life, freedom - those things matter to us. Always has, always will."
"Tax Cuts Matter":30 TV
Gov. Huckabee on Camera and Voice-over Graphics: "In a hundred and sixty years in Arkansas, we'd never really had a broad-based, wide-spread tax cut. I was able to sign the first ever. The economic policies that we did in my state, cutting taxes, streamlining government, resulted in the largest number of job creations. I cut taxes over 90 times. Balanced the budget every year I was governor. Left a surplus of nearly a billion dollars, and did it in the face of an overwhelmingly Democratic legislature. That's a pretty good record."
Footage of Gov. Huckabee Shaking Hands with Large Crowd of Supporters:
"I'm Mike Huckabee and I approve this message."
  