
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Charles Johnson, of Utah, to be Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Linda Morrison Combs.
Stephen L. Johnson, of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Linda J. Fisher, resigned.
Gerard Schwarz, of Washington, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for the remainder of the term expiring September 3, 2006, vice Earl A. Powell III, resigned.
Bradley D. Belt, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2008, vice Stanford G. Ross, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Cynthia Boich, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2007, vice Thomas Ehrlich, term expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Albert Casey, of Texas, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2009, vice Tirso del Junco, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Clark Kent Ervin, of Texas, to be Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security (New Position), to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Gay Hart Gaines, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2004, vice Ritajean Hartung Butterworth, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Dorothy A. Johnson, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2007 (Reappointment), to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Robert Lerner, of Maryland, to be Commissioner of Education Statistics for a term expiring June 21, 2009, vice Pascal D. Forgione, Jr., term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Henry Lozano, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2008, vice Christopher C. Gallagher, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Ronald E. Meisburg, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring August 27, 2008, vice Rene Acosta, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Claudia Puig, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2008, vice Winter D. Horton, Jr., term expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Fayza Veronique Boulad Rodman, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2006, vice Robert M. Ledbetter, Jr., term expired to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Raymond Simon, of Arkansas, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, vice Susan B. Neuman, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Mark C. Brickell, of New York, to be Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development, for a term of five years, vice Armando Falcon, Jr., resigned, which was sent to the Senate on June 12, 2003.
  