
    
  Heroes from Clark and Washoe Counties support fellow veteran Paul

HENDERSON, Nevada - The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today new members of its active "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition. The new coalition members hail from Clark and Washoe counties, both Nevada.
These are everyday veterans, yet active citizens in their community with honorable records of service.
Coast Guard veteran Glen Heleman of Las Vegas served from 1979 to 1983 as an E-4 Electrician's Mate in Alaska. "Our nation cannot support or afford unconstitutional wars any longer. Our President must understand that in order to declare war it must first go to Congress for approval," said Mr. Heleman.
Also advocating for Ron Paul's vision for our nation's future is Athens Chimenti of Las Vegas. Mr. Chimenti spent four years in the United States Navy stationed in San Diego, California and summarizes his support by stating, "I believe the wars we're fighting overseas do not protect the interests of the American people. In fact, I firmly believe they put our country at greater risk. It's time to bring our troops home and protect our national borders. Ron Paul is the only candidate for president who will do this."
Another supporter is Marine veteran Kiran Hill of Reno, who spent 10 years of his service predominately in the Middle East. Mr. Hill also toured in Europe and the Far East. His experiences in over 27 countries worldwide, including in Iraq and Afghanistan, have shaped his outlook on freedom in the United States.
"In my lifetime I have seen freedom erode in the less-free countries I have visited instead of these nations becoming freer, as is the intent. When I carried a weapon overseas I searched cars, searched people's homes, and took their property if I was told to - all at will. People in these nations, it seemed, had no rights whatsoever. Freedom equals prosperity, and that notion is the one generalization I take from all my travels. The reason why American troops are capable of patrolling foreign streets, and foreign troops are incapable of patrolling our streets is our prosperity. Prosperity is our best defense," Mr. Hill explains.
Sam Calunga supports Dr. Paul's stance on lowering government spending and minimizing government growth. Mr. Calunga served in the Army from September 1967 through May 1970 spending over two years stationed at the Long Bing post in Saigon, Vietnam.
"I like the fact that Ron Paul is trying to lower government spending and minimize the size of our government, which I feel is growing out of its britches. We need to lower taxes, but how we do it is a difficult job. Also, I have been paying into social security for fifty years and I do not want to see it disappear for my generation," said Mr. Calunga.
Ron Paul is one of only two candidates this election with an honorable record of military service. A flight surgeon during the Cold War era, his commitment to veterans was recently showcased in the campaign's television ad 'He Served.' To view Dr. Paul's more recent national security-themed television ad title 'Secure,' click here.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the "Veterans for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page by clicking here. Veterans residing in Nevada should email the Nevada Director of Voter Outreach, Meghann Walker, at meghannw@ronpaul2012.com.
  