
    Chairman Okun, Mr. Peck, Mr. Smith, dedicated members of the Council's staff, members of the press, ladies and gentlemen:
This closing week of this administration has been filled with facts and figures because we have, in accordance with the laws of the land, provided and passed by the Congress, drawn up a balance sheet of the Nation's business.
The Economic Report and the annual report of the Council of Economic Advisers are also laden with statistics and charts and graphs which I dare not go into here, but behind every one of these digits and dollar signs there is a record of hope that has quickened the lives of many of our people.
The story in these pages is the story of American men and women at work, of boys and girls in school, of families who are no longer poor, and old people who are no longer desperate.
It is the story of purpose and commitment and the progress which has made them real.
They are statistics to be proud of, the 8 years of economic advance, the 8 1/2 million new workers on the job in the last 5 years, the drop in our unemployment to 3.3, the increase in wages and salaries and farm incomes and Federal revenues, and the progress in helping 12 1/2 million people out of poverty.
But the pages of this report document challenge as well as achievement. And we must have the balance.
The story of America on the road ahead is going to be told in the days ahead in terms of how we face up to and master the threat of inflation while preserving prosperity, how we maintain the strength of the dollar that has been challenged and is being challenged throughout the world, how we assure that our environment is livable and pleasing, and whether we can really carry out our commitment to bring our bypassed citizens into the full life of the Nation.
The bypassed citizens have been referred to in most of our messages at some length. That is the big problem that faces us all.
So, actually the lives of all of us and all of our children are really going to rest on how that story of America is answered tomorrow and how it is told.
We can meet the demands of this swiftly changing day. We can, I believe, keep our economy strong and growing and harnessed for progress. What we have already accomplished gives us some guidelines on how to do it. The magnitude of the problems we face tells us why we must.
Now, I think all of us know that if we can maintain the economic pace that we have set, if we can preserve the prosperity that is here, and most of all, if we can achieve the peace we all devoutly pray for, that we can then budget all of our resources to the specific and definite needs of the moment, particularly the needs in other parts of the world and the needs here at home.
Last night and this morning we have had certain decisions that please us. We have learned that certain basic procedural problems in Paris have been solved and that new talks on the substance of peace in Southeast Asia can now open. This has been our prayer for many days and nights.
I think there are three lessons of our experience since that evening of March 31. They are these:
--First, we must be clear and firm in pursuing with our allies the limited but the vital objectives that we seek in Southeast Asia.
--Second, we must be patient and face the hard fact that fighting is likely to continue as the negotiations are carried forward.
--Third, we should be confident and sure that an honorable peace is possible if we here at home remain steady.
To all the American citizens who have cooperated and tried to support us in these patient efforts, I say, thank you from the bottom of my heart, and I plead with you in the days ahead to be patient and sturdy and steady with the new President as he works for all of us and tries to serve all of us in the cause of peace.
We have had three crises in these negotiations since the stage was set and they were opened 9 months ago: first, on the place for the talks, you will remember the demands made for Cambodia and Warsaw, Poland; on the terms for a bombing cessation; and on the procedures for the new talks.
In each case, these have taken time--much time. They have taken patience. They have taken a great deal of firmness and resolve, and they have taken fair-mindedness. But they have achieved a satisfactory result.
We must pursue peace as diligently as we have fought aggression. I am not sure that our efforts fighting for peace are as dramatic as the Marine at Danang's efforts fighting to deter aggression in the I Corps. I am not sure they are as reportable, but I can assure you they are as sincere and they are as determined and they are as tenacious.
I don't believe there is a Marine in uniform who wants peace as much as Dean Rusk.
So, this year I think the impartial record will show that we have made steady progress toward the peace that we all devoutly pray for. I deeply believe that if we can only remain united in the days ahead and if we can stay together on this path we will achieve an honorable peace in Southeast Asia at the earliest date that it is possible to do.
When we do, we will not only bring our gallant young men back home to their families, but we can take the resources that we have used in deterring aggression in that part of the world and try to do away with poverty and illiteracy and disease here at home.
I do not think that we could have made the imprint that we have made on either front except for the wise and sound economic policies formulated by these men, these unsung heroes and unknown to most of America, who have charted the path, laid out the course and stayed steady with it in the most prosperous period in all of our 188 years as a government.
So, to the Council's devoted career employees and members of the staff, in my final days I say that no group has been more successful and more dedicated, and there is none that we depend on more or must expect more from than you. We thank you.
I would have enjoyed my freshman economics course much more if it had been written by you. You have not only great financial competence, but great literary talent, too.
I have many regrets, but the one major regret I have is that I can't take this Economic Council--this Council that advises--with me in private life.
  