
    
  Latter-day Saints brothers and sisters who support Dr. Paul hail from Clark & Washoe counties

HENDERSON, Nevada — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign announced today new members of its active "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
Today's additions hail from Clark and Washoe counties, both Nevada. The coalition members have pledged to spread the word about Dr. Paul among their respective communities, stakes, wards, and branches.
"The reason I support Ron Paul for President is because his words and actions are singularly influenced by principle. He is and has always been consistent in following the principles he endorses. It's comforting that in a day where politicians are so easily swayed by popularity and money, that Ron Paul has always been resolute," said Aaron Anderson of Las Vegas.
"No other candidate gives me the assurance that they'll follow principle above all else," concluded Mr. Anderson.
Also of Las Vegas, Scott Negaard describes the word "uncertainty" as the defining word for America as long as Mr. Obama has been President. "If Americans want a stronger America, turn your eyes and ears to see and hear the actions and words of an honest man, a man who cares for the future of 'We the People.' I will be voting for honesty and truth this time, and that's why Ron Paul gets my vote," said Mr. Negaard.
Sun Valley voter Craig Richards praised the Congressman from Texas, citing his "character and integrity" as reasons for strongly supporting Dr. Paul.
"As a member of the LDS faith and knowing the teachings from the past and present Church leaders, they have spoken about the Constitution as being an inspired document. Congressman Paul is the only candidate running for President who is speaking up and following the Constitution. He has upheld and honored it in his voting record, and he has the character and integrity that I trust. That's why I strongly support him to be our next president," said Mr. Richards.
Concerning the active "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" coalition, this announcement follows the high-profile endorsements of Overstock.com President Jonathan Johnson, prominent author and chair of the Utah Tenth Amendment Center Connor Boyack, and that of Utah Republican Liberty Caucus Chair Darcy Van Orden.
All such announcements help present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney and demonstrate that no presidential candidate has a monopoly on this crucial western states voter segment.
As a function of this announcement, the above-mentioned persons are all members of the "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, in particular its Nevada steering committee.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page by clicking here. Prospective members should also send an email to nvcoalitions@ronpaul2012.com, writing the coalition name in the subject line.
  