
    WASHINGTON, DC - Today, President Obama nominated Jennifer Klemetsrud Puhl to serve on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
"Throughout her career, Jennifer Klemetsrud Puhl has shown unwavering integrity and an outstanding commitment to public service," said President Obama. "I am proud to nominate her to serve on the United States Court of Appeals."
Jennifer Klemetsrud Puhl: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit 
Jennifer Klemetsrud Puhl is an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of North Dakota, where she currently serves as the Criminal Supervisor in the Fargo Office and is also a member of the appellate team. In addition to having extensive trial experience, Puhl regularly advises on appellate briefs and arguments for the office and has argued a number of cases before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
Puhl was born and raised in Devils Lake, North Dakota. She remained in North Dakota for college and law school and received her B.A. magna cum laude in 1997 from the University of North Dakota and her J.D.  cum laude in 2000 from the University of North Dakota School of Law. After graduating from law school, Puhl served as a law clerk to the Honorable Mary Muehlen Maring of the North Dakota Supreme Court from 2000 to 2001. From 2001 to 2002, she worked as an associate in the law firm of Kennedy & Graven, Chartered in its Minneapolis, Minnesota office. In 2002, Puhl returned to North Dakota to join the criminal division of the United States Attorney's Office for the District of North Dakota, where she prosecutes a wide variety of criminal matters. Due to her broad expertise, Puhl has been named to a number of leadership roles, including Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property Coordinator, National Security Cyber Specialist, Human Trafficking Coordinator, and Project Safe Childhood Coordinator.
In addition, Puhl routinely speaks in the community regarding her work, including educating children on the dangers associated with social networking.
  