
    In new ad, Edwards says he's running for president to help hard-working families like the ones he grew up with
Columbia, South Carolina – The John Edwards for President campaign has begun airing "Mill," a new 30-second television spot in South Carolina that features John Edwards speaking about what motivates him to run for president.
"I'm not running president because I read something in a book," Edwards says in the ad. "I'm not running for president because some political consultant told me what I'm supposed to say. I'm running for president because of 54 years of my life, I have believed to my soul that the men and women who worked in that mill with my father were worth every bit as much as the man that owned that mill."
Today, Edwards also launched a three-day South Carolina "Bringing it Home" bus tour to rally supporters and bring his fight for the middle class to the Palmetto State. During the tour, Edwards will discuss his plans to bring about bold change and fight for the middle class.
Edwards' three-day sprint comes on the heels of his homecoming tour, which saw crowds exceeding 1,000 South Carolinians in Clemson and 500 in Columbia. Edwards is the only candidate in the race who was born in South Carolina and he is the only Democratic candidate to ever win in a "red" state. Edwards leads the Democratic field in both campaign stops and money raised in the Palmetto State, and his campaign boasts an impressive statewide grassroots organization strengthened by deep support from Edwards' 2004 campaign.
The ad can be viewed at the following link http://www.johnedwards.com/ads/mill/ and a higher quality version can be downloaded here: http://www.johnedwards.com/watch/mill/press.
A full transcript of the spot is included below.
Full Transcript of "Mill" (30 seconds):
I'm John Edwards and I approve this message.
I'm not running president because I read something in a book.
I'm not running for president because some political consultant told me what I'm supposed to say.
I'm running for president because of 54 years of my life, I have believed to my soul that the men and women who worked in that mill with my father were worth every bit as much as the man that owned that mill.

  