
    John P. Abizaid, of Nevada, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Gentry O. Smith, resigned.
Kathe Hicks Albrecht, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2024, vice Bruce R. Sievers, term expired.
William I. Althen, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of six years expiring August 30, 2024. (Reappointment)
Seth Daniel Appleton, of Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Katherine M. O'Regan.
Michael J. Astrue, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2022, vice Alan L. Cohen, term expired.
Spencer Bachus, III, of Alabama, to be Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2023, vice Patricia M. Loui, term expired.
Irving Bailey, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2021, vice Matthew Maxwell Taylor Kennedy, term expired.
Aditya Bamzai, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for the remainder of the term expiring January 29, 2020, vice Elisebeth Collins Cook, resigning.
Charles Wickser Banta, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2022, vice Maria Rosario Jackson, term expired.
Rita Baranwal, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Nuclear Energy), vice Peter Bruce Lyons, resigned.
John Barsa, of Florida, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Marcela Escobari.
Pamela Bates, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the rank of Ambassador.
William Beach, of Kansas, to be Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor, for a term of four years, vice Erica Lynn Groshen, term expired.
Marshall Billingslea, of Virginia, to be an Under Secretary of State (Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights), vice Sarah Sewall, resigned.
David Fabian Black, of North Dakota, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2019, vice Carolyn W. Colvin, term expired.
David Fabian Black, of North Dakota, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for a term expiring January 19, 2025. (Reappointment)
Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Slovenia.
Ron A. Bloom, of New York, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2020, vice Mickey D. Barnett, term expired.
William Bookless, of California, to be Principal Deputy Administrator, National Nuclear Security Administration, vice Madelyn R. Creedon.
Mindy Brashears, of Texas, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety, vice Elisabeth Ann Hagen, resigned.
Kimberly Breier, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2020, vice Adolfo A. Franco, term expired.
Andrew P. Bremberg, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador.
William Bryan, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Science and Technology, Department of Homeland Security, vice L. Reginald Brothers, Jr., resigned.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of seven years from October 27, 2018. (Reappointment)
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, vice Elliot F. Kaye.
Brian J. Bulatao, of Texas, to be an Under Secretary of State (Management), vice Patrick Francis Kennedy.
Kate Marie Byrnes, of Florida, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Macedonia.
Sean Cairncross, of Minnesota, to be Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation, vice Dana J. Hyde.
Keegan F. Callanan, of Vermont, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2024, vice Manfredi Piccolomini, resigned.
Mary Anne Carter, of Tennessee, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts for a term of four years, vice R. Jane Chu, resigned.
Joseph Cella, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Fiji, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga, and Tuvalu.
Mina Chang, of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Jonathan Nicholas Stivers.
Julia Akins Clark, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2021, vice Anne Marie Wagner, term expired.
Alan E. Cobb, of Kansas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring November 22, 2023, vice William Shaw McDermott, term expired.
Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Rhea S. Suh, resigned.
William Cooper, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy, vice Steven Croley, resigned.
R. Clarke Cooper, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Political-Military Affairs), vice Puneet Talwar, resigned.
Jane L. Corwin, of New York, to be Commissioner on the part of the United States on the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada, vice Lana Pollack.
Edward F. Crawford, of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ireland.
Alexander Crenshaw, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of three years, vice Mark Green, term expired.
Joseph V. Cuffari, of Arizona, to be Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security, vice John Roth.
Veronica Daigle, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Frederick Vollrath, resigned.
Elizabeth Darling, of Texas, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Rafael J. Lopez.
Rick A. Dearborn, of Oklahoma, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years, vice Jeffrey R. Moreland, term expired.
Louis DeJoy, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2020, vice James M. Demers, term expired.
David Armand DeKeyser, of Alabama, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Dawn Ho Delbanco, term expired.
Michael J. Desmond, of California, to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service and an Assistant General Counsel in the Department of the Treasury, vice William J. Wilkins.
Robert A. Destro, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, vice Tomasz P. Malinowski.
Janet Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2022, vice Jenny R. Yang, term expiring.
Thelma Drake, of Virginia, to be Federal Transit Administrator, vice Peter M. Rogoff, resigned.
Robert M. Duncan, of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2025. (Reappointment)
Naomi C. Earp, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, vice Joe Leonard, Jr.
Jeffrey L. Eberhardt, of Wisconsin, a Career Member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Special Representative of the President for Nuclear Nonproliferation, with the rank of Ambassador.
William R. Evanina, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center. (New Position)
Dino Falaschetti, of Montana, to be Director, Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury, for a term of six years, vice Richard B. Berner, resigned.
Christopher Fall, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Science, Department of Energy, vice Cherry Ann Murray.
Michael Faulkender, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Karen Dynan.
Jason J. Fichtner, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2024, vice Lanhee J. Chen, term expired.
David T. Fischer, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Morocco.
Michael J. Fitzpatrick, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador.
John Fleming, of Louisiana, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development, vice Roy K. J. Williams.
Diana Furchtgott-Roth, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation. (New Position)
Lane Genatowski, of New York, to be Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, Department of Energy, vice Ellen Dudley Williams.
Kenneth S. George, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.
James S. Gilmore, of Virginia, to be U.S. Representative to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, with the rank of Ambassador.
Brett P. Giroir, of Texas, to be Representative of the United States on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization, vice Thomas Frieden.
Shannon Lee Goessling, of Florida, to be Director of the Violence Against Women Office, Department of Justice, vice Susan B. Carbon.
Robert J. Grey, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020. (Reappointment)
Joseph Ryan Gruters, of Florida, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years, vice Albert DiClemente, term expired.
Jeffrey Ross Gunter, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iceland.
Sharon Fast Gustafson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term of four years, vice P. David Lopez, resigned.
Joseph Bruce Hamilton, of Texas, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2022, vice Daniel J. Santos, term expired.
Gordon Hartogensis, of Connecticut, to be Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation for a term of five years, vice W. Thomas Reeder Jr., resigned.
Janice Miriam Hellreich, of Hawaii, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2024, vice Howard Abel Husock, term expired.
Kim R. Holmes, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2022, vice Paula Barker Duffy, term expired.
Rodney Hood, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for a term expiring August 2, 2023, vice Richard T. Metsger, term expired.
Kenneth A. Howery, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Sweden.
Victoria Ann Hughes, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2021. (Reappointment)
Scott Hutchins, of Indiana, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics, vice Catherine E. Woteki.
Darrell E. Issa, of California, to be Director of the Trade and Development Agency, vice Leocadia Irine Zak.
Michelle Itczak, of Indiana, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2020, vice Irvin M. Mayfield, Jr., term expired.
Ronald Douglas Johnson, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of El Salvador.
Aimee Kathryn Jorjani, of Wisconsin, to be Chairman of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation for a term expiring January 19, 2021, vice Milford Wayne Donaldson, term expired.
Phyllis Kaminsky, of Arizona, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Adele Logan Alexander, term expired.
Amy Karpel, of Washington, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 16, 2020, vice F. Scott Kieff, resigned.
Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Paul Piquado, resigned.
Heidi R. King, of California, to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, vice Mark R. Rosekind.
Dennis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2023, vice Susan Tsui Grundmann, term expired.
Dennis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board, vice Susan Tsui Grundmann.
Robert Hunter Kurtz, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Sandra Brooks Henriquez, resigned.
Abigail L. Kuzma, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2022. (Reappointment)
Abigail L. Kuzma, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2019, vice Charles Norman Wiltse Keckler, resigned.
Travis LeBlanc, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2022, vice James Xavier Dempsey, term expired.
John G. Levi, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020. (Reappointment)
James B. Lockhart III, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years, vice Charles P. Blahous, III, term expired.
James B. Lockhart III, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years, vice Charles P. Blahous, III, term expired.
James B. Lockhart III, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years, vice Charles P. Blahous, III, term expired.
Barbara Coleen Long, of Missouri, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2022, vice Deepa Gupta, term expired.
John Lowry III, of Illinois, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training, vice Michael Herman Michaud.
Virgil Madden, of Indiana, to be a Commissioner of the United States Parole Commission for a term of six years, vice Patricia Cushwa, term expired.
John G. Malcolm, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020, vice Martha L. Minow, term expired.
Doug Manchester, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas.
Robert A. Mandell, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2022, vice Brent Franklin Nelsen, term expired.
George M. Marcus, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of three years, vice Morton H. Halperin, term expired.
Lana J. Marks, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Africa.
Roman Martinez IV, of Florida, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2024, vice James C. Miller III, term expired.
Andrew F. Maunz, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2025, vice Mark A. Robbins, term expired.
Thomas McCaffery, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Jonathan Woodson, resigned.
Susan M. McCue, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of two years. (Reappointment)
William Shaw McDermott, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring May 30, 2024, vice Nina Mitchell Wells, term expired.
Ronald Mortensen, of Utah, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Population, Refugees, and Migration), vice Anne Claire Richard.
Scott A. Mugno, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice David Morris Michaels.
Don Munce, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2024, vice Loretta Cheryl Sutliff, term expired.
W. Patrick Murphy, of Vermont, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Barry Lee Myers, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice Kathryn D. Sullivan, resigned.
Jeffrey Nadaner, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice David W. Mills, retired.
Frank X. Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2022. (Reappointment)
Frank X. Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2019, vice Sharon L. Browne, resigned.
Michael Pack, of Maryland, to be Chief Executive Officer of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the term of three years. (New Position)
John P. Pallasch, of Kentucky, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Portia Y. Wu.
Richard C. Parker, of North Carolina, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice T. Charles Cooper, resigned.
Bimal Patel, of Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Christopher Campbell, resigned.
Judith DelZoppo Pryor, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2021, vice Larry W. Walther, term expired.
Marco M. Rajkovich, Jr., of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of six years expiring August 30, 2024, vice Robert F. Cohen Jr., term expired.
John Rakolta Jr., of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Arab Emirates.
Bruce M. Ramer, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2024. (Reappointment)
Kimberly A. Reed, of West Virginia, to be President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2021, vice Fred P. Hochberg, resigned.
Heather Reynolds, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring September 14, 2021, vice Dean A. Reuter, term expired.
Leandro Rizzuto, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Barbados, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
Jessie Hill Roberson, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2023. (Reappointment)
Mark Rosen, of Connecticut, to be United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of two years, vice Margrethe Lundsager, resigned.
Daniel N. Rosenblum, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uzbekistan.
John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2021, vice Michael McWherter, term expired.
Andrew M. Saul, of New York, to be Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2019, vice Michael J. Astrue, resigned.
Andrew M. Saul, of New York, to be Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2025. (Reappointment)
David Schenker, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Near Eastern Affairs), vice Anne W. Patterson, resigned.
Michelle A. Schultz, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board for the term of five years. (New Position)
Robert C. Sisson, of Michigan, to be Commissioner on the part of the United States on the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada, vice Dereth Britt Glance.
Claudia Slacik, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2023, vice Sean Robert Mulvaney.
Cheryl Marie Stanton, of South Carolina, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice David Weil, resigned.
Randolph J. Stayin, of Virginia, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for a term expiring June 16, 2026, vice Meredith M. Broadbent, term expired.
David Stilwell, of Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (East Asian and Pacific Affairs), vice Daniel R. Russel.
Alan R. Swendiman, of North Carolina, to be Deputy Director of the Peace Corps, vice Carlos J. Torres.
Robert C. Tapella, of Virginia, to be Director of the Government Publishing Office, vice Davita Vance-Cooks.
Donald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Jamaica.
Kip Tom, of Indiana, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture.
Christine J. Toretti, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malta.
James E. Trainor, III, of Texas, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2023, vice Matthew S. Petersen, term expired.
Arthur R. Traynor III, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring August 30, 2022, vice Patrick K. Nakamura, term expired.
David Christian Tryon, of Ohio, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Darryl L. DePriest, resigned.
Calvin R. Tucker, of Pennsylvania, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2023, vice Carolyn L. Gallagher, term expired.
Matthew H. Tueller, of Utah, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iraq.
Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020. (Reappointment)
Carleton Varney, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2022, vice Paul W. Hodes, term expired.
Lisa Vickers, of Texas, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2021, vice Joseph Bruce Hamilton, term expired.
Christopher P. Vincze, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2019, vice Todd A. Fisher, term expired.
Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Sarah R. Saldana.
Leon A. Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years. (New Position)
Peter C. Wright, of Michigan, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Mathy Stanislaus.
Jean M. Yarbrough, of Maine, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2022, vice Martha Wagner Weinberg, term expired.
Lance V. Yohe, of North Dakota, to be Commissioner on the part of the United States on the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada, vice Richard M. Moy.
Adrian Zuckerman, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Romania.
  