
    Bowser Named National Co-Chair for Mike Bloomberg's 2020 Presidential Campaign
WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Washington, DC Mayor Muriel Bowser endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg for president, touting his ambitious plans for equitable economic growth and prosperity, his impactful infrastructure policies that address the growing threat of climate change, his steadfast commitment to gun safety reform, and his plan for tackling the nation's maternal mortality crisis.
Mayor Bowser will join Mike in DC this morning where he unveiled his plan to tackle the country's housing and homelessness crisis, two issues on which Mayor Bowser has been a leading voice.
"We can resolve our nation's most pressing problems if we have the right leaders in place to turn innovative ideas into reality," said Mayor Bowser. "Mike Bloomberg is the only candidate who will unify the country and defeat Donald Trump and has a blueprint to rebuild America and improve the quality of life for all Americans. He is committed to giving every American a fair shot through his housing affordability and All-In-Economy plans, putting an end to gun violence with common sense reforms, and mitigating the causes of climate change. I have known Mike for many years and his long-standing commitment to making cities stronger, more prosperous, and inclusive is why I'm endorsing him for president."
The Mike Bloomberg 2020 campaign also announced that Bowser will be a National Campaign Co-Chair, advising the campaign on key political and policy issues as well as attend events and share with voters why she believes Mike is the best candidate to beat President Trump and unite the country.
"There are two elected executives in Washington — the president and the mayor. One has broken promise after promise on the issues that matter. The other has emerged as a national leader on affordable housing, economic opportunity, sustainability, safe streets, good schools, and equal rights — and that's Mayor Bowser," said Mike Bloomberg. "Washington, DC could not be in better hands, but she and local leaders around the country deserve a true partner in the White House — and that's what I'll be. I'm honored to have Mayor Bowser's support and excited to welcome her as a national co-chair of our campaign to defeat Donald Trump and rebuild America."
Muriel Bowser is the first woman ever re-elected as the mayor of Washington, DC, and the first mayor to earn a second term in 16 years. In 2019, in order to address the housing pressure her residents face, Bowser led the region by announcing the goal of building 36,000 new homes by 2025 with 12,000 of those homes being affordable. She later made DC the first city in the nation to set affordable housing goals by neighborhood. This builds on the success of her first term, where Bowser dedicated $100 million per year to create and preserve affordable housing; replaced a large family shelter that was too big to succeed and replaced it with smaller, dignified facilities in each of the District's eight wards; and made giving more residents a fair shot at pathways to the middle class the cornerstone of her work.
Bowser, who earned a B.A. in History from Chatham University and an M.S. in Public Policy from American University, entered public service as an Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner in the Riggs Park neighborhood and later served as the Ward 4 Councilmember.
  