
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, Congressman Mark Meadows of North Carolina endorsed Ted Cruz for President. In his second term in Congress, Meadows is part of a new group of consistent, principled conservatives in the House pushing for limited government, fiscal responsibility, and restoring the rule of law and respect for the Constitution. Meadows has been a leading voice for strengthening our national security, protecting life at every stage, and growing the economy by reducing burdensome and ineffective regulations.
"We are approaching a historic election that has the potential to fundamentally change our nation as we know it. Ted Cruz is the principled, conservative leader we need in the White House," said Rep. Meadows. "On issue after issue, Cruz has told the truth and done what he said he was going to do. It may not make him a lot of friends in Washington, but it is exactly what the American people expect of their leaders. Folks across this great nation are sick and tired of the Washington-way, and demand real change. Ted Cruz is the best-positioned leader to restore power to the people and uphold the Constitution at this historic moment in time."
"I've worked closely with Ted on a number of issues from pro-Israel initiatives to fighting for school choice, and I know that he always puts the interest of the country first. That's his consistent record. I am proud to join with the millions of conservatives coalescing around his campaign, coming together to force Washington to finally listen to the American people. I look forward to working with Ted in North Carolina and around the country to make him the next President of the United States."
"You'd be hard-pressed to find a more principled conservative in the House than Mark Meadows," said Cruz. "He has been a champion for limited government and has the battle scars to prove it. As a small businessman, he is acutely aware of the challenges men and women face in the Obama economy and is going to be a tremendous voice for us on the campaign trail. I am thrilled to have Mark's support and am eager to have his help in the Tar Heel State."
  