
    The American Mirror


Lynnette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson — better known as Diamond and Silk — wowed a capacity crowd for Donald Trump in Boloxi, Mississippi Saturday night. Promoting themes of unity and togetherness, Hardaway riled up the crowd that WKRG reported was 14,000.
"In this room is unity," Hardaway said. "In this room we are united. This is the United States, not the divided states," she said.
"It's time for us all to take America back because this is our country. It's imperative you get out and vote. If you don't want to get left, you've got to get right," Hardaway said to cheers.
"We want somebody to build a wall, don't we? We want somebody to bring back our jobs so we can thrive again, don't we? We want somebody that's going to keep us safe, don't we?"
Her biggest applause line? "There is only one race: the human race, as all of our lives matter in this room."
She added, "We finally have a candidate that realizes that and that's why it's imperative you vote for Donald J. Trump!"
The duo also joined Trump on stage at his Raleigh, North Carolina rally in early December.
"How great are they!" Trump exclaimed while the duo — known as Diamond and Silk — walked onto the stage.
"I turn on my television one night," a hoarse Trump said, "and I see these two on television. I say 'they are the greatest.' They became an internet sensation."
The Republican front runner then invited Hardaway to "do a little routine," which she eagerly accepted.
"First of all, I'm glad that the media can see us," she said. "I want everybody to know that we stand behind Donald J. Trump!
"We support Donald J. Trump! We endorse Donald J. Trump," the pair said simultaneously to wild applause.
"And this is going to be our next president of these United States! The silent majority has spoken, baby! He's going to build that wall and he's going to build it tall and it's going to protect us all," Hardaway said.
"We don't want this country to fall do we?" she said. "Build that wall Donald J. Trump," Hardaway said as she was embraced by the candidate.
  