
    
  Foreign policy and national security expert Michael Scheuer regards Paul as the presidential candidate best able to keep America strong and secure

LAKE JACKSON, Texas – 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed by the CIA's former lead agent in charge of tracking Osama bin Laden.  The endorsement was made in a recent column Mr. Scheuer published on his website.
The former high-ranking intelligence officer Scheuer and the 12-term Congressman from Texas, both with decades of experience working on and witnessing the costly interventionist foreign policy of the past decades, agree that a foreign policy that puts America first keeps America safest.
The endorsement by Michael Scheuer is certain to cause a ripple effect of discussion throughout the political establishment, especially in foreign policy circles where policymakers promote endless U.S. military involvement and subsidization of global security as the solution to conflicts often having an unclear connection to U.S. national security.  An endlessly interventionist foreign policy like the one practiced by the Obama administration is certain to result in bankruptcy and increased hostility toward the U.S., a prediction Mr. Scheuer and Dr. Paul both make and endeavor to share with the American public.
"We're pleased to have the endorsement of Michael Scheuer, who is the world's leading expert on the notorious terrorist Osama bin Laden and who like Ron Paul understands the connection between U.S military adventurism and emerging threats against America," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"Michael Scheuer understands that only Dr. Paul will put our national security first and stop the foreign wars and nation building.  Our campaign is very proud to have his support," said Mr. Benton.
Mr. Scheuer is a former CIA intelligence officer, American blogger, historian, foreign policy critic, and political analyst.  He currently serves as an adjunct professor at Georgetown University's Center for Peace and Security Studies. Throughout his 22-year tenure with the CIA,he served as the Chief of the Bin Laden Issue Station (aka "Alec Station"), from 1996 to 1999, the Osama bin Laden tracking unit at the Counterterrorist Center.  He then worked again as Special Advisor to the Chief of the bin Laden unit from September 2001 to November 2004.
  