
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Presidential Board of Advisors on Private Sector Initiatives. The Board will be comprised of leaders from the private sector who will make recommendations to the President on stimulating partnerships which make the best use of the Nation's resources in all sectors—public, private, and nonprofit.
The Board of Advisors succeeds the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives (1983-1985) and the President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives (1981-1982). The Board will report to the President through the White House Office of Private Sector Initiatives. The mission of the Board includes raising awareness, stimulating new private sector initiatives, removing barriers to public-private partnerships, and promoting the long-term development of private sector initiatives. The Board will hold their first meeting on Wednesday, January 22, 1986.
The following are the members:
John J. Phelan, Jr., of Locust Valley, NY, will serve as the Chairman of the Presidential Board of Advisors on Private Sector Initiatives. Mr. Phelan is chairman and chief executive officer of the New York Stock Exchange, elected to the position in 1984. A strong supporter of the PSI program, the New York Stock Exchange cosponsored the Excellence in Private Sector Initiatives Symposium at the White House on June 14, 1985.
Edward O. Fritts, of Arlington, VA, will serve as Vice Chairman of the Presidential Board of Advisors on Private Sector Initiatives. Mr. Fritts is president and CEO of the National Association of Broadcasters. As president, he sits on the board of directors of the Advertising Council and Museum of Broadcasting.
John M. Albertine, of Fredericksburg, VA, is the first president of the American Business Conference, an organization limited to 100 chief executive officers of some of America's most successful mid-sized firms. The American Business Conference is a cosponsor of the President's Citation Program for Private Sector Initiatives.
Ann Ascher, of Los Angeles, CA, is president of Ann Ascher, Inc. She is a founding member and past chairman of the board of the Southern California Center for Nonprofit Management, which provides management techniques to the nonprofit sector. She is a former member of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
Michael P. Castine, of Buffalo, NY, is a business consultant. He recently graduated from Harvard University (M.P.A., 1985) as the first recipient of Harvard's fellowship to study corporate public initiatives. He served as Deputy Director of the White House Office of Private Sector Initiatives and is a former member of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
John (Jock) Elliott, of New York, NY, is chairman emeritus of. the Ogilvy and Mather advertising agency and honorary chairman of the Advertising Council. Mr. Elliott is a former member of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
Thomas W. Evans, of New York, NY, is a partner in the law firm of Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, Alexander and Ferdon. He is a former member of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
Robert Galvin, of Barrington, IL, is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Motorola, Inc. He is former Chairman of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives and a former member of the President's Commission on International Trade and Investment.
Lyda Hill, of Dallas, TX, is general chairwoman of the Volunteer Connection, which was established to encourage agencies to find new ways to utilize volunteers. She is president of the Seven Falls Co., founder and chairman of the board of Hill World Travel, and president of Hill Development Co. in Dallas.
His Eminence Bernard Cardinal Law, the Archbishop of Boston, MA, headed the Diocese of Springfield-Cape Girardeau in Missouri for 10 years. He began his post as head of the Archdiocese of Boston on March 23, 1984.
Gordon C. Luce, of San Diego, CA, is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the Great American Federal Savings Bank. He is also chairman of the board of Financial Scene, Inc.
A.C. Lyles, of Los Angeles, CA, is president and chief executive officer of A.C. Lyles Films in Hollywood. He is affiliated with Paramount Pictures. He is also a former member of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
Malcolm A. Mackillop, of San Francisco, CA, is senior vice president of corporate relations for Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
Charles S. Mechem, Jr., of Cincinnati, OH, is chairman of the board and president of Taft Broadcasting Co. Prior to this position, he was a partner in the firm of Taft, Stettinius & Hollister.
George F. Moody, of Hacienda Heights, CA, is president, chief operating officer, and a director of both the Security Pacific Corp. and the Security Pacific National Bank. He was elected to the American Red Cross National Board of Governors and appointed chairman of the National Board in May 1984.
Robert Mosbacher, Jr., of Houston, TX, is vice president of Mosbacher Production Co., an oil and gas business. He previously served on the President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives and the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
Dana Gillman Binchart, of Columbus, OH, is mayor of Columbus, OH. He previously served as Franklin County, OH, treasurer.
George W. Romney, of Bloomfield Hills, MI, is chairman of VOLUNTEER: the National Center. He served as a member of the President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives. He is the former Governor of the State of Michigan.
Robert Dean Sparks, of Battle Creek, MI, is president of the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. Prior to joining Kellogg, he served as chancellor of the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
B. William Taylor, of Arlington, VA, is president of the American Society of Association Executives. He serves as administrator of the Presidential C Flag Program and is on the board of directors of Partnerships Data Net. He is a former member of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
Alexander Trowbridge, of Washington, DC, is president of the National Association of Manufacturers. He was Secretary of Commerce during the Johnson administration. He is a former member of the President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives and the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
C. William Verity, Jr., of Middletown, OH, is chairman of the executive committee of Armco, Inc., a diversified steel company. Mr. Verity is former Chairman of the President's Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives and a former member of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
Sheldon Weinig, of New York, NY, is chairman, chief executive officer, and founder of Material Research Corp. He is a former member of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
Robert Woodson, of Silver Spring, MD, is president and founder of the National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise and an adjunct fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research. He has served as a member of the President's Advisory Council on Private Sector Initiatives.
  