
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS) announced that he was endorsing Governor Mitt Romney and his candidacy for President of the United States. Senator Cochran joins a Romney for President team that includes Senators Robert Bennett (R-UT), Wayne Allard (R-CO), Jim DeMint (R-SC), Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT).
"It is an honor to join Governor Romney and his campaign for our nation's highest office. At this moment our nation faces unprecedented challenges, and Governor Romney has the experience, vision and values needed to strengthen our country for future generations," said Senator Cochran. "Governor Romney is a man of outstanding judgment and strong character. I look forward to working with him and helping to implement his conservative vision when he is elected our next President."
Welcoming Senator Cochran's support, Governor Romney said, "Senator Cochran has been a strong voice for the State of Mississippi and our conservative values in the United States Senate. He has been dedicated to improving the quality of life of all Americans while defending this great country from foreign threats. I am proud that he has joined our campaign to strengthen our military, our economy and our families."
Background On Senator Thad Cochran:
Senator Thad Cochran Has Represented Mississippi In The United States Senate Since 1978. First elected to the Senate in 1978, Senator Cochran was the first Republican in over 100 years to win statewide election in Mississippi. In 2002, he was re-elected to his fifth term with 85 percent of the vote. Senator Cochran currently serves as Ranking Member of the full Appropriations Committee and the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. He also serves as a member of Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee and the Rules Committee. His record includes the sponsorship of the National Missile Defense Act of 1999, legislation supporting education programs and action to aid the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina. Before his election to the U.S. Senate, Senator Cochran served in the U.S. House of Representatives. He and his wife, the former Rose Clayton of New Albany, Mississippi, have two children and three grandchildren.
  