
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint four individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to appoint Linda Mysliwy Conlin, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring January 20, 2007, vice Dan Herman Renberg. Ms. Conlin currently serves as the Assistant Secretary for Trade Development at the Department of Commerce. Prior to this position, she served as Executive Director of the Office of Travel and Tourism for the New Jersey Commerce and Economic Growth Commission. Ms. Conlin earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Massachusetts.
The President intends to appoint Charles Johnson, of Utah, to be Chief Financial Officer of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Linda Morrison Combs. Mr. Johnson currently serves as President of Huntsman Cancer Foundation and Vice President of Huntsman LLC. Prior to this position, he spent 31 years practicing as a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Johnson earned his bachelor's degree from Bringham Young University.
The President intends to appoint Stephen L. Johnson, of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Linda J. Fisher. Mr. Johnson currently serves as Acting Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Prior to this position, he served as Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency's Office of Prevention, Pesticides, and Toxic Substances. Mr. Johnson received his bachelor's degree from Taylor University and his master's degree from The George Washington University.
The President intends to appoint Gerard Schwartz, of Washington, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts, for the remained of the six-year term expiring September 3, 2006, vice Earl A. Powell III. Mr. Schwartz currently serves as Music Director of the Seattle Symphony and the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra. Prior to these positions, he co-founded the New York Chamber Symphony in 1977 and served as its Music Director through the 2002 season. Mr. Schwartz earned his bachelor's and master's degrees from The Julliard School.
  