
    Prominent women leaders today released statements praising the historic and inspirational candidacy of Hillary Clinton.
"I am grateful for the strong support of these incredible women and the millions of others who have joined our effort to change this country and make history," Clinton said.
Madeleine K. Albright, first woman Secretary of State
Hillary has been a leading voice conveying America's humanity and moral purpose around the world. As First Lady and Senator, Hillary visited more than 80 countries and met countless world leaders as a representative of America. Hillary is arguably the most visible and influential voice for women's rights in the world; she is a beacon of hope for women at home and abroad.
Melody Drnach, Vice President for Action, NOW
"As I travel around the country talking with young women - it is exciting to hear through their words - optimism and dreams of opportunity - for themselves as they imagine seeing the first woman president in the U.S. And, as I knock on doors, I have been greeted by women in their 60s and 70s who tell me about the pride they feel seeing Senator Clinton leading in this historic campaign. This election is about the future and we see Senator Clinton as a leader who will continue to work tirelessly for equality for all."
Geraldine A. Ferraro, Former Democratic Vice Presidential candidate
"When Walter Mondale chose me in 1984 as his running mate for vice-president, the first woman to be nominated for that position by a major party, I knew it wouldn't be easy. But I also knew that someday, a qualified woman would step forward and make her case for the Presidency on her own merits. I am so proud to stand with Hillary as she makes history. Hillary shouldn't be elected simply because she's the first etc. Hillary shouldn't be elected because she's the first - but because she's the most qualified and best prepared."
Lulu Flores, President of the National Women's Political Caucus
"The National Women's Political Caucus is proud to be part of this symbolic and historic election that holds the real possibility of finally electing a woman as President of the United States. Our organization was founded on the principle of equal access to power for all women as well as to fight all forms of discrimination. "This election has invigorated our members throughout the country. We are so excited that we finally have the opportunity to shatter that last barrier for women -- the door to the Oval Office. We are proud that the best candidate for the job IS a woman and that we have the opportunity to make history in 2008 by electing Hillary Clinton as our commander in chief."
Kim Gandy, President of NOW
"Although we're over 51% of the population, women continue to be heavily under-represented at every level of U.S. politics, barely cracking the 15% mark. So I've been filled with pride to watch Hillary Clinton's historic campaign hammering at that final glass ceiling, not just for U.S. women, but for our daughters and granddaughters. Beyond our shores, women around the world heard her message in Beijing that 'women's rights are human rights,' their hopes and aspirations, too, are reflected in this campaign. What a change she would make in our country and in our world."
Ellen Malcolm, President and founder of EMILY's List
"I am one of the millions of women who have waited all their lives to see the first woman sworn in as president of the United States. We have our best opportunity to make history and see that dream fulfilled with Hillary Clinton."
"As someone who has worked for three decades to elect women to office, I am equally aware of the tremendous progress women have made, as well as the barriers that remain. I believe that no one can do better than Hillary to overcome those obstacles and make this historic moment possible."
"When Hillary wins every woman will stand a little taller and be taken a little more seriously and their ability to lead will not be as subject to gender bias and doubts. Just as the women who ran before set the stage for her to run, Hillary Clinton winning will make it easier for future women candidates to compete without so many gender stereotypes and be judged on their ideas, their experience and their character."
Senator Barbara Mikulski, first woman elected in her own right to the U.S. Senate (1986)
"Every generation in every century has a particular rendezvous. I believe that when we elect Hillary, we will make history. As the first Democratic woman elected to the United States Senate in her own right, I know what it means to make history and to break barriers. We have come a long way, but we have a long way to go. But Hillary knows what I know - that this election is not about gender, it's about an agenda. When we put Hillary in the Oval Office, she will take with her our hopes and dreams and get us back on track as a new voice of America to the world."
Rep. Laura Richardson (CA)
"I have known Hillary for over 10 years and have seen how she believes in the promise of our youth, her 35 year commitment to underserved communities and her great ability to inspire those around her to reach higher, work harder, and do better. As one of the younger Members of Congress, I felt it was my duty to visibly demonstrate to the public the widespread support of Hillary Clinton. Over the past week, I have been traveling on her behalf, talking with voters about what is important to them and what is at stake in this election. What I heard was a chorus of voices – people spanning generational and ethnic lines - who are encouraged by her candidacy, her lifetime of work, her tangible solutions to improve situations at home and abroad, and her love for our country."
Ellie Smeal, President of Feminist Majority (for identification purposes only) and women's rights leader
"It is hard to overstate the historic significance of Hillary Clinton's candidacy for president. No one woman has ever been a leader contender -- let alone won several caucuses and primaries. Hillary is not only breaking the ultimate glass ceiling but she is an inspiration to young women and older women alike, and for women worldwide."
Rep. Hilda Solis (CA)
"I am so proud to stand with Hillary in this election not just because she is a woman but because she is a dedicated public servant with a record of helping women, children and those whose voices are not heard in this country. Throughout her campaign she has impressed me with her dedication, sensitivity and love of our country. She is truly an inspiration for our daughters and for our sons."
Rep. Ellen Tauscher (CA) (one of the first women admitted to the NYSE and at the time the youngest at age 25)
"From politics to business, women are making strides and breaking ground every day. When I first started in business, I was one of the first women to serve on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, and today I am only the third woman to serve as Chairman of an Armed Services Subcommittee. Because of this I appreciate the historic nature of Hillary's candidacy. As a parent and a public servant, I am proud to stand with her as an example to my daughter of what is possible."
Fran Visco, breast cancer survivor and activist
"As a breast cancer activist, I have had the opportunity to work with Hillary first-hand. I have seen her leadership, her vision, and her courage. As a woman, as a mother, and as an American, I am inspired by her historic candidacy."
  