
    Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) "It is time to get serious about the problems families and businesses large and small across the nation face. Whether it is the urgent need for tax reform or wide-ranging regulatory relief, we will need someone like Steven working with both parties in Congress to make it happen. His private sector expertise will be valuable as we begin to tackle these challenges and reverse the last eight years of economic heartache." (Press Release, "Majority Leader McConnell's Statement on Steven Mnuchin," Office of Sen. Mitch McConnell, 12/6/16)
Senator Charles Grassley (R-IA) "I think that he is a person that understands a lot about the financial and fiscal situation in the federal government and the private sector — well qualified for the position that he's been appointed to." (Ryan Rainey, "Senior GOP Senators are Happy With Mnuchin After Capitol Hill Meetings," Morning Consult, 12/8/16)
Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) "Through his private sector background, Steven will have to untangle the web of red tape found in our mammoth tax code and navigate a minefield of heavy-handed regulations that have stifled opportunity and growth. He has a deep understanding of the fiscal challenges we face and can play an important role to help bridge the divide and craft bipartisan solutions that will promote the long-term health and prosperity of the American economy. I look forward to continuing to examine his record as the Committee's bipartisan vetting process commences." (Press Release, "Hatch Statement on Meeting with Treasury Secretary Nominee Steven Mnuchin, Office of Orrin Hatch, 12/8/16)
Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID) "I appreciated the opportunity to speak with Steve Mnuchin, who is an excellent nominee to serve as our next Treasury Secretary. We had a positive conversation about his pro-growth vision for the Department of Treasury that includes meaningful tax reform, paying down our exploding national debt, and getting financial regulation right." (Senator Mike Crapo, Twitter, 12/14/16)
Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) "Steven Mnuchin is prepared and ready to implement President-elect Trump's economic agenda. In our wide-ranging conversation, Steven and I discussed the urgent need to get our economy moving again for all Americans, especially those who work with their hands and on their feet, who haven't seen a pay raise in decades. We also discussed the Treasury Department's key role in helping community banks grow, enforcing sanctions, and disrupting terrorist finances. I look forward to supporting his nomination." (Press Release, "Cotton Meets with Secretary of the Treasury Nominee Steven Mnuchin," Office of Tom Cotton, 12/10/16)
Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA) "Great to meet Treasury secretary nom @stevenmnuchin1. Discussed encouraging stronger econ growth: reforming tax code & rolling back regs." (Senator Pat Toomey, Twitter, 1/5/17)
Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) "Enjoyed talking with Treasury Sec nominee Steve Mnuchin about relief for community banks, taxes, trade, economic growth, deficits and debt." (Senator John Cornyn, Twitter, 1/5/17)
Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ) "Good talk with @stevenmnuchin1 today on how we can help #Arizona businesses by addressing @USTreasury's application of #BorderBanking regs" (Senator Jeff Flake, Twitter, 1/4/17)
Senator Dean Heller (R-NV) "Enjoyed a positive convo this AM with Treas. nom. Mnuchin. Talked pro-growth policies, #NV housing mkt, and repeal of the #CadillacTax." (Senator Dean Heller, Twitter, 1/4/17)
Senator John Thune (R-SD) "@USTreasury needs a person like Steve Mnuchin who's ready to get to work for the American people on day one." (Senator John Thune, Twitter, 12/8/16)
  