
    With Endorsement of State Representative Ross Wilburn, Senator Klobuchar Now Has the Support of 17 Current Iowa Legislators
DES MOINES, IA — Following Sunday's endorsement from State Representative Ross Wilburn, Amy For America today announced endorsements from seven more Iowa leaders, activists and community members.
Representative Wilburn, who won the House District 46 seat in a special election this past August, represents northwest Ames and the western parts of Story County. With Wilburn's endorsement, Senator Klobuchar now has the endorsements of 17 sitting Iowa legislators -- the most of any candidate in the field. Rep. Wilburn previously endorsed Senator Kamala Harris.
In announcing his endorsement, Representative Wilburn cited Klobuchar's electoral record and history of working for children, youth, and families.
"Amy's running to fight for us, for every American," said Iowa State Representative Ross Wilburn. "Her priorities -- like investing in public schools and infrastructure, reforming the criminal justice system, combating climate change, and addressing mental health and substance abuse issues -- are my priorities. Despite the gridlock in Washington, Amy has passed over 100 bills into law as the lead Democrat in the Senate, including more than 40 bills under President Trump's administration. With Amy at the top of the ticket in 2018, Minnesota Democrats took back the state House, flipped two congressional seats, and won every statewide election. I am proud to be supporting Amy, and I encourage everyone to join me in caucusing for her on February 3rd."
Klobuchar's newest endorsers include:• Edgar Bittle -- Former Iowa State Representative• Barbara Madden-Bittle -- Former Des Moines-Planned Parenthood Director of Clinical Services• Bill Brauch -- Iowa Democratic Party State Central Committee member, former Iowa Democratic Party 3rd District Chair• JJ Condon -- Davenport Alderman At-Large• Ron Parker -- Staff Director, Iowa State Senate• Ted Rasmusson -- Story County Treasurer• Mark Recker -- Iowa Corn Growers Association At-Large Director
  