
    SOUTH CAROLINA: In Columbia, President Bill Clinton spoke at the Elmwood Avenue Lizard's Thicket. Watch. In Aiken, he spoke to hundreds of supporters. Watch. In Greenville, he hosted a town hall in which "he was applauded throughout" his speech touting Hillary's real solutions for our struggling economy. Read more... Also in Greenville, Rep. Fletcher Smith joined President Clinton at the Temple AME Church and endorsed Hillary... In Florence, the campaign launched the "Our Voice, Our Future Tour," a two-week tour to encourage young voters to support Hillary and make their voices heard. Former NFL player Keyshawn Johnson and actresses America Ferrera and Amber Tamblyn joined Chelsea Clinton for the tour's inaugural event at Francis Marion University...The campaign also announced "Business Leaders for Hillary."
ARIZONA: Hillary drew more than 10,000 people to her town "Solutions for America" town hall outside of Phoenix. Read more... A new Arizona State University/Channel Eight poll shows Hillary 21 points ahead of Sen. Obama. She leads 45 to 24 percent. Read more.
CALIFORNIA: In Salinas, Clinton received the endorsement of the United Farm Workers and spoke to an overflow crowd of more than 2,000. Read more... Congressman Joe Baca endorsed Hillary... In Sacramento, Fresno, and Los Angeles, Hillary supporters participated in events commemorating the 35th anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision Roe v. Wade... In Los Angeles, the campaign held a "Bring Your Own Phone" party in which women supporters called undecided women.
COLORADO: The campaign announced the formation of its LGBT Steering Committee...State Senator Stephanie Takis endorsed Hillary.
CONNECTICUT: The campaign announced the formation of a "Women for Hillary" leadership council.
DELAWARE: The campaign announced its steering committee.
MASSACHUSETTS: Lawmakers including House Speaker Salvatore DiMasi met on Tuesday for a campaign strategy session. Read more.
MINNESOTA: Prominent national and local women leaders held a conference call to discuss the campaign's extensive and on-going efforts to engage women voters across the state.
NEW JERSEY: On the 35th anniversary of Roe V. Wade, the campaign rolled out a statewide Women's Leadership Committee and announced additional members of its "Women for Hillary" council... Staffers and volunteers at call centers across the state held women to women phone banking sessions... In Newark, dozens of Essex County elected officials held a press conference to announce their endorsement of Hillary.
NEW MEXICO: The campaign announced the hiring of Kristin Lee as Communications Director.
NEW YORK: On the 35th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade, the Westchester Coalition for Legal Abortion (WCLA) – Choice Matters, one of the oldest pro-choice advocacy organizations in the nation, endorsed Hillary. Read more... After announcing the opening of a regional office, the campaign highlighted its grassroots activity in Binghamton, including several upcoming mobilization and outreach programs... A new Quinnipiac University poll has Hillary far ahead of Sen. Obama. She leads 51 to 25 percent.
PENNSYLVANIA: Scranton Mayor Chris Doherty endorsed Hillary.
TENNESSEE: The campaign opened an office in Nashville. Read more.
  