
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 4
The President declared major disasters in California and Idaho and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe storms, flooding, and mud- and landslides beginning December 28 and continuing.
January 5
The President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton returned to Washington, DC, from St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands.
January 6
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany concerning NATO expansion and relations between Russia and the West.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alan M. Hantman to be the Architect of the Capitol.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald Rappaport to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Education.
January 7
In the morning, the President met with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan in the Oval Office to discuss issues facing the 105th Congress.
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Newt Gingrich to congratulate him on winning reelection to a second term as Speaker of the House of Representatives. The President also placed calls to Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, Senate Minority Leader Thomas S. Daschle, and House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan E. Trees to the National Council on the Humanities.
The White House announced that the President will meet with United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan in the Oval Office on January 23.
The White House announced that the President appointed Charles Ruff to succeed Jack Quinn as Assistant to the President and Counsel to the President early next month. The President also appointed: Cheryl D. Mills to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President; Kathleen M.H. Wallman to be Deputy Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Chief of Staff and Counselor to the National Economic Council; and Elena Kagan to be Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy Council.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe ice storms beginning November 19 and continuing through December 4.
The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe ice storms November 14-30.
January 8
In the morning, the President met with members of his economic team and Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan in the Oval Office to discuss economic issues.
January 9
In the morning, the President met with NATO Secretary General Javier Solana and Vice President Gore in the Vice President's West Wing office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey Davidow to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation.
The White House announced that the President has appointed Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt to lead a delegation representing the United States at the inauguration of President-elect Arnoldo Aleman of Nicaragua on January 10.
January 10
The President announced his intention to appoint Ann Lewis as Assistant to the President and Deputy Communications Director.
The President announced the nomination of Sheila F. Anthony as a Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission.
  