
    Sen. McCain Desperately Wants To Avoid Discussing Economics
"Ask any of the voters – it's the economy. Senator McCain, you have said repeatedly, quote, 'I know a lot less about economics than I do about military and foreign policy issues. I still need to be educated.' Is it a problem for your campaign that the economy is now the most important issue, one that by your own acknowledgment you're not well versed on?" – NBC's Tim Russert (MSNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Boca Raton, FL, 1/24/08)
This Morning, Sen. McCain Was Confronted For His "Direct Contradiction" On The Bush Tax Cuts:
Sen. McCain Voted Against The Bush Tax Cuts, And Was Against Extending Them. NBC's TIM RUSSERT: "One of the questions that has been raised repeatedly in this campaign, Senator, is your opposition to the Bush tax cuts back in 2001. One of only two Republican senators. Back then you gave a floor speech and said this: 'I cannot in good conscience support a tax cut in which so many of the benefits go to the most fortunate among us at the expense of middle-class Americans who most need tax relief.' Then you were on Meet The Press in April of '04, I asked you about that vote. I also asked you about postponing the Bush tax cuts and this is what you said: SEN. MCCAIN: "I voted against the tax cuts because of the disproportionate amount that went to the wealthiest Americans. I would clearly support not extending those tax cuts in order to help address the deficit." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 1/27/08)
NBC's Tim Russert: "Now You Are Supporting Extending Them... A Direct Contradiction." RUSSERT: "You wouldn't support extending them, but you are now supporting extending them on the radio with this ad: MCCAIN RADIO AD: "I'll make the Bush tax cuts permanent." RUSSERT: "That's a direct contradiction." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 1/27/08)
To view Sen. McCain's "direct contradiction," click here: www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVG4ROuLSf0
Sen. McCain Recently Insisted He Wouldn't Need An Economically-Savvy Running Mate:
Sen. McCain Now Says That Because Of His Experience On The Senate Commerce Committee, He Wouldn't Need A Vice President With Economic Experience. "Noting that he also later ran the Senate Commerce Committee, Mr. McCain said in the interview that he would feel no need to select a vice president with expertise in economic policy to balance his own foreign-policy experience." (David Leonhardt, "Fiscal Mantra For McCain: Less Is More," The New York Times, www.nytimes.com,1/26/08)
Yet Just Months Ago, Sen. McCain Said He Would Need A Running Mate "Well-Grounded In Economics":
In November 2007, Sen. McCain Said He Would Choose A Vice-President Who Understands Economics Because He Doesn't. "On at least one occasion, McCain has raised the matter himself. On Nov. 10, while traveling through New Hampshire on his Straight Talk Express bus, McCain was asked what he would seek in a vice presidential candidate if nominated. After mentioning the ability of a potential running mate to replace the president, McCain said, 'You also look for people who maybe have talents you don't, or experience or knowledge you don't, as well.' 'What are those qualities that you don't - that you wouldn't mind complementing?' asked David Brooks, a columnist for The New York Times. McCain paused. 'Uh, maybe I shouldn't say this, but, somebody who's really well grounded in economics,' he said." (Sasha Issenberg, "McCain Tested On Economy," The Boston Globe, www.boston.com, 1/26/08)
In The Recent Boca Raton Debate, Sen. McCain Denied Saying He Didn't Know About Economics:
McCain Denied His Own Comments When Tim Russert Quoted Him Saying He Did Not Know About Economics. RUSSERT: " And now the economy has taken hold. Ask any of the voters; it's the economy. Senator McCain, you have said repeatedly, quote, 'I know a lot less about economics than I do about military and foreign policy issues. I still need to be educated.' Is it a problem for your campaign that the economy is now the most important issue, one that by your own acknowledgment you're not well versed on?" MCCAIN: "Actually, I don't know where you got that quote from. I'm very well versed in economics." (MSNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Boca Raton, FL, 1/24/08)
But Sen. McCain Himself Has Repeatedly Said He Doesn't Understand Economic Issues:
Sen. McCain: "The Issue Of Economics Is Not Something I've Understood As Well As I Should." "Like Mike Huckabee, who joked recently that he 'may not be the expert that some people are on foreign policy, but I did stay in a Holiday Inn Express last night,' McCain suggested to reporters Monday that American consumer culture offered a short cut to expertise. 'The issue of economics is not something I've understood as well as I should,' McCain said. 'I've got Greenspan's book.'" (Sasha Issenberg, "McCain: It's About The Economy," The Boston Globe, www.boston.com, Posted 12/18/07)
- Sen. McCain: "I Still Need To Be Educated." "On a broader range of economic issues, though, Mr. McCain readily departs from Reaganomics. His philosophy is best described as a work in progress. He is refreshingly blunt when he tells me: 'I'm going to be honest: I know a lot less about economics than I do about military and foreign policy issues. I still need to be educated.'" (Stephen Moore, "Reform, Reform, Reform," OpinionJournal.com, 11/26/05)

  