
    Nominee Tom Price is the Doctor HHS NeedsThe HillFormer Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA)January 17th, 2017Click Here to Read
As a physician and former member of the House of Representatives from 2003 to 2014, I am very pleased with President-elect Donald Trump's selection of my friend, fellow Georgian and former colleague Dr. Tom Price to serve as his secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS).
Not since President George H.W. Bush picked Dr. Louis Sullivan as the 17th HHS secretary in 1989 have we had such a uniquely qualified individual and healthcare professional to lead this huge and tremendously important department of our federal government.
Running an agency the size and scope of HHS requires many things: a strong understanding and appreciation of the nation's healthcare system, knowledge of the myriad other issues and agencies under the HHS umbrella, strong leadership and management skills, deep intellect, a capacity for learning and listening, creative problem-solving, and a willingness to try new things.
Price brings all of these characteristics to the job and certainly his well-recognized work ethic, knowledge of both policy and process, and commitment to improving the nation's healthcare system are some of the principal reasons Trump tapped him to fill this crucial Cabinet position.
...
Price has always led by example and being action- and solution-oriented, puts policy proposals forward. For example, during the healthcare reform debate in 2010, he introduced the Empowering Patients First Act. His legislation was intended to serve as a Republican alternative to the Democrats' bill, but it eventually was positioned as a potential replacement of the enacted Affordable Care Act.
...
The secretary of HHS needs to be someone thoughtful, knowledgeable, respected, trusted and able to solve problems. Price exceeds these job requirements.
I hope the Senate quickly confirms him as secretary so the nation can begin to see what his patients, constituents and congressional colleagues all know: that he is a compassionate, competent and smart man who will help steer the nation's largest healthcare agency through a period of change with a steady hand on the rudder.
  