
    Ad Makes Case for a Proven Leader to Solve Our Country's Economic Problems
HARTFORD - In a new thirty-second television ad Hillary highlights her commitment to reviving our struggling economy and her fight against the Bush administration who has ignored this country's struggling middle class. Hillary warned President Bush last spring to take action on the mortgage crisis that was affecting homeowners here in Connecticut and across the country, but those homeowners remained invisible to this administration.
"Hillary Clinton knows that many families in Connecticut are struggling to keep up in this receding economy," said State Senator Gayle Slossberg. "This ad shows her commitment to standing up for the people of Connecticut and ensuring that they are not left behind. We need a leader that will be ready on day one to take the helm and create positive change for America. That leader is Hillary Clinton."
Hillary knows that the time to address the receding economy is now. That is why she recently proposed a $ 110 billion economic package to provide tax rebates to middle class families, assist families with skyrocketing energy costs, invest in clean energy technology and support workers who have lost their jobs.
To protect the millions of Americans who live in fear of losing their homes in 2008, Hillary has called for a moratorium of at least 90 days on home foreclosures; a freeze on the fluctuating rates on sub-prime loans for at least 5 years until they can be converted into fixed rate, affordable loans; and regular status reports on the progress in converting unworkable mortgages into loans families can.
Hillary believes that investing in American alternative fuels will establish a green, efficient economy and create as many as five million new jobs, while at the same time reduce America's reliance on foreign oil and address the looming climate crisis. The people of Connecticut cannot afford to pay three dollars a gallon when that money is going straight to the middle east, not in our own economy.
As President, Hillary will ensure that the working families who are being left behind in this economy, here in Connecticut and across the country, will no longer be invisible.
Read the transcript of "Warned" below or view it online at:
http://www.hillaryclinton.com/video/112.aspx
"Warned" TV :30
Announcer: Our economy is in real trouble.
And while George Bush helps his friends, the middle class gets slammed.
Hillary Clinton warned Bush last March to act or homes would be foreclosed. Bush did nothing, and two million homes may be lost.
We need a proven leader. Hillary's emergency economic plan: freeze foreclosures, provide immediate tax rebates for the middle class, create millions of new jobs.
We need more than talk- We need solutions.
Hillary Clinton: I'm Hillary Clinton and I approved this message.
  