
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Wisconsin Republican National Committeewoman Mary Buestrin announced her endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney. Committeewoman Buestrin has a long history of working in Wisconsin Republican politics to promote conservative policies and candidates with proven conservative principles of leadership.
"Committeewoman Buestrin is a dedicated Republican leader and her support will be a big help as we campaign across Wisconsin talking to voters about bringing real conservative change to Washington," said Governor Romney. "I look forward to working with her to share my optimistic vision for the future of our country."
Committeewoman Buestrin added, "Governor Romney has impressed me with his leadership and his optimism as he discusses our nation's future. We need real change in Washington, and Governor Romney is the candidate who will roll up his sleeves and get to work on day one to strengthen the economy, the military and our families. He has done this in the private sector, at the 2002 Winter Olympics and as Governor, and I know he will do the same as President. I encourage Wisconsin voters to join me in supporting the candidate with the experience we need, Governor Mitt Romney."
Committeewoman Buestrin joins U.S. Congressman Tom Petri and the Wisconsin Romney for President Finance Steering Committee who have been previously announced as supporting Governor Romney's campaign for the Republican nomination.
Background On Wisconsin Republican National Committeewoman Mary Buestrin:
Mary Buestrin Has Served As Wisconsin's Republican National Committeewoman Since 1992. She currently serves on the Executive Committee of the Republican Party of Wisconsin, the Wisconsin Federation of Republican Woman, and the Republican Party of Ozaukee County. Buestrin served as the Wisconsin Grassroots Chairman and on the State Steering Committee for the Bush/Cheney campaigns in 2000 and 2004 and has held numerous leadership positions with state and local Republican Parties. She is also an Ordained Elder at Crossroads Presbyterian Church and active in the Wisconsin Historical Society. Buestrin and her husband live in Mequon.
  