
    Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) "Elaine is going to do a fantastic job as secretary of Transportation. She's going to do good things for her country, she's going to make the Commonwealth of Kentucky proud." (Kathryn A. Wolfe, "Chao Skates Through Hearing Despite Little Info on Infrastructure," Politico, 1/11/17)
Senator John Thune (R-SD) "If you were to imagine an ideal candidate to tackle these challenges to the nation's transportation infrastructure, it would be hard to come up with a more qualified nominee than the one before us." (Sean Higgins, "Transportation Pick Chao Sails Through Senate Hearing," Washington Examiner, 1/11/17)
Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE) "Today, Elaine Chao once again demonstrated the impressive knowledge and wide-ranging federal government experience that she will bring to the position of Transportation Secretary. As the chairman of the Surface Transportation subcommittee, I believe I can partner with Elaine on bold solutions to strengthen our infrastructure for the benefit of families in Nebraska and across this nation. I strongly support her nomination to lead the Department of Transportation, and I look forward to working with her once she is confirmed." (Press Release, Office of Senator Deb Fischer, 1/11/17)
Senator James Inhofe (R-OK) "In the years that I've been here, and that's thirty years now, I've never seen anyone ... that people loved more than you." (Senator James Inhofe, Hearing, Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, 1/11/17)
Michael Sacco, President, Seafarers International Union of North America "I truly cannot think of anyone who is better-qualified to serve as our great nation's next Secretary of Transportation." (Michael Sacco, Letter to the Senate, 1/11/17)
David A. Raymond, President & CEO of the American Council of Engineering Companies "On behalf of the American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) – the oldest and largest trade association of the nation's engineering industry – we heartily endorse the nomination of Elaine Chao to be the nation's next Secretary of Transportation...she possesses the highest caliber of professionalism, integrity, and public-mindedness. She has superb understanding and skills to address the nation's transportation challenges and assist President Trump in rebuilding America's infrastructure. (David Raymond, Letter to the Senate, 1/11/17)
David French, Senior Vice President, Government Relations, National Retail Federation "On behalf of the National Retail Federation (NRF), we are writing to express our strong support for the nomination of Elaine Chao as the next Secretary of the Department of Transportation. Mrs. Chao has an incredible history, knowledge and experience within the transportation industry and we think she is perfectly suited to be the next Secretary...Mrs. Chao has the background and experience to address some of the key supply chain issues facing our nation and our global competitiveness..." (David French, Letter to the Senate, 1/11/17)
Diane Woodend Jones, Chair, Women's Transportation Seminar "Ms. Chao's professional history makes her highly qualified to lead this organization and create a vision for a sustainable, innovative and efficient national transportation system. Her previous experience as Secretary of Labor and as Deputy Secretary of Transportation allows Ms. Chao a unique perspective of all of the elements required to lead an agency that is so important in improving our infrastructure and driving our nation's economy." (Diane Jones, Letter to the Senate, 1/11/17)
Paul Brubaker, President & CEO, The Alliance for Transportation Innovation "...We believe her record of strong leadership and her familiarity with transportation issues will serve the American people well. Furthermore, we are encouraged by her experience gathered from working in several federal agencies over her career, which we think will especially help the incoming Administration tackle the very important issue of self-driving vehicles and coordinate the best approach among numerous jurisdictions for enabling these life-changing technologies as soon as possible...Our members consider Ms. Chao an ally in the drive to change the lives of the enabled and disabled, restore freedom of mobility to senior citizens, and save countless lives of people from coast to coast..." (Paul Brubaker, Letter to the Senate, 1/11/17)
  