
    
A little inspiration and a knack for beading can go a long way.
Twenty-four years ago, Gail Be was going through a rough patch. So she met with a counselor in order to get some advice.?



  " In 1992 I was struggling with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder. [Minnesota] had a program for people struggling with mental and physical disabilities. I could finish grad school or open a small business. "

The counselor had seen Hillary Clinton wearing a red, white, and blue scarf on television that reminded her of Gail's necklace. So, knowing that Gail was a fan of Hillary's, she made a suggestion.


  " Why don't you bead something for Hillary Clinton?"

That sounded like a good idea to Gail.?She made Hillary a hand-beaded locket and sent it off, not expecting to hear back.?
Two weeks later—to Gail's surprise—she received a letter back from Hillary.

Gail was thrilled by the response—but more importantly, she was motivated. She received a $3,000 grant and started her own hand-made jewelry business.?
Today, Gail is a successful artist whose clients include celebrities (like Lady Gaga!). Recently, she made the world's largest beaded wedding dress—with over a million beads on it—and won a Guinness World Record!

When Gail heard that Hillary was running for president, she sent her a custom necklace as a thank you. And, just like the first time, Hillary responded.?

Hillary was so moved by Gail's story that she invited Gail to a campaign event in Minneapolis. Gail was thrilled to find out Hillary wanted to meet her in person.



  " As I waited in line for my turn, I saw that she was wearing a scarf around her neck. And when I turned the corner, to my great joy, she was wearing one of my necklaces! When I got close to her I said, in tears, ?Thank you for wearing my necklace!'"

People often ask Gail how she can create such beautiful jewelry. Her response is always the same: "One bead at a time."


  " It starts with a bead, that becomes a bracelet, that turns into a necklace, then into 990,000 necklaces. My one bead started with help of Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is ... the best suited candidate to be the next president of the United States."

  