
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman:)
In accordance with the provisions of Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the following report on progress made during the past 60 days toward the conclusion of a negotiated solution of the Cyprus problem, plus a copy of Secretary General Waldheim's comprehensive report to the Security Council on the United Nations operation in Cyprus for the period of June 1 through November 30, 1979.
Since my last report on Cyprus, dated November 21, 1979, the intercommunal talks have regrettably remained recessed. Now that the United Nations General Assembly and Security Council have concluded their periodic reviews of the Cyprus question, I am hopeful that all parties will again focus their primary attention on resuming the intercommunal negotiations. Secretary General Waldheim, in his December 1, 1979, report on Cyprus, undertook to pursue his efforts to reconvene the talks as early as possible in the new year. I am encouraged to note that the Secretary General's representatives on Cyprus have begun consultations with both parties in an attempt to find common ground upon which the negotiations might resume. The United States will continue to support fully the Secretary General and his staff in their efforts to achieve an early resumption of serious negotiations.
On December 14, 1979, the Security Council unanimously passed a resolution extending the mandate on the UN Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) to June 15, 1980. I am pleased that the other members of the Security Council share our view that UNFICYP is essential to the maintenance of a calm atmosphere conducive to the reconvening of the intercommunal talks.
The Cyprus dispute has been on the international agenda for decades. The historical complexity of this issue indicates that perseverance, patience, and political courage are required on both sides if a just and lasting settlement is to be achieved. We are committed to the vigorous pursuit of all promising avenues that might lead to that settlement, and will continue to consult closely with all parties to the Cyprus dispute, the United Nations, our European allies, and other nations legitimately concerned with bringing peace to this troubled island.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
  