
    Cynthia Costa, of South Carolina, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Terrence A. Duffy, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2003, vice Scott B. Lukins, term expired.
Terrence A. Duffy, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2007. (Reappointment)
Michael B. Enzi, of Wyoming, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Dana Gioia, of California, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts for a term of four years, vice Michael Hammond.
Thomas Waters Grant, of New York, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2005, vice Charles L. Marinaccio, term expired.
Christopher Ryan Henry, of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Stephen A. Cambone, resigned.
Noe Hinojosa, Jr., of Texas, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2003, vice Marianne C. Spraggins, term expired.
Noe Hinojosa, Jr., of Texas, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2006. (Reappointment)
Ralph Martinez, of Florida, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Paul McHale, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense. (New Position)
John W. Nicholson, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Memorial Affairs, vice Robin L. Higgins, resigned.
Alfred Plamann, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of three years, vice Harry J. Bowie, term expired.
Claudia Puig, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for the remainder of the term expiring January 31, 2006, vice Kenneth Y. Tomlinson.
Mark V. Rosenker, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for the remainder of the term expiring December 31, 2005, vice Marion Blakey, resigned.
Paul Sarbanes, of Maryland, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
James Shinn, of New Jersey, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Florentino Subia, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2004, vice Edna Fairbanks-Williams, term expired.
William Robert Timken, Jr., of Ohio, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2003, vice James Clifford Hudson, term expired.
William Robert Timken, Jr., of Ohio, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2006. (Reappointment)
  