
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Florida Congressman John Mica. Congressman Mica serves as the Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
"I am honored to have earned Congressman Mica's trust and support," said Mitt Romney. "Like me, Congressman Mica understands that we need to cut spending, reduce government regulations and lower taxes to spur economic growth. With his help, I am confident we can spread this message across Florida and defeat President Obama in November 2012."
Announcing his support, Congressman Mica said, "It has not been my practice to endorse candidates in primary elections, but as I look at the direction our country has been taken under this President, I worry for our children and our grandchildren about our future. And, as I look at the field of candidates in this election, no one matches the outstanding business and elected executive credentials of Mitt Romney. He has the skills, experience and vision needed to defeat President Obama and turn around our economy. As a successful businessman and a fiscally-responsible governor, Mitt knows how to balance budgets and he understands how to create jobs. He has also laid out bold plans to cut taxes, shrink government and control our national deficit. I am proud to endorse his candidacy and I look forward to campaigning with him across the Sunshine State."
Background on Congressman Mica:
One of the I-4 corridor's most recognized and popular conservative leaders, John Mica has represented the 7th Congressional District of Florida since 1993.  Acknowledged as a national leader on transportation policy, he was chosen by his peers to chair the powerful House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in 2010.
Rep. Mica's public service experience includes two terms in the Florida House of Representatives and five years as Chief of Staff to the late U.S. Senator Paula Hawkins. Mica also established several successful business ventures including real estate, communications, international trade consulting and governmental affairs firms. Rep. Mica and his wife, Pat, were married in 1972 and have resided in Central Florida since they were married. 
  