
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Beth Harwell, Speaker of the Tennessee House of Representatives, along with an expanded group of Tennessee legislators working in support of his presidential campaign.
"I am honored to have earned the trust and support of such an outstanding conservative leader as Speaker Beth Harwell, and that of so many other Tennessee legislators who are working hard with her every day to support, and not hamper, the small businesses and entrepreneurs who are growing more jobs for Tennessee and our nation," Governor Romney said.  "I look forward to working with Beth and her colleagues to get our national economy moving again to create even more opportunities for more Tennesseans."
"As a former Governor and business leader, Mitt Romney is a chief executive who knows how to balance budgets and create more jobs," Speaker Harwell said. "Just as importantly, Governor Romney knows and is strongly committed to the principle that the states should take the lead on a variety of domestic policy issues which will help us right-size the federal government and protect our Tenth Amendment rights.  I strongly support and endorse Mitt Romney for President, and I look forward to working with him to help get America back on the right track."
Tennessee Elected Officials Joining Speaker Harwell In Endorsing Mitt Romney:
House Republican Caucus Chair Debra Young Maggart - Hendersonville
Rep. Harry Brooks - Knoxville
Rep. Phillip Johnson - Pegram
Tennessee Elected Officials Already Endorsing Mitt Romney:
Governor Bill Haslam
Former Governor Winfield Dunn
Congressman Jimmy Duncan
Congresswoman Diane Black
Congressman Phil Roe
Rep. Curtis Halford - Dyer
Rep. Mike Harrison - Rogersville
Rep. Ryan Haynes - Knoxville
Rep. Julia Hurley - Lenoir City
Rep. Curtis Johnson - Clarksville
Rep. Pat Marsh - Shelbyville
House Majority Leader Gerald McCormick - Chattanooga
Deputy Speaker Steve McDaniel - Parkers Crossroads
Rep. Steve McManus - Cordova
Rep. Richard Montgomery - Sevierville
House Majority Whip Barrett Rich - Somerville
Rep. Charles Sargent - Franklin
Rep. Mark White - Memphis
  