
    NEWT'S MESSAGE TO VOLUNTEERS AND SUPPORTERS
NEWT REPUDIATES INACCURATE SUPERPAC ADS:
In a press release today, Newt called for all inaccuracies be removed from ads supporting his candidacy.
"The American people have a right to know the facts about the records of the men and women who are asking them for their vote.
"This week, fact check organizations like The Washington Post and Politifact have ranked advertisements produced by Super-PACs supporting Governor Romney and myself as containing enormous inaccuracies.
"I am calling for the Winning Our Future Super-PAC supporting me to either edit its "King of Bain" advertisement and movie to remove its inaccuracies, or to pull it off the air and off the internet entirely. 
"Furthermore, I am once again calling on Governor Romney to issue a similar call for the Super-PAC supporting him to edit or remove its ads which have been shown to contain gross inaccuracies, something the Governor has thus far refused to do."
SOUTH CAROLINA POLLS:
The InsiderAdvantage poll says Mitt Romney is at 23%, Newt at 21, and Rick Santorum is at 14.
American Research group released a poll today that has Romney at 29%, Newt at 25%, and Santorum at 7%.
Public Policy Polling also released a poll today that has Newt gaining and Romney slipping, with Romney at 29% and Newt at 24%.
NEWT 2012 ANNOUNCES FAITH LEADERS COALITION:
The Gingrich Faith Leaders Coalition will be led by George Barna who has been hailed as "the most quoted person in the Christian Church today" having founded one of the country's preeminent Christian polling and market research firms. 
Barna, who has never before endorsed a political candidate, explained in a statement that he broke his precedent in endorsing Gingrich to restore the "American vision."
Barna will lead a team of 4 national co-chairs, including Dr. Jim Garlow, the California pastor behind the Proposition 8 Battle, Congressman J.C. Watts, Don Wildmon of the American Family Association, and Mat Staver, Founder and Chairman of Liberty Counsel.
The coalition will assist Gingrich to engage with thousands of Christians across the country, and is already working with the candidate on a White House initiative to defend religious liberty.
TIM AND BEVERLY LAHAYE WILL ENDORSE NEWT:
David Brody, who had the story first, writes: "Tim LaHaye is the author of the famous Christian 'Left Behind' book series and Beverly LaHaye is the original founder of Concerned Women For America."
He adds that the couple is "very well respected and well liked in the broader evangelical community."
"THE FRENCH CONNECTION":
Newt 2012 released a new ad Thursday. You can view it here.
INTERVIEW WITH PIERS MORGAN:
Video of the in-depth interview.
  