
    Pool Reports by Brian Bennett, Time Magazine 



Sent:
Reports:




January 25, 202309:15

In town pool report #1 - checking in
Greetings from the White House. I'll be your print pooler for the day. The White House has called a "brunch lid" until 11:30 am.
Note that Biden will give remarks on Ukraine at noon from the Roosevelt Room.
12:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on continued support for Ukraine Roosevelt Room (Gather 11:50 AM -- Brady Press Briefing Room)In-House Pool



January 25, 202310:42

In town pool report #2 - Kirby to join briefing
Passing along this note from the White House: NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing today.
(The press briefing is scheduled for 1:30 pm.)



January 25, 202311:26

In town pool report #3 - Biden calls on Ukraine
From the White House press office:
President Biden spoke this morning with President Macron of France, Chancellor Scholz of Germany, Prime Minister Meloni of Italy, and Prime Minister Sunak of the United Kingdom as part of our close coordination on support for Ukraine.



January 25, 202312:30

In town pool report #4 - Biden remarks, answered one question on Germany and tanks
Biden walked into the Roosevelt Room at 12:01 pm. Secretary Blinken and Secretary Austin stood behind him. He spoke for about 10 minutes.
CSPAN has video of Biden's remarks on Ukraine here.
Biden announced the US would send 31 Abrams tanks to Ukraine. Biden on Ukraine: "They need an enduring capability to deter and defend from Russian aggression"
He said the U.S. will give Ukraine parts and training needed to use the M1 Abrams.
Biden: "Delivering these tanks to the field is going to take time."
Biden thanked the German chancellor. Biden: "Germany has really stepped up." He also mentioned the contributions of many other allied countries.
Biden: "Today's announcement builds on the hard work and commitment of countries around the world, led by the United States of America, to help Ukraine defend its sovereignty and its territorial integrity. That's what this is about, helping Ukraine defend, protect Ukrainian land. It is not an offensive threat to Russia. There is no offensive threat to Russia. If the troops returned to Russia where they belonged, this war would be over today."
Biden on allies: "We are united. America is united. So is the world."
Biden: "These tanks are further evidence of our enduring, unflagging commitment to Ukraine and our confidence in the skill of the Ukrainian forces."
Biden mentioned that today is Zelensky's birthday "We're with you for as long as it takes, Mr. President."
Biden answered one shouted question:
Q: Why are you taking this decision now? Did Germany force you to change your mind on sending tanks?
Biden: "Germany didn't force me to change my mind. I wanted to make sure we are all together.
As Biden walked out, he did not respond to these questions: Any response to the Pence disclosures on classified documents? Are the searches of your homes completed? When is Jeff Zients starting as your next chief of staff? Will you search Rehoboth?



January 25, 202316:37

In town pool report #5 - lid
White House called a lid at 4:20 pm.
Just before the lid was called, Sen. Bernie Sanders came out to the stakeout location in front of the West Wing doors and spoke to reporters about his meeting this afternoon with President Biden. Sanders said that he and Biden discussed ways to lower the cost of prescription drugs. Sanders also talked about protecting Social Security and Medicare and raising the federal minimum wage.
Also, if you are in D.C. tomorrow, there will be a celebration of life for our New York Times colleague  Blake Hounshell, who died on Jan. 10. It will be held at 11 a.m. at the 6th & I Synagogue in Washington.
Signing off for now,




  