
    By virtue of the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to affirm our commitment that each Federal dollar spent on design shall be viewed as an investment in enriching the quality of American life, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-101. To encourage good design within the Federal Government, there is hereby established an interagency Design Liaison Council composed of the heads of the following agencies or their designees:
Department of State.
Department of the Treasury.
Department of Defense.
Department of Justice.
Department of the Interior.
Department of Agriculture.
Department of Commerce.
Department of Labor.
Department of Health and Human Services.
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Department of Transportation.
Department of Energy.
Department of Education.
Environmental Protection Agency.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Office of Personnel Management.
General Services Administration.
Veterans' Administration.
International Communication Agency.
Small Business Administration.
Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities.
1-102. The following agencies are invited to participate in the activities of the Design Liaison Council:
Commission on Fine Arts.
Smithsonian Institution.
U.S. Postal Service.
Tennessee Valley Authority.
1-103. The representative of the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities shall chair the Design Liaison Council.
1-104. Representatives of other interested agencies may be invited to participate in the functions of the Design Liaison Council.
1-105. For the purposes of this Order, "design" encompasses products and processes of architecture, energy conservation, engineering, graphic design, industrial and product design, interior design, landscape architecture, urban design and city planning, and other related disciplines.
1-106. The Design Liaison Council shall encourage the exchange of information and research on design issues among federal agencies. The Council shall also recommend those changes in agency standards and procedures which will enhance the functional and visual quality of design products and processes.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 16, 1981.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:23 a.m., January 19, 1981]
  