
    Powerful Spot Reminds Latino Voters What's at Stake in the 2020 Election, Will Run in Super Tuesday States and Beyond
NEW YORK, NEW YORK — In his first Spanish language campaign ad, released today, Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg emphasized the stakes for Latino voters in the 2020 presidential election and the importance of defeating President Trump in November. The ad begins running today in 26 local media markets, including TV and digital platforms.
The ad reflects Mike's record of accomplishment as a problem-solver and a one-of-a-kind leader with experience in business, government, and philanthropy.
As Mayor of New York City, he created nearly 500,000 jobs and helped the city recover from a great recession faster than the rest of the country. He worked to improve public education and increased graduation rates for Latino youth from 40 to nearly 53 percent, a 31 percent improvement. The grandson of immigrants, Mike believes in the power of the American Dream. Throughout his career, he has been a passionate advocate for welcoming immigrants and fixing the broken immigration system.
Mike ends the ad speaking directly to voters, "Juntos vamos a reconstruir la nación," translating to "together we we rebuild the country."
English translation of the ad is below:
We cannot continue to be divided in a world in upheaval.
That's why Mike Bloomberg decided to run for president, applying his determination, honesty and experience.
He is a world leader in the fight against global warming.
As a philanthropist, he is standing up with tenacity against the gun lobby.
As a businessman, he created thousands of jobs with good salaries and great benefits.
As Mayor, he rebuilt New York City after 9/11 and fought to improve public schools.
Throughout his life he has worked hard, demonstrated ingenuity, and shown to have a big heart, qualities that he learned growing up in a humble middle-class family.
Now, Mike Bloomberg is ready to lead us without dividing us, because only united we will march towards a better future.
Mike: Together we will rebuild the nation. I am Mike Bloomberg and I approve this message.
Disclaimer: Paid for by Mike Bloomberg 2020. Approved by Mike Bloomberg.
  