
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Columbia, SC – Today, at a Staples Store in Columbia, South Carolina, Governor Mitt Romney discussed his strategy for building a stronger economy. At this time when our economy is so fragile, Governor Romney believes that we need an economic stimulus package that will help companies and workers alike. Washington knows the challenges our economy confronts and now must take action. Below are excerpts of Governor Romney's remarks:
"I continue to believe that the issue that people are focusing on is the issue of jobs and our economy and how we make sure this economy stays strong. I will be releasing soon my economic stimulus plan to give the economy a short-term boost, but I also want to point out that the long-term growth of our economy is essential. We're in a competition with other parts of the world that we've never competed with for good jobs and we're going to see jobs continue to leave this country unless we have a President who understands how the economy works and is willing to fight for every single job. I know there is a defeatist, pessimist attitude that says, 'Hey, those jobs are gone, they're gone forever.' Well, I'm not going to sign up for that. I'm going to always be optimistic. I'm going to fight for every job.
"I'm going to make sure we do everything we can to preserve and protect the best jobs in this country. It means we're going to be bringing technology back to the country that will allow us to be more competitive in places we have lost our competitiveness, and we'll also invest in new industries. Of course, there's dynamism in our economy and there are sectors of the economy which grow and change over time, but we can always be the nation which leads the dynamic, which leads in the development of new technology and which leads in the creation of new jobs. I hope that I can be the President that will do just that."
...
"I'll be talking about my short-term economic plan within the next day or two, and we'll give you those particulars. I do believe it makes sense for Congress to take immediate action. The consequence of the economy falling into a recession is one which can be calculated in large numbers for the government, but in very important, heartfelt changes for the families of America, and preventing recession is an important responsibility of government. There is an opportunity to do that, and I believe that an economic stimulus plan is in order, and that it should be acted upon immediately. And that is something which I'll be releasing in the next day or two."
To read more about Governor Romney's economic strategy, please click here .
  