
    PRESIDENT AL SISI: (As interpreted.) Allow me, Mr. Vice President, to welcome you as a dear guest to Egypt, and please convey my greetings and appreciation to my friend, President Trump, and to the whole American nation.
Mr. Vice President, your visit speaks volume of the size and depth of the strategic relations between Egypt and the United States. It also provides a very good opportunity to discuss all areas of cooperation and the issues of mutual concern. We will also address the issues in the region and the urgent issues concerning counterterrorism, and ways how to eliminate this disease of cancer that has terrified the whole world.
We will also have an opportunity to discuss peace and peace issues as one of the most important issues here in this region.
Mr. Vice President, we highly appreciate to come to Egypt as your first stop in your tour of the region. This is a real reflection of the level and depth of the bilateral relations that bind our two countries together.
Once again, we welcome you, Mr. Vice President, as a dear guest to us.
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE: Well, thank you, President Al Sisi, for the hospitality and for the discussions that have already taken place and will continue. The strategic partnership that exists between the United States of America and Egypt is of great importance to the American people.
And on my first trip to the Middle East as Vice President, we thought it was reflective of that historic, strategic partnership that we come to Egypt first. And I'm grateful for your hospitality.
As I said to you, I bring you greetings from your friend, the President of the United States, who sends his gratitude to you for your leadership on economic reforms that have brought about the renewed prosperity in Egypt and renewed commercial exchange between our countries.
The broader relationship between the United States of America and Egypt has also been renewed in the last year. After a time where our countries seemed to be drifting apart in the last year, thanks to your leadership and the relationship that you and President Trump has forged, we believe the ties between Egypt and the United States have never been stronger.
We are united not just in commerce and in prosperity, but most importantly, in a commitment to security. We stand shoulder-to-shoulder with you in Egypt in the fight against terrorism. Our hearts grieve as Americans for the loss of life to terrorist attacks that have taken place against the Coptic Christian community here in the last year, and, of course, the horrific attack on a mosque this last November that claimed the lives of more than 300 innocent men, women, and children.
We resolve to continue to stand with Egypt in the battle against terrorism. And, Mr. President, we're grateful for your leadership in that cause.
We've had productive discussions today on a broad range of issues of mutual concern in the relationship between the United States and Egypt, and also in the wider region. And I'm confident, as we work through those issues, we will continue to do so as partners and as friends.
And I thank you for your commitment to this relationship, the strategic partnership, and I thank you for your great hospitality.
PRESIDENT AL SISI: (As interpreted.) Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE: Thank you.
  