
    Klobuchar Receives 18th Endorsement from a Sitting Iowa Legislator
DES MOINES, IA — With just days to go until the Iowa Caucuses, State Representative Dave Williams today announced his endorsement of U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for President. Williams, whose district includes Waterloo, cited Klobuchar's track record of championing working families and her ability to unite the country in announcing his support for her campaign.
"Amy Klobuchar's extensive record of legislative achievement and bipartisan cooperation is second to none," said Iowa State Representative Dave Williams. "Throughout her career, Amy has put the needs of working families above partisanship. Her top priorities as President will be creating new jobs and making important investments in education, health care and the environment -- things that directly impact the daily lives of Iowans like my constituents. I'm proud to support her campaign and look forward to caucusing for her on February 3."
Born and raised in Iowa, Williams spent 36 years as an engineer and manager at John Deere. He retired in 2008 and began teaching at the University of Northern Iowa. He was elected to the State House in 2018 and currently serves on the Appropriations, Education, Budget, Commerce, Transportation, and Agriculture committees.
Klobuchar now has the support of 18 current Iowa legislators -- more than any other candidate in the field. Other sitting Iowa legislators supporting her include:
• Iowa Senator Rob Hogg• Iowa Senator Kevin Kinney• Iowa Senator Liz Mathis• Iowa Senator Rich Taylor• Iowa Senator Todd Taylor• Iowa Representative Marti Anderson• Iowa Representative Bruce Bearinger• Iowa Representative Karin Derry• Iowa Representative Molly Donahue• Iowa Representative Ruth Ann Gaines• Iowa Representative Chris Hall• Iowa Representative Monica Kurth• Iowa Representative Charlie McConkey• Iowa Representative Andy McKean• Iowa Representative Sharon Steckman• Iowa Representative Ross Wilburn• Iowa Representative Cindy Winckler
  