
    To the Congress of the United States:
The United States of America has recognized the Government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal government of China and is establishing diplomatic relations with that government. The Joint Communiqué issued by the United States and the People's Republic of China was the culmination of a long process begun by President Nixon and continued by President Ford and me.
I have also announced that, in the future, the American people will maintain commercial, cultural, and other relations with the people on Taiwan without official government representation and without diplomatic relations. In furtherance of that policy, and pending enactment of legislation on the subject, I have directed all departments and agencies to continue unofficially to conduct programs, transactions and other relations with Taiwan.
To authorize legally the permanent implementation of that policy, I am today transmitting to the Congress a bill "to promote the foreign policy of the United States through the maintenance of commercial, cultural and other relations with the people on Taiwan on an unofficial basis, and for other purposes."
This bill will confirm the continued eligibility of the people on Taiwan for participation in programs and activities that under United States law are to be carried out with foreign governments; provide for the carrying out of such programs and activities on an unofficial basis through the American Institute in Taiwan, a non-profit corporation, and the corresponding instrumentality being established by the people on Taiwan; and establish funding, staffing and administrative relationships of the Institute. It also contains other authorizations and provisions relating to the foregoing matters.
I am confident the Congress shares my view that it is in the national interest that these unofficial relations between the American people and the people on Taiwan be maintained. It is highly desirable that this legislation be enacted as promptly as possible. I look forward to working with the Congress on this important project.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 26, 1979.
  