
    WASHINGTON – Today, President-elect Barack Obama named Nancy Killefer as Chief Performance Officer. Obama also announced that he intends to nominate Killefer as Deputy Director for Management at the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
President-elect Obama said, "Meeting the challenges of rebuilding our economy and bringing a new sense of responsibility to Washington isn't just about rearranging numbers on a balance sheet – it's about renewing people's trust in their leadership. Because in order to restore confidence in our economy, we must restore the American people's confidence in their government – that it's on their side, spending their money wisely, to meet their families' needs. I am confident that with Nancy's leadership, and the efforts of leaders on both sides of the aisle, we will do just that."
The announcement made today is below:
Nancy Killefer, Chief Performance Officer; Nominee for Deputy Director for Management at the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
Killefer is currently a Senior Director in McKinsey & Company's Washington, D.C. office, where she is the leader of McKinsey's Public Sector Practice. Killefer served as Assistant Secretary for Management, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Operating Officer at the United States Department of the Treasury from 1997 to 2000. In addition to overall management responsibilities for the Treasury's fourteen bureaus and 160,000 staff members, she led a major modernization at the Internal Revenue Service and reshaped Treasury management processes. After returning to McKinsey in 2000, she joined the IRS Oversight Board, a public-private entity akin to a corporate board that oversees its IRS. She served there from 2000 to 2005 and was its Chairperson from 2002 to 2004. Killefer currently sits on the boards of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Partnership for Public Service, and Vital Voices, a non-governmental organization that empowers female leaders and entrepreneurs around the world. Prior to joining McKinsey, Killefer worked as an associate at Charles River Associates, a microeconomics consulting firm. She holds an honors degree in economics from Vassar College and an M.B.A. from the Sloan School of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
  