
    
  Featured Latter-day Saints brothers and sisters who support Dr. Paul hail from Churchill, Clark, and Washoe counties

HENDERSON, Nevada — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign announced today new members of its active "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition.
Today's additions hail from Churchill, Clark, and Washoe counties, all Nevada. The coalition members have pledged to spread the word about Dr. Paul among their respective communities, stakes, wards, and branches.
Fallon resident Janet Brown cites Dr. Paul as a "hero" for his principles stating, "I have followed his voting record for around 30 years, and he has consistently stood for the Constitution and truth. He exemplifies the same principles as former Church President Ezra Taft Benson. Ron Paul is a man that won't compromise those principles and I believe he will go down in history as a great defender of liberty."
Steve Sparti of Las Vegas wrote the Ron Paul Nevada campaign organization, describing the similarities between Dr. Paul and the late Church President David O. McKay.
"I support Ron Paul because he is the only candidate with real solutions to the real problems we face. He has consistently stood up to big government, fake conservatives, and his voting record shows that he stands by the Constitution and won't vote to increase the debt," said Mr. Sparti.
"Ron Paul knows that it is only through free agency and personal responsibility that America can and will be great," added Mr. Sparti.
Alluding to Ron Paul's 'Plan to Restore America,' Reno-area resident Michael Orton explained his support for Ron Paul, noting that he supports the 12-term Congressman from Texas in part "because he is fiscally responsible." Dr. Paul, Mr. Orton said, "[h]as a good plan to get our country back on track and fix our economy. I think he is the only candidate who means what he says and will stick to his guns when elected. It is time to cut wasteful spending, restore responsibility to the White House, and get this country back to work."
Concerning the active "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" coalition, this announcement follows the high-profile endorsements of Overstock.com President Jonathan Johnson, prominent author and chair of the Utah Tenth Amendment Center Connor Boyack, and that of Utah Republican Liberty Caucus Chair Darcy Van Orden.
All such announcements help present Ron Paul as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney and demonstrate that no presidential candidate has a monopoly on this crucial western states voter segment.
As a function of this announcement, the above-mentioned persons are all members of the "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition, in particular its Nevada steering committee.
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the "Latter-day Saints for Ron Paul" nationwide coalition should visit the official page by clicking here. Prospective members should also send an email to nvcoalitions@ronpaul2012.com, writing the coalition name in the subject line.
  