
    Pool Reports by Alex Leary, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




January 11, 202206:42

Travel pool report #1
From the White House:
Traveling or meeting with the President and the Vice President in Atlanta, Georgia:
Traveling with the President to Atlanta, Georgia on Air Force One:

Senator Raphael Warnock (GA)
Congresswoman Nikema Williams (GA-05)
Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02)
Congresswoman Lucy McBath (GA-06)
Congresswoman Carolyn Bourdeaux (GA-07)
Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-04)
Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL)
Keisha Lance Bottoms, Vice Chair of Civic Engagement and Voter Protection, Democratic National Committee; Former Mayor of Atlanta

Traveling with the Vice President to Atlanta, Georgia on Air Force Two:

Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)
Senator Alex Padilla (CA)
Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03)
Congresswoman Terri Sewell (AL-07)
Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-03)

Greeting the President and the Vice President upon arrival at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport:

Mayor Andre Dickens (Atlanta, GA)

At the Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change, the President and the Vice President will meet with the immediate family of Martin Luther King, Jr.:

Dr. Bernice A. King, Daughter of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Martin Luther King III, Son of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Arndrea Waters King, Wife of Martin Luther King III
Yolanda Renee King, Daughter of Martin Luther King III and Arndrea Waters King

At Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church, the President and the Vice President will meet with members of the Georgia congressional delegation:

Senator Raphael Warnock (GA), Co-Pastor of the Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church
Senator Jon Ossoff (GA)
Congresswoman Nikema Williams (GA-05)
Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02)
Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-04)
Congresswoman Lucy McBath (GA-06)
Congresswoman Carolyn Bourdeaux (GA-07)

Attending the President's and the Vice President's remarks at the Atlanta University Center Consortium on the grounds of Morehouse College and Clark Atlanta University:
Congressional Delegation:

Senator Raphael Warnock (GA)
Senator Jon Ossoff (GA)
Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02)
Congresswoman Lucy McBath (GA-06)
Congresswoman Carolyn Bourdeaux (GA-07)
Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-04)
Congresswoman Nikema Williams (GA-05)
Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Senator Alex Padilla (CA)
Congresswoman Terri Sewell (AL-07)
Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03)
Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL)
Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-03)

Local Elected Officials:

Mayor Andre Dickens (Atlanta, GA)
DeKalb County Commissioner Larry Johnson, President, National Association of Counties
Members of the Georgia General Assembly
Local elected officials, including Fulton and DeKalb County Commissioners

Civil Rights and Voting Rights Leaders:

Rev. Jesse Jackson, Founder Rainbow PUSH Coalition
Rev. Al Sharpton, Founder, National Action Network
Marc Morial, President, National Urban League
Derrick Johnson, President and CEO, NAACP
Damon Hewitt, President and Executive Director, Lawyers Committee
Melanie Campbell, CEO, National Coalition on Black Civic Participation
Santiago Marquez, CEO, The Latin American Association
Frankie Miranda, President and CEO, Hispanic Federation
Gigi Pedraza, Executive Director, Latino Community Fund
Maria Teresa Kumar, President and CEO, VOTO Latino
Virginia Kase Solomon, CEO, League of Women Voters
Margaret Huang, CEO, Southern Poverty Law Center
Ben Jealous, President, People for the American Way
Andrea Young, Executive Director, ACLU of Georgia
Bishop Leah Daughtry, Campaign Manager, Fighting for Our Vote

University Presidents:

David Thomas, President, Morehouse College
George French, President, Clark Atlanta University
Kevin James, President, Morris Brown College

Other Notable Attendees:

Keisha Lance Bottoms, Vice Chair of Civic Engagement and Voter Protection, Democratic National Committee; Former Mayor of Atlanta
Former Senator Doug Jones (AL)

Returning with the President to Washington, DC on Air Force One:

Senator Jon Ossoff (GA)
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)
Senator Alex Padilla (CA)
Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03)
Congresswoman Terri Sewell (AL-07)
Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-03)
Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL)

Returning with the Vice President to Washington, DC on Air Force Two:

Congresswoman Nikema Williams (GA-05)
Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02)
Congresswoman Lucy McBath (GA-06)
Congresswoman Carolyn Bourdeaux (GA-07)
Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-04)

Background on the sites the President and the Vice President will visit in Atlanta, Georgia:
The King Center:
Established in 1968 by Mrs. Coretta Scott King, The Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change ("The King Center") has been a global destination, resource center and community institution for over a quarter century. Nearly a million people each year make a pilgrimage to the National Historic Site to learn, be inspired and pay their respects to Dr. King's legacy.
Both a traditional memorial and programmatic nonprofit, the King Center was envisioned by its founder to be "no dead monument, but a living memorial filled with all the vitality that was his, a center of human endeavor, committed to the causes for which he lived and died." That vision was carried out through educational and community programs until Mrs. King's retirement in the mid-1990's, and today it's being revitalized.
Squarely-focused on serving as both a local and global resource, the King Center is dedicated to educating the world on the life, legacy and teachings of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., inspiring new generations to carry forward his unfinished work, strengthen causes and empower change-makers who are continuing his efforts today.
Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church:
Ebenezer Baptist Church was founded in 1886, nine years after reconstruction ended. A band of thirteen faithful people united under the leadership of the Rev. John A. Parker, who served as first pastor at the original site on Airline Street from 1886 to 1894.
Rev. Martin Luther King, Sr., known as "Daddy King," served as assistant pastor from 1927 to 1930, and became pastor of Ebenezer in 1931, following the death of Rev. Adam Daniel Williams. In 1960, his oldest son, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., joined his father as co-pastor, giving Ebenezer international stature. He remained in that position until his death in 1968. As a final farewell to his spiritual home, Dr. King, Jr.'s funeral was held in the church. Following Dr. King Jr.'s assassination, the Rev. Alfred Daniel Williams King replaced his brother as Ebenezer's second co-pastor until his own death in 1969. The Rev. King, Sr. retired on August 1, 1975, after forty-four years of tremendous service to Ebenezer and the world.
In 1980, the Martin Luther King, Jr., National Historic Site was established. The site is composed of several buildings located around the King home on Auburn Avenue in Atlanta's historic Sweet Auburn district. Today, Ebenezer Baptist, with a congregation of over 6,000, continues to serve the Atlanta community in the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site.
Senator Reverend Dr. Raphael Warnock served as senior pastor of the church from 2005 until his election in 2021, and he remains a co-pastor today. Senator Warnock was only the fifth minister to lead the Ebenezer congregation in its 131-year history. One of his foremost accomplishments was the completion of the Martin Luther King, Sr. Community Resource Complex. This facility houses the Ebenezer Collaborative, which provides support to the Atlanta community at large.
Atlanta University Center (AUC) Consortium:
The President and the Vice President's speeches will be delivered outside of Charles Merrill Hall at the Atlanta University Center (AUC) Consortium on the grounds of Morehouse College and Clark Atlanta University. The center acts as a crossroads for students of four historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs), including Clark Atlanta University, Spelman College, Morehouse College, and the Morehouse School of Medicine.
These institutions are part of the long history of civil rights activism in Georgia, and many of their students participated in the Civil Rights Movement through sit-ins and protest throughout the 1960s. Clark Atlanta University was the first institution in the country to award graduate degrees to African-Americans, Morehouse College is the world's only HBCU for men and is Martin Luther King, Jr.'s alma mater, and Spelman College is the oldest private historically black liberal arts college for women.



January 11, 202211:05

Travel pool report #2 (JBA departure) 
Greetings from JBA, where it's 24 degrees.
M1 landed at 10:59 a.m. and POTUS, boarded AF1 at 11:03 a.m., waving to the pool but not stopping for questions. (He took some leaving the WH, including one regarding the absence of Stacey Abrams; see in-town pool report for details.)
We'll soon be wheels up for Atlanta. White House press secretary Jen Psaki is scheduled to gaggle on the plane.
Refer to travel pool report #1 for a list of travelers and others who will attend events.



January 11, 202212:43

Travel pool report #3 (Atlanta arrival) 
AF1 landed at Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport at 12:40 p.m. (11:13 a.m. wheels up at JBA).
We will motorcade to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change. There, POTUS and VPOTUS will privately meet with the King family before participating in a wreath laying at the crypt of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Mrs. Coretta Scott King.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki provided more details in her gaggle.



January 11, 202213:07

Travel pool report #4 (VP joins up with POTUS; motorcade on move) 
VPOTUS, whose plane was already parked nearby, came to AF1 via SUV and boarded. She and POTUS deplaned together at 1 p.m., after traveling guests, and spoke briefly with Atlanta Mayor Andre Dickens.
They then greeted a woman in a long pink coat, identified as the mayor's daughter, Bailey Dickens. Today is her birthday, per WH.
Motorcade on the move at 1:06 p.m.
Thanks to co-pooler Emily Goodin.
For the record, here is additional info released as we prepared to leave JBA (some of it echoes previous list):
Upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
• Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Atlanta, Georgia:
• Senator Raphael Warnock (GA)• Congresswoman Nikema Williams (GA-05)• Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02)• Congresswoman Lucy McBath (GA-06)• Congresswoman Carolyn Bourdeaux (GA-07)• Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-04)• Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL)• Keisha Lance Bottoms, Vice Chair of Civic Engagement and Voter Protection, Democratic National Committee; Former Mayor of Atlanta• Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff• Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement• Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations• Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary• Shuwanza Goff, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & House Liaison• Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations• Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs• Jeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter• Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director• Neera Tanden, Staff Secretary and Senior Advisor to the President
Traveling with the Vice President to Atlanta, Georgia on Air Force Two:
• Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)• Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)• Senator Alex Padilla (CA)• Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03)• Congresswoman Terri Sewell (AL-07)• Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-03)• Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the Vice President• Jamal Simmons, Deputy Assistant to the President & Communications Director for the Vice President• Michael Collins, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Public Engagement & Intergovernmental Affairs• Kate Childs Graham, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting for the Office of the Vice President• Kristine Lucius, Director of Legislative Affairs for the Office of the Vice President• Sabrina Singh, Deputy Press Secretary for the Office of the Vice President



January 11, 202213:27

Travel pool report #5 (King Center arrival)
Motorcade arrived at 1:25 p.m.
Pool will hold in vans while POTUS and VPOTUS meet with King family.



January 11, 202214:50

Travel pool report #6 (wreath laying)
After privately meeting with the King family, POTUS and VPOTUS participated in a wreath laying at the crypt of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Mrs. Coretta Scott King, located at The Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change.
POTUS and VPOTUS emerged from a King Center building at 2:39 p.m. and walked down a covered walkway leading to the crypt, which rests in a sparking blue reflecting pool.
The President and Vice President stood at the left of the crypt though briefly stepped directly in front and bowed their heads. Neither spoke.
Martin Luther King III placed the wreath with family members looking on. The ceremony was over at 2:45 p.m.
The sky is clear blue and sunny. The temperature is a comfortable 48 degrees, though that's chilly for locals.
Among family members participating:
• Dr. Bernice A. King, Daughter of Martin Luther King, Jr.• Martin Luther King III, Son of Martin Luther King, Jr.• Arndrea Waters King, Wife of Martin Luther King III• Yolanda Renee King, Daughter of Martin Luther King III and Arndrea Waters King
Now at Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church. Pool will hold outside while POTUS and VPOTUS meet with the below members of the Georgia congressional delegation:
• Senator Raphael Warnock (GA), Co-Pastor of the Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church• Senator Jon Ossoff (GA)• Congresswoman Nikema Williams (GA-05)• Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02)• Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-04)• Congresswoman Lucy McBath (GA-06)• Congresswoman Carolyn Bourdeaux (GA-07)



January 11, 202214:57

Travel report #7 (POTUS at church: 'Keep the faith') 
POTUS and VPOTUS arrived at the church at 2:51 p.m. and were greeted at the entrance by Sen. Warnock, senior pastor of Historic Ebenezer Baptist Church.
Pool shouted two questions, including what did POTUS have to say to activists who are disappointed in him, and whether he has the votes needed to pass voting legislation.
"Keep the faith," POTUS replied, pulling down his mask.
Pool holding outside.



January 11, 202215:09

Travel pool report #8 (motorcade on move)
?At 3:06 p.m., motorcade is on the move.
Destination: Atlanta University Center Consortium on the grounds of Morehouse College and Clark Atlanta University, where POTUS will deliver his speech.



January 11, 202215:17

Travel pool report #9 (speech site arrival)
Motorcade arrived at speech site at 3:14 p.m.
Will send another report when POTUS begins. Speech is open press and widely available for viewing/listening.



January 11, 202216:08

Travel pool report #10 (speeches begin)
VPOTUS and POTUS took the stage at 4:05 p.m.
VPOTUS began speaking moments later.
Prior to the speeches, the Southwest Dekalb High School drumline performed to a crowd of dozens. The stage is situated on the college grounds, with a viewing riser and American flags in the background -- "sacred ground," as one speaker put it. MLK once walked here, among others.
Speaking order:
George French, President of Clark Atlantic UniversityDr. David Thomas, President of Morehouse College.
Introducing the Vice President:
Jillian Jackson, Spelman Student Government President



January 11, 202216:46

Travel pool report #11 (Biden speech concludes)
President Biden's speech concluded at 4:44 p.m. "Let's go get this done," was his final line.



January 11, 202217:35

Travel pool report #12 (motorcade on move)
POTUS participated in a photo line following his speech. At 5:33 p.m., motorcade is rolling for the airport.



January 11, 202217:52

Travel pool report #13 (leaving Atlanta) 
Motorcade returned to airport at 5:47 p.m.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 5:51 p.m. and we'll soon depart for JBA.
Per WH, returning with the President to Washington, DC on Air Force One:
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)Senator Alex Padilla (CA)Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03)Congresswoman Terri Sewell (AL-07)Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-03)Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL)
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffCedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public EngagementAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsJen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryShuwanza Goff, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & House LiaisonAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsCurtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral AffairsJeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorNeera Tanden, Staff Secretary and Senior Advisor to the PresidentDan Cluchey, Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing



January 11, 202219:22

Travel pool report #14 (JBA arrival) 
AF1 touched down at 7:21 p.m. (6:04 p.m. wheels up in Atlanta).



January 11, 202219:38

Travel pool report #15 (POTUS leaving JBA)
POTUS walked off AF1 at 7:30 p.m. and boarded M1 for the White House. It lifted off at 7:36 p.m.
Toward the end of the flight, Jen Psaki brought two guests into the press cabin for an otr chat: Jen O'Malley Dillon and Cedric Richmond.
That's it from the travel pool. Thanks again to co-pooler Emily Goodin and the rest of the journalists on the trip.




 
Pool Reports by Jerry Zremski, The Buffalo News 



Sent:
Reports:




January 11, 202210:36

Print pool report 1
Greetings. I'm your print pooler today, a task that largely consists of covering POTUS' departure and return from Georgia.
We are currently awaiting the president's departure on Marine One on a calm, clear but frigid day.
I will report again after the departure.



January 11, 202210:54

Pool report 2
POTUS exited the White House at 10:45 am and stopped briefly to chat with reporters.
On Stacey Abrams missing his Georgia events: " I spoke to Stacey this morning. We have a great relationship. We got our scheduling mixed up…We're all on the same page."
I may have more to add after I listen to my recording.
Marine One departed the South Lawn at 10:51 a.m.



January 11, 202211:18

Print pool report 3 — more from Biden
Asked if he was insulted that Stacey Abrams was skipping his speech today, Biden said: "I'm insulted that you asked the question."
He ended his comments on Abrams saying "everything is fine" between the two of them.
Asked what he risked by fighting for voting rights legislation, Biden said: "I risk not saying what I believe. That's what I risk. This is one of those defining moments. It really is. People are going to be judged, where were they before and where were they after the vote. History is going to judge this…And so the risk is making sure people understand just how important this is."
Asked about whether he was concerned about the progress that is being made against the pandemic, Biden said: "I am concerned about the pandemic just because worldwide it's not slowing up very much."
He said his administration has been able to provide aid to hospitals and to states that need it.
"That's what we're doing now, and I'm confident we are on the right track. Thank you," Biden said.
That's all from your pooler till POTUS returns this evening.



January 11, 202219:50

Print pool report 4
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 7:45 p.m. POTUS emerged at 7:47 and walked directly into the White House without stopping to talk to the pool.
Lid was declared at 7:49. Have a good night!




  