
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Exploratory Committee announced today that Republican Party leader and former Iowa Congressman Jim Nussle will join the Committee as a key supporter and advisor.
Mayor Giuliani praised the Congressman's years of dedicated public service and proven leadership stating, "I'm honored to have Jim Nussle join our team as I explore a campaign for President of the United States. Iowa Republicans know Jim Nussle's character and commitment to public service. They benefited from his leadership in Congress for more than a decade and saw Jim campaign across the state after he received their nomination for Governor last year. Jim Nussle will be a leader of our exploratory effort in Iowa and a valued advisor in our efforts across the nation."
In announcing his support for Giuliani, Congressman Nussle said, "Leadership is about results and right now America needs results. If we're going to move forward and realize progress, we need a proven leader who has gotten results and is ready to handle both the expected and unexpected challenges our country will face.
"Philosophy without progress is frustrating, and rhetoric without results is meaningless. As a proud and consistent conservative Republican, I want our Party and our ideas to have a voice. Even more importantly, I want our party and our ideas to achieve meaningful results for the entire nation.
"It is for these reasons I am honored to serve as a leader and be an advisor for former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani's exploratory effort in Iowa and across the country," Nussle stated.
Nussle continued, "Rudy Giuliani is the 'results Republican' our country needs. Mayor Giuliani governed with a brand of optimism and focus I have only seen a few times since I've been in public service. He put conservative ideals into action and delivered results.
"With a country deeply divided and a world full of uncertainty, we need an inclusive and principled leader who can bring the country together by focusing on the greater good, not picking partisan fights that fail to achieve meaningful results. Mayor Rudy Giuliani will put aside the partisanship that has divided us, tackle the difficult challenges at hand and give the rest of the country a principled leader we can all believe in," Nussle concluded.
  