
    Yesterday, the Biden-Harris Administration announced major steps forward on deploying wind, solar, transmission, and other clean energy projects to create good-paying, union jobs, lower costs for consumers, and deliver carbon pollution-free electricity across the country.
The Department of the Interior announced a record-breaking offshore wind lease sale, with the most lease areas ever offered, in the New York Bight off the coasts of New York and New Jersey. This sale is projected to generate up to 7 gigawatts (GW) of clean energy – powering two million homes, creating thousands of jobs, and helping reach the President's goal of 30 GW by 2030. New lease provisions will lead to projects built with union labor and Made in America materials, and actions from across agencies will support wind turbine manufacturing and innovation. The Administration also announced plans to leverage public lands for clean energy through a more efficient and collaborative review process.
To ensure that more Americans are connected to this cleaner, cheaper energy, the Department of Energy launched its Building a Better Grid initiative to accelerate the buildout of new transmission lines – as made possible by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
A broad coalition of labor, business, environmental, and congressional leaders, as well as state, and local officials are commending the Administration's bold steps to rapidly deploy clean energy, create good-paying jobs, and lower energy bills for consumers across the country.
See below for what they are saying:
State and Local Officials
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy: ""Offshore wind holds the tremendous promise for our future in terms of climate change, economic growth, strengthening our work force, and job creation. New Jersey is already committed to creating nearly one-quarter of the nation's offshore wind-generation market and these transformative projects are proof that climate action can drive investments in infrastructure and manufacturing, while creating good-paying, union jobs. By acting on this shared vision, we can promote our joint offshore wind goals, and deliver benefits to residents of both states, particularly those in overburdened communities. Together, with this critical cooperation with the Biden-Harris administration and our state partners, we will turn this vision of becoming a leader in the global offshore wind market into a reality." [Statement, 1/12/22]
New York Governor Kathy Hochul: "Here in New York, we are already living with the effects of climate change through extreme weather that pose a direct threat to our way of life. We must chart an ambitious path toward a cleaner energy economy now more than ever, and today's milestone further highlights New York's commitment to reaching its offshore wind goals. This effort will require collaboration at all levels, and I applaud the Biden Administration for their action and thank Secretary Haaland and BOEM, as well as New Jersey Governor Murphy, for their partnership as we build on New York's offshore wind energy development." [Statement, 1/12/22]
New York Commissioner Basil Seggos, Department of Environmental Conservation: "Exciting announcements from @POTUS on expanding #offshorewind, onshore renewables, and upgraded transmission lines. Working directly with @GovKathyHochul this is big news for New York's climate action and jobs efforts. @NYSERDA @NYSDEC @Doreen_M_Harris" [Tweet, 1/12/22]
New York State Energy Research & Development Authority President and Chief Executive Officer Doreen Harris: "2022 is off to a powerful start for #cleanenergy and #offshorewind! @POTUS @ENERGY @Interior @GovKathyHochul #climatechange action shows how we are coming together through state and federal action to reduce climate emissions and advance #jobs and #economicgrowth @BasilSeggos" [Tweet, 1/12/22]
New Jersey Economic Authority Chief Executive Officer Tim Sullivan: "One of the macro big keys to maximizing the economic benefits for the region from Offshore Wind has always been scale. @GovMurphy has always gotten that and so has NY. It's great to have federal partners who do too. This is big, very good news." [Tweet, 1/12/22]
The Climate Mayors: "Great news from the White House today on steps that will bring clean, affordable energy and jobs to cities and towns across the US." [Tweet, 1/12/22]
Labor Leaders
Liz Shuler, President, AFL-CIO: "Today I proudly joined @SecDebHaaland, @GovKathyHochul, and @GovMurphy to announce that the pending offshore wind lease sale in the NY Bight includes worker-centered provisions to ensure these clean energy projects are built with union labor and are Made in America." [Tweet, 1/12/22]
Lonnie R. Stephenson, International President, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers: "The IBEW's 775,000 members applaud the efforts of the Biden-Harris administration to hold a record-breaking offshore wind lease sale off the coasts of New York and New Jersey, and to ensure offshore wind projects will be built with union labor and material made in America. The New York Bight lease sale is projected to generate up to seven gigawatts of clean energy, which will power millions of homes and create thousands of good-paying jobs in nearby communities. By including innovative leasing provisions, bidders will be encouraged to enter into Project Labor Agreements (PLAs) that will use union labor. A new federal-state partnership will also ensure local residents — including underserved communities — will benefit from these new developments. Our members recognize and applaud the inter-agency work by the Departments of Transportation, Energy, and Interior to improve coordination and prioritize reviews for renewable energy projects that will lead to a brand new U.S. clean energy industry and the creation of 80,000 good-paying jobs by 2030. The IBEW supports the Administration's announcement of the new 'Building a Better Grid' initiative, which will support the nationwide buildout of long-distance, high-voltage transmission lines, as well as updates to the existing electric grid. The initiative will harness new funding made available through the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, the largest investment in the power grid in American history. IBEW members have built and maintained transmission lines and the electrical grid for over 130 years. We look forward to working with the Biden Administration to ensure this initiative will build the foundation for the new economy of the future with skilled union workers. IBEW members and apprentices stand ready to work with this administration to install and maintain the next generation of low-emission energy projects that will power America for decades to come." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Matthew Aracich, President, Building and Construction Trades Council of Nassau and Suffolk Counties: "The production of offshore wind energy in the New York Bight will mean more than just clean power; it means hope and new opportunities. The impact of BOEM's actions coupled with developing the region's Offshore Wind market will certainly change our environment and economy for the better. Reducing our dependency on fossil fuels is crucial and reaching that goal is a key element in ensuring the earth is on a path to heal itself for the next generation. Apprenticeship Training Programs are ready to capitalize on these initiatives and provide new careers for a generation of workers who want and deserve to be part of the middle class." [Statement, 1/12/22]
John R. Durso, President, Long Island Federation of Labor: "The Final Sale Notice for the New York Bight demonstrates that President Biden is determined to fight climate change while bringing a new industry to Long Island with jobs that provide good wages and benefits. Opening new lease areas for offshore wind development will create the opportunities for a new generation of workers to gain careers that will help our region build strong, resilient communities." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Business and Industry Leaders
Abigail Ross Hopper, President & CEO, Solar Energy Industries Association: "We commend President Biden and Vice President Harris for their efforts to speed clean energy deployment, invest in domestic manufacturing, and equitably grow the clean energy economy, all while creating well-paying American jobs across the country. The Biden Administration knows that in order to meet their ambitious clean energy goals, solar energy must grow four times faster than it is growing today, and that means focusing on deployment. Over the past year the administration has made substantial investments in clean energy deployment and enacted the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which contained numerous provisions to modernize our grid and invest in transmission infrastructure. We're pleased to see that the administration is doubling down on these priorities in 2022 and pressing forward on the Build Back Better Act. In particular, we're excited by the administration's interagency effort to make it easier to review and approve solar projects of all sizes. On the utility-scale side, we appreciate the interagency effort to prioritize the review of clean energy projects on public lands. This has long been a priority for the solar industry, and we hope the administration's efforts will help us reach 25 gigawatts of renewable energy to federal lands by 2025. We also appreciate the administration's continued support for SolarAPP+, a game-changing online tool that can expand solar accessibility by reducing residential solar permitting times from several weeks to just one day. Soft costs remain a persistent barrier to residential solar adoption, and SEIA helped create this tool so that all families can quickly and easily go solar. SEIA is proud to support the administration's efforts to deploy affordable clean energy and will continue to work alongside its members and partners to help make this vision a reality." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Clarke Bruno, Chief Executive Officer, Anbaric Development Partners: ""Today's announcement demonstrates the Biden Administration's commitment to developing a responsible, scalable, and sustainable offshore wind industry that prioritizes transmission infrastructure. By committing to evaluate critical transmission infrastructure processes and projects while also moving forward with action and funding to accelerate the growth of the wind industry across the U.S., the Biden Administration further demonstrates their understanding of what it takes to create a successful wind industry that can grow along with our nation's clean energy needs. We applaud the actions taken today and look forward to working alongside the Biden Administration and state leaders to develop the infrastructure needed to grow this clean energy industry quickly and responsibly." [Statement, 1/12/22]
David Hardy, Chief Executive Officer, Orsted U.S.: "Congrats to the @WhiteHouse Biden-Harris Administration for reaching this milestone. As the global leader in #offshore wind, we'll assess how we can use existing resources in the region to help #NJ and #NY meet their clean energy goals. #nybight" [Tweet, 1/12/22]
Dennis V. Arriola, Chief Executive Officer, AVANGRID: "As a leader in offshore wind, AVANGRID applauds the much anticipated announcement for a public auction for lease areas within the New York Bight. Given our 4.9 GW off-shore wind project portfolio, we look forward to participating in this historic auction. We have a strong track record of developing projects that incorporate all stakeholders and community interests in a way that brings not only clean energy benefits, but also sustainable economic and societal benefits through project labor agreements, workforce and supply chain development, and marine mammal protections." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Erik Milito, President, National Ocean Industries Association: "The New York Bight offshore wind lease sale is much anticipated and long awaited. It has been more than three years since the "bidding bonanza" lease sale offshore Massachusetts, and now we finally have a set date for what will be an incredible energy and economic opportunity. With their large economies and massive populations, New York and New Jersey are two coastal states critical to the development of American offshore wind. The benefits of the lease sale will go beyond New York and New Jersey and will support jobs and businesses throughout the U.S. We are just scratching the surface of what American offshore wind will achieve. NOIA applauds Interior and encourages them to keep up the momentum so that critical investments have the certainty needed to support our supply chain, ports, workers, and climate ambitions." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Liz Burdock, President and Chief Executive Officer, Business Network for Offshore Wind: "The long-anticipated leasing of the New York Bight creates a globally attractive market and is a giant step towards realizing the Biden Administration goal of developing 30 GW of offshore wind by 2030. These six new lease areas will draw in new investors and developers to the U.S. market and foster the competition that will catalyze major supply chain development regionally and nationally. Sustaining this momentum is critical to the federal government to support the new but quickly growing U.S. offshore wind manufacturing base and supply chain. With its potential to supply large-scale and dependable clean energy, the responsible development of offshore wind is still our best strategy to quickly decarbonizing our economy and mitigating the effects of climate change." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Edison Electric Institute: "Transmission is essential to achieving our clean energy goals & to enhancing energy grid resilience. EEI looks forward to working w/ leaders across the Biden admin. to improve policies & processes to evaluate & permit cost-effective transmission infrastructure. #Committed2Clean" [Tweet, 1/12/22]
Northeast Clean Energy Council: "Big doings in this latest release from @WhiteHouse, especially in #offshorewind & grid modernization. Main takeaway we are moving at an accelerated pace, giving states/cities the ability to drive toward a diverse clean energy economy." [Tweet, 1/12/22]
Members of Congress
Delaware Senator Tom Carper, Chairman, Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works: "At a time when we urgently need to ramp up our nation's deployment of clean energy, today's announcement is welcome news. Meeting our climate goals requires a well-coordinated approach across the U.S. economy—one that taps into American ingenuity and harnesses our most abundant resources, including the wind that blows off our coasts. President Biden recognizes the important role that the federal government has in leading our clean energy transition. The administration's actions—along with actions required under the bipartisan infrastructure law—will advance clean energy deployment across this country in a way that creates good-paying jobs and lowers energy costs for consumers. Still, it's time for Congress to do our part. We must pass the clean energy investments in Build Back Better Act and truly unleash our nation's clean energy future." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Massachusetts Senator Edward Markey, Chairman, Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Clean Air, Climate, and Nuclear Safety: "To create a livable future for the next generation, we need bold and effective policies to rapidly deploy clean energy sources like offshore wind. Today's announcement from the Biden administration shows that the United States will be a home for offshore wind generation, manufacturing, and good-paying union jobs. We can build on this baseline with the transformational policies to drive deployment of offshore wind turbines in U.S. waters and foster domestic manufacturing -- many of which are included in the Build Back Better Act. We cannot wait any longer. Let's put those winds to work." [Statement, 1/12/22]
New Jersey Congressman Frank Pallone, Jr., Chairman, House Energy and Commerce Committee: "Today's announcement will help us rapidly deploy offshore wind technology in New Jersey and build on the progress that we are already seeing in our state. We know that climate change is here and that states like New Jersey are on the front lines. Offshore wind promises to tackle the climate crisis head-on by delivering the benefits of clean energy as we transition to a clean economy. By investing in clean energy, we have a real opportunity to revitalize manufacturing, grow the domestic supply chain, and create new, good-paying jobs right here in New Jersey and across the country. I look forward to continuing my work with the Biden Administration to combat the climate crisis and invest in our economy for the future." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Florida Congresswoman Kathy Castor, Chairwoman, House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis: "Clean air, clean water, and clean energy are fundamental to the health and well-being of every American. Today's launch of the Building a Better Grid Initiative takes important steps to upgrade and expand the electric grid so that more Americans can benefit from affordable and abundant clean energy. I applaud Secretary Granholm for her leadership on this critical strategy to solve the climate crisis, improve public health and create high-quality jobs in America. I am determined to help communities lower costs with the transition to a resilient and clean energy economy and I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to ensure that the critical transmission investments in the Build Back Better Act reach President Biden's desk, so he can sign them into law." [Statement, 1/12/22]
New Jersey Congressman Bill Pascrell: ""Developing offshore wind is a foundational element of America's clean energy future and our region is proud to be at the forefront. This historic announcement is a huge step forward in tackling the climate crisis for future generations and creating good paying union jobs in New Jersey and across the nation. New Jerseyans welcome the Biden administration's announcement to build on our investments for a clean energy future." [Statement, 1/12/22]
New York Congressman Jerry Nadler: "Thankful that @SecDebHaaland & @POTUS have taken immediate action on my request to prioritize New York's offshore wind development. This effort has the potential to power nearly 2 million homes with clean energy & create thousands of good-paying union jobs for New Yorkers." [Tweet, 1/12/22]
New York Congresswoman Kathleen Rice: "I have long advocated for the advancement of offshore wind in the New York Bight, and today's announcement from the Biden Administration demonstrates true understanding of the economic and environmental benefits that this industry will provide our region. The lease sale of six new wind energy areas will support state and federal renewable energy generation goals as well as attract new investments in port infrastructure, workforce development, and advanced manufacturing. I also commend the Biden Administration for utilizing the lease sale to encourage Project Labor Agreements and incentivize Buy American provisions because we must create new jobs that provide living wages and grow domestic manufacturing." [Statement, 1/12/22]
New York Congressman Paul Tonko: "Clean energy offers us an incredible opportunity to create good-paying jobs, tackle the worsening climate crisis and strengthen our economy. For years I've pushed forward clean energy initiatives and legislation that would harness the power of offshore wind, modernize our grid to be more resilient and lower energy costs for Americans. Today's announcement by the Biden Administration is critical to building a better future for generations to come. I will not stop working to drive forward these advancements in Congress and look forward to continuing my work alongside President Biden to supercharge America's clean energy economy." [Statement, 1/12/22]
California Congressman Jared Huffman: "This offshore wind sale is good for our planet and the economy. Renewable energy is an essential tool in our fight against climate change and it creates good, reliable jobs. Exciting opportunity for the East Coast." [Tweet, 1/12/22]
Illinois Congressman Sean Casten: "I was incredibly proud to secure funding through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to accelerate the deployment of new transmission lines. @ENERGY is immediately getting to work to provide Americans with access to cleaner, cheaper energy! If you ask me, that's #FERCalicious." [Tweet, 1/12/22]
Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow: "These projects will create good-paying union jobs right here in Michigan while tackling the climate crisis! This is a win-win for our workers, economy, and environment. It's going to ensure that Michigan continues to lead the clean energy future." [Tweet, 1/12/22]
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee: "Great to see @Energy taking the steps to implement the important new authorities and funding enacted as part of the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to update our nation's electric grid." [Tweet, 1/12/22]
Advocacy Leaders and Organizations
Gregory Wetstone, President and Chief Executive Officer, American Council on Renewable Energy: "We applaud the Biden-Harris Administration on taking several bold actions today to deliver the clean energy Americans want and deserve, including a historic offshore lease auction, a multi-agency effort to expedite project reviews and a new initiative to facilitate transmission expansion. The President's record-breaking wind lease auction of more than 480,000 offshore acres in New York and New Jersey represents an important step toward meeting the administration's ambitious goals. This action charts a path forward for deploying 30 GW of offshore wind by the end of the decade while creating thousands of good-paying jobs. New efforts to improve inter-agency coordination and prioritize the review of renewable energy projects located on public lands will ensure the American people benefit from the best solar and wind resources this country has to offer through affordable and reliable renewable power. The new Building a Better Grid Initiative, enabled by the recently-passed Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, will unlock the potential of America's clean energy economy by catalyzing the nationwide buildout of the long-distance, high-voltage transmission lines we need to decarbonize the power grid and reduce costs for consumers." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Jason Walsh, Executive Director, Bluegreen Alliance: "This is a major first step to fulfill the promise of offshore wind in America. The introduction of large-scale offshore wind projects is overdue and will have a significant impact on the future of our energy systems. We applaud and thank the administration for not only promoting necessary clean energy projects, but for also ensuring that these projects lead to good-paying, unionized jobs that will directly support the communities they impact. The work of the BlueGreen Alliance and our partners and allies on the ground has been instrumental in advocating for responsibly developed offshore wind for years. Through our collective work we helped ensure the administration lifts up job quality and grows the supply chain for this emerging industry. Our nation's future, and a future in which we successfully address climate change, must follow the model set by this announcement. We can build the clean energy economy, fight climate change, and provide American workers with the good-paying, union jobs they need—all at the same time. We look forward to seeing this project through to completion and for the Biden administration to approve many more like it." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Christy Goldfuss, Senior Vice President for Energy and Environmental Policy, Center for American Progress: "The Biden administration is delivering on its commitment to create a clean energy future that includes good paying jobs and benefits for disadvantaged communities. Today's announcements will help modernize the electric grid and fuel economic growth. The largest offshore lease sale to date will keep and create good union jobs here at home through domestic manufacturing and American-made supply chains. Expediting clean energy deployment onshore will ensure that our public lands help tackle climate change rather than contribute to it. These are the benefits of taking climate action that can support communities across the country. The Biden administration is making good on its vision of a clean future. Now, it's time for Congress to do the same." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Mariah Dignan, Regional Director, Climate Jobs NY: "With today's Final Sale Notice on these six new lease areas in the New York Bight, the Biden Administration signaled the historic opportunity we have to create thousands of good union jobs in offshore wind, with a Project Labor Agreement requirement for construction of new wind farms. This crucial stipulation will propel working families forward for generations to come while taking an important step forward for the offshore wind industry, which can be an anchor of our energy future here on Long Island and throughout New York." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Adrienne Esposito, Executive Director, Citizens Campaign for the Environment: "Climate related disasters in 2021 cost us $145 billion dollars in recovery needs. Tornados, hurricanes, droughts, fires and heat waves are devasting to our economy and communities. We cannot afford to delay our nation's battel against the climate crises. Fortunately, the answer is blowing in the wind. We are delighted that the Administration is prioritizing the development of offshore wind. Our future depends on it." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Jessica Ennis, Legislative Director for Climate and Energy, Earthjustice: "The Biden administration recognizes that we need a whole of government approach to solve the climate crisis and build a clean energy economy. We are glad to see federal agencies working together to accelerate our transition to clean energy. Now Congress must do its part by passing the Build Back Better Act – the largest investment in climate and environmental justice in U.S. history. We urge the Senate to move quickly to make the transformative investments we need to meet the moment." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Heather Zichal, Chief Executive Officer, American Clean Power Association: "ACP applauds the announcement from the Biden-Harris administration to increase the deployment of clean energy projects and create more jobs across the country with a focus on offshore wind, expanding renewables on public lands and upgrades to the electrical transmission system. The actions announced today show that an entire whole-of-government approach is being brought to address the challenge of climate change. Under the leadership of Secretary Haaland and BOEM Director Lefton, moving ahead with the final sale notice for the New York Bight offshore wind energy area is an example of building a clean and sustainable energy future that will help foster economic development in the region's coastal communities while reducing harmful pollution. The lease sale is another key step in the Biden administration's goal of deploying 30 gigawatts of offshore wind energy by 2030. The American clean power industry is committed to working closely with the administration as we invest in American communities, create American jobs, and rapidly reduce our country's greenhouse gas emissions." [Statement, 1/12/22]
David Shadburn, Government Affairs Advocate for Climate Change and Clean Energy, League of Conservation Voters: "Today's announcements build on the Biden-Harris administration's commitment to tackling the climate crisis and creating good clean energy jobs. We are thrilled that the administration finalized plans to hold the largest offshore wind lease sale in U.S. history, all while centering environmental justice, providing good-paying union jobs with a project labor agreement, and looking comprehensively at the supply chain to ensure that the economic benefits of clean energy development are felt across the country. Today's actions also outline plans for upgrading and expanding critical transmission infrastructure, piloting a clean energy program to underserved rural communities, and more, all key components to meeting President Biden's commitments to install 25 gigawatts of renewable power by 2025 and 30 gigawatts of offshore wind power by 2030. These announcements also highlight how the Build Back Better Act is critical to meeting the clean energy deployment and emissions reduction targets that science and justice demand. The bill's clean energy tax credits and significant investments in transmission will supercharge the clean energy industry, create good-paying jobs, and put us on the path to slashing greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2030. The Senate must pass the Build Back Better Act without delay." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Julie Tighe, President, New York League of Conservation Voters: "From the Build Back Better Act to advancing clean energy projects, President Biden's administration is clearly prioritizing climate action. Today's announcement by BOEM of new lease areas for auction in the New York bight will accomplish critical goals in tandem: generate enough clean energy to power more than two million homes, cut our reliance on fossil fuels, and create good-paying union jobs. Offshore wind will continue to play a crucial role as we strive to fight climate change, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and green our grid, and we thank BOEM Administrator Amanda Lefton for her leadership on offshore wind development." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Fred Zalcman, Director, New York Offshore Wind Alliance: "BOEM's Final Sale Notice for the New York Bight is a major milestone in the development of a domestic U.S. offshore wind industry. The Biden Administration's unwavering commitment to the development of this new, clean and abundant renewable resource will pay significant dividends by spurring new investments in area ports and harbors, manufacturing capacity, and the next generation of skilled workers." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Allison Considine, Senior Campaign Representative, Sierra Club: "The announcement of up to 7GW of new lease areas for new offshore wind development is a victory for New York families, workers, and the climate. This marks a major milestone in achieving New York's goal of 9GW of offshore wind by 2035, and President Biden's goal of 30GW by 2030. Today's Final Sale Notice demonstrates that New York's goal of achieving 100% fossil-fuel-free electricity is not only feasible, it is breaking ground on new opportunities that will revitalize our economy and create a national leadership hub for responsible offshore wind development." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Matthew Bearzotti, Sierra Club Deputy Legislative Director: "Unleashing the potential of offshore wind is critical to addressing the climate crisis, achieving state and national climate goals, and is a massive opportunity for creating family-sustaining jobs in our communities. The Sierra Club applauds the Biden Administration for today's announcement. We look forward to the rapid growth of this sector and many more offshore wind projects, which will be enabled by matching strong climate leadership in the White House with historic investments in clean energy deployment and domestic clean energy manufacturing once Congress passes the Build Back Better Act." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Chase Huntley, Vice President of Strategy and Results, The Wilderness Society: ""The progress this administration has made to advance offshore wind and other renewable energy deployment is a valuable asset to a national climate strategy, although these announcements should not overshadow the long-awaited steps that must also be taken to ensure public lands and waters are an integral part of our nation's climate solutions. Today's announcements are welcome. We appreciate the restoration of Renewable Energy Coordination Offices for public lands and the central importance of early and meaningful engagement with Tribes and other communities historically excluded from discussions about planning and siting energy infrastructure. This rhetoric must be realized by the implementing agencies for these historic initiatives to be truly successful. But the administration needs to be turning all the knobs as far as they can for the sake of climate, especially on public lands. That includes protections for old growth and other carbon storing lands, and most importantly, an aggressive plan to wind down fossil energy production that ensures support for transitioning communities." [Statement, 1/12/22]
Labor Energy Partnership: "We need unprecedented, innovative projects like these in New York and New Jersey if we are going to deploy #offshorewind at the speed and scale necessary to achieve our #climate goals and create tens of thousands of good jobs. #EnergyTwitter #1u" [Tweet, 1/12/22]
  