
    
  President Clinton On The Relationship Between Two Washington Insiders

"[Hillary] and John McCain are very close. They always laugh that if they wound up being the nominees of their party, it would be the most civilized election in American history, and they're afraid they'd put the voters to sleep because they like and respect each other." – Former President Bill Clinton (Alexander Mooney, "Bill Clinton: John McCain And Hillary Are 'Very Close'," CNN's Political Ticker, Posted 1/25/08)
To watch Pres. Clinton discuss Sens. McCain and Clinton, click here: www.youtube.com/watch?v=dBYyn8tOIKY
Former President Bill Clinton Says That Hillary Clinton And John McCain "Are Very Close":
Former President Clinton: Sens. Clinton And McCain "Are Very Close." "'She and John McCain are very close,' [President Bill] Clinton said. 'They always laugh that if they wound up being the nominees of their party, it would be the most civilized election in American history, and they're afraid they'd put the voters to sleep because they like and respect each other.'" (Alexander Mooney, "Bill Clinton: John McCain And Hillary Are 'Very Close'," CNN's Political Ticker, http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com, Posted 1/25/08)
CNN: "If Hillary Clinton And John McCain Become Their Party's Presidential Nominees, The General Election Race Is Likely To Be A Love-Fest." "If Hillary Clinton and John McCain become their party's presidential nominees, the general election race is likely to be a love-fest. At least according to Bill Clinton. Campaigning in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Friday, the former president brushed aside suggestions his wife would prove to be a divisive nominee for the Democratic Party, pointing out how she has successfully worked with Republicans in the Senate - including one of the current GOP presidential candidates." (Alexander Mooney, "Bill Clinton: John McCain And Hillary Are 'Very Close'," CNN's Political Ticker, http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com, Posted 1/25/08)
Not Long Ago, Sen. McCain Even Said Hillary Clinton Would Be "A Good President":
McCain: "I Have No Doubt That Senator Clinton Would Make A Good President." "But then he [McCain] said: 'I happen to be a Republican and would support, obviously, a Republican nominee, but I have no doubt that Senator Clinton would make a good president.'" (Anne E. Kornblut, "2008 May Test Clinton's Bond With McCain," The New York Times, 7/29/06)
But Now, Sen. McCain Is Attempting To Distance Himself From Sen. Clinton:
President Clinton's Comments "May Not Be Welcomed By The McCain Camp." "'She and John McCain are very close,' [President Bill] Clinton said. ... The comments may not be welcome by the McCain camp - which yesterday faced fire from several of its rivals for winning the backing of the New York Times - a longtime archenemy of conservatives." (Alexander Mooney, "Bill Clinton: John McCain And Hillary Are 'Very Close'," CNN's Political Ticker, http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com, Posted 1/25/08)
Sen. McCain Has Had To "Distance" Himself From Clinton. "A friendly relationship, or just the appearance of one, brings risks and advantages to both, although political strategists agreed it was wise for Mr. McCain to distance himself from Mrs. Clinton. (One reason is that Republicans said they could imagine a photograph of Mr. McCain with Mrs. Clinton, considered one of the most polarizing Democrats in politics, being used in a negative ad during a Republican primary.) Mr. McCain is also weakest among conservative Republicans, who dislike his willingness to take independent stands and work with Democrats." (Anne E. Kornblut, "2008 May Test Clinton's Bond With McCain," The New York Times, 7/29/06)
Don't Forget – President Clinton Has Also Said He And Sen. Hillary Clinton Agree With Sen. McCain's Immigration Plan:
President Clinton: Hillary And I Agree With Sen. McCain's Immigration Bill. PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON: "Thirdly, I think the humane thing to do here is to give the people that are here and are working and have no law problems, except that they're not here legally, a chance to work their way into legal citizenship. You know, the vast majority of these people are completely law abiding, and they pay taxes, even, but they're not here lawfully. ... I talk to people, you know, and I try to figure out what's going on. I think that is the fairer system. It's also consistent with the bill that Senator McCain supported in the Senate. I think it's the right thing to do, and so does Hillary." (Pres. Bill Clinton, Hillary For President Campaign Event, Bow, NH, 1/5/08; www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ZVmHEji1dc)
- Sen. McCain Still Supports His Immigration Plan That America Rejected. QUESTION: "But fundamentally, I'm wondering, don't you still have the same plan for a path to citizenship that you fundamentally held months ago?" MCCAIN: "Sure." (ABC/WMUR, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Manchester, NH, 1/5/08; www.youtube.com/watch?v=5LbTSe6uLqI)

  