
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 2
The White House announced that the President exchanged letters with President Jiang Zemin of China celebrating the 20th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two nations.
January 5
In the morning, the President met with King Hussein I of Jordan.
In the afternoon, the President briefly attended a meeting concerning the pork industry.
The President announced his intention to nominate Armando Falcon, Jr., to be Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph A. Cari, Jr., to be Chair and Steven Alan Bennett to be Vice Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
January 6
In the morning, the President met with his foreign policy team.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert A. Seiple to be Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom.
The President announced his intention to nominate Wayne O. Burkes to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Regina Montoya to be U.S. Representative to the 53d session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carolyn L. Huntoon to be Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Melvin E. Clark, Jr., to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
January 8
In the morning, the President traveled to Detroit, MI, where he toured the North American International Auto Show.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Roger Angel to the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Myrta K. Sale to be Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management at the Office of Management and Budget.
The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by snow beginning on January 1 and continuing.
  