
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Christine S. Wilson of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Trade Commission. Ms. Wilson is an antitrust and consumer protection practitioner currently serving as Senior Vice President for Regulatory & International Affairs at Delta Air Lines.  For over twenty years, Ms. Wilson has been an advocate of the fundamental principle that competition – not regulation – is the best protection for consumers and the strongest prescription for a healthy economy.  Before joining Delta, she was a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP in Washington, D.C.  During the George W. Bush Administration, she served as Chief of Staff to FTC Chairman Timothy J. Muris.  Both in government and private practice, she has contributed to the sound development of competition law and policy.  She has served in the ABA Antitrust Section Leadership, as an advisor to the U.S. government in connection with the International Competition Network, and as Special Assistant to James F. Rill, Co-Chair of the International Competition Policy Advisory Committee. Ms. Wilson received her J.D. from Georgetown University and her B.A. from the University of Florida. She co-founded The Grapevine, a women's network for D.C. antitrust and consumer protection professionals.  She and her husband live in Virginia and have two daughters.
Noah Joshua Phillips of Maryland, to be a Member of the Federal Trade Commission. Mr. Phillips currently serves as Chief Counsel to Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the Republican Whip. Since 2011, he has advised Senator Cornyn on issues including antitrust, constitutional law, consumer privacy, fraud, and intellectual property. Prior to his service in the Senate, Mr. Phillips worked as a litigation associate at Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, in New York City, and Steptoe & Johnson LLP, in Washington, D.C. He served as a law clerk for Judge Edward C. Prado of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Mr. Phillips began his career at Wasserstein Perella & Co., an investment bank in New York City. A Massachusetts native, Mr. Phillips received his A.B., magna cum laude, from Dartmouth College and his J.D. from Stanford Law School, where he won Moot Court. Mr. Phillips and his wife, Sarah, have three children.
  