
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

One hundred fifty years ago, in 1836, what is now the largest and most distinguished medical library and medical communications center in the world was only a small collection of medical books in the office of the United States Army Surgeon General. That transition is an inspiring story—one that speaks of both the need of health professionals and researchers for rapid access to information and of the response to that need by a succession of dedicated and visionary leaders of the National Library of Medicine.
The National Library of Medicine responded to the need for medical information in part by building an exhaustive collection of the published literature of medicine. Through pioneering research into the latest communications technology, the Library also developed the renowned MEDLARS systems, which provides researchers and health professionals around the world with almost instantaneous access to the biomedical literature. Its publications, like Index Medicus, are essential tools for health sciences research. The Library has developed a network throughout the United States—the Regional Medical Library Network—to provide efficient information services to doctors, researchers, students and others, no matter how far they may be from a medical center.
American citizens, for whom the health of their loved ones is always of primary concern, can take great pride in their National Library of Medicine, which takes life-giving knowledge from research, organizes it, and transmits it to those who can best use it to fight disease and disability and to improve the quality of life for all of us.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 198, has designated 1986 as the "Sesquicentennial Year of the National Library of Medicine" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim 1986 as the Sesquicentennial Year of the National Library of Medicine. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this occasion with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of January, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  