
    California's sixth largest paper picks Edwards for his leadership in standing up for middle class families
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, California's Fresno Bee endorsed Senator John Edwards for President citing his leadership in standing up for middle class families and ending the war in Iraq.
"Former North Carolina Sen. John Edwards' campaign for president offers a much-needed vision that recognizes the hope and promise of America," the editorial board wrote. "It's a view that includes solidifying the plight of working families and others in the middle class. This group of Americans has struggled the past eight years under an administration that has catered to the well-connected and powerful, and it's time for leadership that understands the contributions and needs of American families. We believe that John Edwards can provide that leadership and urge Democratic and independent voters to support him in the California primary on Feb. 5."
Last week, more than 1,000 supporters attended a community meeting with Senator Edwards at the Southern California Public Service Workers' headquarters in Los Angeles. Edwards enjoys the support of more than 760,000 union members across California, including the support of California's single largest union, the California SEIU State Council. Edwards has also won the support of dozens of diverse Democratic elected officials and party leaders from every region of the Golden State.
The endorsement can be viewed at: http://www.fresnobee.com/opinion/story/341733.html.
The full text of the endorsement is included below.

Edwards best for Dems
Former North Carolina Sen. John Edwards' campaign for president offers a much-needed vision that recognizes the hope and promise of America. It's a view that includes solidifying the plight of working families and others in the middle class.
This group of Americans has struggled the past eight years under an administration that has catered to the well-connected and powerful, and it's time for leadership that understands the contributions and needs of American families.
We believe that John Edwards can provide that leadership and urge Democratic and independent voters to support him in the California primary on Feb. 5.
Edwards has been running behind Sen. Hillary Clinton and Sen. Barack Obama in the early primary and caucus states, and we recognize that he needs to do better if he is going to have a chance of winning the nomination. We believe that Edwards has the opportunity to do well in the upcoming states as his message of hope begins to be heard.
Edwards has a realistic plan for withdrawing this nation from the quagmire of the Iraq war. He has proposed reducing troop levels by 40,000 to 50,000 immediately and then withdrawing all "combat" troops in 10 months. He would station about 10,000 troops in neighboring countries to serve as "quick reaction forces" if al-Qaida attempts to make Iraq a safe haven.
He supports a balanced immigration policy that recognizes the need for an agricultural guest-worker program that would enable farmworkers to "come out of the shadows." He would protect our borders by doubling the Border Patrol and sanction employers who hire illegal immigrants. In exchange for playing by the rules, he would offer illegal immigrants a path to citizenship. That path would not be a gift, but would include paying a fine and learning English.
Edwards has been out in front in offering solutions to the nation's economic problems, even before the administration realized the depth of the current crisis. His plan includes a $25 billion economic package that would invest in clean energy, expand unemployment benefits, help states that are cash-strapped and establish a "home rescue fund" to keep homes out of foreclosure. His plan could grow to $100 billion if the economy doesn't turn around.
We supported Edwards four years ago in the Democratic primary because he offered a real opportunity to bridge a nation that has been divided along class lines. That need has only increased under the current administration, and we think Edwards, with his populist message, offers a change for the better.

  