
    Making News Today: New USA Today/Gallup polls have Hillary up by 12 and 28 points over Sen. Obama in California and New York, respectively. USA Today writes at length about the importance of California here and New York here.
Making News Tomorrow: U.S. Rep. Robert Wexler, Sen. Obama's Florida campaign chairman, "believes the Florida result will influence Super Tuesday voters even if it won't count on the delegate tally board." More people have already voted early in Florida than voted or caucused in Iowa, New Hampshire and Nevada. Read more.
If You Read One Thing Today: "The policy proposals candidates run on matter," writes Paul Krugman in a New York Times column on the lessons of 1992. Read more.
On the Trail: In Connecticut and Massachusetts, Hillary will today hold "Solutions for the American Economy" town halls. In Tennessee, Hillary yesterday attended worship services at the Monumental Baptist Church. "She received a standing ovation as she entered the pulpit and stood smiling for several minutes as people whipped out cell phones and cameras -- many rushing to the front of the church -- to snap her picture. She was swarmed again before she exited."
The Hillary I Know: In Missouri, Chelsea will today speak to students at the University of Missouri as part of "Our Voice, Our Future," the campaign's two-week tour to encourage young voters to support Hillary and make their voices heard. Yesterday, Chelsea "drew an overflow audience" in Cape Girardeau. In Arkansas, Chelsea yesterday spoke to students at Arkansas State University. In Utah, Chelsea tomorrow visits the University of Utah and Weber State University.
Endorsement Watch: Former Maryland Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, Robert Francis Kennedy, Jr., and Mary Kerry Kennedy support Hillary. "I have known Hillary for over 25 years and have seen first hand how she gets results," said Lt. Gov. Kennedy Townsend. "Hillary...shares so many of the concerns of my father. Hillary has spent a lifetime speaking out on behalf of the powerless and working to alleviate poverty."
In Case You Missed It: Sen. Obama aired television advertisements in Florida. The pledge he signed not to campaign in states that do not adhere to the Democratic National Committee calendar includes an explicit prohibition of electronic advertising.
  