
    
  Trump Campaign Continues to Dominate in New Hampshire Weeks Before Primary Contest

(New York, NY) January 11th, 2016 — Today Donald J. Trump received endorsements from four prominent and highly respected businessmen in New Hampshire: Ben Gamache, Bruce Breton, Arthur Sullivan, and Sam Tamposi Jr. These four individuals are responsible for driving the majority of economic development in the state for the last several years and they recognize Mr. Trump's unparalleled abilities and leadership as one of the most successful entrepreneurs of all time.
Mr. Trump stated, "I am honored to receive these important endorsements from such accomplished businessmen in the great state of New Hampshire. Their support, and the support of so many incredible people all over the state means so much to me. It is time to Make America Great Again and with your help, on February 9th, we will do just that."
A strong supporter of the local community, Gamache has served the Manchester Chamber of Commerce, Chairman of the Board for Intown Manchester, and proudly served as Chairman of the Board for Easter Seals New Hampshire from 2007 to 2009. His strong professional reputation, charitable endeavors, and active participation in Manchester city politics have made him a coveted community endorsement and he is proud to support Donald J. Trump as the Republican nominee for President of the United States.
Bruce Breton served as Chair of Windham GOP in 2015 and is a Selectman in the Town of Windham. Breton, a former Pataki supporter, proudly endorses Donald J. Trump.
Arthur Sullivan is co-owner of Brady Sullivan properties, which owns some of the most iconic properties in the state of New Hampshire, including City Hall Plaza, Brady Sullivan Plaza, and Brady Sullivan Tower.
Sam Tamposi Jr. is President of the Tamposi Company, a well-known Republican Party activist, member of the Rivier College Board of Trustees, and Heritage Club Member of the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Nashua. His father, Sam Tamposi Sr., was part owner of the Boston Red Sox.
Mr. Trump visited New Hampshire again today where he had a capacity crowd at his rally in Windham, New Hampshire and has several more visits planned prior to February 9th. Mr. Trump continues to hold a commanding lead in all New Hampshire state polls as well as nationally, as the first in the nation primary contest approaches. The most recent poll, just released by Monmouth University, shows Mr. Trump with a wide, double digit point lead over his closet rival with 26% support. Also, recently released polls from NBC/WSJ, FOXNews, and NH1 show similar, double digit leads for Mr. Trump who continues to be the definitive front runner for the Republican nomination for President of the United States.
  