
    President Bush Today Announced His Intention to Nominate Eight Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Guy F. Caruso to be the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration at the Department of Energy. Caruso has been Executive Director of the Strategic Energy Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies since 1998 as well as Director of the National Energy Strategy Project since July of 2000. From 1993 to 1998, he was the Director of the Office of Non-Member Countries for the International Energy Agency in Paris, France. From 1986 to 1993, he was with the Department of Energy, first in the Office of Energy Emergencies and International Affairs and then in the Office of Domestic and International Energy Policy. He had previously served as Head of the Oil Industry Division at the International Energy Agency, the Director of the Office of Market Analysis in the Office of International Affairs at the Department of Energy, and as a Senior Economic Analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency. Caruso earned both a bachelor's degree and Master's degree from the University of Connecticut and a Master's in Public Affairs from the JFK School of Government at Harvard University.
The President intends to Charles F. Bolden to be Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Bolden is currently the Commanding General of the 3D Marine Aircraft Wing in San Diego, California. Major General Bolden was commissioned in the U.S. Marine Corps following his graduation from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1968. In 1970, he was designated as a Naval Aviator and served in Vietnam from 1972 to 1973. In 1980, Bolden was selected as an astronaut candidate by NASA and qualified as a space shuttle pilot astronaut in 1981. He went on to fly four mission in space: first aboard the Space Shuttle Columbia in 1986, two missions aboard Space Shuttle Discovery and one mission aboard the Space Shuttle Atlantis. From 1992 to 1994, he served at NASA as the Assistant Deputy Administrator. From 1994 to 1995, he was Deputy Commandant of the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, and has gone on to hold various positions within the military including Deputy Commander of U.S. Force, Japan. Bolden is a South Carolina native and received a Master's degree from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to nominate J.C. Raffety to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of West Virginia. Raffety has been Chief of Police for the City of Buckhannon, West Virginia, since 2000. From 1970 to 2000, he was a Special Agent and then Supervisory Special Agent with the FBI. Raffety earned a Associates Degree from Prince George's Community College, bachelor's degree from Illinois State University and a Master's in Public Administration from the University of Pittsburgh.
The President intends to nominate Stephen Gilbert Fitzgerald to be United State Marshal from for the Western District of Wisconsin. Fitzgerald has been with the Dodge County Sheriff's Office in Juneau, Wisconsin, since 1979, and was elected Sheriff in January 1989. From 1974 to 1979, he was Chief of Police for the Village of Husisford, Wisconsin, and from 1966 to 1974, he was a Patrolman for the Chicago Police Department. Fitzgerald is graduate Gordon Technical High School.
The President intends to nominate William R. Whittington to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Louisiana. He currently is a Consultant for Technology Team in Alexandria, Virginia, and was previously a Consultant for Police Services with Management Technology in Chantilly, Virginia. From 1974 to 2000, Whittington served with the Louisiana State Police where he was promoted through the ranks to Superintendent. From 1973 to 1974, he was an Investigator with the Louisiana Department of Justice Criminal Division. Whittington earned a Bachelor's of Arts degree from Louisiana College and a Master's of Education from Louisiana State University.
The President intends to nominate John Schickel to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Kentucky. Schickel has been a Jailer for the Government of Boone County, Kentucky since 1987, and from 1977 to 1987, he was a Police Officer for the Florence Police Department. From 1975 to 1977, he was a Police Officer at Northern Kentucky University. Schickel earned an associate degree from the University of Ohio, and a bachelor's degree and Master's degree from Northern Kentucky University.
The President intends to nominate James Anthony Rose to be United States Marshal for the District of Wyoming. Rose has served as a Member of the Wyoming House of Representatives since 1995. He has been with the Rawlins Police Department since 1983, where he has been promoted through the ranks to Chief of Police. He previously has served with the Carbon County Office of Predator Control, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks. Rose is a graduate of South Dakota State University.
  