
    Members of Congress
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI): "President Trump said it right—the state of our union is strong. Faith and family are the rightful centers of American life. America's economic confidence is on the rise. And from the police to the military, the bravery of our men and women in uniform continues to demonstrate why they are the world's finest."
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY): "...the president emphasized that America is growing again as a result of comprehensive tax reform bill last year. Employees are getting bonuses, pay raises, investments in their IRAs -- America is moving. Consumer confidence is high, the stock market is at a record level. We're coming out of this economic funk that we were in throughout the Obama years and the president was right to talk about it and to take some credit for the direction America is heading in. We're growing again – it's important."
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): "The future of America is looking up. In President Trump's first year, we've achieved lower unemployment, more take home pay for the American people, and a stronger economy. ISIS has been beaten back, the stock market is up, and investment is streaming back into America. #SOTU"
Sen. Richard Shelby (R-AL): "Tonight the President highlighted his many accomplishments and outlined his plan to continue advancing and unifying our country. From signing tax reform into law and eliminating restrictive regulations to growing our military and boosting support for veterans, President Trump has prioritized a conservative agenda that promotes a safe and strong America."
Sen. John Boozman (R-AR): "President Trump's address was a positive, optimistic message to all Americans. It laid out an opportunity to work together on many pressing issues facing our country. I look forward to working with the president and my colleagues to build on policies that have helped create jobs, grow our economy, improve consumer confidence and let hardworking Americans save and plan for the future. We can continue this momentum by rebuilding our infrastructure. I am encouraged by President Trump's commitment to improve our crumbling roads and bridges and protect our water supply."
Sen. David Perdue (R-GA): "Tonight, President Trump delivered a message of optimism that all Americans need to hear. Overall, the president's first year in office has been nothing short of a huge success. The results speak for themselves.... He is moving at a business-pace, not a bureaucratic-pace. His focus continues to be delivering on his promises and getting results for the American people."
Sen. Jim Risch (R-ID): "The American people have asked for less taxes, less regulations, more jobs and more security - they are getting exactly that. As the President outlined tonight, we were able to accomplish so many priorities in 2017 including: historic tax reform, unprecedented deregulation, job creation, repeal of a significant portion of Obamacare, reform of the Veterans Administration, degradation of ISIS' territory and strength, record breaking realignment of the federal judiciary, as well as confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, and the list goes on."
Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-LA): "President Trump presented an optimistic vision for our country. With our tax cuts legislation already delivering bigger paychecks and better benefits for workers and families, I look forward to working with the president to expand America's energy dominance, restore respect for the Constitution throughout the judiciary, and make our military second to none."
Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO): "America has come a long way in the first year of the Trump administration. As the president made clear tonight, our economy is finally giving Americans a reason to be optimistic about their future, and the future of their kids and grandkids."
Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC): "I was encouraged to hear President Trump speak about immigration and challenging Congress to fix a problem that has existed for decades. The White House released an immigration framework last week, and I believe it is a reasonable proposal. The framework offers solutions supported by both parties and the American people."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "Over the last year, we have made progress on a host of important issues. We are already seeing the benefits of the new tax reform law across Ohio with companies giving pay raises and bonuses, expanding benefits and investing more in equipment. The administration has taken action to provide regulatory relief to small businesses and is making permitting reform a priority to reduce needless delays and help us rebuild our infrastructure more quickly."
Sen. John Thune (R-SD): "During President Trump's first year in office, the Republican-led Congress and the administration worked together to achieve big things for the American people.... I look forward to building off this momentum to address infrastructure, border security, immigration, and military readiness."
Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT): "Tonight, the President called attention to the tremendous victories we secured for the American people in 2017. He also drew a roadmap to success, including an ambitious policy agenda for the year ahead—one that will make our country stronger and safer than ever before."
Sen. John Barrasso (R-WY): "President Trump's address tonight spoke of building a safer and stronger America. His speech was full of the same spirit of optimism and confidence I have heard over the past year from people in Wyoming."
Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-AL): "Despite resistance from the Washington establishment, President Trump's first year has been marked with robust economic growth, job creation, record highs in the stock market and record lows when it comes to unemployment. Because of President Trump's willingness to shake things up in Washington, and to step over entrenched partisan lines, the State of the Union is strong."
Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL): "Wonderful to hear @POTUS mention the need for greater choice in the VA system."
Rep. Andy Biggs (R-AZ): "Under President Trump's leadership, the state of our union is indeed strong. In the first year of his administration, President Trump has unleashed our nation's limitless economic potential by producing the most expansive tax reform package since the Reagan administration and sweeping reductions in onerous federal regulations, enforced our laws, strengthened our military, nominated constitutionally-minded judges to federal courts, protected life and religious freedom, and sent an unmistakable message to the international community that America will protect her interests before all others."
Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA): "Our economy is growing thanks to the policies enacted by the Republican Congress and the President, but I believe the best is yet to come. Thanks to the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act we are seeing a host of job creators investing in their workforce in the form of bonuses, wage increases and other benefits."
Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA): "The State of the Union Address is one of our nation's great traditions. It's an opportunity for us all to reflect on our democratic principles and beliefs and consider priorities for the year ahead. Tonight, as I listened to the president's address and looked up to our special guests, I was reminded that the state of our union is indeed strong."
Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO): "@POTUS recognized the unity we share as people of this country. #SOTU"
Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO): "I applaud @POTUS for acknowledging the need to take care of our American heroes-- Our Veterans. #SOTU"
Rep. Neal Dunn (R-FL): "We have made great strides in the fight against terrorism. @POTUS @realDonaldTrump is truly committed to keeping Americans safe at home and abroad. #SOTU"
Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL): ".@POTUS mentions doubling standard deduction, which particularly benefits constituents in my district. #TaxCutAndJobsAct #SOTU"
Rep. Earl "Buddy" Carter (R-GA): "President Trump spoke tonight about the strong state of our union. Over the past year, Congress has worked with President Trump to produce concrete results for the American people."
Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA): "Under President Trump's leadership, America is learning anew what it looks like when promises are kept.... Each day brings me more stories of how our unified government led by a dynamic president is fulfilling the hopes of people in northeast Georgia—and unlocking the door to more of their dreams."
Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL): "I appreciate President Trump using his address to highlight some of the work he and Congress are pursuing to empower America's families and job creators. Particularly important to Southern Illinois has been the new tax reform law that will give hardworking families more money in their pockets to spend on a child's education, growing a small business, or saving for the years ahead."
Rep. Larry Bucshon (R-IN): "Tonight, President Trump gave his first State of the Union address, outlining the accomplishments of his first year in office and sharing with the nation his vision for moving forward and building a safe, strong and proud America."
Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN): "2017 was a great year! We delivered on several of President Trump's key agenda items and tonight he laid out another bold, optimistic vision for 2018. Under President Trump's leadership, unemployment is at record lows, the economy is booming, and Hoosier workers are keeping more of their paychecks. I look forward to continue working with the President to keep delivering for Hoosiers."
Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN): "President Donald Trump put forth an American First agenda to build a safer, stronger, and prouder country. Thanks to President Trump's leadership, the forgotten men and women of this country have a voice in the White House and I'm proud to be an ally to drain the swamp and make our nation great again."
Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN): "I am grateful for @POTUS's commitment to ending the epidemic and getting treatment for those who need it. #SOTU"
Rep. Mike Johnson (R-LA): "The president delivered a positive message and a bold vision for an even stronger and safer America. I look forward to investing again in our eroding infrastructure, solving the illegal immigration problems facing our nation and rebuilding our military to promote peace through strength. We have accomplished so much in just this first year, and I believe that momentum will continue through 2018 and beyond."
Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI): "POTUS is right: Our tax reform efforts are off to a great start but it's important we keep that momentum going. Just today, Pfizer announced a $5B boost in U.S. #manufacturing b/c of tax reform. #Jobs #SOTU"
Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC): "President Trump knows the value of hard work. He understands the dignity of having a good job, and he wants people to be able to achieve a successful life. The President's whole goal behind his infrastructure plan is creating new jobs for Americans."
Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE): "President's tone is serious, reflective. @POTUS @realDonaldTrump #SOTU"
Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE): "Inspiring start to #SOTU with introductions of many American heroes who represent the spirit of our great country."
Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM): "I agree w/ @POTUS, our nation's military deserves our support. We must ensure they have the resources needed to succeed during & after service #SOTU"
Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY): "Tonight we celebrated the policies under President Trump that are putting America first and allowing our economy to thrive. In a truly heartfelt speech, the President expressed his love for his country and the necessity of working across the aisle, especially as we start to rebuild our nation's crumbling infrastructure."
Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY): "The opioid epidemic is plaguing our communities. I agree with @POTUS that we need to make sure we get those in need help and put an end to this problem #SOTU"
Rep. Jim Renacci (R-OH): "Glad to see the chamber stand united as @POTUS talks about opioids, something Ohio is too familiar with #SOTU."
Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK): "Tonight we heard from President Trump that the state of our Union is safe, strong and proud. It was a unifying message of optimism, but, more importantly, it was an opportunity for the president to show how he is focused on actions that keep American families safe, strengthen our economy and create opportunities for growth."
Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA): "The American people for too long have been led by politicians who hold special interest over national interest. After President Trump's first year in office, the unique optimism of the American people has returned, and returned at historic highs."
Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA): "The President outlined some the major accomplishments of his first year in office. We saw comprehensive Tax Reform become law, and already see the benefits in terms of bonuses and wage increases for millions Nationwide."
Rep. Keith Rothfus (R-PA): "I agree @POTUS, we need both parties to come together to give America the safe, fast, reliable, & modern infrastructure our economy needs & people deserve. #SOTU"
Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC): "President Trump's bold address to Congress was an excellent display of leadership and vision. It is refreshing to have a President who has made the people's priorities his own and who resonates with the goals and aspirations of the American people."
Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC): "Tonight, President Trump celebrated a long list of achievements from his first year in office. Chief among them – comprehensive tax reform that is already having a transformative effect on our economy. The culmination of his policy achievements has done nothing short of restoring the American dream."
Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD): "Tonight, we will hear from President Trump in his first State of the Union address, and I'm hopeful he will report that the State of our Union is strong, safe and proud. To me, his first year in office will be remembered as the year in which the American people gained control again."
Rep. Diane Black (R-TN): "Over the last year, President Trump has shown that he will put America first and I am proud to stand with him. Tonight's State of the Union address was no different – the President's speech was optimistic, bold and confident. It was a message to the world that we are proud to be American."
Rep. Scott DesJarlais (R-TN): "Because the mainstream media rarely credits our accomplishments, tonight's speech presented an excellent opportunity for the President to speak directly to the public, showing more appreciation for tax cuts now that they are law, and the benefits are real."
Rep. David Kustoff (R-TN): "Tonight, we heard from a President who is putting West Tennessee and America first. Just one year after President Trump took the oath of office, our economy is the strongest it has been in decades."
Rep. John Carter (R-TX): ".@POTUS is right - we must strengthen #CTE programs and give every student the opportunity to succeed in a great career they enjoy and are passionate about #SOTU"
Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX): "One year after President Trump's election, the 'state of the union' is far better. It is actually far better for millions of families across our nation seeing pay increases, bonuses, and better take home pay. As we follow through on President Trump's economic growth policies outlined tonight, it will get even better and, dare I say, greater."
Rep. Kenny Marchant (R-TX): "The President's speech communicated how the pro-growth policies from the last twelve months are lifting the American economy up and out from the stagnant status-quo of previous years."
Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX): "I support the President in his effort to crack down on sanctuary cities, combat the infiltration of MS-13 gangs, and secure our communities."
Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX): "Encouraging words by @realDonaldTrump in first mins of #SOTU telling America we will pull through disaster recovery together."
Rep. Chris Stewart (R-UT):  .@POTUS is right, tax reform is already helping millions of hardworking Americans! You will continue to see its benefits with bigger paychecks and lower taxes. #SOTU
Rep. Tom Garrett (R-VA): "Tonight, the President reminded Congress and the nation that building a safe, strong and proud America begins with completing important unfinished business to ensure that our country continues to prosper, and our nation remains safe."
Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA): "Looking forward to this Administration's leadership on an infrastructure package that reduces red tape, leverages private/public partnerships, addresses priorities for rural Americans, and improves the daily lives of Virginians. #SOTU"
Rep. David McKinley (R-WV): "West Virginia has the highest rate of opioid deaths in the nation. We are the epicenter of this crisis. Glad to hear @POTUS give his strong commitment to ending this scourge. #SOTU"
Rep. Alex Mooney (R-WV): "Tonight, President Donald Trump outlined a conservative agenda to make America safer and stronger. I remain committed to helping President Trump implement our shared agenda to make America prosper again."
House Committee on Natural Resources: "The State of the Union is STRONG. Together, we will make America great again for ALL Americans #SOTU"
State Officials
Governor Kay Ivey (R-AL): "Tonight, President Trump made clear his commitment to the American people and to improving the quality of life for everyone. By protecting our borders, strengthening our military and creating an environment that enhances domestic economic growth, the president underlined his commitment to national security."
Governor Asa Hutchinson (R-AR): "President Trump's State of the Union speech was good news for Arkansas on many fronts. We have seen conservative policy changes in D.C. lead to tax cuts, increased wages, bonuses, deregulation, American companies returning to the U.S. and a year-long stock-market streak."
Governor Matt Bevin (R-KY): "We are all so proud of Corporal (Ret.) Matthew Bradford, a great Kentuckian and one of the special guests in the gallery during tonight's State of the Union address. Corporal Bradford truly embodies the Kentucky spirit, showing all of America what it means to overcome significant obstacles and to embrace new opportunities. How we deal with adversity has the power to unite us as Americans and, as the President noted, we must continue to rally around the opportunities that are before us—combatting the opioid epidemic, creating jobs, and rebuilding the Nation's infrastructure."
Governor Paul LePage (R-ME): "We commend President Trump for the all progress he has made this year, especially on the passage of comprehensive tax reform, which will create jobs, raise wages for families and jumpstart the American economy."
Governor Phil Bryant (R-MS): "In the past 12 months, President Trump has increased security by making our military stronger, grown our economy by cutting taxes and eliminating regulations and made it clear that America comes first. I am grateful he reinforced his commitment to those values in his State of the Union."
Governor Doug Burgum (R-ND): "President Trump's address this evening further underscores our mutual commitment to lifting up all American by working to expand economic opportunity. Through bold tax reform and a continued effort to roll back government overreach, his administration is empowering North Dakotans."
Governor Pete Ricketts (R-NE): ""In his first year, President Trump has helped spur economic growth through major tax reform and rolling back job-killing regulations. His pro-growth policies have helped the United States achieve its lowest unemployment rate in almost two decades, while pushing the stock market to record highs. President Trump's focus on infrastructure and continued commitment to growing jobs and the economy for 2018 is common sense."
Governor Jim Justice (R-WV): "Donald J. Trump is a personal friend of mine and I KNOW how much he cares for each and every one of us in this great nation. We are extremely excited about his infrastructure plan, his clear guidelines for fair trade, and the continuing policies to cut taxes that will create millions of additional jobs."
Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall (R): "President Trump made a commitment to nominate courageous judges, firmly dedicated to the Constitution and the rule of law. As Attorney General of Alabama, I have watched with enthusiasm as he has fulfilled that promise, knowing that there is little that a president could do to be of more encouragement to me and the attorneys in my office."
Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry (R): "I commend President Trump for inviting two of Louisiana's best to be his special guests at the State of the Union Address. Ashlee and Jon have both shown immense courage in the midst of the devastation Louisiana and our neighbors have had to endure. It is because of heroes like them that Louisiana is such a bright light for the rest of the country."
Cabinet Members
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson: "As President Trump emphasizes, we keep America safe when our national security is based on the principle of peace through strength. We will continue to pursue the peaceful denuclearization of North Korea, prevent terrorists from regaining safe havens in Syria and Afghanistan, and hold Iran accountable for its full range of threatening activities. We work closely with allies and partners around the world to achieve all our foreign policy objectives."
Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin: "The President's pro-growth agenda is working for the American people. Thanks to tax and regulatory reform, millions of hardworking families are seeing pay raises, special bonuses, new jobs, and more secure retirements. Fair and reciprocal trade will make American businesses even more competitive. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress from both parties to deliver a safe, strong, and proud future for our country."
Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke: "Tonight President Trump spoke from the heart about issues that unite all Americans like rebuilding our infrastructure, improving education, growing the economy, and honoring our veterans and first responders. Already we have seen the President's policies and tax reform spark greater investments in our energy sector, like in coal and in the Bureau of Land Management's oil fields in the Permian Basin. Interior stands ready to support the President's mission to unite and rebuild our great Nation."
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue: "President Trump's unifying address to the nation recounted his administration's impressive achievements in its first year, which have strengthened the economy for all Americans, including those who do the important work in the agriculture sector. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is already helping workers and will allow agricultural producers to invest more in their operations and their own families. President Trump's optimistic vision for the nation includes massive investment in infrastructure, which will be a boon to a rural America that sorely needs such improvements. His emphasis on fair trade agreements will be music to the ears of farmers, ranchers, foresters, and producers, who often depend on international markets for their profitability. Additionally, his attention to the Forest Service is much appreciated as we strive to restore the health of our national forests and put them back to work for the rural communities which depend on their economic viability. This is a president who has rural America and agriculture close to his heart, as his words and deeds clearly demonstrate."
Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross: "President Trump's State of the Union Address was the best ever (in recent memory): it included the largest tax cuts in history, record stock prices, higher consumer and business confidence than we have seen in decades, record low unemployment – especially for minorities, and slashed red tape like never before. He spoke of a trillion-dollar plan to fix our nation's infrastructure and his policies that have driven out the caliphate, will equip a military and border that can protect us, will ensure a future for dreamers, and will promote trade that is both fair and reciprocal. What more could we want? These inspirational plans for a safe, strong, and proud America will continue the extraordinary momentum of President Trump's first term. Bravo!"
Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta: "President Trump's pro-growth, pro-jobs policies are putting Americans back to work and more money in their pockets. Tonight, the President reminded the nation of the great strides America's economy has made under his leadership, and he laid out an optimistic vision for continued strong economic growth. In the President's first year in office, the U.S. economy created over 2 million jobs; unemployment fell to 4.1%, a 17-year low; and Americans' retirement savings have benefited from dramatic gains, fueled by a 40% increase in the stock market since Election Day 2016. Additionally, there has been an overwhelmingly positive response from job creators to the President's landmark tax reform law. The Department of Labor continues to advance the President's common sense economic agenda, including growing apprenticeships, expanding access to healthcare, and strengthening the nation's infrastructure. The American workforce is the greatest in the world, and this Administration will continue to support creation of good, family-sustaining jobs."
Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar: "I commend President Trump for delivering a speech that celebrated the economic boom we have seen under his leadership, which has brought new opportunity and prosperity to the American people. A healthier economy means a healthier America, and we look forward to more such success in the coming year, including through reforms to make healthcare more affordable and accessible for all Americans. The President also deserves tremendous credit for his leadership in addressing the opioid crisis that's hitting communities all across America. During his first year in office, President Trump has brought a new level of awareness and commitment to this cause, and I look forward to expanding and enhancing our aggressive approach to this scourge of addiction and overdose."
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson: "Our people are America's greater resource, and no one understands that better than the President, that's why he has prioritized creating opportunity for all Americans. The President's tax reform plan is energizing the economy giving HUD-assisted households increased opportunity to graduate from government assistance and achieve self-sufficiency."
Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao: "The President highlighted his plan for stimulating growth, creating new jobs, and making our nation stronger and safer. His focus on infrastructure is a historic opportunity to create bipartisan legislation to revitalize our roads and improve the quality of life for all Americans by delivering much needed improvements more quickly, so our country can remain globally competitive. I look forward to working with the President and Congress to improve our infrastructure."
Secretary of Energy Rick Perry: "Tonight, the American people heard an optimistic and unifying speech from the President. And there is much to be optimistic about...for the first time in 45 years, the United States is positioned to achieve net energy independence, and it will happen under President Trump's leadership. Common-sense regulatory and tax reform are driving the energy economy and our overall economy to new heights...and every family in America will benefit. The benefits of American leadership will also be felt by families across the globe, as we continue to wisely use our resources to export freedom and energy security to our friends and allies."
Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos: "America must do better to prepare our students for success in the 21st century economy. I join the President in calling on Congress to act in the best interest of students and expand access to more education pathways."
Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin: "Under President Trump's leadership, VA is engaged in the largest transformation and modernization effort in decades. As part of this effort, the department is tackling head-on issues that have lingered for years, including accountability, whistleblower protection, improving transparency and customer service for Veterans and expanding suicide prevention and mental health care services. As outlined in tonight's address, VA will have another groundbreaking year in expanding and improving our services for Veterans, particularly when it comes giving them more choices over their health care decisions, and improving yet again on the timeliness of our decisions on Veterans' benefits. The whole country was moved when President Trump recognized young Preston Sharp for his dedication and leadership in planting over 40,000 flags at our nation's cemeteries to recognize America's heroes. He has inspired hundreds of volunteers across the country who are looking to expand his effort to all 50 states. Well done, Preston — you're an example to all Americans and everyone who works at VA."
Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen: "Tonight, President Trump delivered a strong and patriotic speech in which he laid out his security-focused agenda. The Department of Homeland Security fully supports this agenda, and the men and women of DHS remain wholeheartedly committed to securing our borders, keeping dangerous criminals off of our streets, and defeating terrorists in our country and around the world. Many of the items on the President's immigration and border security agenda are things that our frontline officers have asked for, so that they are able to more effectively do their jobs. I thank the President for his steadfast leadership on these issues, and look forward to continuing our mission of keeping the American people safe and secure."
Administrator of the Small Business Administration Linda McMahon: "As I travel the country visiting with small business owners, I hear a sense of optimism in our economy – entrepreneurs are thrilled to have a President who has proven he has listened to their concerns and acted in their best interests. Small business owners are applauding the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and responding by investing in their companies and their employees – raising wages, providing bonuses or increasing benefits, and creating more jobs. Meanwhile, large companies like Apple and Chrysler are bringing billions of dollars back to our shores and planning future investments in America. The GDP is growing at a solid pace, and the stock market is at record highs, increasing the value of college savings and retirement accounts. Economic growth benefits all Americans, and a strong economy is a critical foundation on which we can build other policy priorities like workforce development, infrastructure improvement and national security."
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt: "President Trump is getting things done for the American people. America is stronger and safer because the President kept his promise to cut unnecessary and duplicative regulations that shackled American businesses. From repealing the Waters of the U.S. rule and the job-killing Clean Power Plan to cleaning up toxic Superfund sites, EPA is implementing President Trump's agenda to protect the environment and grow our economy."
United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer: "After a year of accomplishments by the Trump Administration, America is stronger, more confident and more optimistic. The President's policies are clearly helping to fuel an economic boom that is creating millions of jobs and putting more money in people's pockets. His unwavering commitment to promoting America's interests and insisting on fair and reciprocal trade will deliver even more prosperity to the American people. As the President has said, America is no longer turning a blind eye to unfair foreign trade practices. We are and will continue to strongly enforce our trade laws and defend American workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses."
Director of the Office of Management and Budget Mick Mulvaney: "As President Trump said tonight, this is our new American movement. Building on the success of this Administration's first year – a booming economy, unequivocal deregulatory action, historic tax reform – the President delivered a sense of optimism; recommitting to his promise for greater economic relief and a safer, more secure homeland. The days are numbered for backdoor schemes and swamp dwellers rigging the system in Washington. The Trump Administration will continue to work hard each day to reverse past trends and move our country in the right direction – a direction that puts the American people first."
United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley: "Tonight, the President made it clear that America is finally leading again. We know our country is always stronger when we take clear action that puts the safety and security of Americans first. For the first time in a long time, our friends know that they can count on the United States to have their backs, and our enemies know that we will no longer give them passes when they threaten American interests. We are standing strong against dangerous and destabilizing regimes that continue to violate their international commitments, as well as terrorist organizations like ISIS that are losing ground and on the run. We are squeezing the North Korean regime with the strongest ever UN Security Council sanctions, and we are sharing with the world concrete evidence of Iran's destabilizing actions. Across the world, and at the UN, we are standing up for our allies and our ideals again, paying close attention to who stands with us and who goes against us. America will continue to be a generous country – because it is the American way – but as the President has said, we are done writing blank checks to countries who act against us. It's a new day – and a great day – for America."
Advocacy & Policy Organizations
American Enterprise Institute Fellow Andy Smarick: "Wow. Huge applause and standing ovation for vocational schools--from both Dems and GOP."
Americans for Prosperity President Tim Phillips: "Millions of Americans are now beginning to feel the positive benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and the state of the union is stronger for it. Americans have entered 2018 with a growing sense of optimism as hundreds of companies respond to the new tax policy with bonuses, pay increases, and plans for new investments. This is only the beginning."
Chamber of Commerce Executive Vice President Neil Bradley: "Great to hear about infrastructure and workforce development in #SOTU2018. Two key priorities for @USChamber for 2018. Let's get it done!"
Conservative Partnership Institute Chairman and Former Senator Jim DeMint: "President Trump has spent his first year delivering for conservatives and advancing freedom for all Americans. From repealing billions of dollars in burdensome regulations and cutting taxes to pulling the United States out of the illegal Paris [climate accord] and putting ISIS on the run, the president has a monumental list of achievements to be proud of."
Family Research Council President Tony Perkins: "President Trump turned his State of the Union Address into an American pep rally. Cheering the American people for helping one another overcome a year of natural and man-made tragedies, the president cast a winning vision of unity."
Family Research Council Senior Fellow Ken Blackwell: "I applaud President Trump's powerful State of the Union address this evening. America has already felt the impact of the major domestic victories of Donald Trump's first year in office."
George Mason University's National Security Institute Founder Jamil Jaffer: "Today's State of the Union had a strong finish, with the President publicly making the case for a newly assertive America, unafraid of her enemies and unashamed of her allies. The President correctly called for an end to the defense sequester which has hampered our military effectiveness for far too long and instructed the Secretary of Defense to ensure that we have a viable capture option for terrorists that can't be prosecuted."
Independent Women's Voice President and CEO Heather Higgins: "A look back at President Trump's first year as commander-in-chief shows how serious he is about keeping his promises, how much he has achieved, upending expectations even when everything seems to be going against him, and how he runs rings around conventional wisdom."
Job Creators Network CEO Alfredo Ortiz: "American business owners have waited almost a decade to hear a State of the Union Address like this one. The President focused heavily on cutting taxes, reducing regulations, and promoting American free enterprise. It was music to our ears."
March for Life Vice President of Government Affairs Tom McClusky: "Actions speak louder than words and personnel is policy. In both, this administration has been utterly clear that it remains steadfast in its commitment to defending human life."
Republican Jewish Coalition: "President @realDonaldTrump receives a standing ovation at the mention of the #GOP #TaxReform. Tax reform will nearly double the standard deduction, he notes that Americans will start taking home a lot more in their pay checks! #SOTU"
Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council President and CEO Karen Kerrigan: "Entrepreneurs credit President Trump's leadership in getting things done during his first year. Small business owners are very optimistic about their future and the economy. High confidence, more capital and a renewed can-do spirit signal great things for entrepreneurs in 2018."
Media Commentary
Forbes Media Chairman and Editor-in-Chief Steve Forbes: "The president tonight was grand and great. He repeatedly hit home runs."
Fox News' Ed Henry: "Such an incredibly emotional moment as @realDonaldTrump honors grieving families who lost daughters to #MS13"
Fox Business' Neil Cavuto: "An incredible speech. Again, whether you support all of his positions or even like him, I have never seen anything like it."
Fox Business' Trish Regan: "I thought it was an exceptional speech, beautifully written and importantly, beautifully delivered."
NBC News' Kasie Hunt: "Bipartisan applause for President Trump's call for rebuilding infrastructure."
NBC News' Savannah Guthrie: "It was optimistic. It bright. It was conciliatory."
New York Post's Seth Mandel: "A+++ for bringing a North Korean refugee. Everyone should hear this. Well done, Mr. President."
Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (R): "[He] rivaled Reagan at his very best. No one has ever taken the guests who were there, and woven their personal story into general principles about America as well as Trump did tonight."
  