
    NEW YORK — Andrew Yang raised more than $16.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2019, $6.5 million more than the previous $10 million record set in the third quarter. This quarter's record amount, over 165 percent of the last quarter, also brings the campaign's total number of donors to 400,000 and more than 1 million contributions. In addition, December 31 was the campaign's highest single-day haul with more than $1.3 million, topping the previous record of nearly $750,000 set on November 30.
"At every turn in this race, Andrew Yang continues to exceed expectations whether it's in terms of grassroots fundraising, making the debates, early state polling, or the ability to draw big crowds," said Campaign Chief Nick Ryan. "What we have achieved together to date through the humanity first values of this campaign, now sets us up to compete through the early-state primaries, Super Tuesday, and beyond."
Following the DNC's announcement that they are refusing to commission early state qualifying polls in time for the next debate, the campaign saw a massive uptick in contributions, including from over 10,000 first-time donors, propelling the campaign to our largest single-day fundraising record of more than $1.3 million.
From December 23 until the end of the year, when the campaign set an initial goal of $3 million, the campaign received over 97,000 contributions from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the three military zip codes, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Northern Marianas, and the Virgin Islands. On deadline day, the goal was raised to $3.5 million, and subsequently $4 million, when donations continued pouring in, far exceeding the initial goal. In the final 48 hours until the deadline, the campaign added more than 10,000 new donors.
The $16.5 million haul will allow the campaign to devote resources toward TV and digital ads, on-the-ground staff, and campaign infrastructure in the early primary states where Andrew Yang is outperforming expectations.
Andrew Yang's grassroots campaign is funded by small dollar donors, with over 98% of the donations made online being under $200. Over 75% of the total donated is from this group, showing the broad base of Andrew Yang's support. The average donation to the campaign is $30.
  