
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The American consumer has been blessed by the freedom to participate in a social, economic, and governmental system that is unparalleled in any other land. Since the founding of this country, Americans have benefitted from the fruits of a free society. We are free to learn, free to choose a vocation, free to produce, and free to purchase. These fundamental freedoms and the willingness of our people to work hard have helped make America great. Americans are prosperous and enjoy a standard of living that is the envy of the world. It is appropriate to focus special attention on consumers and the important role they play in our economic and social system.
We have emerged from a recession on a wave of consumer optimism that dramatically proves the truth of this year's slogan-"Consumers Mean Business." Our economic recovery program has dramatically lowered inflation and interest rates, giving buyers more disposable income. Consumers are reacting to the Nation's resurgent economy by purchasing homes, automobiles, durable goods, and those products or services which enhance the quality of life. With greater purchasing power, it is important that consumers have access to the latest information.
Consumers need to understand the market economy, both here and abroad, and their options for earning, spending, saving, and investing income. Increased consumer and economic education in schools, workshops, the media, and the distribution of informative materials from government and business give consumers a greater appreciation of their rights and responsibilities in our incomparable American economy.
Those who are sensitive to consumer needs and services and recognize that well-informed consumers mean business—repeat sales and sound market relationships—can expect to be rewarded with continuing opportunities to serve and profit. Wise consumers, properly informed and working with business representatives at all levels, can assure that our marketplace operates on mutual trust and fairness.
By working together in the voluntary spirit that has always distinguished the character of Americans in all walks of life, we strengthen our free enterprise system and secure basic consumer rights for all.
Let us show appreciation during National Consumers Week for our many freedoms and work together to enhance the consumer's economic equity in the marketplace.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning April 23, 1984, as National Consumer's Week.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 3rd day of Jan., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-4, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.

RONALD REAGAN
  