
    SALT LAKE CITY — U.S. Representative Ben McAdams (UT-4) endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg today, lauding his collaborative approach to policymaking that will encourage our divided government to make tough choices on a united front.
"Washington is full of people who talk, and our country is desperately in need of a doer like Mike who puts people ahead of politics," said Congressman Ben McAdams. "Mike is someone who will listen, do what's right, and work across party lines to get things done. He's our best shot to restore fiscal responsibility in Washington and to address critical issues like access to quality health care. As Mayor, he brought people from all corners of the world together to solve big problems and I am confident he will do the same as president."
"I'm honored to have the support of Congressman McAdams, a former mayor who understands the importance of getting things done," said Mike Bloomberg. "In Utah and in Congress, he's led on the issues critical to this election, taking action to create jobs, improve education, and expand access to affordable health care for every American. I'm looking forward to working with him to bring people together and rebuild America."
Congressman McAdams represents one of the most Republican-leaning districts held by a Democrat. He is a seventh-generation Utahn who was raised in a family of eight. He was the twice-elected mayor of Salt Lake County and a former Utah State Senator. As mayor, he brought Republicans and Democrats together to get things done like addressing homelessness, forming partnerships with the private sector to create jobs and improve education—all while managing a balanced budget.
He graduated from the University of Utah and Columbia Law School, and practiced law in New York and Utah, assisting businesses with federal securities regulation compliance. Congressman McAdams has been selected to serve on the House Financial Services Committee and the House Science, Space and Technology Committee.
  