
    Victory over Senator Clinton proves strength of Edwards' message of standing up for the middle class and fighting for real change
Des Moines, Iowa – By standing with John Edwards in his fight for the middle class, the people of Iowa delivered a powerful message tonight that the American people are sick of the status quo and ready for real change. Despite being drastically outspent by Senator Clinton, tonight's results show that more Iowans agreed with John Edwards' vision for change.
"The one thing that's clear from tonight's caucus is that the status quo lost and change won," Edwards said. "The results show that the American people are ready for a president who will stand up to corporate greed and fight for hard-working families, someone who will fix the broken system in Washington and achieve real change in this country.
"Tonight showed that if you're willing to have a little backbone, a little courage, and stand up to corporate greed, we will be unstoppable – no matter how much money is spent," Edwards continued. "The Clinton campaign thought big money would make them inevitable – but despite being dramatically outspent by not one, but two celebrity candidates, we finished a strong second. And now we move on to New Hampshire and the other early states, where the voters will choose who is best suited to bring about the change this country so desperately needs."
As president, Edwards will fight for an America where everybody has the same chance to work hard and build a better life for their children. Edwards grew up in small rural mill villages in the South and was the first in his family to go to college. He has spent his life standing up and fighting for ordinary Americans against powerful entrenched interests – and winning. Edwards is fighting for an America where every person in our country has the same opportunities he's had to work hard, find success, and live the American Dream.
Because of the strength of Edwards' message for change and his appeal among voters in red and blue states, he is the Democrats' best chance for taking back the White House in November. Poll after poll shows that Edwards is by far the Democrats' strongest candidate in a general election against any of the top Republicans. He is also the only Democrat who has won in a "red" state, and he earns high favorable ratings among Independents in states across the nation.
  