
    NEVADA: Basketball legend Magic Johnson joined President Clinton at a "Delivering Real Change" event in North Las Vegas. President Clinton also continued his multi-day tour of Nevada by stumping in Boulder City, Henderson, and Las Vegas.
SOUTH CAROLINA: Former Congressman Derrick Butler endorsed Hillary.
CALIFORNIA: NBC reported that Hillary's speech about the legacy of Dr. King's fight for economic justice received a "warm" welcome from an "enthusiastic" crowd at Compton's Zion Missionary Baptist Church...Thousands of students turned out to hear Hillary speak at the University of California, Santa Barbara. One student offered freshman Kristie O'Quinn $25 for her spot in line. "I wouldn't leave for $1,000. I wouldn't miss this for the world," she replied according to the Ventura County Star... Clinton also hosted a "Solutions for the American Economy" town hall in Northridge...More than 150 Californians for Hillary boarded buses in Los Angeles and Sacramento and headed for Nevada to help the campaign...Finally, the campaign announced its first California television advertisement. Watch it.
COLORADO: Former Richardson Colorado Co-Chairs Polly Baca and Lawrence Martinez, superdelegate Ramona Martinez, and two Richardson Steering Committee members endorsed Hillary. [Click here] and here to read.
CONNECTICUT: Stamford Mayor Dan Malloy praised Senator Clinton's economic stimulus plan in interviews with radio stations across the state.
GEORGIA: The campaign named Tom Gavin as the state's Communications Director and announced that Hillary will attend the Georgia Democratic Party's Jefferson-Jackson dinner on January 30th.
ILLINOIS: Hillary hired field and communications staff in the state as the campaign ramped up its efforts. Read more.
MASSACHUSETTS: The campaign released a "Hillary by the Numbers" report highlighting that more 100,000 labor members support Hillary.
MINNESOTA: The campaign opened new offices in Rochester and St. Cloud.
MISSOURI: The campaign held 10 "Bring Your Own Phone" parties across the state to reach out to Democratic voters and announced that Hillary and President Clinton will visit St. Louis on Saturday.
NEW YORK: Five dozen volunteers conducted phone-banking and visibility in New York City.
PENNSYLVANIA: A new Philadelphia Daily News/Keystone Poll showed Hillary with twice as much support as Sen. Obama. She leads 40 to 20 percent. Read more.
  