
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 10
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a wedding reception for Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs Susan Brophy and Ambassador to Portugal Gerry McGowan at the Cosmos Club. Later, they went to Camp David, MD.
The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe winter and ice storms, high winds, and flooding beginning January 5 and continuing.
January 12
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
January 13
The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe ice storms, rain, and high winds which began January 5.
The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning January 6 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President invited Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom for an official visit to Washington, DC, on February 5-6.
January 14
The President announced his intention to appoint Sally Katzen as Deputy Assistant to the President for Economic Policy. She will serve as Deputy Director at the National Economic Council.
January 15
In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City and Jamaica, NY, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President had a telephone conversation with President Soeharto of Indonesia concerning the agreement between Indonesia and the International Monetary Fund.
The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning January 7 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe ice storms, rain, high winds, and flooding beginning January 6 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe ice storms, rain, and high winds beginning January 7 and continuing.
January 16
In the afternoon, the President met with Presidents Lennart Meri of Estonia, Guntis Ulmanis of Latvia, and Algirdas Brazauskas of Lithuania in the Cabinet Room. The four Presidents then signed a charter of partnership in the East Room.
The President announced his intention to appoint David L. Aaron and Timothy Geithner as members of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
  