
    "I'd tell people what it is right now. That's one of the reasons why I'm saying that all of the records that were part of the ethics investigation, all of the transcripts, all of the records have to be made public. Not just the final white-washed report, but the full record, the reason that 88% of the Republicans in the House voted to reprimand their own speaker, the first time in American history that's happened. We need to understand why that is and those records need to be released because you know that if Nancy Pelosi knows those things right now, she will hand them to Barack Obama's campaign if Speaker Gingrich were our nominee." — Gov. Mitt Romney
"Fox And Friends"
FOX News
January 25, 2012
Click HERE To See The Video
Mitt Romney on "Fox And Friends":
GRETCHEN CARLSON, FOX AND FRIENDS: "So I want you to listen to something that Nancy Pelosi has gone on the record now as saying. She sort of threatened this about a month ago, that maybe she had something on Newt Gingrich and she might spill the beans. So now she's saying that Gingrich will never be president. Does she tell us why? Let's listen."
NANCY PELOSI: "He's not going to be President of the United States. That's not going to happen. Let me just make my prediction and stand by it. It isn't going to happen."
REPORTER: "Why are you so sure?"
PELOSI: "There is something I know. The Republicans, if they choose to nominate him, that's their prerogative. I don't think that's going to happen."
CARLSON: "So Mr. Romney, what does Nancy Pelosi know, if it would be such a bombshell, as why Newt Gingrich couldn't be president?"
GOV. MITT ROMNEY: "I wish I knew what that was. I'd tell people what it is right now. That's one of the reasons why I'm saying that all of the records that were part of the ethics investigation, all of the transcripts, all of the records have to be made public. Not just the final white-washed report, but the full record, the reason that 88% of the Republicans in the House voted to reprimand their own speaker, the first time in American history that's happened. We need to understand why that is and those records need to be released because you know that if Nancy Pelosi knows those things right now, she will hand them to Barack Obama's campaign if Speaker Gingrich were our nominee."
  