
    To kick off 2023, the President, Vice President, and Senior Administration Officials will blanket the country to highlight how the President's economic plan - including his success bringing Republicans, Independents, and Democrats together to pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law - is growing our economy from the bottom up and middle out.
On Wednesday, January 4th, President Biden will visit the Greater Cincinnati area on the Kentucky side, and he will be joined by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, Senator Sherrod Brown, Governor Andy Beshear, and Governor Mike DeWine. Vice President Harris will visit Chicago, Illinois and Secretary of Transportation Buttigieg will visit New London, Connecticut. On Thursday, January 5th, Speaker Nancy Pelosi will join White House Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu during his visit to San Francisco.
The President, Vice President, and Senior Administration Officials will discuss how the President's economic plan is rebuilding our infrastructure, creating good-paying jobs – jobs that don't require a four-year degree, and revitalizing communities that have been left behind.
See coverage below:
Reuters: Biden to promote U.S. infrastructure spending in bipartisan Kentucky visit[David Shepardson, 1/1/23]
Democratic U.S. President Joe Biden will join Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell in a Wednesday event in Kentucky aimed at highlighting the effects of the $1 trillion 2021 infrastructure bill, a White House official said Sunday.
Associated Press: Biden's new year pitch focuses on benefits of bipartisanship[Darlene Superville, 1/1/23]
In Chicago on Wednesday, Vice President Kamala Harris will discuss "how the President's economic plan is rebuilding our infrastructure, creating good-paying jobs – jobs that don't require a four-year degree, and revitalizing communities left behind," the White House said in its announcement.
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg was delivering the same message in New London, Connecticut, also on Wednesday. Mitch Landrieu, the White House official tasked with promoting infrastructure spending, will join soon-to-be former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Thursday in San Francisco, which she represents in Congress.
Washington Times: Strange bedfellows: Biden, McConnell joining forces to tout infrastructure [Joseph Clark, 1/2/23]
President Biden will be joined Wednesday in a rare bipartisan appearance with Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell in Kentucky, where the president is expected to tout his $1.2 trillion infrastructure law and broader economic plan.
NBC News: Biden to laud economic wins with McConnell as GOP takes over House[Mike Memoli, 1/1/23]
The stop, and others like it this week featuring other administration officials across the country, will come a day after the new Republican-led House of Representatives takes power in Washington, kick off a period of divided government […]
Chicago Sun Times: Vice President Kamala Harris comes to Chicago on Wednesday to tout Biden administration accomplishments[Lynn Sweet, 01/1/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris visits Chicago on Wednesday, as President Joe Biden and other top administration officials travel across the nation to tout a series of major White House accomplishments, a White House official said Sunday.
The Day: Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg to visit New London this week[Eric Moser, 1/1/23]
U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg will visit New London on Wednesday […]
It's one of a few visits from the Biden Administration throughout the country Wednesday, to highlight the impacts of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that Biden signed in November 2021, also known as the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.
The Cincinnati Enquirer: Biden will be in NKY on Wednesday. Visit follows bridge funding announcement[Quinlan Bentley, 1/1/23]
The trip is part of a nationwide campaign by the Biden administration to talk about the president's economic plan, which includes the administration's work to pass the 2021 bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.
CNN: Biden will promote bipartisanship as he returns to a changed Washington[Kevin Liptak, 1/1/23]
Wednesday's event in Kentucky, which will include Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, is meant to underscore the importance of the massive public works package Biden signed into law in 2021.
The Hill: Biden To Tout Infrastructure Investments Alongside McConnell On Wednesday[Brett Samuels, 1/1/23]
Biden's first two years in office saw the passage of bipartisan legislation focused on infrastructure, semiconductor chip manufacturing, assistance for veterans and protections for same-sex marriage.
  