
    Missouri Senator Christopher "kit" Bond and Congressman Bill Emerson today endorsed the Presidential bid of Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and were named Honorary Missouri Co-Chairmen for the campaign. They will lead a high-powered team of Missouri Republicans -- including dozens of state legislators -- who announced their support at a St. Louis news conference with the GOP frontrunner this afternoon. At the event, Dole also announced that Allen Allred would become the Missouri Chairman of the campaign.
In announcing his endorsement, Bond said: "Anyone who has watched the historic budget battle taking place in Washington over the past few months knows why America needs Bob Dole as President. While Bill Clinton has used scare tactics and obstructionism to stand in. the way of real change, Bob Dole stood up for what we believed in. He went toe-to-toe with the President and demanded a balanced budget and tax relief for America's families, and he led the Senate in passing historic welfare reform. Bob Dole's proven leadership puts him head- and-shoulders above the rest of the Republican field. That is why I am so proud to support Bob Dole for President and why I am certain he will carry Missouri on the way to the White House next fall."
"Bob Dole understands the needs of the American farmer better than any other candidate," said Emerson in announcing his endorsement. "From his childhood in the fields of Kansas to his leadership on agricultural and child nutrition issues in Congress, he has fought to maintain the strength of American agriculture. I know Missouri voters will stand with me as we support Bob Dole for President."
"Missouri and Kansas share more than a common border," said Dole as he announced the leadership team. "They share a common set of values: honesty, hard work, personal responsibility, love of country, and love of family. It is these values that have guided me throughout my career, and it is these values that I will take with me to the White House. I am proud that this prestigious group of Missouri political leaders has decided to join my campaign, and I look forward to working with them as we continue our fight for common-sense conservative values."
Bond becomes the 27th U.S. Senator to join the Dole campaign. The Dole campaign also has secured the support of 20 Republican Governors, stores of House Members, and hundreds of state and local elected officials. The latest CNN/USA Today poll shows Dole leading the Republican field with 49% of the vote -- 38 percentage points ahead of his nearest rival. The same survey showed Dole beating Clinton in a head-to-head matchup by 49% to 46%.
MISSOURI STATE LEADERSHIP
HONORARY CO-CHAIRMEN
Senator Christopher "Kit" Bond
Congressman Bill Emerson
CHAIRMAN
Allen Allred
CO-CHAIRMEN
Jan Klarich
Bobbie Kapps Moore
David Steelman
1st Congressional District Co-Chaimen
Honorable Dorothy Johnston
Honorable Stephen Higgins
2nd Congressional District Chairwoman
Ann Wagner
3rd Congressional District Chairman
Honorable Kurt Odenwald
Jeanne Hacker
4th Congressional District
Billie Pinkepank
5th Congressional District Co-Chairmen
Michael "Mike" Ketchmark
Buford "Bunk" Farrington
6th Congressional District Co-Chairmen
Gary Black
Ronald "Ron" Muck
Tina Tucker
7th Congressional District Chairwoman
Honorable Cindy Stein
8th Congressional District Co-Chairmen
Honorable Robert "Bob" Bales
Honorable Gail Green
9th Congressional District Co-Chairmen
Honorable Cynthia Beale
Lon Enghauser
STEERING COMMITTEE
Rep. Jon Bennnett, 15th District
Senator Roseann Bentley, 30th District
Jean Paul Bradshaw
Rep. Harriet Brown, 13th District
Rep. Gary L. Burton, 128th District
Rep. Bonnie Sue Cooper, 32nd District
Rep. Laurie Donovan, 74th District
Senator Steve Ehlmann, 23rd District
Rep. Michael R. Gibbons, 94th District
Senator Sam Graves, 12th District
Rep. John E. Gresheimer, 109th District
Rep. Chuck Gross, 18th District
Jack Hyle
Rep. Mary C. Kasten, 158th District
Senator Bill Kenney, 8th District
Senator Peter Kinder, 27th District
Senator David Klarich, 26th District
Rep. William G. Marshall, 133rd District
Rep. Emmy McClelland, 91st District
Rep. Jim Mitchell, 148th District
Senator Walt Mueller, 15th District
Rep. Patrick A. Naeger, 155th District
Rep. Cindy Ostmann, 14th District
Rep. Fred Pouche, 30th District
Rep. Mark Richardson,
Republican Minority Leader
Representative Estel Robirds, 143rd District
Rep. Carson Ross, 55th District
Rep. David Schwab, 157th District
Senator Betty Sims, 24th District
Senator Marvin Singleton, 32nd District
Rep. Paul Sombart 117th District
Senator Irene Treppler, 1st District
Rep. Dale Whiteside, 7th District
Rep. Connie Wible Murray, 135th District
Rep. Chuck Wooten, 137th District
Rep. Marilyn A. Pavia-Edwards, 105th District
  