
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 26
Marsha L. Berzon, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice John T. Noonan, Jr., retired.
Legrome D. Davis, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Edmund V. Ludwig, retired.
Barbara Durham, of Washington, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Betty Binns Fletcher, retired.
Timothy B. Dyk, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Glenn L. Archer, Jr., retired.
Keith P. Ellison, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Norman W. Black, retired.
Gary Allen Feess, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice James M. Ideman, retired.
Barry P. Goode, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Charles E. Wiggins, retired.
Ronald M. Gould, of Washington, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Robert R. Beezer, retired.
William J. Hibbler, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice James H. Alesia, retired.
Matthew F. Kennelly, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Paul E. Plunkett, retired.
Lynette Norton, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Maurice B. Cohill, Jr., retired.
Richard A. Paez, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Cecil F. Poole, resigned.
Virginia A. Phillips, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice William M. Byrne, Jr., retired.
Stefan R. Underhill, of Connecticut, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice Peter C. Dorsey, retired.
T. John Ward, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, vice William Wayne Justice, retired.
Helene N. White, of Michigan, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Damon J. Keith, retired.
Ronnie L. White, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, vice George F. Gunn, Jr., retired.
Submitted January 29
Robert Wayne Gee, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy), vice Patricia Fry Godley, resigned.
  