
    
Two fierce feminists
Hillary Clinton and Cecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood, have a lot in common: They're both pantsuit aficionados. They've both faced down hours of hostile congressional questioning. And they're both unwavering champions of women's rights—especially a woman's right to make her own health care decisions.
They recently sat down together with Refinery29 and talked about everything from "mansplaining" to the future of abortion rights and why Hillary is Planned Parenthood's presidential pick.


They bonded over the shared experience of testifying before Congress.
Cecile:"I took a lot of strength knowing that Secretary Clinton has been through this many, many, many times. She's an inspiration to me and women all across the world."
Hillary: "As [Cecile] rightly said, when you're standing up for what's right, it makes it somewhat less burdensome to face, in her case and later in my case, what was a stream of hostility. I took a lot away from her testimony."


They took Republicans to task for attacking women's rights—and laid out the stakes in the next election.
Cecile: "I do think what's important for your viewers to understand is what the U.S House of Representatives just did was pass a bill that basically said young women on Medicaid can't go to Planned Parenthood for basic preventive care. We're talking about breast cancer screenings, tests for sexually transmitted infections, getting your well woman visits. ... For many women we are the only doctor she will see this year."
Hillary:?"This should not be viewed as politics as usual. [Republican presidential candidates] are serious. They are in many respects appealing to the most anti-woman aspects of their party and unfortunately getting a response."


And they made one thing clear: When it comes to defending women's health, they'll never back down.
Cecile: "There will never be a world without Planned Parenthood, because we will never go away. ... We will continue to serve people and to fight for their rights to reproductive health care that frankly determine their futures."
Hillary: "I want to be that president that will say, ?Forget about it. Don't waste your time; you know you're not getting past me.'"
Read the full interview here.
  