
    "The presidency isn't an entry-level position, and Kasich clearly has the credentials needed to be the next commander-in-chief," Daily Nonpareil
Today newspapers in both Iowa and New Hampshire endorsed Ohio Gov. John Kasich's campaign for President. In Iowa, the Council Bluffs Daily Nonpareil wrote that Kasich "offers experience, unity to GOP in need of both," while the Valley News wrote, "Kasich's experience and electability should appeal to Republicans who actually want to win this fall rather than just blow off steam."
Highlights of the Nonpareil's endorsement include:
"Kasich, the second-term governor of Ohio, is clearly the most experienced candidate in the packed GOP field...his record sets him head and shoulders above the field."
"Most importantly, he has stressed a message of unity during his campaign stops, and his policies reflect that. He correctly notes that a single political party is unable to govern alone. In a Washington as paralyzed as it is today, his message of hope, rationality and togetherness cannot be discounted."
"The presidency isn't an entry-level position, and Kasich clearly has the credentials needed to be the next commander-in-chief."
Read the entire endorsement here.
Highlights of the Valley News endorsement include:
"Kasich's experience and electability should appeal to Republicans who actually want to win this fall rather than just blow off steam."
"In overwhelmingly winning re-election as governor in 2014, Kasich demonstrated broad appeal across the voter spectrum in a swing state, winning 64 percent of the vote, including 57 percent of younger voters, 69 percent of independents and 60 percent of women."
"He is solidly of the tax-cutting, budget-balancing, strong-defense, pro-gun, anti-abortion school of conservative thought. One of his central themes is that power should be drained from Washington and directed back to the states.
"Kasich appears to be a pragmatist who leavens his fiscal and social conservatism with compassion and genuine concern for the trials and tribulations of ordinary folks...He has often expressed concern for those he calls "people in the shadows" — the poor, the addicted, the mentally ill, those with developmental disabilities — saying, "The miracle of America doesn't just apply to the few."
Read the entire endorsement here.
The endorsements come a week after Kasich also received a string of strong endorsements from New Hampshire papers as well. The Nashua Telegraph, Portsmouth Herald, Foster's Daily Democrat and Bow Times all pointed to Kasich's commonsense approach and experience in urging voters to support him in the state's upcoming election.
  