
    "Vote For Romney On Saturday"
The Post And Courier
Editorial
Friday, January 20, 2012
http://www.postandcourier.com
Mitt Romney is the Republican with the best chance of winning the White House in November. But the best reason to vote for him in Saturday's South Carolina primary is this:
He's the best candidate for the job.
The former Massachusetts governor has an impressive record, in and out of public office. His extensive background, steady temperament and sense of purpose make him the right GOP choice for the crucial task of leading our nation out of tough times and virtual political gridlock.
At this point in Barack Obama's presidency, it is sadly clear that he has pushed our nation too far to the left -- and as a direct consequence, far too deeply into record debt. Mr. Romney is a proven fiscal conservative with the ability and resolve required to correct that wayward course. He also has ample experience in forging productive compromises across party lines.
Like presidential predecessor George W. Bush, Mr. Obama pledged to advance bipartisan solutions to the nation's problems. Unfortunately, neither man fared very well on that score.
Why would Mr. Romney do any better?
He has ample experience from 2003-2007 as the Republican governor of a state with a legislature overwhelmingly controlled by Democrats -- and very liberal ones at that, unlike the moderate Democrats with whom Mr. Bush often found common ground as governor of Texas.
"I could do nothing without a collaborative relationship with the leaders of the House and Senate," Mr. Romney said of his governorship in an interview this week at The Post and Courier.
Yet much good conservative work was done on his watch: restructuring and streamlining of state government, the elimination of a $3 billion deficit and the addition of $2 billion to a "rainy day" fund, and reducing red tape for small businesses -- all without raising taxes or adding to state debt.
That doesn't mean Gov. Romney was a pushover. He issued more than 800 vetoes.
...
As for countering the rising threat to the fiscal future of the U.S., which has for the first time lost its top credit rating from Standard and Poor's , Mr. Romney has valuable insights from his service not just as a state chief executive but as the founder and CEO of Bain Capital. The GOP rivals who criticize his accomplished leadership of that investment/management firm should know better. Mr. Romney's knowledge of how profits and jobs are created -- and lost -- would serve the nation's economy well in the White House.
...
Mitt Romney's combination of skills, experience and commitment make him the right man at the right time to be president.
And Saturday is the right time for South Carolina to boost him closer to that goal.
  