
    WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, President Obama nominated Justice Myra C. Selby and Donald K. Schott to serve on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
"These individuals have displayed exceptional dedication to the legal profession through their work, and I am honored to nominate them to serve the American people as judges on the United States Court of Appeals," President Obama said. "They will be diligent, judicious and esteemed additions to the bench."
Justice Myra C. Selby: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
Justice Myra C. Selby is a former associate justice of the Indiana Supreme Court and currently a partner at Ice Miller LLP in Indianapolis, Indiana, where she practices commercial litigation with an emphasis in health care.
Justice Selby received her B.A. in 1977 from Kalamazoo College and her J.D. in 1980 from the University of Michigan Law School. After graduating from law school, she practiced in the Washington, D.C. office of Seyfarth Shaw LLP from 1980 to 1983. In 1983, Justice Selby joined the Indianapolis law firm of Ice Miller Donadio & Ryan (now Ice Miller LLP), where she was an associate in the Health Care Group from 1983 to 1988 and partner from 1988 to 1993. From 1993 to 1994, Justice Selby served as the Director of Health Care Policy for the State of Indiana under Governor Evan Bayh. As Director of Health Care Policy, she was responsible for policy development and the execution of state health care programs. In 1995, Justice Selby was appointed to the Indiana Supreme Court, where she served as both the first African American and first woman appointed to the highest state court in Indiana. During her time on the court, she authored more than 100 majority opinions, including landmark decisions regarding tort law reform and medical malpractice claims. In 1999, she retired from the bench and returned to private practice as a partner at Ice Miller LLP.
Upon her departure from the bench in 1999, the Indiana Supreme Court asked Justice Selby to chair the newly formed Commission on Race and Gender Fairness. Justice Selby continues to chair the Commission, where she leads the Commission's efforts to study and make recommendations on increasing gender and racial fairness in the legal system.
Donald K. Schott: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
Donald K. Schott is a partner in the Madison, Wisconsin office of Quarles & Brady LLP, with extensive litigation experience at the state and federal trial court and appellate levels.
Schott received his B.A. in 1977 from the University of Wisconsin—Madison and his J.D. cum laude in 1980 from Harvard Law School. After graduating from law school, Schott worked as an associate in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin office of Quarles & Brady LLP. From 1983 to 1985, he worked as the Legislative Liaison for the Office of the Governor before returning to Quarles & Brady LLP in their Madison, Wisconsin office as an associate in 1985. Schott became a partner with the firm in 1987. During his legal career, Schott has represented a number of clients in cases involving a wide range of legal issues including securities regulation, corporate governance, health care, and environmental disputes. In addition to an active litigation practice, Schott regularly counsels clients on litigation avoidance.
Schott is active in firm management and leadership, having served on the firm's Executive Committee since 1991, and as the former managing partner of the Madison, Wisconsin office. In 2001, Schott was inducted as a Fellow in the American College of Trial Lawyers.
  