
    Pool Reports by Sebastian Smith, Agence France-Presse 



Sent:
Reports:




January 8, 202308:02 EST

Out of town travel pool report 1 - cutout
Good morning from Wilmington. Wintry pale blue skies and a waning gibbous moon hang over the cutout where your pool is being swept by Secret Service, while awaiting the president.
We’re due to head soon to DANG for the flight back to JBA. POTUS will then continue on to El Paso and Mexico City.
Here’s the schedule ICYMI:
9:40 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart New Castle, Delaware en route Joint Base AndrewsDelaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, DelawareOut-of-Town Pool
10:40 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive at Joint Base AndrewsJoint Base AndrewsSupplemental Pool
11:00 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route El Paso, TexasJoint Base AndrewsSupplemental Pool
MST
12:45 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in El Paso, TexasEl Paso International Airport, El Paso, TexasOpen Press
3:45 PM THE PRESIDENT departs El Paso, Texas en route Santa Lucía, MexicoEl Paso International Airport, El Paso, TexasSupplemental Pool
6:50 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Santa Lucía, MexicoFelipe Angeles International Airport, Santa Lucía, MexicoOpen Press



January 8, 202309:02 EST

Out of town travel pool report 2 - rolling
At 9:01 a.m POTUS motorcade is rolling



January 8, 202309:15 EST

Out of town travel pool report 3 - church cemetery visit
At 9:04 am, the motorcade pulled up at Saint Joseph on the Brandywine Catholic church for an unscheduled stop.Pool was able to observe POTUS being driven directly to the side of the cemetery where numerous members of his family are buried.The White House says the president, accompanied by FLOTUS, was visiting the grave of his mother Catherine Eugenia Finnegan. She died January 8th, 2010, at the age of 92.At 9:12 the motorcade was rolling again. Next stop DANG.



January 8, 202309:33 EST

Out of town travel pool report 4 - DANG, lifting
POTUS arrived at DANG at 9:25 a.m. and promptly boarded Marine One. Pool is boarding an Osprey to accompany the president to JBA.
Lifting at 9:32 a.m.
The White House sends this list of travelers:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, Delaware:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyJosh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security AdvisorAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations



January 8, 202310:20 EST

Out of town travel pool report 5 - JBA handover
Marine One landed at JBA at 10:19 a.m., taking the president directly to the waiting Air Force One for his trip to El Paso, then Mexico City.With that, and with thanks to fellow poolers on the Delaware leg, handing over to the supplemental travel pool.




 
Pool Reports below by Michael D. Shear, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




January 8, 202310:26 EST

Travel Pool Report #1 (Supplemental Pool) — JBA Arrival
Good morning
I am your supplemental pooler, taking over from Sebastian.
POTUS arrived from Wilmington at JBA at 10:19 am on a blustery Sunday morning. He is set to begin a three-day trip to the border city of El Paso, where he will survey the migrant situation, and Mexico City, where he will participate in a summit with the leaders of Mexico and Canada.
FLOTUS is flying separately to Mexico City, per the White House and will not be going to El Paso. POTUS and FLOTUS gave each other a peck before POTUS boarded AF1.
We will be rolling soon.
Per the White House:
Greeting POTUS and the First Lady upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route El Paso, Texas:
Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland SecurityRep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28)Rep. Veronica Escobar (TX-16)Rep. Vicente González (TX-34)Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsJen O’Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of StaffLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryJulie Rodriguez, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental AffairsEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & OutreachLise Clavel, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Southern Border & Senior Advisor for MigrationAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAlma Acosta Garcia, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs LiaisonKatie Tobin, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Transborder SecurityJohn Kirby, National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications



January 8, 202310:32 EST

Travel Pool Report #2 — rolling.
AF1 is rolling for El Paso at 10:29, about 30 minutes ahead of schedule.
From the White House: Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be joined by Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas during the gaggle aboard Air Force One en route El Paso, Texas.
Next report from El Paso.



January 8, 202312:27 MST

Travel Pool Report #3 -- El Paso arrival
AF1 landed in El Paso at 12:25 pm Mountain Time on Sunday for the president's trip to the border.
Karine Jean-Pierre held a gaggle on the flight, with DHS Secretary Mayorkas. Karine started the gaggle with an overview of the visit to El Paso, echoing largely the information the White House delivered last night.
Check against the transcript, but here are some key quotes from Secretary Mayorkas:
On border operations in El Paso: "We surged 100 border patrol agents. We are I believe on Tuesday going to be opening up a new soft sided facility that will be able to process up to 1000 migrants."
"We have surged up, emergency food and shelter, program funding to them also given them an extension on the expenditure of the funding already provided given the challenges they have faced."
On new asylum programs: "What we're trying to do is broadly incentivize, safe and orderly way, and cut out the smuggling organizations. So what what we're trying to have is to incentivize them to come to the ports of entry instead of in between the points of entry."
On criticism of transit ban proposal: "I've seen the criticism of it as a ban, but it is not a ban at all. It is markedly different than what the Trump administration proposed."
"I've seen firsthand what trauma is inflicted on migrants who actually use the smuggling organizations, so trauma or tragedy. What we're trying to do is incentivize individuals through the CBP One application to make an appointment to come with the port of entry to cut out the smuggling organizations."
On migration in El Paso: The secretary said it had dropped precipitously "since the peak in December. It was 2000 a day, it's now I believe most recent thing it was 700."
On what he's doing to prepare if Republicans impeach him: "We have work to do and I'm doing the work that we need to get done."
On whether the parole program announced is a wealth test: "The majority of not a more than that are using smuggling organizations to get there and the average cost is $6000 and so it is not wealth test."
On what POTUS will see in El Paso: "I will tell you one thing that I think he's going to see firsthand. That is the incredible work of US customs and border protection of the border federal agents, the field office personnel as well to support others before I do them at night I really I'm very eager for him to see the ordinary work that they perform every day"
On whether the US is satisfied with Mexico's efforts on migration: "Mexico made it independent decision with respect to the number of individuals they would accept on a monthly on a monthly basis. We've been very pleased, and very grateful for the partnership that we've had on, addressing the migration challenge, that, as I've said, publicly, a number of times is not unique to the southern border of United States, nor border of Mexico. It's something that is gripping the entire hemisphere."
Karine also took a few questions:
On the POTUS call to McCarthy: She declined to offer details but said it was consistent to his message that he wants to "work with Republicans in good faith" in the coming year.
On the debt limit: "Congress is going to need to raise the debt limit without, without conditions"
"There will be no hostage, taking the full faith and credit of our country is too important to allow any of that."
"This is a fundamental congressional responsibility and Congress was that both Republicans and Democrats in Congress have repeatedly raise the debt ceiling, including three times under the last president as you've heard me say many times before and we see and we believe they need to do that here."
On whether Gov. Abbot was invited to El Paso: She said that he was invited and that it was the understanding of the White House that he would be there when AF1 lands.



January 8, 202312:43 MST

Travel Pool Report #4 — greeters
POTUS deplaned at 12:30 and spent a few minutes in the greeting line, having conversations with the officials, including Gov. Abbott, who gave POTUS what looked like a sheet or sheets of paper. The two talked for a minute or so. POTUS held the paper in his left hand, rolled up. It was unclear what it was.
The motorcade is rolling at 12:41
The White House passes this along: POTUS greeted by:
Greg Abbott, Governor of TexasAlejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland SecurityRep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28)Rep. Veronica Escobar (TX-16)Rep. Vicente González (TX-34)Oscar Leeser, Mayor of the City of El Paso, TexasRichard Samaniego, El Paso County JudgeBishop Mark Seitz



January 8, 202313:02 MST

Travel Pool Report #5 — bridge arrival
POTUS arrived at the bridge of the Americas port at just before 1 pm. The pool is assembled in a loading dock at the cargo dock, near both the footbridge into Mexico and the bridge itself, with the big green welcome to Mexico sign in the background.
There are CBP officers lined up and we are awaiting POTUS.



January 8, 202313:37 MST

Travel Pool Report #6 — POTUS meets with CBP
POTUS, wearing a blue blazer and his signature sunglasses, was escorted to the loading dock area by several CBP officers, with others standing in front of CBP vehicles. He could be seen looking over to the bridge but was too far away for pool to hear anything. POTUS then shook hands and spoke with some of the other officers.
POTUS then walked over to where Secretary Mayorkas was standing next to a black sedan. A canine officer demonstrated with a beautiful yellow lab how the dog would find a suitcase in the trunk. The dog went around the car once and then stopped at the trunk.
The officers pulled out a suitcase and then took out what looks like fruit and a hunk of lunch meat.
Pool was then moved away and we couldn't see anymore.
POTUS then saw another demonstration of a chocolate lab finding a package of what look like packages of drugs or money in the backseat of a Chevy pickup truck. The officers showed the packages to POTUS, who discussed for a few minutes with the officers. Pool could not hear the conversation.
POTUS then walked over to another SUV where an officer appeared to be showing a handheld scanning device of some sort, moving it next to the front right tire. It was unclear what the screen was showing and the Pool was quickly moved away.
POTUS was then shown a very large truck with an upside down U-shaped scanner that moved over and around a large 18-wheeler, apparently showing the capability to scan inside for humans that could be smuggled inside. The Pool was too far away to see anything other than the truck moving alongside the 18-wheeler and could not hear POTUS.
Then POTUS walked over to a demonstration at a CPR dummy where EMT officers showed POTUS something that apparently helps to revive someone. Your Pool could not see what it was. POTUS at one point said "amazing" but it was unclear what he was reacting to.
POTUS was then showed machines that help CBP detect narcotics inside parts of a car like a gas tank or a radiator. They showed a device that they can stick into the pipe of a car to see into the gas tank. They then showed POTUS a radiator that is used to carry drugs and a hollowed out car batter that would be used to smuggle drugs. Pool was then moved away.
Pool is now holding in vans.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at the Bridge of the Americas
Ray Provencio, Office of Field Operations (OFO) Director of PortsHector Macha, El Paso Director of Field Operations (OFO)
The President tours the Bridge of the Americas facility with Customs and Border Protection.
Participants
Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland SecurityRep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28)Rep. Veronica Escobar (TX-16)Rep. Vicente González (TX-34)Oscar Leeser, Mayor of the City of El Paso, TexasRichard Samaniego, El Paso County JudgeRichard Wiles, Sheriff of El Paso CountyRay Provencio, Office of Field Operations (OFO) Director of PortsHector Macha, El Paso Director of Field OperationsPeter Jaquez, Acting El Paso Sector Chief Patrol Agent, Customs and Border ProtectionMary de Anda-Ybarra, Field Operations Director, Immigration and Customs EnforcementEfren Gonzalez, Director of Air Operations, Air and Marine Operations



January 8, 202314:23 MST

Travel Pool Report #7 - departure from bridge
Motorcade is moving at 2:22 pm. We are headed to a migrant services center. Your pooler did not see POTUS get into the motorcade.
From the WH:
Participating in a photoline with the President at the Bridge of the Americas:
Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28)Rep. Veronica Escobar (TX-16)Rep. Vicente González (TX-34)Oscar Leeser, Mayor of the City of El Paso, TexasState Representative Lina Ortega (District 77)Representative Isabel Salcido, City of El Paso (District 5)Richard Samaniego, El Paso County JudgeCarlos Leon, El Paso County CommissionerSergio Coronado, El Paso County CommissionerJoAnne Bernal, El Paso County AttorneyRichard Wiles, Sheriff of El Paso CountyPeter Jaquez, Acting El Paso Sector Chief Patrol Agent, Customs and Border ProtectionMary de Anda-Ybarra, Field Operations Director, Immigration and Customs EnforcementEfren Gonzalez, Director of Air Operations, Air and Marine OperationsLocal business leaders



January 8, 202314:38 MST

Travel Pool Report #8 — along the border
We are not at the migrant center. Motorcade has come to a stop along the border with Juarez. Pool is still holding in a van but will provide more soon. The wall where we are is a large, mesh like fence but apparently changes to the large, slat-like effort preferred by former president trump close by.



January 8, 202314:46 MST

Travel Pool Report #9 — walking along the border wall
POTUS walked with several members of the border patrol along the border wall that separates El Paso from Juarez, Mexico. The wall at this point is aboitn18 feet. It is rust-colored and a metal mesh between tall metal vertical beams.
On the US side, there is a freeway and a dirt path that POTUS is on. On the Juarez side, you can see some adobe houses and some businesses.
Pool is way to far to hear anything.
More to come.



January 8, 202314:50 MST

Travel Pool Report #10 — more from the border
There is no evidence of any migrants in view of POTUS or the pool. The area on the immediate Juarez side of the wall is filled with heavy brush and trees.
Secretary Mayorkas and other officials have joined POTUS and the border patrol officers in the discussion along the border, near the fence.
At one point, POTUS put his arm around Rep. Cuellar, and smiled.



January 8, 202315:00 MST

Travel Pool Report #11 — POTUS comments.
POTUS responded briefly to two shouted questions:
Asked about the letter from Gov. Abbott, he said: "I haven't read it yet."
Asked what he's learned on the border, he said: "They need a lot of resources. We're going to get it for them."
He seemed to respond to a question about the situation in Brazil, but it was unclear what he said. Your pooler will try to see if i can clarify.
The motorcade is moving at 2:59 pm, apparently to the migrant center.



January 8, 202315:26 MST

Travel Pool Report #12 — arrival at migrant center.
POTUS Motorcade arrived at the El Paso County Migrant Services Center at 3:20 pm. The drive from the border was mostly deserted, in part because of the security, which had blocked off most roads. It’s also a very industrial / non-residential area near an airport and it’s a Sunday.
It’s like a migrant welcome center that greets people who have been released from border patrol and helps get them on their way, including transportation, etc.
The building seemed mostly deserted today.
We have not seen POTUS yet.



January 8, 202315:40 MST

Travel Pool Report #12a — POTUS comment on Brazil
Following up on previous report, Karine confirmed to the press that POTUS said "it's outrageous" when he was asked about the situation in Brazil.
Several reporters in the pool also heard him say the same thing.



January 8, 202315:46 MST

Travel Pool Report #13 — more from center
The press were taken into the center, where some people were standing in front of a Salvation Army sign that said "WELCOME" and had some bags of sandwiches on display.
POTUS came in and was introduced to workers at the center. It appeared that he asked about how the center got its funding.
POTUS asked how many folks you have coming through?
Told it varies. One of the people said the average per day was about 300-500 migrants per day but that they have peaks of about 1000 per day at times.
POTUS was shown packages with socks, shoes, clothes, and other things. He then asked "If I could wave the wand, what should I do?" It appeared that the people said they needed more funding.
One clarification from earlier reports:
The CBP personnel at the border stop were dressed in green and were border patrol officers.
The ones at the previous stop at the bridge were dressed in blue and members of the Office of Field Operations.
From the WH:
The President greets with local elected officials, community leaders, and activists at El Paso County Migrant Services Center.
Greet #1
Rep. Veronica Escobar (TX-16)Juan "Trey" Mendez, Mayor of the City of Brownsville, TexasDavid Stout, El Paso County CommissionerIliana Holguin, El Paso County CommissionerBetsy Keller, County Administrator for the County of El PasoJorge Rodriguez, Director of the Office of Emergency Management for the City & County of El Paso
Greet #2
Bishop Mark SeitzRuben Garcia, Annunciation HouseSister Norma Pimentel, Catholic Charities
Greet #3
Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland SecurityRep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28)Rep. Veronica Escobar (TX-16)Rep. Vicente González (TX-34)Oscar Leeser, Mayor of the City of El Paso, TexasRichard Samaniego, El Paso County JudgeMarty McKellips, American Red Cross – El Paso ChapterSusan Goodell, CEO of El Pasoans Fighting HungerMajors Florian, Salvation Army – Local ChapterEloisa Estrada, Salvation Army – Local ChapterJohn Martin, Director, Opportunity Center for the HomelessIrene Valenzuela, Executive Director, County Community Services Department



January 8, 202316:07 MST

Travel Pool Report #14 — departure from center
POTUS motorcade is on the move at 4:05 pm. Your pooler believes we are on the way back to the airport for the departure to Mexico City.



January 8, 202316:24 MST

Travel Pool Report #15 — arrival at airport.
POTUS motorcade arrived back at El Paso International Airport at 4:22 and POTUS quickly boarded AF1. We are rolling soon for Mexico City.



January 8, 202316:31 MST

Travel Pool Report #16 — rolling
AF1 is rolling. Next pool report from Mexico City.



January 8, 202319:27 CST

Travel Pool Report #17 — AF1 landing in Mexico City
POTUS landed at 7:23 pm central time. Will update when the motorcade is en route to the next location.
No gaggle during the flight.



January 8, 202319:41 CST

Travel Pool Report #18 — arrival ceremony.
The red carpet was rolled out for POTUS arrival. A line of military honor guard marched out to line each side of the carpet after a trumpet sounded.
POTUS came down the stairs at 7:35 pm. He shook hands with officials at the bottom of the stairs, including Amb. Ken Salazar, who was wearing a cowboy hat and President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico.
AMLO and POTUS then walked to the Beast and both got in. Pool is headed to the motorcade.
From the White House:
President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, United Mexican StatesSusana Iruegas, Director General of Protocol, United Mexican StatesMarcelo Ebrard Casaubon, Secretary of Foreign Affairs, United Mexican StatesAmbassador Esteban Moctezuma Barragán, United Mexican States, Ambassador to the United StatesAmbassador Ken Salazar, United States Ambassador to Mexico



January 8, 202319:45 CST

Travel Pool Report #19 — motorcade departure
The POTUS motorcade is rolling from the airport at 7:43 pm central.



January 8, 202320:56 CST

Travel Pool Report #20 — arrival at RON, lid
after a very bumpy ride, the POTUS motorcade arrived at the RON at 8:50 pm. We have a lid. Have a good night everyone. Many thanks to Brian Bennett for help pooling today.
Cheers.




  