
    Governor Mitt Romney's "Immediate Response" To Video Clips Of 1994 U.S. Senate Debate With Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA):
The Associated Press: Mysterious Attack Video Posted On YouTube "Prompted An Immediate Response From Romney." "A 1994 videotape mysteriously posted on YouTube.com prompted Republican Mitt Romney to declare Wednesday, 'I was wrong on some issues back then,' while also insisting to social conservatives key to his presidential campaign that he is one of them. ... All of the material has been previously published, but its presentation in video form – and on the easily shared YouTube medium – prompted an immediate response from Romney, who formed a presidential exploratory committee last week." (Glen Johnson, "Republican White House Hopeful Says He Was 'Wrong' For Moderate Stands In 1994 Senate Race," The Associated Press, 1/11/07)

  The Boston Globe: Last Night, Romney For President Exploratory Committee Posts Video Of Governor Romney Responding To Questions About 1994 Kennedy Debate. "Last night, Romney called in to the conservative Internet broadcast 'The Glenn and Helen Show' to react to the distribution of what his presidential exploratory committee called 'ancient footage.' ... A video of Romney calling into the 'Glenn and Helen Show' was posted on Romney's exploratory committee website last night." (Rich Klein, "Old Romney Debate Clip Is Now A Hit On The Web," The Boston Globe, 1/11/07)

  Romney Press Secretary Kevin Madden: "We used the very same mediums made available to those seeking to attack Governor Romney to set the record straight in his own words with the facts." (Glen Johnson, "Republican White House Hopeful Says He Was 'Wrong' For Moderate Stands In 1994 Senate Race," The Associated Press, 1/11/07)


"Smarter Than The Average Bear":
Hugh Hewitt: "Happening In Rapid Response Fashion," Governor Romney's Innovative Push-Back Knocked The Story Down In One News Cycle. "Romney's push-back at the YouTubing of his '94 debate with Ted Kennedy – happening in rapid response fashion – means an entire news cycle on a somewhat significant story has played out before even one newspaper reported it, with the anti-Romney forces (clearly worried about the big $ Monday and the DeMint Tuesday) trying to put a stick in the spokes, and Romney's team finding a way to knock it down in the same cycle. That's a preview of what it will be like all year." (Hugh Hewitt's Blog, "The Instapundit And Instawife Interview Romney," http://hughhewitt.townhall.com, 1/10/07)
Dean Barnett: "This Is Not Only Rapid Response, But Intelligent Response." "To offer his counterpoints in the blogosphere where this is a matter of conversation, Romney did a podcast this afternoon with Professor Reynolds and his better half. But wait – there's more. While Romney was on the phone with the Reynoldses, his campaign filmed him. A short while ago, the Romney campaign posted the video of him addressing the 13 year old clip on YouTube. This is not only rapid response, but intelligent response." (Dean Barnett, Hugh Hewitt's Blog, "Smarter Than The Average Bear, Pt. II," http://hughhewitt.townhall.com, 1/10/07)
Barnett: "You'll be saying it too by the end of the campaign – Romney is Smarter Than The Average Bear." (Dean Barnett, Hugh Hewitt's Blog, "Smarter Than The Average Bear, Pt. II,"http://hughhewitt.townhall.com, 1/10/07)


To view Governor Romney's video, please see: http://mittromney.permissiontv.com/?showid=36427
  