
    (New York, NY) January 22nd, 2016 — Today Donald J. Trump debuted the campaign's most recent radio ad to begin airing in Iowa and South Carolina featuring Jerry Falwell Jr. Mr. Trump was a guest at Liberty University on Monday and was introduced by Falwell who spoke glowingly of Mr. Trump's success, leadership and character, which he stated reminded him of his late father.
Mr. Trump said, "It was a great honor to be introduced by the legendary Jerry Falwell Jr. He has built a tremendous institution and is a really terrific person with a beautiful family. We have always had a wonderful relationship and I am proud to share his kind words with the people of Iowa and South Carolina."
The ad features statements from Falwell's introduction of Mr. Trump at the Liberty University convocation this week, which was attended by a record crowd of students and supporters. Falwell is a highly respected and influential figure in Evangelical communities.
In the ad Mr. Falwell says, "I see a lot of parallels between my father and Donald Trump. Like Mr. Trump, Dad would speak his mind. He would make statements that were politically incorrect. He speaks the truth publicly, even if it is uncomfortable for people to hear it. Dad explained that when he walked into the voting booth, he wasn't electing a Sunday school teacher, or a pastor, or even a President who shared his theological beliefs. He was electing a President of the United States to lead a nation."
Mr. Trump continues to lead all national and state polls with the latest polls from Iowa and New Hampshire showing him with substantial, double digit leads over his nearest rival. The CNN/ORC poll from Iowa shows Mr. Trump with 36% support and an 11 point lead over Senator Ted Cruz and a 20 point lead over Cruz in the WMUR/CNN poll out of New Hampshire. Mr. Trump will return to Iowa this weekend and campaign in all three primary states throughout the week.
You can listen to the ad here: http://www.donaldjtrump.com/media/trump-falwell-radio-spot
  