
    Vice President Mike Pence will travel to Europe in mid-February on behalf of President Donald Trump. The Vice President, accompanied by Second Lady Karen Pence, will visit Poland and Germany February 13-16, 2019.
In Warsaw, Poland, the Vice President will give keynote remarks at the Ministerial to Promote a Future of Peace and Security in the Middle East. The Ministerial, co-hosted by the United States and Poland, seeks to bring together countries concerned about instability in the region to share their assessments and offer ideas on a better way forward. The Vice President will address the United States' commitment to work with partners to help build a strong, secure, and economically viable Middle East. The Vice President will also participate in bilateral discussions focused on collaborative solutions to crises in the Middle East and on expanding and deepening U.S.-Poland relations, especially in the spheres of military and energy security, as well as expanding our economic and commercial ties. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will join the Vice President for the Ministerial in Poland.
In Munich, Germany, the Vice President will give remarks at the Munich Security Conference. During the Vice President's second appearance at MSC, the Vice President will address many of the critical international security challenges faced by the transatlantic and global community. The Vice President will also participate in bilateral discussions with high-level officials attending the conference and highlight the Administration's call for more equitable burden sharing within the NATO Alliance, stabilizing the Middle East and Latin America, and harnessing cooperation among partners to establish fair terms for international commerce.
"The Vice President is looking forward to representing the United States in Warsaw at the Ministerial to Promote a Future of Peace and Security in the Middle East and at the Munich Security Conference. He will reaffirm the Administration's commitment to international peace and stability, recognizing the value of strategic partnerships in the Middle East, as well as our shared global security responsibilities," said Alyssa Farah, Press Secretary for the Vice President.
Additional details about the Vice President's trip are forthcoming.
  