
    Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair and Texas Representative Joaquin Castro Endorses Elizabeth Warren for PresidentCastro's support comes as the campaign's Texas operation expands, local officials endorse
San Antonio, TX – Today, the Warren for President campaign announced Texas Representative Joaquin Castro endorsed Elizabeth Warren for President. Castro serves as the Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) and has represented Texas' 20th District in San Antonio for four terms. A native son of Texas, Representative Joaquin Castro grew up on the west side of San Antonio and like Senator Warren, has fought for working and marginalized families throughout his career.
Castro's support follows a series of endorsements from local officials and activists across San Antonio, Houston, and Austin and the endorsement of former San Antonio mayor and Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro.
The campaign has announced its Texas State Director Jenn Longoria and already has over two dozen senior staffers and organizers across the state, who have been on the ground since the summer. Texas for Warren has opened offices in San Antonio and Austin, which brought together hundreds of supporters to show them all the ways they can get involved, and will open its next office in Houston this Friday, January 17th.
"Today, I'm endorsing Senator Elizabeth Warren for President, because she's going to make sure that everyone has great opportunities to achieve their dreams and get ahead. Senator Warren is also the only candidate who can unite the Democratic Party and our country, two things essential to defeating Donald Trump and restoring America's leadership role at home and abroad," said Representative Castro. "Senator Warren is going to fight for all of us, including for people who came from neighborhoods like mine. That's why I'm proud to be in this fight with her."
"I'm grateful to have earned the support of Chairman Joaquin Castro in this fight. Joaquin has been a leader on issues near and dear to my heart - from investing in public education for our kids to ensuring our military families and veterans are supported," said Warren. "With his support in this campaign, we will build a movement that elects Democrats up and down the ballot and places opportunity in the hands of all working families in Texas and across the country."
Since announcing her presidential campaign, Warren has visited Austin, Dallas, and Houston. Elizabeth received her undergraduate degree from the University of Houston, where she also got her first job as a law professor, and taught at UT-Austin Law School. She grew up next door in Oklahoma and lived in Texas for over ten years.
  