
    
A high school master class in political science.
At 17, Patrick North has never cast a ballot or participated in a caucus before. But that didn't stop him from becoming one of the most dedicated volunteers for Hillary Clinton's campaign in Oskaloosa, Iowa—long before the Iowa caucus takes place on February 1.
Why work your heart out for a presidential candidate at such a young age?
"Because I strongly support her ideas," Patrick says. "And it's the best I can do to make sure she gets in office."
Political firsts
Patrick didn't followed politics until some older friends invited him to join a local young Democrats organization. That's where he learned one of the essential skills of campaigning: phone banking.
"The first time I picked up a phone at a phone bank was slightly terrifying," Patrick says. "I remember that my hands were shaking a little bit. My voice was a little shaky too, but I asked that person how they were doing, and some questions about the caucus. And I made it through that phone call."
Patrick has now talked to more than 150 Iowa caucus-goers on the phone and knocked on nearly as many doors in his community. At school, he tries to persuade his friends and classmates to get interested in the political process that kicks off right in their backyards. Many of his fellow classmates will be able to caucus this year: As long as you turn 18 before the general election on November 8, you're eligible to caucus in Iowa.
A candidate who's listening
"I like to keep my friends interested and informed," says Patrick. "They know I'm involved in the campaign so they ask me about issues." They've talked about gun violence prevention, equality, and—unsurprisingly for a group of high school students—college affordability.
Patrick wants to study biochemical engineering at Iowa State University after he graduates, and under Hillary's New College Compact, he'd be able to attend college without taking out loans to pay for his tuition. That's something he's very excited about—and thinks his peers should know about, too.
"She's going to be a good president because she has a plan to make sure that college is going to cost a lot less for younger people like me," he says. "Hillary isn't ignoring young people, and she isn't ignoring Iowa. She's listening to us."
  