
    Hillary Clinton campaign staff and volunteers will honor Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s life and legacy by marching in holiday parades and assisting with local service projects across America.
"Dr. King's strength and courage continue to inspire me and remind all of us of our ability - and our obligation - to fight injustice," said Hillary. "To commemorate Dr. King's life and legacy, my staff and supporters across America will march in Martin Luther King, Jr. day parades and participate in volunteer projects in their communities. Staff and volunteers will honor Dr. King's leadership during the civil rights movement by making common cause with the millions of Americans who continue to raise their voices, roll up their sleeves, and work for justice."
A sample of activity follows:
NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS: Staff and supporters will join City Year volunteers to beautify Roosevelt Senior High School in Washington, D.C.
ALABAMA: In Montgomery, Hillary supporters will participate in State Rep. Alvin Holmes' annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day parade and rally. In Birmingham, they will take part in the 22nd annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Unity Breakfast. In Mobile, they will participate in the People's United annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day parade.
ARIZONA: In Phoenix, Hillary supporters will stock shelves at the Cultural Cup Food Bank.
ARKANSAS: In Little Rock, Hillary supporters will march in the "MLK Marade." They will also participate in Martin Luther King, Jr. Day events in Pine Bluff and Jonesboro. The campaign continues to collect paper products, which it will donate to Little Rock's Union Rescue Mission for the homeless.
CALIFORNIA: In Fresno, San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego and Sacramento, Hillary supporters are participating in events commemorating Martin Luther King, Jr. Day.
COLORADO: In Denver, staff and volunteers will march in the Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. day "Marade." Volunteers will also serve food at the annual "Dinner for Those Who Hunger."
GEORGIA: In Atlanta, about 100 Hillary supporters will march in the annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day parade.
TENNESSEE: In Nashville, Hillary supporters will march in the annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day parade.
  