
    San Diego Congressman will also serve as the National Chair for Climate, Energy, and Environment Council for Mike Bloomberg 2020
SAN DIEGO – U.S. Representative Scott Peters (CA-52) today endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg, praising his immediate call-to-action to address the climate crisis and his comprehensive agenda to create a smarter, safer and greener approach to infrastructure. Congressman Peters was also named national chair for the campaign's climate, energy and environment council where he will advise on strategy and policy.
"If we're going to make real headway on fighting the clear and present threat of climate change and addressing our country's infrastructure needs, we need a president who prioritizes them and will put political factions aside to get things done. That is why I am endorsing Mike Bloomberg for president," said Congressman Scott Peters. "Mike understands the power of activating cities, businesses and people, and he has a record of delivering real solutions. His unwavering commitment to climate and infrastructure policy gives me hope for the next generation."
Congressman Peters represents CA-52, a district that he flipped blue in 2012 by defeating the Republican incumbent. Peters is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee; he is the second ranking member of its Energy sub-committee and third-ranking member on its Environment and Climate sub-committee. For his national climate leadership, Peters was selected to represent Congress at the Conference of the Parties 25 (COP25).
In 2016, Peters participated in and live-streamed a House sit-in led by Congressman John Lewis to force a vote on gun safety legislation. Peters cited Mike's success taking on the gun lobby and his decades of leadership and investment in the gun safety movement as a reason for his endorsement.
"Congressman Peters has been a strong leader in Washington on issues that matter in this election, like preventing gun violence, fighting the climate crisis, protecting the environment, and standing up for our veterans – and he has delivered results for his constituents," said Mike Bloomberg. "I'm honored to have his support and I'm looking forward to working with him to bring people together, defeat Donald Trump, and get our country moving forward again."
  