
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 11
In the morning and afternoon, the President held a retreat with Cabinet members in the Jackson Place Conference Room at Blair House.
January 12
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt concerning the Middle East peace process.
January 14
In the evening, the President had a conference call with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel and Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority concerning the Middle East peace process.
The President announced the nomination of Madeleine May Kunin as U.S. Ambassador to Liechtenstein.
January 15
The President directed the Department of Health and Human Services to release $5 million in emergency Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program funds for North and South Dakota and the Indian tribes located in those States. The White House announced that the administration had declared North and South Dakota national disaster areas on January 10 and 11, respectively, due to extreme winter storms.
January 16
In the morning, the President had telephone conversations with King Hussein I of Jordan and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt concerning the Middle East peace process.
The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms beginning January 3 and continuing.
January 17
In the morning, the President attended a breakfast with the U.S. Conference of Mayors in the Indian Treaty Room of the Old Executive Office Building.
In the afternoon, the President signed the Alameda Corridor loan guarantee in the Roosevelt Room. Later, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a diplomatic reception in the John Adams Room at the State Department.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a dinner for outgoing Cabinet members in the Blue Room.
The President declared a major disaster in the State of Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by winter storms, land- and mudslides, and flooding beginning December 26 and continuing.
The President announced his intention to designate Jared L. Cohon as chairman and to appoint the following individuals as members to the Board of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board: Daniel B. Bullen, Florie A. Caporuscio, Norman L. Christensen, Debra S. Knopman, Priscilla P. Nelson, and Alberto A. Sagues.
  