
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate ten individuals, appoint four individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration. He also recess appointed two individuals:
The President intends to nominate Richard A. Boucher, of New York, to be Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs. Ambassador Boucher is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the rank of Career Minister. He most recently served as Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as the United States Senior Official for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum. Ambassador Boucher served as U.S. Ambassador to Cyprus and Consul General in Hong Kong. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Principal Officer in Shanghai, China. Ambassador Boucher received his bachelor's degree from Tufts University.
The President intends to nominate Tyler D. Duvall, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Transportation (Transportation Policy). Mr. Duvall currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy. Earlier in his career, Mr. Duvall was a business and finance associate at Hogan & Hartson LLP. Mr. Duvall received his bachelor's degree from Washington & Lee University and his JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Preston M. Geren, of Texas, to be Under Secretary of the Army. Mr. Geren currently serves as Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense. Prior to this, he served as Acting Secretary of the Air Force and as Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense. Earlier in his career, Mr. Geren served as a Member of the United States House of Representatives. Mr. Geren received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Texas at Austin.
The President intends to nominate James B. Gulliford, of Missouri, to be Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances at the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Gulliford currently serves as Regional Administrator for Region 7 at the Environmental Protection Agency. Prior to this, he served as Director for the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship, Division of Soil Conservation. Earlier in his career, Mr. Gulliford served as Director for the Iowa Department of Soil Conservation. Mr. Gulliford received both his bachelor's and master's degrees from Iowa State University.
The President intends to nominate Roger Shane Karr, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of Transportation (Governmental Affairs). Mr. Karr currently serves as Deputy Chief of Staff for the Department of Transportation. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Governmental Affairs. He also served as Manager for Regulatory Affairs for the American Association of Airport Executives. Earlier in his career, Mr. Karr served as Legislative Assistant for American Airlines. Mr. Karr received his bachelor's degree from Texas Christian University and his master's degree from Temple University. He went on to receive his JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Nicole R. Nason, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation. Ms. Nason currently serves as Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Governmental Affairs. Prior to this, she served as Assistant Commissioner for the Office of Congressional Affairs for the United States Customs Service. Ms. Nason also served as Communications Director and Counsel to Representative Porter J. Goss. Earlier in her career, she served as Governmental Affairs Counsel at Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Ms. Nason received her bachelor's degree from the American University and her JD from Case Western Reserve.
The President intends to nominate David L. Norquist, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Norquist currently serves as Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Budget and Appropriations Affairs). Prior to this, he served as Acting Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), as well as Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Financial Management). Earlier in his career, Mr. Norquist served on the professional staff of the House Appropriations Committee. Mr. Norquist received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from the University of Michigan. He went on to receive a second master's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate David C. Sanborn, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration of the Department of Transportation. Mr. Sanborn currently serves as Director of Operations for Europe and Latin America at DP World. Prior to this, he served as Senior Vice President for North America Service Delivery at CMA-CGM (America) LLC. Mr. Sanborn also served as Vice President for Network-Operations for American President Lines, Pte. Ltd. Earlier in his career, he served as Director for Operations for Sea-Land Service, Inc. Mr. Sanborn is a retired Lieutenant Junior Grade for the United States Naval Reserve. He received his bachelor's degree from the United States Merchant Marine Academy.
The President intends to nominate James S. Simpson, of New York, to be Federal Transit Administrator at the Department of Transportation. Mr. Simpson is currently Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Victory Worldwide Transportation. Prior to this, he was the company's Vice President. Earlier in his career, Mr. Simpson served as a Commissioner of the New York State Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Mr. Simpson received his bachelor's degree from St. John's University.
The President intends to nominate Ben S. Bernanke, of New Jersey, to be United States Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring October 4, 2009.
The President intends to appoint John N. Etchart, of Montana, to be a Member of the Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum. The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Governors of the United Service Organization, Incorporated (USO), for terms of three years:
Valencia Campbell, of Maryland
Raymond Paul Caldiero, of Connecticut
James T. Dyke, Jr., of South Carolina
The President intends to designate David L. Dunn, of Texas, to be Acting Under Secretary of Education.
The President recess appointed C. Boyden Gray, of the District of Columbia, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the European Union, with the Rank and Status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
The President recess appointed Dennis P. Walsh, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board.
  