
    
  Duck Commander says Cruz is "the man for the job"

HOUSTON, Texas – Today, the Cruz for President campaign announced the endorsement of Phil Robertson, a professional hunter, businessman, Christian minister, and reality television star on the popular television series Duck Dynasty. Robertson believes Ted Cruz is the man for the job.

"My qualifications for President of the United States are rather narrow: Is he or she Godly, does he or she love us, can he or she do the job, and finally would they kill a duck and put him in a pot and make him a good duck gumbo?," Robertson said. "[Cruz] fits the bill."
Robertson attended Louisiana Tech University, where he played football and received a master's degree in education and spent several years teaching. However, his true passion was hunting, fishing and duck calling. Robertson started a commercial fishing company, which he expanded into a duck calling business that launched the family into success.
"I am thrilled to have Phil's support for our campaign," said Cruz. "The Robertson's are a strong family of great Christian faith and conservative values. Phil's story of starting off with something small and working hard to achieve the American dream is inspiring. Much like my parents, and many other Americans, who started a small business and worked hard to provide for our family. If we as conservatives come together in 2016 and fight for the values that have made this country exceptional, we will win the White House and turn this country around."
SCRIPT:
PHIL ROBERTSON: My qualifications for President of the United States are rather narrow. Is he or she Godly, does he or she love us, can he or she do the job, and finally would they kill a duck and put him in a pot and make him a good duck gumbo? I've looked at the candidates, Ted Cruz is my man. He fits the bill. He's Godly, he loves us, he's the man for the job, and he will go duck hunting because today we're going.
Ted Cruz is my man, I'm voting for him.
Cruz the reason we're going to vote for you, all of us, is because you're one of us my man.
TED CRUZ: Thank you.
ROBERTSON: That's why we're voting for you.
It's now or never.
  