
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced endorsements from five more Colorado state legislators. These supporters, who are in addition to Governor Romney's already-robust legislative leadership team in the state, will help Governor Romney's campaign organize at the grassroots level and communicate his message of conservative change in Washington.
The new supporters are State Sen. Josh Penry and State Reps. Cory Gardner, Larry Liston, Frank McNulty, and Rob Witwer. These five legislators are often referred to as some of the rising stars of the Colorado Republican Party.
"I'm proud to have the support of these leaders from the Centennial State, and I look forward to working with them to spread our message," Governor Romney said. "These additions to our team will play a critical role in growing grassroots support for the campaign in Colorado. Together, we will talk to voters about my vision to bring change to Washington and tackle a new generation of challenges facing our country."
Background On The New Colorado Legislators Who Have Endorsed Governor Romney:
State Senator Josh Penry – Penry represents Colorado's 7th senate district. Prior to his election in 2007, he served as a member of the Colorado House of Representatives. Penry is the youngest Republican member of the Colorado Senate and a leading advocate for education reform in Colorado. Along with State Representative Rob Witwer (see below), he has pushed for legislation to raise graduation standards for Colorado high school students, especially in the areas of math and science. Penry is a former standout quarterback at Mesa State College and National Scholar Athlete of the Year by the American Football Coaches Association. Before his election to the Legislature, Penry served as a top aide to Congressman Scott McInnis. Penry, who represents all of Mesa County and part of Garfield County, resides in Grand Junction with his wife Jamie and their two children. The Rocky Mountain News has referred to Penry as one of the "rock stars" of the Colorado Republican Party.
State Representative Cory Gardner – Gardner represents Colorado's 63rd house district and serves as the House Republican Whip. After beginning his career at the National Corn Growers Association, he was named the organization's director of Washington communications. In 2002, Gardner joined the staff of U.S. Senator Wayne Allard as a legislative assistant for agriculture, energy, natural resources, water, transportation, judicial nominations and Indian affairs and was soon named legislative director and general counsel. Gardner was elected to the General Assembly in June of 2005. He has since passed legislation creating the Colorado Energy Development Authority and is a leading voice in renewable energy. Gardner maintains a private law practice and remains active in his family's farm equipment dealership, a business started by his great-grandfather in 1915. Gardner, whose district encompasses much of the Eastern Plains of Colorado, resides in Yuma with his wife Jaime and daughter Alyson Grace. The Rocky Mountain News has referred to Gardner as one of the "rock stars" of the Colorado Republican Party.
State Representative Larry Liston – Liston represents Colorado's 16th house district, based in Colorado Springs. Liston is First Vice President of RBC Dain Rauscher in Colorado Springs, where he serves as a financial consultant. He has held leadership positions in the campaigns of Governor Owens and President Bush and was elected as a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 2000. In 2001 he was recognized as the Republican of the year by the leadership of El Paso County. After serving as Vice Chairman of the Colorado Republican Party from 2001-03, Liston was elected to the Colorado State House in 2004. Since his election, he has continued to champion the causes of limited government, lower taxes and the needs of veterans. Liston and his wife Mary Ann reside in Colorado Springs and have one daughter, Katarina.
State Representative Frank McNulty – McNulty represents Colorado's 43rd house district in Republican rich Douglas County. A rising star in the Republican Party, McNulty was elected in 2006. McNulty began his career as a legislative aide in U.S. Senator Wayne Allard's office. McNulty worked in the private sector to defend small business and to strengthen the business environment in Colorado. During Governor Bill Owens' administration, he was appointed as the Assistant Director for Water with the Colorado Department of Natural Resources where he advised on statewide water policy. He is an advocate for limited government, fiscal transparency and responsibility, and common sense water policies. McNulty resides in Highlands Ranch with his wife Kim.
State Representative Rob Witwer – Witwer, a business attorney, represents Colorado's 25th house district in western Jefferson County. In 2003, the Denver Business Journal named Rob to its "40 Under Forty" list of up-and-coming Colorado business leaders. In the legislature, Rob has been a strong advocate for lower taxes and reducing red tape for small business. A former Assistant Director of the Colorado Department of Natural Resources, Witwer has been active in nonprofit efforts locally and statewide. He is a former board member of the Audubon Society of Greater Denver, the Colorado Water Trust and New Genesis homeless shelter. Witwer resides in Golden with his wife Heather and their four boys. The Rocky Mountain News has referred to Witwer as one of the "rock stars" of the Colorado Republican Party.
  