
    Thousands of volunteers, hundreds of staff reach out to voters across the state
MANCHESTER, NH - With just three days left until the New Hampshire primary, the New Hampshire for Hillary campaign's organized, strong, and experienced team is poised and ready to deliver a strong showing for Hillary on January 8. The campaign has stepped up its unprecedented grassroots efforts to let voters across the state know that Hillary is tested and ready to lead on day one.
"Our volunteers, supporters and staff are fanning out across New Hampshire letting Granite Staters know that it is time to pick a president who can make real change happen for our country," said Nick Clemons, campaign state director.
The New Hampshire campaign's 17 statewide offices - more than any other campaign in the state - are buzzing with activity. This weekend over 200 staff and thousands of volunteers will hit the streets across the Granite State, knocking on over 100,000 doors. Over the past months, the campaign has also made more than 1.4 million calls to voters and volunteers have sent out over 100,000 neighbor-to-neighbor letters, asking fellow Granite Staters to vote for Hillary.
The campaign will also reach voters as they drive down major New Hampshire roadways and read their local papers. The campaign unveiled nine billboards across the state and will run seven full page ads in daily newspapers on Sunday, January 6.
National and local supporters will flood communities across the state carrying with them a very specific message: Hillary Clinton is the only candidate ready to lead on day one. Among those kicking off more than 150 canvasses, making phone calls, knocking on doors, and meeting with undecided voters are Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villagairosa, Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley, General Wesley Clark, Senators Evan Bayh and Barbara Mikulski, campaign Chairman Terry McAuliffe, First Lady Susan Lynch, New Hampshire Speaker of the House Terie Norelli, Senate President Sylvia Larsen, 75 Arkansas Travelers and many more.
  