
    HOUSTON, Texas – Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry today endorsed Ted Cruz for President. Perry served as the Governor of Texas for fifteen years, the longest-serving governor in Texas history. Under his leadership, Texas became a haven of job creation, freedom, entrepreneurship, and limitless opportunity.
The Cruz campaign released the following video of Gov. Perry's endorsement:

"Gov. Rick Perry is a friend and a remarkable public servant," said Cruz. "He is a proud veteran who bravely served our nation, and he was an extraordinary governor of Texas. It was an honor to serve under him during my time as Texas' Solicitor General. I am thrilled to have Rick join our campaign. With his principled leadership, we will coalesce conservatives behind this campaign to win the White House in 2016."
Perry is from Paint Creek, Texas where he grew up the son of tenant farmers and attended Texas A&M University, serving in the Corps of Cadets. Upon graduating from Texas A&M, he joined the United States Air Force where he flew C-130 tactical airlift aircraft in Europe and the Middle East. Perry served as Texas Agriculture Commissioner until he was elected lieutenant governor of Texas in 1998, appointed governor in 2000, and re-elected in 2002.
"I support Ted Cruz for President," said Gov. Perry. "As an Air Force Veteran, I understand the sacrifices that our men and women in the military make every day to keep us safe. They deserve a commander in chief who values their service, who will keep our military strong, and who will always put America's national security interests first. Ted has proven that he is ready to serve as Commander in Chief on Day One. He has also proven the willingness to take on the Washington Cartel and restore power and opportunity back to the people."
Under his leadership, Texas created almost one-third of all new private sector jobs in the United States, with 1.5 million jobs created since the end of 2007. In light of the federal government's failure to secure our southern border with Mexico, Gov. Perry allocated state funds to stop the surge of illegal immigration. He understands the importance of securing our borders to keep our homeland safe.
Perry is a U.S Air Force veteran, and as governor, he formed the Texas Veterans Initiative to expand mental health programs for veterans and their families. He also signed legislation that granted property tax exemptions to disabled veterans and provided in-state tuition to veterans who are eligible for federal education benefits.
He is a tireless champion for conservative principles and has taken a bold stand against Obama's lawlessness and assaults on our first amendment liberties.
Below is a full script of Gov. Perry's endorsement video:
Howdy, I'm Rick Perry.
2016 is a critical election and I'm here to stress to you how important it is for conservatives to rally together and support a consistent conservative candidate who will take on Washington and who can defeat the Democrat nominee.
That is why I support Ted Cruz for President. 
As an Air Force Veteran, I understand the sacrifices that our men and women in the military make every day to keep us safe.
They deserve a commander in chief who values their service, who will keep our military strong, and who will always put America's national security interests first.
He has proven that he is ready to serve as Commander in Chief on Day One.
He has also proven the willingness to take on the Washington Cartel and restore power and opportunity back to the people.
He has proven that he will do what is necessary to secure our borders, to defeat radical Islamic terrorism, and to ensure our brave veterans receive the care they have earned.
Ted is the leader that we need to reignite the promise of America.
This is why I am supporting Ted Cruz and asking Iowa Republicans to Caucus for Cruz next Monday, February 1st!
  