
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam.
"Governor Haslam's focus on balancing the budget and providing state services efficiently and effectively to taxpayers should be an example to politicians in Washington," said Mitt Romney. "His priorities to cut spending, reduce regulatory burdens, and strengthen a business-friendly climate are key steps to put our country on the right path once again. I look forward to working with Governor Haslam to help spread my pro-growth message and defeat President Obama."
"I am proud to announce my support for Mitt Romney.  He's been a governor and had the responsibility of leading as an executive by cutting spending, keeping taxes low and creating a strong environment for job creation," Governor Haslam said. "He also has private sector experience and understands the importance of balancing revenues and expenses. Mitt is a problem solver, and what we really need in this country right now is someone that can tackle tough issues. With Mitt Romney in the White House, Tennesseans can be confident in a leader that is focused on creating jobs and encouraging prosperity for Americans."
Background on Governor Bill Haslam:
Bill Haslam was elected the 49th governor of Tennessee with the largest margin of victory in any open governor's race in the state's history. His top priorities are to make Tennessee the No.1 location in the Southeast for high quality jobs by fostering a business-friendly environment for recruitment and expansion; to continue the state's momentum in education reform with the focus on doing what's best for Tennessee children in the classroom; and to ensure the state budget is managed conservatively and state government is run as efficiently and effectively as possible while delivering quality service to the citizens of Tennessee.
Prior to serving as Governor, he was the Mayor of Knoxville for eight years, and before entering public service, he managed his family's business, driving all over the country to find good locations for new truck-stops and helping it expand to a nationwide business.
  