
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
January 16
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Senator Howard H. Baker, Jr., of Tennessee;
—the Cabinet;
—Attorney General Griffin B. Bell.
January 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives;
—members of the Democratic Caucus of the 94th and 95th Congresses;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative Morris K. Udall of Arizona;
—Representative Al Ullman of Oregon;
—Senator Howard W. Cannon of Nevada;
—members of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee.
January 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski; —Representative Joe D. Waggoner of Louisiana:
—Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin:
—Senator William Proxmire of Wisconsin;
—members of the Board of Trustees of the Council of the Americas and Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker, to discuss the Panama Canal treaties;
—Secretary Brown;
—a group of consumer leaders.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Roberto Quinonez Meza of El Salvador and Jorge Lampoft Rodil of Guatemala.
At a news conference at the White House, representatives of the 1977 Inaugural Committee announced a surplus of more than $800,000, and the creation of a perpetual trust to finance public events in future Inaugurations.
The White House announced that the President telephoned President Anwar al-Sadat of Egypt to discuss the Middle East negotiations.
January 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative Richard Bolling of Missouri;
—Senator Russell B. Long of Louisiana;
—Representative John J. Rhodes of Arizona;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
At a news conference at the White House, Attorney General Griffin B. Bell announced the President's intention to nominate William H. Webster, of St. Louis, Mo., United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, to be Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Following his State of the Union address, the President attended a White House reception for a group of supporters from Iowa.
January 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator Frank Church of Idaho;
—Thomas J. Watson, Jr., chairman of the executive committee of IBM Corp.;
—members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President declared an emergency for the State of Arkansas because of the impact of tornadoes which struck Cross, St. Francis, and Woodruff Counties on January 7.
The President left the White House for a weekend trip to Georgia.
  