
    By Team Huck
Thank goodness for anti-lock brakes because Gov. Huckabee has been pounding an ice-sprinkled, Iowa pavement with five fantastic events today, as we rolled-out a few social conservative endorsements and picked-up some solid coverage. Check out the KNOCK-OUT answer to Speaker Paul Ryan's question on faith this weekend. Thank you Ms. Janet for three days of solo campaigning in South Carolina. And Grab your oven mitts, tonight's forecast is 4 degrees Fahrenheit, but these TV ads are getting HOT here in Iowa! A few excerpts…
---
Fox and Friends- Fox News Channel, National
[HUCKABEE] "More people were killed last year by hammers than by rifles. Maybe the president should have an empty seat at the State of the Union for the all victims of hammer violence? The President could stop 4,000 abortions a day if he started treating unborn children as persons. He always says that if we could just 'save one person' it would be worth changing these laws. Well with that, he could save 4,000."
Morning Joe- NBC National
[HUCKABEE]: "Rick Santorum was down in the polls five days out. This is a ground game, and this is also about Iowa voters breaking late…voters don't know a lot about some of the newer candidates. They know a lot about me. My favorability is the highest of any candidate, period. My un-favorability is the lowest. And when it gets down to it, people are going to say, 'I want to go with the guy I know'….People are beginning to see that I don't say one thing in Marshalltown, Iowa and then another in Manhattan. I've been consistent for 26 years …"
Spartanburg Herald Journal- "Huckabee's Wife Set To Visit Boiling Springs"
Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee's wife is scheduled to make a campaign appearance in Boiling Springs. "I'm so excited to be back in South Carolina campaigning for Mike," wife Janet Huckabee said in statement released by the campaign.
Economic Mobility Forum with Speaker Paul Ryan and Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC)- C-SPAN, National
[SPEAKER PAUL RYAN] "How does faith play a role?"
[GOV HUCKABEE] "Part of the reason I got into politics was because I wanted to take my values and insights into the political arena. I did not leave my faith behind. I brought it with me. I never exchanged the capitol dome for the steeple….We've made the huge mistake in this country thinking we should create this huge separation between faith and government. The truth is, we cannot function as a society when we divorced the sense of our fundamental Judeo-Christian values...The best way to have a small government is to have moral, virtuous people, following their faith. I know that if you don't catch me doing something or the press doesn't catch me doing something, God still does. (laughter) I'm more worried about His evaluation than yours. (laughter) His has eternal consequences, yours does not! The worst you can do to me is not elect me! (laughter/applause)."
Oskaloosa News-"Huckabee Hopes To Rise To The Top" (Iowa)
Thursday marked Huckabee's completion of the 'Full Grassley', which is a tour of all 99 counties in Iowa...In an effort to pull off the upset, the campaign will see a grueling 150 events for the month of January. The Iowa Caucus has been notoriously tough to predict, with many candidates pulling out to the front in the polls just days before the votes are cast. Iowans are particularly skilled at testing out each candidate until the very end, many not knowing who they will vote for precisely until they arrive at their designated caucus locations and talk with others in their party…. "If somebody finds a shortcut, it could be the end of the Iowa Caucus and its importance"….Huckabee said he's out to win the Iowa Caucus the "old fashioned way, outworking everybody else." GREAT STORY. HONEST FACTS. Click here.
Daily Iowegian, "Huckabee: I can defeat the 'Clinton political machine'" (Iowa)
"Well, for seven years we've had a short-term senator who never had any executive experience what-so-ever," Huckabee said. "And even as a senator he accomplished virtually nothing as a senator because he spent most of his Senate career running for president." Huckabee said the Republican field offers options for president, like short-term senators who never have had an executive position….The next president, or CEO of the country, should be someone who has run something and who can beat the Democratic opponent. "Frankly, I think governors are better prepared to be president," Huckabee said, adding as the Arkansas governor for 10.5 years he passed 94 tax cuts, passed pro-life legislation, increased benefits for veterans, worked to rebuild the road system and reformed education, just to name a few… Full story, click here.
Christian Broadcasting News, "Mike Huckabee Releases Endorsements, Including Tim LaHaye, Author Of Popular 'Left Behind' Books"
"With just a few weeks to go before the big Iowa Caucus, Huckabee's trotting out some key endorsements from notable pro-family conservatives. The Brody File has the exclusive. Among the group endorsing Huckabee are Dr. Tim LaHaye, minister and author of the New York Times best-selling Left Behind book series; Dr. Jim Garlow, Senior Pastor of SkyLine Church;" Art Ally, founder and president of Timothy Plan, America's first pro-life and pro-family mutual fund company; Dr. Eric M. Wallace, President & Co-Founder of Freedom's Journal Institute and Janet Folger Porter, Founder and President Faith2Action. It's a solid list. This month, Huckabee and his team accomplished the goal of visiting all of Iowa's 99 counties...
"Huckabee rolls out first in series of social conservative, family values endorsements"
"Life, marriage, and religious liberty aren't bargaining chips or political considerations-they are moral issues. And I'm proud of the social conservative leaders who are coalescing around our campaign to burn down the corrupt Washington political machine and put our God, our country, and our cherished values first," said Gov. Huckabee...These initial endorsements represent a few national leaders, joining hundreds of pastors and community activists from around the country, supporting Huckabee…Full release,click here.
NewsMax.com- "Huckabee Has Faith Iowa Could Break His Way"
Iowa voters tend to decide late on who they'll support in their caucuses, GOP candidate Mike Huckabee said in a weekend interview with MSNBC's Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski...
Huckabee blasts Clinton's Planned Parenthood endorsement
"Planned Parenthood harvests and sells human organs...but Hillary Clinton is 'honored' to have their endorsement?...As President, I will never surrender to Planned Parenthood... I will never bow down to Washington's assault on the unborn or wave the white flag in the face of this evil."
The Washington Times
Six months, six debates and unprecedented media attention still haven't been enough for GOP voters in Iowa and New Hampshire, most of whom say they still haven't completely decided who they'll back when the voting starts Feb. 1. The volatility of the field — with polls showing as many as three-quarters of voters uncertain of their choice...Mr. Huckabee and Sen. Rand Paul, two of those struggling to gain traction, said during separate appearances last week on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" that they're encouraged by how many people are still up for grabs….
Call it a 'war wound' or an Iowa editorial board 'badge of honor.' But just don't forget to take a bow=>
Des Moines Register, "Huckabee shoots off his mouth"
In responding to the president's executive order on guns last week, Huckabee issued a press release stating, "...take aim at Washington stupidity, blow holes in ridiculous government programs and shred our unfair tax code with a customized shooting target." On his web site, Huckabee offers for sale what he called "customized, Obama-agenda shooting targets" emblazoned with the words "Obamacare," "Common Core" and "75,000-page tax code." The symbolism is as undeniable as it is offensive…
  