
    
  Internationally-recognized Harvard mathematician and derivatives whistleblower considers Dr. Paul's many credentials as ample fodder for endorsement

LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul announced today the endorsement of Iris Mack, the notable and accomplished applied mathematician, derivatives whistleblower and professor. The endorsement recently was made official on The Economic Policy Journal.
In endorsing the 12-term Congressman from Texas, Dr. Mack stated: "Ron Paul has some serious credentials: medical doctor, Air Force veteran, and author of several books detailing and predicting various economic issues and crises. As public official for many years, Dr. Paul has an excellent voting record as a fighter for liberty, and on a personal note he is a well-regarded family man."
Continuing her praise, Dr. Mack cited Dr. Paul's stance against President Obama's civil liberties power-grab, saying, "Also, Ron Paul seems to be one of the few elected public servants who has come out against the NDAA Indefinite Detention Law — which Obama signed on New Year's Eve deliberately when few were watching."
"Taken together, there isn't one thing I dislike about Ron Paul," concluded Dr. Mack.
The campaign reacted to news of Dr. Mack's endorsement positively.
"Iris Mack knows qualifications when she sees them so people following her work will take her word that Ron Paul is ideally suited to understand our nation's challenges and provide winning solutions such as those found in his 'Plan to Restore America.' We appreciate Dr. Mack's endorsement and anticipate that it will contribute to the strong showing we plan to in all stages of our 50-state campaign for the Republican nomination," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
Iris Mack, PhD, EMBA earned a Harvard doctorate in Applied Mathematics and a London Business School MBA. She is a former MIT professor. Dr. Mack is also a former Derivatives Quant/Trader who has worked in financial institutions in the U.S., London and Asia. Oxford-trained mathematician Dr. Paul Wilmott — founder of the Certificate of Quantitative Finance Program in London — has invited Dr. Mack to lecture on Energy Derivatives. He also invited her to join his team of quantitative financial markets bloggers on wilmott.com. This team of bloggers includes financial heavyweights such as the The Black Swan author Dr. Nassim Taleb; former Goldman Sachs Quant Dr. Emanuel Derman; and former derivatives trader Satyajit Das — recently featured in The Inside Job movie.
Dr. Mack is under contract with the Global Finance Division of John Wiley & Sons Publishers to write a book entitled "Energy Trading and Risk Management." In addition, she conducts workshops on Quantitative Investments and High Frequency Trading for the Terrapinn Group "3-Day MBA Program" in Singapore, Hong Kong and London. She is also a Finance Subject Matter Expert for the Virginia Department of Education new online Financial Literacy program. Dr. Mack serves on a Research Advisory Board for the National Academy of Sciences. In addition, she serves on the Advisory Boards of the Women Mentor Women Foundation and the I Can Still Do That Foundation.
Dr. Mack founded Phat Math Inc. in Miami, Florida in 2003. A few years later in 2007 she and her colleagues at Phat Math launched their prototype mathematics edutainment social network PhatMath.com. Students in grades K-12 and College have access to free 24/7 online math homework help on PhatMath.com — named one of the Top 50 Social Sites for Educators and Academics and 25 Useful Networking Sites for Grad Students.
Dr. Mack has been an astronaut semifinalist, one of Glamour Magazine's "Top 10" college students, one of Glamour's "Top 10" working women, an investment banker, an energy trader, and an MIT professor. In addition, she was the second African-American female to earn a doctorate in Applied Mathematics from Harvard. Later she became a mathematics and business school professor at several academic institutions, while simultaneously running a consulting firm Associated Technologists, Inc. (ATI).
More information about Dr. Mack's professional experiences, her academic credentials, speaking engagements and media exposure may be found on www.IMackGroup.com.
  