
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, U.S. Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) announced her endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney for President of the United States. Congressman Blackburn has served in Congress since 2003 and is a member of the Republican Study Committee.
"It is a pleasure to welcome Marsha back to our campaign to build a stronger America. As a rising conservative leader, she knows firsthand that we must bring conservative change to Washington. The only way we can do that is by returning to our core conservative principles of lowering taxes, restraining spending and streamlining government. I look forward to working with Marsha as we strengthen America through conservative change," said Governor Romney.
Announcing her support today, Congressman Blackburn said, "Tennesseans are looking for a real conservative to hold the White House in November, and I support Governor Romney as the true conservative choice for Tennessee. I was proud to support our native son in the race, but I believe that Mitt Romney is now the clear conservative choice in this contest."
Background On U.S. Congressman Marsha Blackburn:
U.S. Congressman Marsha Blackburn Has Represented Tennessee's Seventh Congressional District Since 2003. Congressman Blackburn sits on the House Energy & Commerce Committee. In Congress, she has worked to help guide our nation's fiscal policy and protect intellectual property rights. Congressman Blackburn was selected to serve as an Assistant Majority Whip in the 108th Congress and Assistant Minority Whip in the 109th Congress. In the 110th Congress, she serves as a Deputy Whip. Congressman Blackburn has also been named as a Communications Chairman for the Republican Study Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee.
Prior to her service in Congress, Congressman Blackburn was a State Senator in Tennessee. There she led a grassroots campaign to defeat a proposed state income tax. She is married with two children.
  