
    Memorandum for the President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
Subject: Designation of Officers to Act as President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., it is hereby ordered that:
Section 1. Order of Succession.Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this memorandum, the following officials of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of the President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (POPIC), during any period in which the POPIC has died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of POPIC, until such time as the POPIC is able to perform the functions and duties of that office:
(a)          Executive Vice President; (b)          Vice President and General Counsel; (c)          Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; (d)          Deputy General Counsel; and (e)          Director of Operations.
Sec. 2. Exceptions.
(a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as POPIC pursuant to this memorandum.
(b) No individual listed in section 1 shall act as POPIC unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this memorandum in designating an acting POPIC.
Sec. 3. This memorandum is intended to improve the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, it agencies, instrumentalities, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 4. You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
George W. Bush
  