
    
  Palmetto State Tea Party favorite and GOP heavyweight goes all in for Ron Paul

COLUMBIA, SC - 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul received today the key endorsement of tea party favorite and South Carolina political heavyweight, state Sen. Tom Davis (R-Beaufort).
The consequential endorsement took place at a press conference at 6:00 p.m. EST at the Palisades Conference Center, located in Myrtle Beach.
Sen. Davis is the most influential fiscal conservative in the South Carolina General Assembly and his endorsement virtually assures that fiscal conservatives in the "First in the South" primary state will take notice. His endorsement also is viewed as a political game-changer by many in South Carolina Republican Party circles.
Those outside South Carolina also have stated the importance of the Davis endorsement.
One of Paul's rivals for the Republican nomination, Rick Santorum, recently spoke on the weight a Davis endorsement carries. Ruminating on the prospect Davis might endorse him the former U.S. Senator from Pennsylvania told The Hilton Head Island Packet newspaper that, "To get an endorsement from someone like Tom Davis is a big deal. It would speak volumes to folks and make them take notice and give us a look."
Sen. Davis, as it turned out, took a far different path and instead endorsed a fellow fiscal conservative.
"We're excited and grateful to have Sen. Davis's endorsement, as it carries tremendous weight in South Carolina," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton. "Sen. Davis knows a true fiscal conservative when he sees one. He's uniquely qualified to distinguish between establishment candidate Mitt Romney and the conservative alternative to Romney, Ron Paul."
Sen. Davis's full statement of endorsement follows.
Statement from Sen. Tom Davis
"It's easy to campaign on lower taxes, less spending and fewer regulations - it's another thing entirely to stand up for these limited government principles when the entire Washington establishment is aligned against you. Yet for more than three decades Ron Paul has cast thousands of lonely votes in our nation's capital based on the constitutional principles that this country was founded on - and that the Republican Party has promised to protect. Yet while generations of politicians - including far too many Republicans - were losing their way or caving to the status quo, Ron Paul was standing as a Tea Party of one against a towering wave of red ink.
"2012 marks the fifth consecutive year in which the federal government is going to spend well over $1 trillion in money it doesn't have. Each and every American taxpayer is now on the hook for $135,000 worth of federal debt - and last year's debt deal adds another $7 trillion in deficit spending over the coming decade. Meanwhile the U.S. Senate hasn't passed a budget in nearly 1,000 days.
"I'm endorsing Ron Paul because enough is enough. Despite this wave of unprecedented government spending, our unemployment rate has remained above 8 percent for the last 34 months and 146.4 million Americans - one out of every two people in this country - are now classified as poor or low-income.
"Government activism and government intervention clearly hasn't fixed our economy - which is why the Republican Party needs a nominee who isn't wedded to that failed approach. We won't chart a path to fiscal solvency or victory in November by running toward the failed ideas of the left - we will achieve those victories by returning to the principles that the Republican Party once stood for.
"That is why I am proud to endorse Ron Paul for president.
"Ron Paul's record matches his rhetoric, his fiscal plan matches the fiscal challenges that our nation is facing and his movement represents the taxpayers whose interests have been ignored in the political process for far too long.
"I'm also endorsing him because unlike what the pundits have led you to believe, he is the candidate who gives the Republican Party the best chance to beat Barack Obama in November.
"We have a choice: We can keep electing candidates who talk about change only during political campaigns as a way to get elected, or we can finally elect a candidate who will walk the walk and make that change a reality - restoring our bottom line, our individual liberties and our national pride in the process."
  