
    Fort Lauderdale, FL – Former Arkansas Governor and Presidential Candidate Mike Huckabee announced the endorsements of Ft. Lauderdale Mayor Jim Naugle, City of Plantation Councilman Jerry Fadgen and former chairwoman for Fred Thompson's presidential campaign in Broward County Barbara Collier at a news conference Friday morning in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
"As Mayor of Ft. Lauderdale, I have always been an advocate of traditional conservative values, such as fiscal conservatism, a strong foreign policy and preserving the sanctity of life," said Mayor Naugle, who is a Democrat. "Governor Huckabee's consistent support of these values, combined with his progressive strategies for education and health care, has caused me to fully support Huckabee's candidacy for president."
"I have always believed in the importance of electing conservative leaders who are committed to upholding the principles of limited government," Fadgen said. "Mike Huckabee has proven himself to be a strong leader and an authentic conservative, which is why I encourage all Floridians to vote for Mike Huckabee at the Florida primaries on January 29."
"In my twenty years of activism on behalf or the Republican party, I have always fought to see pro-life and pro-family values preserved," said Collier. "As Governor of Arkansas, Mike Huckabee actively worked to uphold these principles, and I believe he will do the same as our president."
"I am honored to have Mayor Naugle, Councilman Fadgen and Mrs. Barbara Collier join our growing team of supporters in Florida," Gov. Huckabee said. "It is a pleasure to receive the endorsements of such esteemed community leaders and strong advocates of conservative values, and we welcome their support."
Mayor Naugle served as a Fort Lauderdale City Commissioner from1985- 1991 and was first elected Mayor of the City of Fort Lauderdale in February 1991. Now in his sixth term, Mayor Naugle is the longest serving Mayor in the history of Fort Lauderdale.
Fadgen is a certified public accountant in private practice in Plantation, Fla. He was first elected to City Council in 1995, on a platform of limited government.
Collier was the local co-chair of the Bush-Cheney 2004 presidential campaign, is the chairwoman of the Christian Coalition in Broward County.
Naugle, Fadgen and Collier join Speaker of the Florida House Marco Rubio, State Senate Majority Leader Daniel Webster, State Senator Mike Haridopolos, State Senator Alex Diaz de la Portilla, and State Representative David Rivera in endorsing Mike Huckabee for President.
  