
    LOS ANGELES — Today, award-winning actor and environmentalist Sam Waterston endorsed Mike Bloomberg for president, touting Mike's record of leadership in fighting climate change and his commitment to prioritize climate action as president.
"I believe Mike Bloomberg is the best chance we have to solve climate change," said Sam Waterston. "For a long time, it's been central to Mayor Bloomberg's work in the world, from what he focuses on himself, to what he did as Mayor of New York, to where he directs the efforts of his very effective foundation, it's central to his campaign for president. I'm honored to be able to vouch for his leadership and this crucial work, along with millions of New Yorkers and large numbers of environmental activists who have seen Mike Bloomberg's engagement and effectiveness in countering climate disruption and protecting and repairing the life of our oceans with my own eyes. Under his tenure as mayor, New York City became the city people wanted to live in — what a difference he would make as president."
Waterston has long expressed deep concerns about the state of the environment under the Trump administration.
"President Trump, by his climate denial, false claims about fossil fuels, and reckless deregulation, is himself a threat to the environment. Big interests back him. Running against him won't be easy," Waterston said."This is just the kind of situation Mayor Bloomberg seems to relish, maybe because he's so good at dealing with them: walking toward troubles, taking them on, and bringing people together to solve the problem."
Waterston will be appearing in campaign ads across the country on digital channels.
"Sam Waterston has millions of fans, including me — and not just for his award-winning work on the stage and screen. Sam is a devoted environmentalist who knows how urgent it is that we take action to protect our planet," said Mike Bloomberg. "I've admired his advocacy for a long time, and I'm very grateful for his support of climate action and our campaign."
Waterston is an actor, producer, and director best known for his role as Jack McCoy on Law & Order and Law & Order: Special Victims Unit from 1994 to 2010, for which he won Golden Globe Screen Actors Guild awards. He earned an Academy Award nomination for his role in The Killing Fields in 1984. Waterston received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2010 and was inducted into the American Theatre Hall of Fame in 2012.
Waterston is on the board of directors of Oceana, an international organization focused on protecting the world's oceans. He has a long record of supporting environmental issues.
Learn more about Mike's plans to combat the climate crisis, and his record of climate action, here.
  