
    As many Americans know from direct personal experience, this Nation is confronted by near-critical shortages in natural gas supplies. This has been one of the coldest winters in our history. Electric utilities are experiencing record demand. Great stress has been placed on supplies of alternative fuels for heating.
Plants have been forced to close down in a number of States currently affecting over 200,000 workers. An equal number of children have been turned out of their schools because of natural gas shortages. As a former Governor, I know firsthand the extent of the problem facing State governments which are presently attempting to deal with the crisis. I am even more concerned about the growing cost in human suffering that will increase if severe winter weather continues.
In order to deal with this situation in a prompt and coordinated fashion, Dr. Schlesinger, as my personal representative, Senator Adlai Stevenson and Representative John Dingell, the chairmen of the respective Senate and House subcommittees having jurisdiction over natural gas, Chairman Richard Dunham and the members of the Federal Power Commission, and consumer representative Lee White have today met with representatives of the Nation's interstate pipelines to obtain a current measure of the shortage and to identify the options available to deal with the situation on an emergency basis.
The industry indicated willingness to work cooperatively with the Government in dealing with the crisis. I can pledge that the Government will use the full measure of its authority to respond forthrightly to minimize the adverse effects of this situation. I have instructed Dr. Schlesinger to work with congressional leaders to develop emergency legislation that will augment our legal means to distribute equitably our available supplies to protect property and safeguard the health and safety of our people.
Some affirmative action has already been undertaken to help alleviate the situation. The Federal Power Commission has extended emergency orders to allow more intrastate natural gas to enter the interstate system. The Canadian Government has agreed to make additional natural gas available on an emergency basis. The Federal Energy Administration has been directed to review existing authorities to expedite the use of propane to supplement natural gas supplies and to assure that fuel oil supplies will be available to prevent localized spot shortages.
I recognize the critical need for the legislative and the executive branches to work together to put all the instrumentalities of government to work to help alleviate this crisis. Today, we are beginning this effort. But the most important short-term priority will be to save energy. We can secure additional supplies and put an energy allocation program in place. But without public conservation, there may not be enough energy to allocate. I am calling on all Americans, whether their homes are heated by natural gas, heating .oil, or some other fuel, to turn their thermostats down to 65 degrees in the daytime and lower at night. By this action, great savings are possible. I am immediately directing that this discipline be observed in all Government installations.
I have great confidence in our ability to respond effectively to deal with this crisis and reduce consumption to manageable levels over the remainder of the winter. If we work together we will accomplish much, and our reward will be measured in the jobs we save and the human suffering we alleviate.
Today's crisis is a painful reminder that our energy problems are real and cannot be ignored. This Nation needs a coherent energy policy and such a program of energy action will be formulated promptly.
  