
    FOX's GRETCHEN CARLSON: "So Mr. Romney, what does Nancy Pelosi know, if it would be such a bombshell, as why Newt Gingrich couldn't be president?" MITT ROMNEY: "I wish I knew what that was. I'd tell people what it is right now. That's one of the reasons why I'm saying that all of the records that were part of the ethics investigation, all of the transcripts, all of the records have to be made public. Not just the final white-washed report, but the full record, the reason that 88% of the Republicans in the House voted to reprimand their own speaker, the first time in American history that's happened. We need to understand why that is and those records need to be released because you know that if Nancy Pelosi knows those things right now, she will hand them to Barack Obama's campaign if Speaker Gingrich were our nominee." (Fox News' "Fox & Friends," 1/25/12)
Click Here To Watch The Video
House Minority Leader — And Former Ethics Committee Member — Nancy Pelosi Knows Something We Don't About Newt Gingrich:
Pelosi, On Why There Will Never Be A Gingrich Presidency: "There Is Something I Know." CNN's JOHN KING: "Because of your history with Speaker Gingrich, what goes through your mind when you think of the possibility, which is more real today than it was a week or a month ago, that he would be the Republican nominee and that you could come back here next January or next February with a President Gingrich?" PELOSI: "Let me just say this. That will never happen." ... KING: "Why are you so sure?" PELOSI: "There is something I know. The Republicans, if they choose to nominate him that's their prerogative." (CNN's "John King, USA," 1/24/12)
Pelosi Previously Said She Would Reveal What She Knew About Gingrich "When The Time Is Right":
In December, Pelosi Noted She Served On The Investigative Committee, Had Seen All Of His Documents, And Would Discuss It "When The Time Is Right." "House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) is holding back some information on Republican Newt Gingrich that could detract from his presidential campaign, according to a report published Monday. 'One of these days we'll have a conversation about Newt Gingrich,' Pelosi told Talking Points Memo. 'When the time is right. ... I know a lot about him. I served on the investigative committee that investigated him, four of us locked in a room in an undisclosed location for a year. A thousand pages of his stuff.'" ("Pelosi: I'll Reveal Information On Gingrich 'When The Time Is Right,'" The Hill, 12/5/11)
Gingrich: "We Turned Over 1 Million Pages Of Material" To Ethics Investigators. "In response, Gingrich said at a Dec. 5 news conference that the House should retaliate if [Pelosi] violates confidentiality rules, something Pelosi's staff said she won't do. 'We turned over 1 million pages of material,' Gingrich said. 'We had a huge report.'" ("Gingrich House Ethics Complaint Echoes in Criticism Lodged Today," Bloomberg, 12/8/11)
Gingrich Was Disturbed Enough By Pelosi's Statement To Note She Would Be Violating "The Rules Of The House" By Releasing "Any Of It":
Gingrich: "If [Pelosi] Releases Any Of It, She Has Violated The Rules Of The House." QUESTION: "I have to ask you, regarding Nancy Pelosi, her latest charge that she has new information on your ethics investigation years ago. What's your response to that?" GINGRICH: "Well, first of all, it tells you how political she was on the ethics committee. And it tells you — I called it a Christmas gift. And she can't — if she releases any of it, she has violated the rules of the House." (CNBC's "Kudlow Report," 12/6/11)
Gingrich Is All Too Familiar With Violating "The Rules Of The House" — Which Is How We Got Here In The First Place:
Gingrich Admitted To Violating House Rules In The 1990s, Leading To His Unprecedented Ethics Reprimand. "The ethics case and its resolution leave Gingrich with little leeway for future personal controversies, House Republicans said. Exactly one month before yesterday's vote, Gingrich admitted that he brought discredit to the House and broke its rules by failing to ensure that financing for two projects would not violate federal tax law and by giving the House ethics committee false information." (John E. Yang, "House Reprimands, Penalizes Speaker," The Washington Post, 1/22/97)
Gingrich Became The Only Speaker In History To Be Reprimanded And Sanctioned By The House For "Ethical Wrongdoing." "The House voted overwhelmingly yesterday to reprimand House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) and order him to pay an unprecedented $300,000 penalty, the first time in the House's 208-year history it has disciplined a speaker for ethical wrongdoing. ... Exactly one month before yesterday's vote, Gingrich admitted that he brought discredit to the House and broke its rules by failing to ensure that financing for two projects would not violate federal tax law and by giving the House ethics committee false information." ("House Reprimands, Penalizes Speaker," The Washington Post, 1/22/97)
The House Voted 395-28 To Reprimand Speaker Gingrich — With Roughly Nine In Ten House Republicans Voting Against Him. (H.Res. 31, Vote #8: Passed 395-28: R 196-26; D 198-2; I 1-0, 1/21/97)
  