
    Pool Reports by Laura Figueroa Hernandez, Newsday 



Sent:
Reports:




January 17, 202311:35

Intown Pool Report 1 - Gathering
Good Morning,
Pool is gathering for the Oval Office Bilat w/ Dutch PM Mark Rutte.
Will send updates once we're in



January 17, 202311:48

Intown Pool Report 2 - No Questions Taken
Pool entered the Oval at 11:38am and escorted out at 11:43am.
POTUS did not respond to questions shouted out by reporters.
At the top Biden welcomed Rutte, said he was welcome despite the outcome of US/Netherlands World Cup match
Biden: "today I look forward to discussing our relationship and securing our supply chains..."
Rutte said u.s. leadership on Ukraine has been "crucial"
From the White House Press Office. List of Attendees below.
The President is holding a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Shefali Razdan Duggal, Ambassador of the United States to the NetherlandsT.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian AffairsT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilT.H. Tarun Chhabra, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Technology and National Security, National Security CouncilMr. Benjamin Canavan, Director for European Affairs, National Security Council
Netherlands ManifestH.E. Mark Rutte, Prime Minister of the NetherlandsH.E. Wopke Hoekstra, Minister of Foreign AffairsH.E. André Haspels, Ambassador of the Netherlands to the United StatesMr. Geoffrey van Leeuwen, National Security AdvisorMr. Marcel de Vink, Director General Political Affairs, Ministry of Foreign AffairsMr. Peter Potman, Deputy Director General for Foreign Economic RelationsMr. Sierk Nawijn, Spokesperson to the Prime MinisterMr. Vincent Roza, Coordinator Economic Resilience and Security, Ministry of Foreign AffairsMs. Emma Verhoeff, Deputy Head Political Department



January 17, 202312:18

Intown pool report 3 -- Lunch Lid until 1:45pm
Press office has called a lunch lid until 1:45p.m.



January 17, 202313:41

In-town pool report 5-- VIPs at Press Briefing[APP Note: See comment in Report #4a (below) regarding the numbering of this report.]
via WHite House Press Office
Golden State Warriors Head Coach Steve Kerr and Stephen Curry, 4-time NBA Champion and 2-time NBA Most Valuable Player, will drop by at the top of today’s press briefing with Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre.



January 17, 202313:50

Intown Pool Report 4a — 2 min warning
Apologies I may have misnumbered previous report, should have been 4, not 5.
The 2 min warning was called at 1:49pm



January 17, 202315:03

Pool Report 5 — 2 minute warning for warriors event
Among some notables spotted in the audience...
*Reps. Nancy Pelosi & Eric Swalwell. Pelosi was joined by her husband*Education Secretary Cardona* HHS Secretary Becerra
As a reminder the event is being live streamed at
Whitehouse.gov/live



January 17, 202315:16

Pool Report 6– event attendees
The Golden State Warriors were introduced at 3:12pm and entered East Room to chants of "Let's go Warriors" from the audience on hand.
VPOTUS entered shortly after....
List below via WH Press Office
In attendance for the President and Vice President's remarks celebrating the Golden State Warriors' 2022 NBA championship are Golden State Warriors players, owners, executives and staff, and state and local elected leaders:

The Second Gentleman
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education
Chair Cecilia Rouse, Council of Economic Advisers
Administrator Isabel Guzman, Small Business Administration
Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (CA-11)
Rep. Eric Swalwell (CA-14)
Rep. Rohit Khanna (CA-17)
Deputy Secretary Adrianne Todman, Department of Housing and Urban Development
Deputy Secretary John Tien, Department of Homeland Security
Rob Bonta, Attorney General of California
Mayor London Breed, Mayor of San Francisco
Mayor Sheng Thao, Mayor of Oakland

Speaking ProgramThe Vice PresidentStephen "Steph" Curry, Golden State Warriors GuardThe President



January 17, 202315:36

Pool Report 7- POTUS color
POTUS entered with Steph Curry at 3:19pm
POTUS acknowledged Nancy Pelosi from the stage and moments later her husband Paul. Paul Pelosi stood up and gave a salute to POTUS.
At the top of his remarks, POTUS said his administration was in contact with Gov. Newsom re: mudslides and storms.
"Our heart is with all of those families"
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 3:30pm and invited Curry to speak.
POTUS exited at 3:35pm



January 17, 202315:59

In-town Pool Report 8 -- Lid
A lid was called at 3:57p.m.




 
Pool Reports below by Kethevane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




January 17, 202310:40

Foreign pool report #1 - Background on Dutch PM Mark Rutte's visit
Hello all,
I'll be your foreign pooler for Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte's (Mark Roo-tuh) visit to the White House.
Meetings/Calls:
This will be their first formal bilateral meeting, though they have met several times in the past, including twice last year at the extraordinary NATO summit in Brussels in March and at the NATO summit in Madrid in June.
Priorities for bilat:
According to the statement announcing the visit, "Among topics to be discussed: the coordination of support to Ukraine at the political, military and humanitarian level, as well as further cooperation in the fields of defense and security and strengthening of the bilateral trade relationship between the Netherlands and the United States."
On Monday, he tweeted the following: "In preparation for my visit to Washington I spoke with @ZelenskyyUa. The horrific attack on an apartment block in Dnipro underscores just why Russia cannot be allowed to win this war. The coordination of international military support remains essential in the months ahead."
Semiconductors:
China's access to semiconductors will be part of the discussion, as it was during POTUS' meeting with Japanese PM Kishida on Friday.
During a press conference on Friday, Rutte said that he didn't feel pressure from US to adopt more restrictions on semiconductor exports to China: "This is a terrain where we're a world player and we can conduct discussions about it without immediately talking in terms ... of being 'put under pressure'. I don't experience it like that at all."
The Netherlands is a key player in the global semiconductor chain because it is home to ASML, the company that produces the high-tech machines that make the most advanced chips.
On Sunday, Trade minister Liesje Schreinemacher said: "We've been talking with the Americans for a long time, but they came up with new rules in October, so that changes the playing field." "you can't say that they've been pressuring us for two years and now we have to sign on the dotted line. And we won't."
Inflation Reduction Act:
There's a growing trade dispute between the US and the EU over the impact of the IRA on european economies, specifically the plan to favor US-made green technology through heavy subsidies which, according to the EU, will unfairly discriminate against european companies. This was already a point of contention during French President Macron's state visit in December. At the time, POTUS said about the plan "there's obviously going to be glitches in it…"So there's tweaks that we can make that can fundamentally make it easier for European countries to participate."
The upcoming Summit for Democracy in March will be co-hosted by the US and the Netherlands, as well as Costa Rica, South Korea and Zambia.
Bio:
Mark Rutte is 55 years old. He has been PM of the Netherlands since 2010 and is the longest serving PM in Dutch history. He began his 4th term as PM in January 2022.
He has been the leader of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) since 2006.
Prior to becoming party leader he held several Cabinet positions from 2002-2006.
He was first elected as a Member of Parliament in 2003.
Before entering politics, he worked for Unilever.



January 17, 202312:06

Foreign pool report #2 - Rutte Quotes
POTUS started by telling the PM that he was welcome at the WH despite the WC game (The Dutch beat the Americans 3-1 in the round of 16)
PM Rutte pointed out that it was the first time the fireplace was on for a bilat in the oval (he also met with Barack Obama and Donald Trump)
His remarks were essentially focused on Russia's war in Ukraine.
About Dnipro: "These are horrible pictures and I think it strengthens even more our resolve to stay with Ukraine. And I commend you personally and the US for your leadership I'm convinced that history will judge that in 2022 if United States would not have stepped up like you did then things would have been very different."
"We can never accept that Putin and Russia get away with it. So accountability, take him to court to make sure that all he has done (...) is crucial."
"Let's stay close together and hopefully things will move forward in a way that is acceptable to Ukraine."
Per White House
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Shefali Razdan Duggal, Ambassador of the United States to the NetherlandsT.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian AffairsT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilT.H. Tarun Chhabra, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Technology and National Security, National Security CouncilMr. Benjamin Canavan, Director for European Affairs, National Security Council
Netherlands ManifestH.E. Mark Rutte, Prime Minister of the NetherlandsH.E. Wopke Hoekstra, Minister of Foreign AffairsH.E. André Haspels, Ambassador of the Netherlands to the United StatesMr. Geoffrey van Leeuwen, National Security AdvisorMr. Marcel de Vink, Director General Political Affairs, Ministry of Foreign AffairsMr. Peter Potman, Deputy Director General for Foreign Economic RelationsMr. Sierk Nawijn, Spokesperson to the Prime MinisterMr. Vincent Roza, Coordinator Economic Resilience and Security, Ministry of Foreign AffairsMs. Emma Verhoeff, Deputy Head Political Department



January 17, 202312:54

Foreign pool report #3 - Rutte quote on Patriots
One more quote from PM Rutte:
"We have the intention to join what you are doing with Germany on the Patriot project, so the air defense system. I think that it's important we join that and I discussed it also this morning with Olaf Scholz of Germany."




  