
    [The President spoke at the steps on the East Front of the Capitol.] 
Republican Party Support of the President/Border Security 
Q. Mr. President, are you losing Republican support? Are you losing Republican support, Mr. President?
The President. No, we have great Republican support, as you know.
Q. Can you keep Republicans behind you in this fight?
The President. We have great Republican support, as you know. You know, you're just making that up. But we have tremendous Republican support. I don't think the Democrats have great support, because they all know we need border security. We need to have people stop being killed at our border. And the Democrats are losing a lot of support.
Last night was a big victory for Republicans, but it was really a big victory for America, for our country. The Democrats have lost support. There is tremendous Republican support—unwavering—as you probably know. Thank you.
Q. Mr. President——
Q. If there's a crisis, why not declare a national emergency? Why not declare a national emergency if there's a crisis on the border?
[At this point, the President entered the Capitol, where, in the Ohio Clock Corridor, he resumed his exchange with reporters as follows.]
Border Security/Federal Government Shutdown 
Q. Mr. President, how much longer can this shutdown last? Mr. President, how much longer can this shutdown last?
The President. We need border security. We will have border security. Tremendous Republican support. And I think we're going to win. But we need——
Q. What's your message to Republicans?
The President. Listen, we need border security. Very simple.
Q. How long do plan to let the shutdown last, Mr. President?
The President. Whatever it takes.
Q. Mr. President, Leader Schumer and Speaker Pelosi are saying that the main factor of the crisis is that they believe you are lying about the border. Are you?
The President. Well, what you should do is take a look at last night and see the results this morning. The people know we need border security. Thank you very much.
Q. Are you worried about Republican defections?
Q. [Inaudible]—and are you confident you are not losing their support?
  