
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 7
Madeleine Korbel Albright,
of the District of Columbia, to be Secretary of State, vice Warren Christopher, resigned.
William S. Cohen, of Maine, to be Secretary of Defense, vice William J. Perry.
Bill Richardson, of New Mexico, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations, vice Madeleine Korbel Albright.
Aida Alvarez, of New York, to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration, vice Philip Lader.
Andrew M. Cuomo, of New York, to be Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Henry G. Cisneros, resigned.
William M. Daley, of Illinois, to be Secretary of Commerce, vice Michael Kantor.
Alexis M. Herman, of Alabama, to be Secretary of Labor, vice Robert B. Reich.
Rodney E. Slater, of Arkansas, to be Secretary of Transportation, vice Federico Pena.
Janet L. Yellen, of California, to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Joseph E. Stiglitz, resigned.
Charlene Barshefsky,
of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, vice Michael Kantor.
Donna Holt Cunninghame, of Maryland, to be Chief Financial Officer, Corporation for National and Community Service, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate (new position).
Jose-Marie Griffiths, of Tennessee, to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2001, vice Shirley Gray Adamovich, term expired.
Madeleine May Kunin, of Vermont, to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein.
John Warren McGarry, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2001 (reappointment).
Donald Rappaport,
of the District of Columbia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Education, vice Donald Richard Wurtz, resigned.
Karen Shepherd, of Utah, to be U.S. Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice Lee F. Jackson, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Arthur I. Blaustein, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2002, vice Bruce D. Benson, term expired.
Dave Nolan Brown, of Washington, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1998, vice John A. Gannon, term expired.
Lorraine Weiss Frank, of Arizona, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2002, vice Mikiso Hane, term expired.
Hans M. Mark, of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring April 17, 2002 (reappointment).
Susan Ford Wiltshire, of Tennessee, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2002, vice Helen Gray Crawford, term expired.
Alan M. Hantman, of New Jersey, to be Architect of the Capitol for the term of 10 years, vice George Malcolm White.
Eric L. Clay, of Michigan, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Ralph B. Guy, Jr., retired.
Merrick B. Garland, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Abner J. Mikva, retired.
William A. Fletcher, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice William Albert Norris, retired.
Richard A. Paez, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Cecil F. Poole, resigned.
M. Margaret McKeown, of Washington, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice J. Jerome Farris, retired.
Arthur Gajarsa, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Helen Wilson Nies, retired.
James A. Beaty, Jr.,
of North Carolina, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice James Dickson Phillips, Jr., retired.
Ann L. Aiken, of Oregon, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice James H. Redden, retired.
Lawrence Baskir, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Reginald W. Gibson, retired.
Joseph F. Bataillon, of Nebraska, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nebraska, vice Lyle E. Strom, retired.
Colleen Kollar-Kotelly,
of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Harold H. Greene, retired.
Richard A. Lazzara, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice John H. Moore II, retired.
Donald M. Middlebrooks, of Florida, to be a U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice James W. Kehoe, retired.
Jeffrey T. Miller, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of California, vice Gordon Thompson, Jr., retired.
Susan Oki Mollway, of Hawaii, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Hawaii, vice Harold M. Fong, deceased.
Margaret M. Morrow, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Richard A. Gadbois, Jr., retired.
Robert W. Pratt, of Iowa, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, vice Harold D. Vietor, retired.
Christina A. Snyder, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Edward Rafeedie, retired.
Clarence J. Sundram, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of New York, vice Con G. Cholakis, retired.
Thomas W. Thrash, Jr., of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Robert L. Vining, Jr., retired.
Marjorie O. Rendell, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice William D. Hutchinson, deceased.
Helene N. White, of Michigan, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Damon J. Keith, retired.
Submitted January 9
Genta Hawkins Holmes, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Australia.
Anne W. Patterson, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of El Salvador.
Arma Jane Karaer, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Papua New Guinea, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Solomon Islands, and as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Vanuatu.
Dennis K. Hays, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Suriname.
John Francis Maisto, of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Venezuela.
Pete Peterson, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
Edward William Gnehm, Jr., of Georgia, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 51st Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Karl Frederick Inderfurth,
of North Carolina, to be an Alternate Representative of the United of America to the 51st Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Victor Marrero, of New York, to be an Alternate Representative of the United of America to the 51st Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Keith R. Hall, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Jeffrey K. Harris, resigned.
Joseph Lane Kirkland,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2001, vice Allen Weinstein, term expired.
Yolanda Townsend Wheat, of Missouri, to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for the term of 6 years expiring August 2, 2001, vice Robert H. Swan, term expired.
Richard W. Bogosian, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Coordinator for Rwanda/Burundi.
John Stern Wolf, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Coordinator for Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).
Letitia Chambers, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2000, vice Roy M. Huhndorf, resigned.
Barbara Blum,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2002 (reappointment).
Jeanne Givens, of Idaho, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring October 18, 2002, vice Piestewa Robert Harold Ames, term expired.
Michael A. Naranjo, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American In dian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2002, vice Beatrice Rivas Sanchez, term expired.
Nathan Leventhal, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2002, vice William Bailey, term expired.
Gerald N. Tirozzi, of Connecticut, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, vice Thomas W. Payzant, resigned.
Robert F. Drinan, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Susan Hayase, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Elsa H. Kudo, of Hawaii, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position).
Yeiichi Kuwayama,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Dale Minami, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Peggy A. Nagae, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Don T. Nakanishi, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position).
Leo M. Goto, of Colorado, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position).
Mary Lucille Jordan, of Maryland, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2002 (reappointment).
David J. Barram, of California, to be Administrator of General Services, vice Roger W. Johnson, resigned.
Kevin L. Thurm, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Walter D. Broadnax, resigned.
Rose Ochi, of California, to be Director, Community Relations Service, for a term of 4 years, vice Grace Flores-Hughes, term expired.
Hulett Hall Askew, of Georgia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 1998 (reappointment).
Ernestine P. Watlington, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 1999 (reappointment).
A.E. Dick Howard, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term of 6 years, vice Lance Banning.
Jon Deveaux, of New York, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring October 12, 1998 (reappointment).
Anthony R. Sarmiento, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring September 22, 1998, vice Benita C. Somerfield, term expired.
Sarah McCracken Fox, of New York, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2000, vice James M. Stephens, term expired.
Magdalena G. Jacobsen, of Oregon, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 1999 (reappointment).
Patricia M. McMahon, of New Hampshire, to be Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy, vice Fred W. Garcia.
Daniel Guttman,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2001, vice Edwin G. Foulke, Jr., term expired.
Denis J. Hauptly, of Minnesota, to be Chairman of the Special Panel on Appeals for a term of 6 years, vice Barbara Jean Mahone, term expired.
Sophia H. Hall, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 1997, vice John F. Daffron, Jr., term expired.
Sophia H. Hall, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2002 (reappointment).
Charles A. Gueli, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 1999, vice Walter Scott Blackburn, term expired.
Niranjan S. Shah, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 1998, vice John H. Miller, term expired.
Lowell Lee Junkins, of Iowa, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, vice Edward Charles Williamson.
Susan R. Baron, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Corporation for Housing Partnerships for the term expiring October 27, 1997 (reappointment).
Brig. Gen. Robert Bernard Flowers, USA
to be a member and President of the Mississippi River Commission.
M.R.C. Greenwood, of California, to be member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Perry L. Adkisson, term expired.
Vera C. Rubin,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Bernard F. Burke, term expired.
John A. Armstrong, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Thomas B. Day, term expired.
Stanley Vincent Jaskolski,
of Ohio, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice James Johnson Duderstadt, term expired.
Jane Lubchenco, of Oregon, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2000, vice W. Glenn Campbell, term expired.
Richard A. Tapia, of Texas, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Phillip A. Griffiths, term expired.
Mary K. Gaillard, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Founda tion, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Marye A. Fox, term expired.
Bob H. Suzuki, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Jaime Oaxaca, term expired.
Eamon M. Kelly, of Louisiana, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2002, vice Howard E. Simmons, term expired.
Heidi H. Schulman, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2002, vice Martha Buchanan, resigned.
Kerri-Ann Jones, of Maryland, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Jane M. Wales, resigned.
Jerry M. Melillo, of Massachusetts, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Robert T. Watson, resigned.
Johnny H. Hayes, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2005 (reappointment).
Triruvarur R. Lakshmanan, of New Hampshire, to be Director of the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, Department of Transportation, for the term of 4 years (reappointment).
D. Michael Rappoport, of Arizona, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2002 (reappointment).
Judith M. Espinosa, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term of 4 years (new position).
Ronald Kent Burton, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2002 (reappointment).
Madeleine Korbel Albright,
of the District of Columbia, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 51st Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Anthony Lake, of Massachusetts, to be Director of Central Intelligence, vice John M. Deutch, resigned.
Sheila Foster Anthony, of Arkansas, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 1995, vice Janet Dempsey Steiger, term expired.
  