
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of South Carolina elected officials and leaders.
"These leaders share my vision that free people, not government, are what makes this country great," said Mitt Romney. "With their continued hard work, we can turn this country around and ensure that it continues to be the greatest nation on Earth."
"Mitt Romney has demonstrated throughout his life that he has the values South Carolinians are looking for in our next Commander-in-Chief," said Senator Ronnie Cromer. "Whether it has been in business, the Olympics, leading a state, or in his family life, Mitt Romney has displayed the virtues and leadership quality that we want in our President. His economic plan to revitalize the economy and bring fiscal sanity to Washington stand head-and-shoulders above the rest of the field and stand in stark contrast to President Obama's failure to create jobs and get spending under control. If conservatives are looking for a candidate who will not only share their values, but put them into action, they need to look no further than Mitt Romney."
"Mitt Romney is the kind of strong conservative leader our country needs right now," said Speaker Pro Tempore Jay Lucas. "Having spent his life in the private sector, Mitt Romney knows exactly what it takes to grow the economy and create jobs. He will put in place the kind of limited government principles that will help get our nation back on the right track and is the best candidate to win in November."
"Mitt Romney has put forth a pro-growth jobs plan that will help turn around our economy and get America working again," said Greenville Mayor Knox White. "Mitt Romney believes in America and will work to restore the founding principles that have made our country great by returning to a 'smaller, simpler, and smarter' federal government."
South Carolina Elected Officials and Leaders Endorsing Mitt Romney:

Businessman and Former Prosecutor Robert Bolchoz
Former Congressman Henry Brown
RNC National Committeewoman Cindy Costa
Senator Ronnie Cromer
Speaker Pro Tempore Jay Lucas
Greenville Mayor Knox White
Kershaw County Council Chairman Gene Wise

  