
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




January 6, 202217:35

VP POOL REPORT #1: swearing-in ceremony background 
Pool is gathered outside the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, where Vice President Harris will ceremoniously swear in Julissa Reynoso Pantaleon as Ambassador to Spain in moments.
You may recall that Reynoso had been first lady Jill Biden's chief of staff, prior to her Senate confirmation, and co-chair of the Gender of Policy Council at the White House. She is also a former U.S. ambassador to Uruguay.
Background from the VP's office on the swearing in:
Ambassador Julissa Reynoso Pantaleón will be accompanied by:Rosario Pantaleon, Mother*Holding BibleJessica Reynoso, SisterLucas Nunez Reynoso, SonAlexandra Soriano, FriendSantiago Taveras, Friend



January 6, 202218:13

VP POOL REPORT #2: Jill Biden and VP Harris at the swearing in
At 5:53 pm, first lady Jill Biden, who had not been a publicly announced attendee, entered the Vice President's Ceremonial Office for the swearing-in ceremony of Reynoso Pantaleón.
The first lady stood off to one side. Vice President Harris followed Biden in.
Harris had to double back though and said as she did, "It might be helpful if I have the card that I'm going to swear her in on." Reynoso and her family entered the room next.
At the top of the ceremony the VP acknowledged the first lady, prompting a round of applause from attendees of the ceremony.
Harris proceded to deliver the oath to Reynoso. At the end she told the new ambassador "congratulations" and shook her hand.
Harris then hugged Reynoso's mother, who held the Bible that her daughter was sworn in on. She had been standing next to the VP.
"Thank you, everybody," Reynoso said, as attendees applauded.
Harris suggested they take a group picture and they all did, including the first lady.
Neither the vice president nor the first lady answered questions. Harris left the room and Biden moments after her.
The event concluded at 5:56 pm.
Also, there was an errant "of" in the last pool report. It should read --- co-chair of the Gender Policy Council.
That's all from me. There is a photo attached, and I will also tweet it.




  