
    Loebsack is the longest actively serving Democratic Member of Congress in Iowa
DES MOINES, IA –– Today, seven-term Congressman Dave Loebsack (IA-02) announced his endorsement of Pete Buttigieg for president.
"I'm proud to announce that I'm endorsing Pete Buttigieg to be the next president of the United States," said Congressman Dave Loebsack. "Pete offers a new kind of leadership that we desperately need –– he's a midwestern mayor, a veteran, and is from a new generation. Iowans and our country face great challenges like climate change, increasing health care costs, and an economy that isn't working for the majority of Americans. They can't be solved with the same political warfare that is on display in Washington. Pete is the candidate that can heal our divides, restore decency to the presidency, and bring this country together. When I introduced Pete to a crowd of more than 1,000 Iowans in Mount Vernon in December, it was clear that his campaign is already inspiring a sense of hope and optimism. With Pete in the Oval Office, I believe our nation will unite and move forward together."
"As an educator and a public servant, Dave Loebsack has dedicated his life's work to creating opportunities and making life better for Iowans. Congressman Loebsack has never let the partisan fighting in Washington get in the way of delivering on the priorities of his constituents," said Buttigieg. "I am honored to have Congressman Loebsack's endorsement, and I look forward to him joining me on the trail to work together to heal the deep divisions in this country while also addressing the most urgent issues facing us."
Loebsack represents Iowa's crucial second congressional district, which includes much of the Eastern and Southern Iowa –– including Iowa City. Despite Donald Trump winning the 2nd congressional district in 2016, Congressman Loebsack won reelection.
This evening Loebsack will introduce Pete at his town hall in Des Moines. In December, he also introduced Pete at a town hall in Mount Vernon to a crowd of over 1,000. The town hall was the largest event held by a single candidate in Linn County this caucus cycle.
Loebsack is serving his seventh term in the House of Representatives and sits on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. He is also a member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus and the Congressional Rural Caucus. Since being elected by the Second District, Loebsack has been a relentless advocate for Iowans, addressing critical issues that are facing hard-working, Iowa families.
Congressman Dave Loebsack grew up in poverty and was raised by a single parent in Sioux City, where he attended East High School. After graduation, Loebsack attended Iowa State University, where he earned a Bachelor's and a Master's Degree. Loebsack then went on to earn a PhD from the University of California, Davis before moving back to Iowa and becoming a teacher at Cornell College in Mt. Vernon.
Loebsack joins State Representatives Kristin Sunde and Brian Meyer, State Senators Tony Bisignano and Bill Dotzler, former State Rep. Deb Berry, and over 115 other Democratic elected officials and activists in Iowa backing Pete for president.
The endorsement comes as Pete makes his 22nd trip to Iowa this year. Iowans continue to show up in record numbers to hear Pete speak in every corner of the state. This caucus cycle he has drawn the largest crowds of any candidate in Algona, Ankeny, Atlantic, Boone, Burlington, Centerville, Charles City, Creston, Davenport, Decorah, Denison, Des Moines, Dubuque, Elkader, Fort Dodge, Fort Madison, Indianola, Iowa Falls, Keokuk, Knoxville, Maquoketa, Marshalltown, Mason City, Mount Vernon, Newton, Ottumwa, Perry, Shenandoah, Spencer, Tipton, Washington, Waterloo, Webster City, and West Des Moines.
  