
    Campaign Manager David Bonior, Former NM Attorney General Patricia Madrid, Actress Madeleine Stowe in state this weekend
Las Vegas, Nevada – The Edwards campaign is geared up and ready to capitalize on growing momentum from strong finishes in Iowa and New Hampshire on the final weekend before the Nevada caucus.
National campaign manager former Congressman David Bonior will be in Reno this weekend. He will speak at the Douglas County Jefferson Jackson Dinner on Saturday and meet with political, labor and community leaders to energize support throughout the weekend. On Monday, Bonior will travel to Las Vegas and remain there through the caucus.
The campaign will also be holding a statewide canvass with supporters from Nevada and across the region, including many union members who have been working with the campaign for months as part Edwards' large bloc of labor support. Canvassers will spend Saturday and Sunday going door-to-door delivering targeted messages to Nevada caucus goers on the issues that concern them the most.
Former New Mexico Attorney General Patricia Madrid will be in Las Vegas to kick off the canvass on Saturday and then go door to door to talk about John Edwards' plan to fight for working and middle class families. On Sunday night she will attend a house party with Edwards supporters and precinct captains.
Actress Madeline Stowe of "The Last of the Mohicans" and "Twelve Monkeys" will be in Las Vegas on Sunday to meet with voters and go door to do to discuss Edwards' plans to build One America when everyone can work hard and build a better life. On Sunday night she will attend a house party with Edwards' supporters and precinct captains. She will remain in Las Vegas for several days next week.
Edwards has strong grassroots support in Nevada due to his leadership on the issues, particularly health care, Iraq, working families and energy. His organization was recently bolstered by staff from Iowa who came to Nevada following their work on Edwards' strong second place showing over Hillary Clinton. He has deep support from labor. The campaign has been working closely with the Carpenters, Steelworkers, Transport Workers and Communication Workers for months. Political leaders who support Edwards have been hard at work making phone calls and knocking on doors to spread his message of building One America.
Polls consistently show Edwards is the most electable Democratic against any of the top Republicans and is the only Democrat in the race to ever win in a "red" state.
  