
    To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, three treaties establishing maritime boundaries: the Treaty on Maritime Boundaries between the United States of America and the United Mexican States, signed at Mexico City on May 4, 1978; the Maritime Boundary Treaty between the United States of America and the Republic of Venezuela, signed at Caracas on March 28, 1978; and the Maritime Boundary Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba, signed at Washington, December 16, 1977.
These treaties are necessary to delimit the continental shelf and overlapping claims of jurisdiction resulting from the establishing of a 200 nautical mile fishery conservation zone off the coasts of the United States in accordance with the Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976, and the establishment of 200 nautical mile zones by these neighboring countries.
The treaty with Mexico establishes the maritime boundary between the United States and Mexico for the area between twelve and two hundred nautical miles off the coasts of the two countries in the Pacific Ocean and Gulf of Mexico. In this regard, it supplements the Treaty to Resolve Pending Boundary Differences and Maintain the Rio Grande and Colorado River as the International Boundary between the United States of America and the United Mexican States, signed at Mexico November 23, 1970, which establishes maritime boundaries out to twelve nautical miles off the respective coasts. The treaty with Venezuela establishes the maritime boundary between the two countries in the Caribbean Sea, between Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and Venezuela where the 200 nautical mile zones overlap. The treaty with Cuba establishes the maritime boundary between the two countries in the Straits of Florida area and the eastern Gulf of Mexico where the 200 nautical mile zones overlap.
I believe that these treaties are in the United States interest. They are consistent with the United States interpretation of international law that maritime boundaries are to be established by agreement in accordance with equitable principles in the light of relevant geographic circumstances. They will facilitate law enforcement activities, and provide for certainty in resource development.
I also transmit for the information of the Senate the report of the Department of State with respect to each of these treaties.
I recommend that the Senate give early consideration to these treaties and advice and consent to their ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 19, 1979.
  