
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, U.S. Congressman Brian Bilbray (R-CA) endorsed Governor Mitt Romney to be the next President of the United States. Congressman Bilbray is Chairman of the Immigration Reform Caucus and a San Diego native.
"It is an honor to have Congressman Bilbray as part of our campaign to build a stronger America. Throughout his years of public service, he has stood strong for our common conservative principles. His support will be critical in the upcoming California primary. I look forward to working with him in California ahead of the primary and in Washington as we reform the immigration system," said Governor Romney.
Congressman Bilbray joins a California Romney for President team that includes U.S. Congressmen Howard "Buck" McKeon, John Campbell, Wally Herger and Dana Rohrabacher.
Announcing his support today, Congressman Bilbray said, "Our country faces unprecedented challenges and we need a leader with proven executive leadership. That leader is Mitt Romney. He can strengthen our economy because he has worked firsthand in the economy. He will work to strengthen our immigration laws without allowing amnesty to 12-20 million illegal immigrants. I am proud to support Governor Mitt Romney and his campaign to be our next President."
Background On U.S. Congressman Brian Bilbray:
Congressman Brian P. Bilbray Was Elected To Represent The 50th Congressional District Of California In June 2006. Congressman Bilbray currently serves on the House committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the Committee on Veteran's Affairs and the Science and Technology Committee. He is a member of the House Republican Policy Committee and the Chairman of the Immigration Reform Caucus. Congressman Bilbray was first elected to Congress in 1994 where he advocated fiscal responsibility and policies to secure our borders. In 2001, he left Congress, but continued his work on immigration reform as the co-Chairman of the National Board of Advisors for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
In June 2006, Congressman Bilbray returned to Congress in a special election. Today, he continues to advocate policies that will end illegal immigration and serves as Chairman of the Immigration Reform Caucus. Congressman Bilbray is a native San Diegan and has served the people of San Diego County as a Mayor, County Supervisor and Member of Congress. He and his wife Karen have five children and six grandchildren.
  