
    
Charles Krauthammer on the Fox Business Debate: Rubio, as usual, was the winner.

Fox News' Chris Stirewalt: "Debate reveals contours of a three man race" with Rubio "winning rounds with Cruz and others."
You could still say the race was wide open, but after Thursday's debate, that would be a lie. The Fox Business Network's faceoff offered a hopeful glimmer for Republicans wondering when they will get past the preliminaries and on to the business of picking a presidential nominee. This long-running television show is about to see a spinoff. Call it "The Contenders." It won't happen all at once, but the trio of Donald Trump, Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio stood far enough above the rest of the field here that you could, for the first time, really sense the separation of the two tiers on the debate stage. … While one could argue that Rubio had one of his best showings so far, winning rounds with Cruz and others, what really made this debate different for Rubio was the obvious separation between him and the other four candidates on stage not named Trump or Cruz.
Erick Erickson: Rubio was "really impressive."
It was a really impressive moment for Rubio. Really impressive. Twice Rubio got the better of the better debater. Cruz, Rubio, and Trump had good nights. Everybody else could stay home next time.
Townhall's Guy Benson: In "a three-man race," Marco "scored throughout."
With the important caveat that not a single vote has been cast in any state firmly in place, the 2016 GOP primary increasingly feels like a three-man race. Last night, the trio of candidates at the top of the polls turned in strong performances; each man helped himself while dispensing and absorbing some hard jabs: … (3) Marco Rubio: The Florida Senator is a smooth, talented communicator and debater. His consistent strength across these debates is no fluke. Perhaps in response to needling from his rivals who've effectively questioned his strength, Rubio's tone and demeanor felt fiercer than usual. He dialed back (but didn't abandon) his signature optimism and sunniness, in favor of a more forceful approach. He scored throughout the proceedings with very good answers on issues ranging from Hillary Clinton's unsuitability for the presidency, to guns, to free trade — almost always making the most of his strangely limited talk time.
Daily Caller's Matt Lewis: "I really think it's now becoming a three-man race. I think it's Trump, Rubio, and Cruz." (CNN)
Sean Hannity: Marco Rubio had great moments.

New York Post's John Podhoretz: "Rubio's last-minute theatrics make it a three-man GOP race."
When the debate passed its second hour and kept going, Rubio seized center stage. With his amazing fluidity, he delivered a series of jabs at what he called Cruz's inconsistent conservatism — 11 in all, by Cruz's startled count at the end of it.
Washington Examiner: "This is a three-man race between these skilled — and incredibly different — debaters."
The debates keep getting better. Thursday night's debate featured precision attacks, stunning comebacks, brutal beat-downs and sparkling oratory. For a while Sen. Ted Cruz appeared the clear winner. But Donald Trump took a round from Cruz, and later Sen. Marco Rubio did too. The clearest upshot: This is a three-man race between these skilled — and incredibly different — debaters.
  