
    Dual Endorsement Comes After Klobuchar Was Endorsed By Quad-City Times Earlier Today
MINNEAPOLIS, MN — Tonight, The New York Times editorial board announced that it was endorsing Senator Amy Klobuchar and Senator Elizabeth Warren for President. The endorsement comes after Senator Klobuchar was endorsed by the Quad-City Times earlier in the day.
"Today's endorsement from The New York Times makes it clear that Amy Klobuchar is the candidate for Americans who are fed up with the noise and nonsense coming out of Washington. She has the knowledge, knowhow, and grit it takes to bring people together, take on big challenges, and produce real results," said Amy For America Campaign Manager Justin Buoen. "We're honored to have this endorsement as our grassroots campaign continues to build momentum heading into the Iowa caucuses."
Read what they wrote:
"Amy Klobuchar has emerged as a standard-bearer for the Democratic center. Her vision goes beyond the incremental. Given the polarization in Washington and beyond, the best chance to enact many progressive plans could be under a Klobuchar administration."
"The senator from Minnesota is the very definition of Midwestern charisma, grit and sticktoitiveness. Her lengthy tenure in the Senate and bipartisan credentials would make her a deal maker (a real one) and uniter for the wings of the party — and perhaps the nation."
"Ms. Klobuchar speaks about issues like climate change, the narrowing middle class, gun safety and trade with an empathy that connects to voters' lived experiences, especially in the middle of the country. The senator talks, often with self-deprecating humor, about growing up the daughter of two union workers, her Uncle Dick's deer stand, her father's struggles with alcoholism and her Christian faith."
"Ms. Klobuchar promises a foreign policy based on leading by example, instead of by threat-via-tweet. As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, she serves on the subcommittees responsible for oversight of the Department of Homeland Security, as well as the nation's borders and its immigration, citizenship and refugee laws. In 13 years as a senator, she has sponsored and voted on dozens of national defense measures, including military action in Libya and Syria. Her record shows that she is confident and thoughtful, and she reacts to data — what you'd want in a crisis."
"All have helped Ms. Klobuchar to be the most productive senator among the Democratic field in terms of bills passed with bipartisan support, according to a recent study for the Center for Effective Lawmaking. When she arrived in the Senate in 2007, Ms. Klobuchar was part of a bipartisan group of lawmakers that proposed comprehensive immigration reform, including a path to citizenship for 12 million undocumented immigrants, before conservative pundits made it political poison. Her more recent legislative accomplishments are narrower but meaningful to those affected, especially the legislation aimed at helping crime victims. This is not surprising given her background as the chief prosecutor in Minnesota's most populous county. For example, one measure she wrote helped provide funds to reduce a nationwide backlog of rape kits for investigating sexual assaults."
"Any hope of restoring unity in the country will require modesty, a willingness to compromise and the support of the many demographics that make up the Democratic coalition — young and old, in red states and blue, black and brown and white. For Senator Klobuchar, that's acknowledging the depth of the nation's dysfunction."
"May the best woman win."
  