
    This Saturday: more than 150 events with voters in 27 states, including Mike Bloomberg bus tour through Texas
Since launch, Mike Bloomberg 2020 has been hiring staff and opening offices in states critical to defeating Donald Trump in November
New York, New York — This Saturday, January 11, Mike Bloomberg 2020 will organize more than 150 voter engagement events across 27 states, marking Day One of its nationwide campaign to defeat Donald Trump and elect Mike Bloomberg president of the United States. Since launching his campaign, Mike has been focused on engaging voters, winning in every state, and defeating Donald Trump in November. The campaign has already demonstrated organizational strength with more than 500 staff on the ground in more than 30 states.
Day One will mark the full national impact of his unified campaign. These in-state teams are activating networks of supporters who are united in their mission: to win in November and to beat Donald Trump.
"We are bringing together voters from every corner of our nation to defeat Donald Trump and rebuild America. President Trump has inflamed hatred and division, betrayed his constitutional oath, weakened our standing in the world, and endangered our country. If he wins another term in office, we may never recover from the damage," said Mike Bloomberg. "Together, we are taking him on in every state and territory, and building a coalition of Americans committed to solving our biggest problems and fixing what's broken in America."
Mike's campaign and supporters will host more than 150 in-person events in 27 states, from office openings and volunteer trainings, to house parties and block walks. Thousands more supporters will have a chance to get involved online through social media.
As part of the Day One national campaign kickoff on Saturday, Mike will take a bus tour of Texas and meet with supporters and community leaders in San Antonio, Austin, and Dallas. Additional details on the stops will be announced in the coming days.
"Our teams on the ground are in more states at once during primary season than any campaign in history," said Dan Kanninen, States Director for Mike Bloomberg 2020. "We have organizers, volunteers, and supporters in all corners of states throughout the country. Day One is just the beginning of a nationwide momentum to elect Mike and defeat Donald Trump in November."
Additional details to be announced. Learn more and get involved at mikebloomberg.com.
  