
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman:)
In accordance with Public Law 95-384, I am submitting to you a bimonthly report on progress toward a negotiated settlement of the Cyprus question.
The United Nations Secretary General delivered his latest biannual report to the Security Council on Cyprus on November 30, 1987, a copy of which is attached. The Secretary General highlighted a number of continuing concerns. These included the deadlock in the negotiating process, his persisting unease over the military buildup by both sides on the island, a Greek Cypriot women's march that violated the integrity of the buffer zone, and the continuing presence of students in Varosha. The Secretary General also mentioned that the Committee on Missing Persons (CMP) met frequently during the past 6 months. The CMP is to be commended for efforts to accelerate its investigation and its declaration of a "firm intention to reach a conclusive stage as soon as possible."
The Secretary General underscored the need for the parties to foster an atmosphere that would reduce tensions and to cooperate fully with his new Special Representative. We share the Secretary General's concerns and fully agree with his urgings on cooperation and reducing tensions.
The Secretary General's new Special Representative for Cyprus, Mr. Oscar Camilion, traveled to Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey in early December. Mr. Camilion met with Cypriot Foreign Minister Iacovou, Turkish Cypriot leader Denktash, and high-level officials in Greece and Turkey. We understand that the new Special Representative was well received and is preparing to return to Cyprus in the near future to begin his efforts to help the parties toward the goal of a lasting, mutually acceptable settlement.
The United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Security Council Resolution 604 on December 14, extending the mandate of the United Nations Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) for another 6 months. The resolution also requests the Secretary General to continue his mission of good offices in Cyprus.
Unfortunately, the financial condition of UNFICYP, which is totally supported by voluntary contributions, continues to worsen. Seven of the eight troop-contributing countries recently sent joint letters to the Secretary General and to the Security Council President for December (the Soviet Union) pointing out that UNFICYP's accumulated deficit, which they bear, has now passed $160 million. The November 30 Secretary General's report to the Security Council remarks that UNFICYP is fulfilling its mission in an exemplary manner under difficult conditions and that its presence remains indispensable. We concur emphatically with the Secretary General's assessment and continue to urge other countries to increase or initiate contributions to UNFICYP.
We continued active consultations with parties and individuals interested in the Cyprus dispute during the past 2 months. Special Cyprus Coordinator M. James Wilkinson responded to requests for meetings from Cypriot Presidential candidate George Vassiliou and from a delegation of the Cypriot Committee of Relatives of Missing Persons on November 18 and 20, respectively. Special Cyprus Coordinator Wilkinson and Department of State Deputy Assistant Secretary Robert W. Farrand also held separate meetings on December 3 and 4 with a delegation from the Committee for the Restoration of Human Rights throughout Cyprus.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
  