
    Atlanta, GA - Several prominent education reformers signed on to lead the official education coalition for Newt Gingrich's presidential campaign.
Educators with Newt will be led by Lisa Graham Keegan, CEO of the Education Breakthrough Network* and former education advisor and spokesperson for John McCain's 2008 presidential effort.
"As an educator himself, Newt Gingrich is the best candidate for educators to unite behind in our shared goal of improving and advancing our education system." said Keegan.  "I have been honored to work with Speaker Gingrich over the years because he is always willing to demand excellence from everyone. He wants to understand, learn, teach...and lead, and as our next president, he will refocus American education around children, parents, and true learning."
The education coalition will advise Gingrich on education issues, and assist in the continued development of his education platform. The Gingrich campaign has already posted a 17-point plan for a "21st Century Education Platform" on Newt.org.
"I'm glad to welcome my friend and colleague, Lisa Keegan, to our team" Gingrich said. "She's a true reformer and will play an essential role in helping our campaign envision and develop a more flexible, more productive, and more successful education system"
Keegan will lead a team from several educational reform organizations, including Robert Enlow of the Friedman Foundation for Educational Choice, Andrew Campanella of National School Choice Week, journalist and education reform strategist Susan Firey, Michael Moe of ThinkGSV Asset Management, and Theodor Rebarber and Dr. Kathleen Madigan of AccountabilityWorks.*
Campanella, a national co-chair for Educators with Newt explained that Newt is the best candidate for school choice and educationaloptions.
"Speaker Gingrich is the only candidate for president who has outlined a bold, transformational path to ensuring that every child in America receives an excellent education," Campanella said." His past record and experiences demonstrate that as president, Speaker Gingrich will not shy away from this vision."
"American educators, freed from mindless restraints, can launch a great transformation to lifelong learning - if only we have the leadership. Newt Gingrich's vision is to make that transformation a reality, and I look forward to being a part of his team," said Keegan.
(Names of organizations are listed for identification purposes only and do not imply or indicate endorsements by the organizations listed.)
  