
    President George W. Bush today announced the nomination of three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President nominated Scott H. DeLisi, of Minnesota, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Eritrea. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. DeLisi currently serves as Director of the Office of Southern African Affairs at the State Department. He previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Botswana. Earlier in his career, Mr. DeLisi served as a political officer in both Colombo, Sri Lanka and Islamabad, Pakistan. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota and his juris doctor from the University of Minnesota School of Law.
The President nominated Aubrey Hooks, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Cote d'Ivoire. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Hooks currently serves as United States Ambassador to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Prior to this position, he served as the Economic Counselor at the United States Embassy in Warsaw, Poland. Mr. Hooks previously served at both the United States Embassy in Tel-Aviv, Israel and at the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of South Carolina and his master's degree from the University of Michigan.
The President nominated Joseph D. Stafford III, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of The Gambia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Stafford currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire. He previously served in the same position for both the United States Embassy in Tunis, Republic of Tunis and the United States Embassy in Algiers, Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria. Mr. Stafford earned his bachelor's degree and master's degree from the University of Tennessee.
  