
    "I understand the President has come to Florida today and interestingly he has chosen Fantasyland as the place for his address. And there will be observations by me and others that perhaps there's some poetic justice in the president speaking from Fantasyland because, I'm afraid, he's been speaking from Fantasyland for some time now." - Gov. Mitt Romney Governor Mitt Romney "Failed Obama Record" Conference Call January 19, 2012
MITT ROMNEY: "Thank you Gail and thank you Mario and John. I guess I should call you Congressman Diaz-Balart and Congressman Mica, but these are good friends and I really appreciate you gentlemen hosting this call. Just wanted to call in; I'm in South Carolina as you can imagine, we've got a debate tonight. Hope you turn in—but tune in rather. Don't turn in, tune in. Just wanted to say hi, but also just to make a couple of comments. I understand the President has come to Florida today and interestingly he has chosen Fantasyland as the place for his address. And there will be observations by me and others that perhaps there's some poetic justice in the president speaking from Fantasyland because, I'm afraid, he's been speaking from Fantasyland for some time now. He continues to speak about his solid economic record, and as you know, that's out of touch with reality. He's trying to defend a record of 1.7 million jobs lost during his administration, unemployment above eight percent for 38—or excuse me—35 straight months. And you know he's on track to be the first president in history to have left his term without creating any jobs. In fact, having lost hundreds of thousands of jobs and maybe more than that. And of course now, we've learned that he's also said no to building the Keystone pipeline, which would have created 20,000 jobs and also helped us remove our dependence upon foreign sources of oil. So I just—I'm very disappointed in the president's record and it's one of the reasons I'm running for president. As I think he has got to be replaced by someone who understands how to get the economy working again and how to get America on track to be the most attractive place in the world for entrepreneurs, for innovators, for job creators. This president seems to be at war with success, at war with job creators. And by the way, I don't know whether the President will bump into Newt Gingrich at Fantasyland. I was interested in the last debate; Newt was talking about all the jobs he was able to help create as a Congressman working so closely with Ronald Reagan. Actually, he'd only been in Congress for two years when Ronald Reagan came to office. I don't think he was the author of Reaganomics or of the success in the Reagan years. Him taking credit for that qualifies as a fantasyland experience as well, I'm afraid. But anyway, I do want to say thanks to you for your willingness to participate in this effort and to listen to what we have to say about the president's record. I am disappointed in a whole host of areas. But wanted you to know that I [greatly appreciate] your attention to this and hope to get your help and support down the road."
To Listen To Mitt Romney's Remarks Click Here
  