
    
  Trump Campaign Stronger Than Ever in Sunshine State Rolling Out Key Endorsements at Massive Pensacola Rally

(New York, NY) January 13th, 2016 — Today Donald J. Trump received the endorsement of several prominent community leaders in Florida prior to his rally in Pensacola where more than 10,000 were in attendance. Businessman George Scarborough, Pastor Carl Gallups, 2nd Amendment activist Clover Lawson, and Veterans Terry Busbee Sr., Gary O'Neal and Capt. Allen Brady each spoke prior to Mr. Trump's speech, in addition to Kathryn ‘Kat' Gates-Skipper the first female Marine in Combat Operations, who endorsed Mr. Trump's candidacy in November at his Sarasota rally.
Mr. Trump stated, "It is my great honor to receive endorsements from each of these incredible people. Their support for my message and endorsement of my candidacy for President of the United States means so much to me, and with their help, and the help of so many great people in Florida and all over the country, we will Make America Great Again!"
George Scarborough, Pensacola resident and brother of former Congressman and TV personality Joe Scarborough, is the owner of Scarborough Consulting and regional Director of The Studer Group.
Pastor Gallups, (Minister for Prayer), is an author, radio and television talk show host and senior pastor of Hickory Hammock Baptist Church in Milton, FL.
Clover Lawson is a founding partner of Lawson & Palmer, LLC. Clover is one of the foremost women in the firearms industry and represents world class competitive shooters, as well as some of the best manufacturers in tactical gear.
Capt. Allen Brady served 32 years in the US Navy including 4 years at the US Naval Academy and 6 years as a P.O.W in Vietnam's infamous Hanoi Hilton.
Terry Busbee Sr. served multiple tours in Vietnam before moving into politics. Seeking real and positive change for America, Busbee is leaving the Democratic Party to endorse Donald J. Trump for President because ‘he's the smartest man for the job'.
Chief Warrant Officer, (Ret) Gary O'Neal is a US Army Ranger and President of Worldwide Army Rangers Association. A biography titled ‘American Warrior: The True Story of A Legendary Ranger' detailing O'Neal's extraordinary service, was released in 2013.
  