
    "Whether it was an unprecedented ethics reprimand, his erratic leadership style, or his resignation in disgrace at the hands of his own party, it is understandable why Speaker Gingrich would want to re-write history. As an historian, however, he should know that such efforts usually fail." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
Last Night, Gingrich Claimed He Was Exonerated of Every Ethics Charge He Faced:
Gingrich Agreed With The Statement That He Was "Exonerated Of Every [Ethics] Charge." FOX'S SEAN HANNITY: "I asked Governor Romney this last night and the ethics charges — I know it took three years but you were exonerated of every charge, correct?" GINGRICH: "Right. This is why you have the facts. OK?" (Fox News' "Hannity," 1/25/12)


    Watch Video Here: http://mi.tt/zrYf2R
  

THE TRUTH: Gingrich Admitted He Violated House Rules and is the Only Speaker in History to be Formally Reprimanded for "Ethical Wrongdoing":
In 1997, Gingrich Became The Only Speaker In History To Be Formally Reprimanded By The House For "Ethical Wrongdoing." "The House voted overwhelmingly yesterday to reprimand House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) and order him to pay an unprecedented $300,000 penalty, the first time in the House's 208-year history it has disciplined a speaker for ethical wrongdoing. ... Exactly one month before yesterday's vote, Gingrich admitted that he brought discredit to the House and broke its rules by failing to ensure that financing for two projects would not violate federal tax law and by giving the House ethics committee false information." ("House Reprimands, Penalizes Speaker," The Washington Post, 1/22/97)


    The House Voted 395-28 To Reprimand Gingrich — With Roughly Nine In Ten House Republicans Voting Against Their Speaker. (H.Res. 31, Vote #8: Passed 395-28: R 196-26; D 198-2; I 1-0, 1/21/97)
  


The House Ethics Committee — Chaired By A Republican Member — Had Previously Voted 7-1 To Reprimand And Sanction Gingrich. "The committee's 7 to 1 vote came after 5 1/2 hours of televised hearings ... 'This is a tough penalty,' Rep. Nancy L. Johnson (R-Conn.), chairman of the ethics panel, said after the vote. 'I believe it is an appropriate penalty. It demonstrates that nobody is above the rules.'" (John E. Yang and Helen Dewar, "Ethics Panel Supports Reprimand of Gingrich," The Washington Post, 1/18/97)

"Gingrich Confessed ... To Violating The Rules." "Gingrich confessed December 21 to violating the rules, admitting he should have sought specific legal advice about financing his college course and a town hall television project with tax-exempt donations. He took responsibility for inaccurate assertions that GOPAC, his former political organization, had no role in the college course." ("Special Counsel Reportedly Recommends Gingrich Be Fined," CNN.com, 1/17/97)
Gingrich: "I Accept Responsibility For This, And I Deeply Regret It." "I was overconfident, and in some ways, naive. ... I accept responsibility for this, and I deeply regret it. I did not seek personal gain, but my actions did not reflect creditably on the House of Representatives." (Rep. Newt Gingrich, Press Release, 12/21/96)
Gingrich: "I Brought Down On The People's House A Controversy Which Could Weaken The Faith People Have In Their Government." (Rep. Newt Gingrich, Press Release, 12/21/96)
"The House Imposed The Penalty ... After Gingrich Acknowledged He Gave The Ethics Committee Untrue Information." "The House imposed the penalty last year after Gingrich acknowledged he gave the ethics committee untrue information and failed to ensure that financing for two projects, including a college course he taught, would not violate federal tax laws." (Bill McAllister, "Gingrich To Pay Penalty With His Own Money," The Washington Post, 9/15/98)
"With A One Sentence Affidavit, Gingrich Admitted To The Charges In ... The House Version Of An Indictment." "After more than two years of steadfast denials of wrongdoing, House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) admitted yesterday that he broke House rules ... With a one sentence affidavit, Gingrich admitted to the charges in the House ethics committee's 22-page 'Statement of Alleged Violation,' the House version of an indictment ... The admission of any kind of misconduct was a stunning reversal for Gingrich..." (John E. Yang, "Speaker Gingrich Admits House Ethics Violation," The Washington Post, 12/22/96)
  