
    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET WASHINGTON, D.C. 20503
THE DIRECTOR
January 22, 2009
The Honorable Kent Conrad  Chairman  Committee on the Budget  United States Senate  Washington, D.C. 20510
Dear Mr. Chairman:
Thank you for all the time you have taken in reviewing the economic recovery proposal that President Obama is working on with Congress. The President shares your commitment to a package that jumpstarts the economy in the most effective way possible.
The Congressional Budget Office recently released an analysis ofa component ofthe economic recovery proposal; that analysis, however, did not assess the overall package. Our analysis indicates that at least 75 percent ofthe overall package (including its tax component and the other spending provisions that were not analyzed by the Congressional Budget Office) will be spent over the next year and a half (the rest of fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2010).
We are committed to maintaining at least a 75 percent spend-out rate for the package as a whole as the legislation moves through the Senate and House and into conference. In addition to jumpstarting the economy in a timely manner, we remain committed to providing unprecedented levels of transparency to the American people and the highest standards of accountability to the taxpayer about how the funds are spent.
These are difficult economic times, and I look forward to working with you, your colleagues, and your Committee's dedicated staff to craft a recovery package that meets these goals. 
Sincerely,
Peter R. Orszag Director
Identical Letter Sent to:
The Honorable Daniel Inouye The Honorable Thad Cochran The Honorable Max Baucus The Honorable Chuck Grassley The Honorable Judd Gregg The Honorable Harry Reid The Honorable Richard J. Durbin The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Jon Kyl The Honorable Robert Byrd The Honorable Charles Rangel The Honorable Dave Camp The Honorable David Obey The Honorable Jerry Lewis The Honorable Henry Waxman The Honorable Joe Barton The Honorable John Spratt The Honorable Paul Ryan The Honorable Nancy Pelosi The Honorable Steny Hoyer The Honorable James Clyburn The Honorable John Boehner The Honorable Eric Cantor
  