
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted January 10
Ray L. Caldwell, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Burdensharing.
Johnnie Carson, of Illinois, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zimbabwe.
Herman E. Gallegos, of California, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Lawrence Harrington, of Tennessee, to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, vice Richard C. Houseworth, resigned.
Lee C. Howley, of Ohio, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Jeanette W. Hyde, of North Carolina, to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Antigua and Barbuda, and as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to St. Kitts and Nevis, and as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Grenada.
Martin S. Indyk, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Israel.
Isabelle Leeds, of New York, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Bismarck Myrick, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Lesotho.
Philip C. Wilcox, Jr., of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Coordinator for Counter Terrorism.
Jacquelyn L. Williams-Bridgers, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of State, vice Sherman M. Funk, resigned.
Frank G. Wisner, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, for the personal rank of Career Ambassador in recognition of especially distinguished service over a sustained period.
Submitted January 11
Sandra L. Lynch, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Stephen G. Breyer, elevated.
David Folsom, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, vice Sam B. Hall, Jr., deceased.
Thadd Heartfield, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, vice Robert M. Parker, elevated.
John D. Snodgrass, of Alabama, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice E.B. Haltom, Jr., retired.
Sidney H. Stein, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Pierre N. Leval, elevated.
Lacy H. Thornburg, of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, vice Robert D. Potter, retired.
  