
    The Central Intelligence Agency as created by the National Security Act of 1947 fulfills intelligence functions vital to the security of our nation, and many of its activities must necessarily be carried out in secrecy. Such activities are nevertheless subject to statutory limitations. I have determined that in order to insure scrupulous compliance with these statutory limitations, while fully recognizing the statutory missions of the Agency, it is advisable to establish a Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States.
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the United States, and as President of the United States, I hereby order as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Commission. There is hereby established a Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States (hereinafter referred to as the "Commission"), to be composed of a Chairman and other members to be appointed by the President.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Commission. The Commission shall:
(a) Ascertain and evaluate any facts relating to activities conducted within the United States by the Central Intelligence Agency which give rise to questions of compliance with the provisions of 50 U.S.C. 403;
(b) Determine whether existing safeguards are adequate to prevent any activities which violate the provisions of 50 U.S.C. 403;
(c) Make such recommendations to the President and to the Director of Central Intelligence as the Commission deems appropriate.
SEC. 3. Cooperation by and with Executive Departments and Agencies. The Commission is authorized to request, at the direction of the Chairman, from any executive department or agency, any information and assistance deemed necessary to carry out its functions under this order. Each department or agency shall furnish such information and assistance to the Commission, to the extent permitted by law. The Commission shall furnish to the Attorney General any evidence found by the Commission which may relate to offenses under the statutes of the United States.
SEC. 4. Compensation, Personnel, and Finance. (a) Each member of the Commission may receive compensation for each day he or she is engaged upon the work of the Commission at not to exceed the daily rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for persons and positions in GS-18, as authorized by law and may also receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons in the government service intermittently employed.
(b) The Commission shall have an Executive Director who shall be designated by the President and shall receive such compensation as may hereafter be specified. The Commission is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such other personnel as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions, and is authorized to obtain services in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3109.
(c) All necessary expenses incurred in connection with the work of the Commission shall be paid from the appropriation for "Unanticipated Personnel Needs" P.L. 93-381, 88 Stat. 617, or from such other funds as may be available.
SEC. 5. Administrative Services. The General Services Administration shall provide administrative services for the Commission on a reimbursable basis.
SEC. 6. Report and Termination. The Commission shall present its final report to the President not later than three months from the date of this order. It shall terminate within one month after presenting its final report.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
January 4, 1975.
  