
    The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of the American Nurses Association (ANA). The ANA represents the interests of the nation's 2.9 million registered nurses.

"I am honored to have the support of the American Nurses Association," said Clinton. "We owe nurses a great debt of gratitude for the critical role they play every day in providing quality care. As President, I will continue to support efforts to attract and retain qualified nurses, especially in rural and urban areas, and to improve working conditions. I look forward to working with America's nurses to deliver affordable, quality health care to every American."
Hillary has a history of working for America's nurses. In the Senate, Hillary introduced the Nursing Education and Quality of Care Act, which would expand the number of programs that address nursing faculty shortages and increase the supply of nurses in rural areas. As part of the Nurse Reinvestment Act, she helped create grants that expanded nurse Magnet hospitals. Hillary also supported increased funding for both Title VII and Title VIII, which help to address the higher education needs of nurses and nursing faculty. Finally, she has supported programs to attract nurses to the field, including efforts to improve the quality of the working environment for nurses.
Hillary's American Health Choices Plan will cover all Americans and improve health care by providing consumers new choices, lowering costs and improving quality. Under Hillary's plan, Americans who like the insurance they have can keep it and stay with their doctor. But Americans who don't like the coverage they have will be able to pick from the same set of plans Members of Congress choose for themselves. Under Hillary's plan, insurance companies won't be able to deny people coverage for a pre-existing condition and tax credits will ensure that working families never have to pay more than a limited percentage of their income for quality health care. People who change jobs will be able to keep their health care.
ANA has been making presidential endorsements since 1984. The endorsement process includes sending a questionnaire on nursing and health care issues to all of the Democratic and Republican candidates, an invitation to all of the Democratic and Republican candidates for a personal interview and an online survey of ANA's membership regarding which candidate is most supportive of nursing's agenda.
  