
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Raymond G. Farmer, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers for a term of one year. (New Position)
Kelly Keiderling-Franz, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.
Thomas McLeary, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers for a term of two years. (New Position)
John Mark McWatters, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2019, vice Sean Robert Mulvaney, term expired.
Nelson Reyneri, of Washington, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2018, vice Matthew Maxwell Taylor Kennedy, term expired.
Michael J. Rothman, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers for a term of two years. (New Position)
Stephen Michael Schwartz, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Somalia.
Heather Ann Steinmiller, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers for a term of two years. (New Position)
Todd A. Weiler, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Jessica Lynn Wright, resigned.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Phillip H. Cullom, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Sharon E. Burke, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on November 19, 2015.
Patricia M. Loui-Schmicker, of Hawaii, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States a term expiring January 20, 2019 (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on March 16, 2015.
  