
    Pool Reports by Cheryl Bolen, Bloomberg Government



Sent:
Reports:




January 27, 202011:17

In-town pool report #1
Arrival of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The two leaders took several questions at 11:12 a.m. and it appears we're headed into Oval.
Trump said he had not seen Bolton manuscript-more quotes TK.
Pool spotted Netanyahu's motorcade pulling through the gate exactly at 11:00 a.m. then pausing.
At 11:06 a.m. four Marines walked out, then Trump in blue striped tie.
Trump walked out the Diplomatic Room doors at the South Portico of the White House to greet Netanyahu, stopping momentarily to shake hands. They are scheduled to have a bilateral meetings this morning and again tomorrow.
A red carpet was laid down and there was one American flag and one Israeli flag on either side of the door.
Netanyahu and his main election challenger former Israeli military chief Benjamin Gantz accepted invitations to the White House ahead of Trump's planned release of his Middle East peace plan.
The weather is 46 degrees and sunny.
Trump is scheduled to meet with Gantz at 12:30 p.m. So far all scheduled meetings today are closed press, but pooler will advise if this changes.
Pool moved to Rose Garden to watch the two leaders walk along the Colonnade and into the Oval Office. Netanyahu is wearing a red tie, and Trump waved to the assembled media.



January 27, 202011:34

In-town pool report #2
Oval spray.
Pool was ushered into short spray of Trump and Netanyahu making remarks from 11:19 to 11:22 a.m., primarily on peace plan that will be announced tomorrow at noon.
Check quotes against transcript:
"So tomorrow at 12 o'clock, we'll be announcing a plan. And it's a very big plan, it will be a suggestion between Israel and the Palestinians, it's the closest it's ever come and we'll see what happens. We have the support of the prime minister, we have the support of the other parties, and we think we will ultimately have the support of the Palestinians, but we're going to see," Trump said.



January 27, 202013:50

In-town pool report #3 - lunch lid
Lunch lid was called until 2:45 p.m.



January 27, 202015:59

In-town pool report #4
From Judd Deere, deputy WH press secretary:
Today, President Donald J. Trump met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. The leaders had a productive meeting, discussing the President's Middle East Peace Plan and critical bilateral and regional issues.



January 27, 202016:39

In-town pool report #5
From Judd Deere, deputy WH press secretary:
Today, President Donald J. Trump met with LTG. (Res.) MK Benjamin Gantz, Blue and White Chairman. The President and the Chairman had a productive meeting, discussing the President's Middle East Peace Plan and important United States-Israel issues.



January 27, 202017:13

In-town pool report #6 — lid
A travel/photo lid was called at 5:11 p.m. Have a great evening everyone.



January 27, 202022:13

In-town pool report #7 - call readout
From Judd Deere, deputy WH press secretary:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. The two leaders discussed the need to eliminate foreign interference and maintain the ceasefire in Libya. The leaders agreed that the violence being carried out in Idlib, Syria must stop. President Trump also highlighted the importance of Turkey and Greece resolving their disagreements in the eastern Mediterranean.




Pool Reports by Jha Lalit, Press Trust of India



Sent:
Reports:




January 27, 202011:10

Foreign Pool Observer Note 1
Hi
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu arrived at the South Portico of the White House at 11.07 am He was received by POTUS. The two leaders greeted each other. Shook hands and waved at the media standing in the South Lawns at 11.08 am. It's a bright sunny day here, with light breeze. My Android device records the temp as 47 degrees Fahrenheit.
No questions taken by the leaders.
Now in the Rose Gardens as the walk towards the Oval Office.



January 27, 202011:21

Foreign Pool Observer Note 2
POTUS and PM spoke for a few minutes in the Rose Garden for a few minutes.
PM Netanyahu thanked POTUS for his efforts to bring peace.
POTUS maintained the suspense on the peace plan. Said PM is here for a reason. Would be announcing a plan tomorrow 12 o clock. We r relatively close. Many of the Arab Nations have agreed to it.
Now inside Oval Office.



January 27, 202012:15

Foreign Pool Observer Note 3
Once inside the Oval Office POTUS welcomed PM Netanyahu. He said that he will announce a plan at 12 noon tomorrow. As usual please check against official transcripts.
POTUS: "We are going to be discussing Middle East Pace. We are going to be announcing a plan tomorrow at 12 o'clock. That's a plan that Bibi maybe and his opponent, I must say they have to like very much. I can say in terms of Bibi, he does. I think in terms of his opponent, he does too. I'll be meeting with him in a little while."
"But this is a plan that's very important to peace in the middle East. No matter where I went, they say Israel and the Palestinians, they have to make peace before you can really have peace in the middle East. People have been working on this for many, many years and I think we're relatively close to that. We have to get other people to agree with it also. I will say many of the Arab nations have agreed to it. They like it, they think it's great. They think it's a big start."
I think it's a big step too. I think it's a fantastic thing if we can pull it off. They say it's probably the most difficult deal anywhere and of any kind of. In the business world, when I was back in the business world, when the deal was tough, people would jokingly refer to it as this is tougher than Israel and the Palestinians getting together. And that's what I've heard all my life. And so we'll see what happens. We have something that makes a lot of sense for everybody and we appreciate your being here Mr Prime Minister.
PM Netanyahu: "Mr President, I just want to say two things. First that the deal is essentially a opportunity and we're not going to pass it by. And we'll talk about that tomorrow. Today I would just want to say thank you for everything you've done for the State of Israel. You've been the greatest man Israel had in the White House. I think tomorrow you can continue making history.
When asked if US has spoken with the Palestinians aboutthe peace deal, POTUS said: It's something they should want. They probably won't want it initially. I think in the end they will. I think in the end they're going to want it. It's very good for them. In fact, it's overly good to them. So we'll see what happens. Now without them, we don't do the deal. And that's okay. They're not living well. As you know, we cut off aid to Palestinians and something I don't like to do. But we did that. We think that there's a very good chance that they're going to want this. I would say their initial -- as they are as great negotiators -- their initial response, and I have no idea what they're going to say.
POTUS said: So tomorrow at 12 o'clock we'll be announcing a plan and it's a very big plan. It will be a suggestion between Israel and the Palestinians. It's the closest it's ever come. And we'll see what happens. And we have the support of the prime minister, we have the support of the other parties and we think we will ultimately have the support of the Palestinians. But when did we see, and if we do, it'll be a tremendous tribute to everybody. And if we don't, life goes on."
The two leaders spoke for about four minutes inside the Oval.



January 27, 202012:09

FOREIGN POOL OBSERVER NOTE FOUR
In the Rose Garden, POTUS was asked if he expects PM Netanyahu to implement the plan right away in the coming six weeks?
POTUS: Well, I think he's here for a reason and hopefully that will be yes. Peace in the Middle East has been alongside for many, many, many years and decades and centuries. This is an opportunity. We'll see what happens. Whatever it is it is. But he's here for a reason.
POTUS Was again asked if he would do you give a green light for annexation of the Jordan Valley within the coming one?
POTUS: Tomorrow at 12 o'clock we're going to show a plan. It's been worked on by everybody and we'll see whether or not it catches all of them. It does, that'd be great. And if it doesn't, we can live with it too. But I think it might have a chance.
PM Netanyahu then spoke: First of all, I'm very honored to be here. I look forward to making history with you tomorrow. I think we'll talk about the plan. I'll talk about the plan, vision of you which is historic the President has put forward.
I just want to say two words. THANK YOU. Thank you for everything that you have done for Israel.
PM Netanyahu said that under POTUS there has been "unprecedented security and intelligence co-operation," between the two countries.
You have made our alliance stronger than ever.
PM Netanyahu thanks POTUS for confronting the "most anti-sematic regime" on the planet.
"When you came into office Iran was on the march. Because of your leadership, Iran is now on the run.
PM Netanyahu thanked POTUS for withdrawing from "the dangerous nuclear deal." You slapped on tremendous sanctions. Two weeks ago you've taken out the most dangerous terrorist on the planet.
PM Netanyahu: "Thank you Mr President for your bold decisions and your bold actions. On behalf of the State of Israel, I want to thank you everything that you have done for Israel."




  