
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint two individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Robert J. Battista, of Michigan, to be a Member and designate Chair upon confirmation of the National Labor Relations Board, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 12/16/09. Mr. Battista recently served as Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board. Prior to this, he served as a Partner at Butzel Long. Mr. Battista received his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and his JD from the University of Michigan Law School.
The President intends to nominate Gerard Morales, of Arizona, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board, for a five-year term expiring 12/16/12. Mr. Morales currently serves as a Partner at Snell & Wilmer, LLP. Prior to this, he served as an Adjunct Professor at the University of Arizona College of Law. Earlier in his career, he served as a Field Attorney at the National Labor Relations Board. Mr. Morales received his bachelor's degree from Stetson University, his master's degree from Tulane University, and his JD from Tulane University.
The President intends to nominate Dennis P. Walsh, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 08/27/08 and an additional five-year term expiring 08/27/13. Mr. Walsh recently served as a Member of the National Labor Relations Board. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to a Board Member of the National Labor Relations Board. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief Counsel to a Board Member of the National Labor Relations Board. Mr. Walsh received his bachelor's degree from Hamilton College and his JD from Cornell University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy:
Charles Patrick Garcia, of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/30/10. Susan Ross, of Colorado, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/30/10.
The President intends to designate Elisebeth C. Cook, of Virginia, to be Acting Assistant Attorney General (Legal Policy).
  