
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 4
The President returned to Washington, DC, from St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands.
January 5
The White House announced that the President invited President Petar Stoyanov of Bulgaria for a working visit to Washington on February 10.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel in Washington on January 20, and he will meet with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority in Washington on January 22.
January 6
In the afternoon, the President attended a surprise birthday party for Secretary of Education Richard W. Riley at the Education Department.
The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, high winds, tornadoes, and flooding, beginning December 25 and continuing.
January 7
The President announced his intention to appoint Maureen White as the U.S. Representative to the Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF).
January 8
In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. In the afternoon, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong of Singapore to discuss the Asia-Pacific economic situation.
In the evening, the President traveled to McAllen, TX. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Soeharto of Indonesia to discuss the Asia-Pacific economic situation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rita R. Colwell as Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation.
The White House announced that the President will award the Presidential Medal of Freedom to 15 distinguished Americans at a White House ceremony on January 15.
January 9
In the morning, the President met with local community leaders at the Embassy Suites Hotel in McAllen.
In the afternoon, the President attended a reception for Representative Ruben Hinojosa at a private residence. Following the reception, he traveled to Brownsville, TX, where he addressed citizens of the Brownsville area at the Brownsville-South Padre Island International Airport. Later in the afternoon, he traveled to Houston, TX.
In the evening, the President addressed Houston High School students, parents, and teachers at the George Brown Convention Center. Later in the evening, he attended a reception for Representative Sheila Jackson Lee at the Four Seasons Hotel. Following the reception, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Andrew P. Scalzi as U.S. Commissioiner to the International Pacific Halibut Commission.
  