
    (SAN FRANCISCO, CA, January 18, 2020) — Today, presidential candidate Tom Steyer received the official endorsements of California State Assemblymember Eduardo Garcia and former California State Senator Fran Pavley, two of the state's foremost legislative leaders on tackling climate change. Garcia and Pavley will advise the campaign, drawing from their extensive experience spearheading key elements of California's landmark environmental legislation.
"We are thrilled to welcome Senator Pavley and Assemblymember Garcia to Team Tom," Campaign Manager Heather Hargreaves said. "Their endorsement is proof that Tom is the candidate who will break the corporate stranglehold of our government and lead the fight against climate change from the Oval Office."
"Tom Steyer has been a tireless advocate for all Californians. I see first hand the disastrous effects of climate change in the communities in my district," said Assemblymember Eduardo Garcia. "Tom is the only candidate with a Justice-Centered Climate Plan who will declare a national emergency on day one of his administration to address this crisis with the urgency it deserves. I am proud to stand with Tom Steyer, because he stands with hard-working middle-class families in my community, throughout California, and across our nation. I ask all of my fellow Californians to stand with Tom Steyer."
"Globally speaking, California has set the gold standard in terms of passing and protecting legislation that aggressively tackles climate change, and Tom has played an integral role in making that happen," said Fran Pavley. "Climate change cannot wait. The impacts to California's health, water supply, drought, wildfires, and our economy need a strong leader to make climate change one of their highest priorities. That's why I'm voting for Tom Steyer for President, and I urge all Californians to do the same."
Representing cities and unincorporated communities in eastern Riverside County and Imperial County, Assemblymember Eduardo Garcia is the current chair of the Committee on Water, Parks and Wildlife, overseeing some of the state's most pressing issues including drought conditions and the implementation of a multi-billion dollar water bond California voters passed in 2014. Garcia most recently led the way on AB 617, a first-of-its-kind program that protects communities disproportionately exposed to air pollution, and SB 200, which funds access to clean drinking water to communities who lack it. He also authored Proposition 68, which will generate $4.1 billion of investments for critical resources like parks, clean drinking water and coastal protection in communities across the state. Garcia's additional environmental and economic legislative measures include SB 32 and AB 197, the historic climate change package that set a landmark state emission reduction mandate, while ensuring future climate policies prioritize investments into disadvantaged communities that are most affected by pollution.
Fran Pavley served two terms in the California State Senate and three terms in the California State Assembly, chairing the Senate Natural Resources and Water Committee and earning widespread renown for her pioneering work on environmental and climate change legislation. Pavley's legislative achievements include the landmark tailpipe emissions law to reduce harmful carbon emissions that paved the way to a national fuel efficiency standard. Passing legislation that put an enforceable cap on climate pollution reduced harmful emissions and helped create a market for investment and innovation in California's economy. From energy efficiency to renewable energy and cleaner vehicles, Pavley's contributions served to put the state on a path to a healthier and more sustainable economy and environment.
Today's endorsements are a reflection of Steyer's extensive record of leading climate-focused work in California. Through his organization, NextGen America, Steyer has played a pivotal role in combating state-wide ballot propositions led by big oil that would have rolled back essential environmental regulations, leading on environmental legislative initiatives in Sacramento and fighting the expansion of a gas power plant in the predominantly Latino community of Oxnard, California.
  