
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6460
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Elizabeth "Liz" Cheney will be joining the Romney for President campaign. Having most recently worked at the U.S. State Department handling Middle East policy, Cheney will serve as a senior foreign policy adviser to Governor Romney.
"I am proud to support Governor Romney. Throughout this campaign, he has distinguished himself as a leader who can guide our country with a clear vision for overcoming the threats we face today. Dedicated to the success of our missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, Governor Romney is the only candidate who has outlined a comprehensive strategy for defeating the global Jihadist threat. I look forward to working with Governor Romney, because he is the leader our country needs," said Liz Cheney.
Making today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "Liz Cheney brings to our campaign years of experience helping to formulate America's foreign policy and to advance democracy and reform in the Middle East. She understands that to defeat this global Jihadist threat we have to help Muslim nations reject the violent extreme. I am honored that she will be joining our team."
Background On Liz Cheney:
Liz Cheney Is A Former High-Ranking State Department Official With Years Of Experience Helping To Formulate America's Foreign Policy. Most recently, Cheney served as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs. As the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, she was the second-ranking State Department official overseeing U.S. policy in the Middle East. She helped develop and oversee programs to promote democracy and reform in the Arab world. Before joining the State Department, she served at the U.S. Agency for International Development, the International Finance Corporation of the World Bank, and as an attorney at White & Case LLP. Cheney was also a National Campaign Co-Chair for the Fred Thompson presidential campaign.
  