
    Memorandum for Honorable Robert E. Hampton, Chairman, United States Civil Service Commission:
SUBJECT: Federal wage increases
In August and September 1971, actions were initiated to defer for six months expected pay increases for both white-collar and blue-collar Federal employees. These actions provided similar pay treatment for both groups of employees.
Under the provisions of the Economic Stabilization Act Amendments of 1971, pay for white-collar Federal employees under the statutory systems will be adjusted at the beginning of the first pay period in January 1972.
In order to provide, insofar as practicable, similar treatment of future pay adjustments for white- and blue-collar employees, my memorandum of September 1, 1971, directing the deferment of Federal blue-collar wage adjustments, is hereby rescinded.
To accomplish this action I have addressed the attached memorandum to the heads of executive departments and agencies. As indicated therein, this memorandum assigns to you, as Chairman of the Civil Service Commission, responsibility to take necessary actions to expedite wage surveys which have been delayed so that new wage schedules can be issued as soon as possible. The normal wage survey cycle should be resumed as soon as practicable.
RICHARD NIXON
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies:
SUBJECT: Federal Wage and Salary Increases
In August and September, 1971, actions were initiated to defer for six months expected pay increases for both white-collar and blue-collar Federal employees. These actions provided similar pay treatment for both groups of employees.
Under the provisions of the Economic Stabilization Act Amendments of 1971, pay for white-collar Federal employees under the statutory systems will be adjusted at the beginning of the first pay period in January 1972.
In order to provide, insofar as practicable, similar treatment of future pay adjustments for white- and blue-collar employees, my memorandum of September 1, 1971, directing the deferment of Federal blue-collar wage adjustments, is hereby rescinded. The Chairman of the Civil Service Commission is being directed to take necessary actions to expedite wage surveys which have been delayed so that new wage schedules can be issued as soon as possible.
Heads of executive agencies are authorized to adjust by administrative action the rates of pay which are subject to the provisions of section 5307 of Title 5 of the United States Code, consistent with the adjustments effected by Executive Order No. 11637 of December 22, 1971. Such adjustments shall also be consistent with the policies and pay increase guidelines issued by the Pay Board established under Executive Order No. 11627 of October 15, 1971.
RICHARD NIXON
  