
    President Bush to Nominate Twenty-Four Individuals to Serve as Members of the Federal Judiciary
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate twenty-four individuals to serve as members of the federal judiciary.
The President intends to nominate Percy Anderson to be a United States District Judge for the Central District of California.
The President intends to nominate John F. Walter the be a United States District Judge for the Central District of California
The President intends to nominate Kenneth A. Marra to be a United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
The President intends to nominate Jose E. Martinez to be a United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
The President intends to nominate Frederick W. Rohlfing, III to be a United States District Judge for the District of Hawaii.
The President intends to nominate Lance M. Africk to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The President intends to nominate Joan E. Lancaster to be a United States District Judge for the District of Minnesota.
The President intends to nominate Stanley E. Chesler to be a United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey.
The President intends to nominate William J. Martini to be a United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey.
The President intends to nominate Thomas M. Rose to be a United States District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio.
The President intends to nominate Michael M. Baylson to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Legrome D. Davis to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Cynthia M. Rufe to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Joy F. Conti to be a United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Terrence F. McVerry to be a United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Arthur J. Schwab to be a United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Samuel H. Mays, Jr., to be a United States District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee.
The President intends to nominate Ronald H. Clark to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas.
The President intends to nominate Leonard E. Davis to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas.
The President intends to nominate David C. Godbey to be a United States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas.
The President intends to nominate Andrew S. Hanen to be a United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas.
The President intends to nominate Henry E. Hudson to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Ronald B. Leighton to be a United States District Judge for the Western District of Washington.
The President intends to nominate William C. Griesbach to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
  