
    Today President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate a nineteenth wave of judicial nominees, as follows:
Greg G. Guidry of Louisiana, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana.  Greg Guidry is a Justice on the Louisiana Supreme Court, where he has served since 2009. Prior to joining the Supreme Court, Justice Guidry served as a judge on the State's Fifth Circuit Court of Appeal and Twenty-Fourth Judicial District Court. Justice Guidry has also served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana, where he was both Chief of the Violent Crime Unit and Chief of the Drug Unit, and an Assistant Attorney General in the Louisiana Department of Justice. Justice Guidry received his B.A. and J.D. from Louisiana State University, where he was a member of the Louisiana Law Review.
James Wesley (“Wes”) Hendrix of Texas, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. Wes Hendrix serves as an Assistant United States Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Texas. He is Chief of the office's Appellate Division, a member of the Attorney General's Advisory Committee, and Chairperson of the Nationwide Appellate Chiefs Workings Group. Prior to joining the government in 2007, Mr. Hendrix was an associate in the Dallas, Texas, office of Baker Botts L.L.P., where his practice focused on complex civil litigation. After graduating from law school, he served as a law clerk to Judge Patrick Higginbotham of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Mr. Hendrix received his B.A., with Honors, from the University of Chicago and his J.D., with High Honors, from the University of Texas School of Law.
Sean D. Jordan of Texas, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.  Sean Jordan is a partner in the Austin, Texas, office of Jackson Walker L.L.P.. He is the Co-Chair of the firm's Appellate Practice Group, where his practice focuses on appellate and complex civil litigation and regulatory compliance. Prior to entering private practice, Mr. Jordan served as Principal Deputy Solicitor General for the State of Texas, representing the State in appeals in both federal and state courts. He also served in the United States Army as an infantryman and paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne Division. Mr. Jordan received his B.A., summa cum laude, from the University of Texas at Austin and his J.D., with Honors, from the University of Texas School of Law.
Michael T. Liburdi of Arizona, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona.  Michael Liburdi is a shareholder in the Phoenix, Arizona, office of Greenberg Traurig, L.L.P., where he serves as Chair of the Phoenix Litigation Practice. His practice focuses on complex commercial and constitutional litigation, as well as campaign finance and election procedure compliance. Mr. Liburdi also serves as an Adjunct Professor of Law at the Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law at Arizona State University, where he teaches Election Law. Prior to joining Greenberg Traurig, Mr. Liburdi was General Counsel to Arizona Governor Douglas A. Ducey, advising the Governor and his staff on legal policy and compliance matters. After graduating from law school, Mr. Liburdi served as a law clerk to Vice Chief Justice Ruth McGregor of the Supreme Court of Arizona. Mr. Liburdi received his B.S., summa cum laude, from Arizona State University and his J.D., magna cum laude, from the Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law at Arizona State University.
Mark T. Pittman of Texas, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. Mark Pittman is a Justice on Texas's Second Court of Appeals, where he has served since 2017. Prior to joining the appellate court, Justice Pittman was a Judge on the State's 352nd District Court, based in Fort Worth, Texas. Before his judicial service, Justice Pittman served as an Enforcement Attorney with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Fort Worth, Texas and held multiple positions within the Department of Justice, including as an Assistant United States Attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Texas and Trial Attorney in the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Civil Division. After graduating from law school, Justice Pittman clerked for Judge Eldon Mahon of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. He received his B.A., magna cum laude, from Texas A&M University and his J.D. from the University of Texas.
Peter D. Welte of North Dakota, to serve as District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of North Dakota. Peter Welte is a shareholder in the Vogel Law Firm, where his practice focuses on criminal defense and agriculture law. Prior to joining the Vogel Law Firm, Mr. Welte served as the elected State's Attorney of Grand Forks County, from 2003 to 2015, and as a line prosecutor in that same office from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Welte is an Adjunct Instructor at the University of North Dakota School of Law, where he teaches Agricultural Law and State and Local Government Law. Mr. Welte received his B.S. from North Dakota State University and his J.D., with distinction, from the University of North Dakota.
  