
    * If You Read One Thing Today: Over 3000 people jammed into a high school gymnasium in Nashua yesterday to see Hillary -- and the place was "rocking." David Brody reports: "Shouts of 'Hillary, Hillary' were everywhere. Even when Hillary started to speak, people here wouldn't stop shouting for her." Read it here
* Making News Today: Hillary continues her "Big Challenges - Real Solutions, Time to Pick a President" Tour in New Hampshire, attending a "Conversation with Undecided Voters" event in Portsmouth, as well as "Time to Pick a President" events in Dover and Salem. She also attends a "Time to Pick a President" Rally with President Clinton in Manchester.
* Recapping Yesterday: President Clinton hit the trail for Hillary, telling New Hampshire voters that this election doesn't come down to change versus experience, but "words versus deeds, talk versus action, rhetoric versus reality"... State Rep. Jim Webber (D-Kensington), a former Biden supporter, announced his endorsement of Hillary, the third New Hampshire state representative to announce his support of Senator Clinton in recent days... Visit http://www.hillaryhub.com for more.
* Rhetoric vs. Results, Talk vs. Action:
As we approach the primary, New Hampshire voters are seeing the difference between talk versus action, rhetoric and results.
Hillary Clinton has a real record of making change and getting results for New Hampshire families. If you want to know what kind of change the candidates will make, look at the change they have already made.
She took the lead in the White House on ensuring that 6 million kids nationwide have health insurance, including 7,000 children in New Hampshire.
She worked with Republicans and helped pass legislation that guaranteed that every member of our National Guard and Reserves has access to health care.
As a result 2700 New Hampshire members of the Guards and Reserves have access to health care regardless of their deployment status.
She took the lead in passing legislation that helped ensure that up to 324,000 children in New Hampshire have been vaccinated.
She took the lead in passing legislation that helped double the number of adoptions out of foster care.
Hillary's real record of action and results for New Hampshire families serves in sharp contrast to her opponents.
At the debate on Saturday it was clear when opponents were asked what change they had made:
Instead of telling New Hampshire voters what he had done for them, Barack Obama defended rhetoric and talk and cited legislation that bans sit-down meals with lobbyists but allows them to stand up and eat together.
Obama talked about government reform, but denied that the co-chair of his New Hampshire campaign is a lobbyist. He talked about energy reform but couldn't defend his vote in favor of Dick Cheney's energy plan that gave the big oil companies billions in tax breaks. He talked about his speech against the war, but didn't explain why he voted for 300 billion in funding for the war and why he said as late as 2004 that he didn't know how he would have voted on the war.
And all John Edwards could point to on behalf of New Hampshire families was legislation that passed the Senate but never passed Congress and was never signed into law.
Hillary said no matter how beautifully presented, words are not action and pointed to real accomplishments that made real change for people.
The choice for New Hampshire voters is clear - Hillary Clinton's action and results vs her opponents' rhetoric and talk.
  