
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      David S. Cohen – Deputy Director, Central Intelligence Agency
•      John H. Hankinson – Federal Representative of the United States, Sabine River Compact Administration
President Obama said, "I am honored that these talented individuals have decided to serve our country. They bring their years of experience and expertise to this Administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
David S. Cohen, Appointee for Deputy Director, Central Intelligence Agency
David S. Cohen is currently the Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence at the Department of the Treasury, a position he has held since July 2011. From 2009 to 2011, Mr. Cohen served as the Department of the Treasury's Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing. Before joining the Department of the Treasury, Mr. Cohen was a partner in the law firm of WilmerHale, where he focused on complex civil litigation, white collar criminal defense, internal investigations and anti-money laundering counseling. Immediately prior to joining the firm in 2001, Mr. Cohen worked at the Department of the Treasury, where he served concurrently as Acting Deputy General Counsel and Associate Deputy General Counsel, and was a recipient of the Treasury Secretary's Award for outstanding service. Mr. Cohen received a B.A. from Cornell University and a J.D. from Yale Law School.
John H. Hankinson, Appointee for Federal Representative of the United States, Sabine River Compact Administration
John H. Hankinson is a consultant on land conservation and strategic land use decision-making, a position he has held since 2013. From 2010 to 2012, Mr. Hankinson served as Executive Director of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Task Force at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Prior to this, he served as the Regional Administrator for EPA's southeastern Region 4 from 1994 to 2001. From 1985 to 1994, Mr. Hankinson was Director of Planning and Acquisition for St. Johns River Water Management District in Palatka, Florida. He was the Director of Coastal Programs with the Legal Environmental Assistance Foundation in Tallahassee, Florida from 1984 to 1985. From 1983 to 1984, Mr. Hankinson served as an attorney with Florida Governor Bob Graham's Planning and Budgeting Office. Prior to this, he served as the Director of the Environmental Service Center for Florida Defenders of the Environment from 1981 to 1983. Mr. Hankinson received a B.A. from Florida Presbyterian College, now Eckerd College, and a J.D. from the University of Florida.
  