
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

A major function of our competitive free enterprise economy is to satisfy consumer demand. The effective demand of consumers is what keeps producers in the business of supplying goods and services and is vital to keeping the wheels of industry turning. Therefore, it is most important that we fully recognize the crucial role consumers play in our economy.
Everyone is a consumer, but too often this role is the most neglected in terms of preparation and training. In our complex market economy major decisions have to be made about living within our means; protecting our futures through insurance, pension plans, and investments; choosing goods and services from our global marketplace; and voting on issues directly affecting our public and private consumption. Because consumer and economic education can contribute immeasurably to our competence as consumers and citizens, it should be started in the schools at the earliest possible time.
Consumers should have access to a wide assortment of competitively priced goods and services produced here and abroad; accurate information on product content and care, on contractual agreements, on the cost of credit—essentially whatever facts are needed to make an informed choice. But of greatest importance to consumers and private enterprise is protection against the marketing of goods that are hazardous to health or life, a fair hearing of complaints with appropriate remedies where justified, and dutiful consideration of consumer concerns at all levels of government.
It is clear that the greatest fairness for consumers can be achieved through the active cooperation of business, government, and consumers themselves working to insure equity, increased competition, and safety in our free market economy.
Because an effective and efficient system of commerce depends on an informed and educated public, I urge schools, public and private agencies, and all appropriate public-spirited groups to advance consumer competence by helping provide the necessary consumer and economic information for all our citizens to make well thought-out choices in the marketplace. While the responsibility for consumer education rests primarily with the individual, the communications media and other interested organizations and institutions play an instrumental part in furthering the understanding of American consumers. I urge consumers to avail themselves of this valuable information and to wisely select the goods and services they seek.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning April 24, 1983 as National Consumers' Week.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 20th day of Jan., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  