
    As Florida Voters Go to the Polls, It Seems Speaker Gingrich Doesn't Want to Talk About His 2009 Advocacy for the Obamacare National Mandate:
Weekly Standard: "Gingrich Was Unresponsive When I Asked Him Multiple Times About His Expressed Support For The Concept Of An Individual Mandate As Recently As May 2009..." "The usually gregarious Gingrich did not speak with the press before or after the rally ... After shaking hands with supporters following his speech, Gingrich was unresponsive when I asked him multiple times about his expressed support for the concept of an individual mandate as recently as May 2009, which a recently unearthed audio clip reveals." (Michael Warren, "Smaller Crowd for Newt Before Primary," The Weekly Standard, 1/31/12)
Earlier Today, Gingrich Provided False and Misleading Information on His Support for the Obamacare Mandate:
Gingrich Claimed His Position Was The Same As The Heritage Foundation And That He "Talked About State Level" Mandates Rather Than A National Mandate. FOX's BRIAN KILMEADE: "I know in May of 2009 when Obamacare was being hashed out and debated, you seemed to be in favor of the 'must carry.' You said that it should either be there or, if you're an absolute libertarian, we'll allow you to post a bond instead. What changed your mind, or was that taken out of context?" GINGRICH: "Look, I think the more the Heritage Foundation and others who originally thought this was a good idea looked at it, the more clear it became that what happens is you have government intruding totally into your life, particularly at the federal level. I've talked about state level, but at the federal level, once you get Congress able to dictate every single thing you can do, you basically have given up freedom. And that's why virtually all of us who are conservative have come out against any kind of mandate." (Fox News' "Fox & Friends," 1/31/12)


    NEWT'S WRONG: As He Was Praising The Obamacare Mandate, The Heritage Foundation Was Against It. "Today, the Health Policy Consensus Group, a coalition of experts from market-oriented think tanks, released a statement identifying what they consider six policy deal-breakers ... All appear in President Obama's health plan. ... A mandate that individuals must purchase insurance. ... Sweeping government mandates create a conflict between escalating costs, limited resources and the false guarantee of rich coverage, often triggering price and supply controls." ("Conservative Alliance Outlines 6 Deal-Killers For National Health Reform," The Heritage Foundation, 4/1/09)
  


NEWT'S WRONG: His Claim That He "Talked About State Level," Not Federal Level, Doesn't Hold Up. "Former House speaker Gingrich claimed he had never favored a federal mandate requiring individuals to obtain health insurance — only a state requirement. ... Not true. ... His support for a federal mandate is of long standing. ... If Gingrich was thinking about a state-only mandate, he never said so at the time. And he clearly said 'all of us' would be subject to his 'variant' of the mandate just last May. We judge that Gingrich is falsifying his own history on this matter." ("Fact Check: Florida GOP Debate," USA Today, 1/27/12)

FACT — Gingrich Praised the Obamacare Mandate in 2009, Calling It "the Kind of General Model We're Going to be Advocating":
In May 2009, Gingrich Called Obamacare's National Mandate "The Real Foundation And Most Important Part" Of The Bill, Adding "We Believe That There Should Be 'Must Carry.'" GINGRICH: "The real foundation and most important part of this is individual rights, responsibilities, and expectation of behavior. ... We believe that there should be 'must carry' — that is, everybody should either have health insurance or, if you're an absolute libertarian, we would allow you to post a bond, but we would not allow people to be free riders, failing to insure themselves and then showing up at the emergency room with no means of payment. If you have 'must carry,' then the insurance companies have told us that we can have 'must issue,' and you will therefore have a system in which you don't have to worry about cherry-picking and maneuvering. ... As we move beyond today's press conference at the White House, this is the kind of general model we're going to be advocating." (Newt Gingrich, Conference Call, "ARRA: Impact On Healthcare Systems," 5/11/09)

Click Here to Listen to Gingrich's Remarks

FACT — Speaker Gingrich Spent Two Decades Advocating for a Federal Mandate:
Gingrich In 1993: "I Am For People, Individuals — Exactly Like Automobile Insurance — Individuals Having Health Insurance And Being Required To Have Health Insurance." "During the interview, Gregory played a 1993 clip in which Gingrich said, 'I am for people, individuals — exactly like automobile insurance — individuals having health insurance and being required to have health insurance.'" (Kendra Marr, "Newt Gingrich Walks Back Health Care Mandate Support," Politico, 5/16/11)
Gingrich, In 2011: "I've Said Consistently We Ought To Have Some Requirement That You Either Have Health Insurance Or You Post A Bond..." GINGRICH: "I've said consistently we ought to have some requirement that you either have health insurance or you post a bond or in some way you indicate you're going to be held accountable. ...  It's a variation on [a mandate] ... But it's a system which allows people to have a range of choices which are designed by the economy. ... I don't think having a free rider system in health is any more appropriate than having a free rider system in any other part of our society." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 5/15/11)
Newsmax, In May 2011: Gingrich "Strongly Supports A Federal Mandate Requiring Citizens To Buy Health Insurance." "Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Sunday that he strongly supports a federal mandate requiring citizens to buy health insurance — a position that has been rejected by many Republicans, including several who likely will be running against him for the Republican presidential nomination." (Tim Collie, "Gingrich Backs Obamacare's Individual Mandate Requiring Health Insurance," Newsmax, 5/16/11)
  