
    (SAN FRANCISCO, CA, January 31, 2020) — Today Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer released the following statement in response to the proposed Israel-Palestine Peace Plan from President Trump's administration:
"Trump's deal for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict isn't a 'peace plan' at all – it's an insult. It does not bring all parties to the table and runs contrary to principles of international law — ceding American leadership in the Middle East peace process. A Palestinian state denied full sovereignty — one that has no control over its borders or air space or coastal waters — isn't just illegal, it's wrong. This plan endorses unilateral Israeli annexation of the Jordan Valley, 30 percent of the West Bank, which is in violation of international law and counter to decades of US foreign policy. Endorsing partial annexation is a slippery slope to full annexation of the entire West Bank.
"Meanwhile, this plan does not include any steps to restore funding to The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA) which the Trump administion has slashed, nor a process to re-open the Palestinian mission in Washington, DC.
"This is yet another blatant attempt by Mr. Trump to manipulate American foreign policy for his own political gain. It's nothing more than a continuation of the feckless and short-sighted approach that has characterized this administration. America needs a President with a coherent strategic vision and the judgment to make good decisions. His relentless prioritization of his personal and political interests over those of the country makes clear he has none of either.
"I commend the US House of Representatives' recent resolution opposing the unilateral annexation of the West Bank by Israel and reaffirming the United States' opposition to expansion of settlements. It is imperative that any plan put forward guarantees Israel's peace and security while laying out a real roadmap to a two state solution.
"The House resolution stated, and I firmly believe that, 'a United States proposal to achieve a just, stable, and lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict should expressly endorse a two-state solution as its objective and discourage steps by either side that would put a peaceful end to the conflict further out of reach, including unilateral annexation of territory or efforts to achieve Palestinian statehood status outside the framework of negotiations with Israel.'"
  