
    Pool Reports by Maggie Haberman, New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




January 5, 202009:40

Out of town pool report #1
Good morning from sunny Florida, on the final day of President Trump’s trip to Mar-a-Lago. Pool started rolling from MAL to destination unknown at 9:40. However, POTUS has gone to his nearby golf club on several days of this trip.



January 5, 202009:49

Out of town pool report #2
POTUS motorcade pulled into Trump International Golf Club at 9:47. Your pooler did not see POTUS. Pool is now holding across the street.



January 5, 202014:30

Out of town pool report #3
At 2:28 the motorcade pulled out of Trump International Golf Club. Pool did not see POTUS. Destination unknown.



January 5, 202014:42

Out of town pool report #4
POTUS motorcade pulled back into Mar-a-Lago at 2:39 pm.
During the 11-minute ride there were a handful of protesters in front of the parking lot of a Publix grocery store, waving signs. “A birth certificate for Mr. Witch Hunt,” read one sign.
Further along the route and closer to the Southern Blvd. Bridge was a group of Trump supporters waving signs. “Keep on tweeting the truth,” read one sign.
We are holding at Mar-a-Lago for the time being.



January 5, 202016:22

Out of town pool report #5
POTUS motorcade departed Mar-a-Lago for Palm Beach International Airport at 4:20 p.m.



January 5, 202016:35

Out of town pool report #6
POTUS motorcade arrived at PBI Airport at 4:28. Several Trump supporters lined Southern Boulevard as the motorcade passed with signs. A sampling: "Trump Strong," "NYPD loves Trump." One woman gave the vans marked "PRESS" a thumbs-down.
Further up the road were protestors, including a few a very large sign reading "RESIGN."
Pool did not see potus board the plane. Ivanka Trump was seem boarding at 4:33 pm. Next stop JBA.



January 5, 202018:47

Out of town pool report #7
Wheels down at JBA at 6:28 pm and the president, the First Lady and Barron Trump descended the stairs at 6:40. The family then walked to Marine One without looking over at the press. Marine One wheels up 6:46 pm.
* Please look for another out-of-town pool report shortly.



January 5, 202019:20

Out of town pool report #8
POTUS pulled the pool in to his cabin at 6 pm for roughly 30 minutes, talking through the landing and going on and off the record.
Present in his cabin was Mick Mulvaney, Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner, Robert O'Brien, Dan Scavino, Hogan Gidley.
Most of the talk was off the record but what follows is on the record. Apologies for the delay but we needed time to transcribe the quotes - and a huge thanks to Catherine Lucey and my other co-poolers.
Cultural sites:
“They’re allowed to kill our people. They’re allowed to torture and maim our people. they’re allowed to use roadside bombs and blow up our people. And we’re not allowed to touch their cultural site?. It doesn’t work that way.”
Retaliation from Iran?
“If it happens it happens. If they do anything there will be major retaliation”
IRAQ (question unclear):
So with Iraq, we've spent a lot of money in Iraq. I told you, Iraq, was the worst decision, going into the Middle East was the worst decision ever made in the history of our country, and I've said that publicly so I guess I can say that right now.going into the Middle East was the worst decision ever made in the history of our country, but we are there and they went into Iraq. Iraq, by the way, they didn't knock down the World Trade Center. That's been very nicely proven. But we went in and we're there and we're pulling out, pulling out of a lot of different areas. With Syria, I pulled out because I'm not going to guard his border. Why should I be guarding the border? They've got troops, let em guard, that border's been under siege, for thousands of years they've been fighting on that border. We call it the safe zone, it's really the opposite of the safe zone, many many people have been killed and by the way many people from Turkey have been killed, it's a double.
We're not leaving unless they pay us back for it (referring to the air base).
Parliament move in Iraq?
“We have a very extraordinarily expensive air base that’s there. It cost billions of dollars to build. Long before my time We’re not leaving unless they pay us back for it.
“If they do ask us to leave, if we don’t do it in a very friendly basis. We will charge them sanctions like they’ve never seen before ever. It’ll make Iranian sanctions look somewhat tame.”
“If there’s any hostility, that they do anything we think is inappropriate, we are going to put sanctions on Iraq, very big sanctions on Iraq.
Releasing intelligence related to the QS strike:
“We may discuss that. “
Soleimani:
“Very specifically for 18 months” and really since beginning of term
“He was leading his country down a very bad dangerous path.”
Service member in Kenya?
“We lost a good person, just a great person”
North Korea's latest actions?
“I don’t think he’d break his word to me but maybe he will, he said, referring to KJU.



January 5, 202020:51

Out of town pool report #9/color from POTUS cabin aboard AF1
An addendum in case it's useful to folks -
The president was seated at his desk in the cabin. Mulvaney and Kushner were initially sitting on the sofa, and Dan Scavino in the chair next to the desk. They all moved so the poolers could sit.
The six aides - Mick Mulvaney, Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump, Robert O'Brien, Dan Scavino and Hogan Gidley - stood to the president's right, near the doorway of the cabin, all bunched together. The president had the football game on (Seahawks-Phillies I believe, but those who know the NFL better than I do should check). He glanced up at it at one point and commented on a play.
At other times, he glanced down at a piece of paper in front of him on the desk, which appeared to be a reference point for some of the things he said throughout the 30 minutes.



January 5, 202020:56

Out of town pool report #9a/Seahawks-Eagles
I've been corrected (by many many people!) and it was the Seahawks-Eagles game. Goodnight and thanks for everyone's patience tonight.




Pool Reports by Dustin Gardiner, San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




January 5, 202018:07

In-town WH pool report #1
Good Evening,
I’ll be your pooler for POTUS’ arrival in Washington. It’s 38 degrees at the White House on Sunday evening.
Marine One is expected to land on the South Lawn around 6:45 p.m. Arrival will be open press.
I’ll pass along any highlights, if POTUS gaggles with reporters.



January 5, 202019:03

In-town WH pool report #2
Marine One wheels down on the South Lawn at 6:57 p.m.
POTUS, who wore a dark overcoat, was joined by the First Lady and Barron Trump as he walked across the lawn. He and Melania, who wore a cream and gray cloak and white boots, held hands.
POTUS waved to reporters as he walked into the White House. He didn’t speak.



January 5, 202019:20

In-town WH pool report #3
We have a travel/photo lid at 7:15 p.m.
Have a great Sunday night.



January 5, 202019:36

In-town WH pool report #4
Hogan Gidley sends this statement:
“President Donald J. Trump spoke today with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom. The two leaders discussed the current situation in Iraq and Iran and reaffirmed the close alliance between the two countries.”




  