
    I TAKE particular pleasure in welcoming to the Cabinet Room the Secretary of the Air Force, Secretary Brown, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General McConnell, and the most distinguished representatives of the 38th Air Rescue Squadron.
The 38th Air Rescue Squadron of the United States Air Force has inscribed its name on the honor scroll of American heroes because the men of the 38th have risked their lives so their comrades might live. They join that company of the valiant to whom we all owe our freedom and our national honor.
Time and time again they have reached into the jungle, the mountains, the sea, to rescue other brave men who have been downed in combat. In the face of enemy fire, in almost prohibitive weather, in every terrain, at every hour, they have carried out their missions of mercy. So men live today, carry on freedom's struggle today, and will return to their families tomorrow because the 38th Air Rescue Squadron has lived by its motto--"that others may live."
With this citation we pay a grateful Nation's tribute to that selfless gallantry. The 38th Air Rescue Squadron stands in the finest tradition of service to our great country. Its members have added lustre to that tradition, brightening it with the courage of a new generation of Americans.
Gentlemen, I am very pleased to have you here, and we honor and salute you all.
[At this point, Secretary of the Air Force Harold Brown read the citation, the text of which follows:]
PRESIDENTIAL UNIT CITATION
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States I have today awarded
THE PRESIDENTIAL UNIT CITATION
TO THE 38TH AIR RESCUE SQUADRON
FOR EXTRAORDINARY GALLANTRY
The personnel of the 38th Air Rescue Squadron distinguished themselves by extraordinary gallantry in connection with military operations against an opposing armed force in Southeast Asia from 1 August 1964 to 31 July 1965. They repeatedly jeopardized their own lives by exposing themselves to hostile air and ground fire while flying unarmed aircraft in order to rescue survivors downed in hostile territory. Their actions have directly resulted in saving the lives of 74 persons during the period reported. The extraordinary heroism displayed by this unit in effecting rescues under the most perilous of circumstances has had a most beneficial effect upon the morale of all who fly over hostile territory in Southeast Asia. By their gallantry and untiring devotion to duty, the personnel of the 38th Air Rescue Squadron have reflected great credit upon themselves and the United States Air Force.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
The White House
January 19, 1966
  