
    Mr. Ambassador:
I am very happy to receive the letters accrediting you as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and to welcome you in that capacity.
The foundation has now been laid for the development of genuinely friendly relations and close cooperation between the Governments of the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It will be your privilege and mine to work together in the task of building upon that foundation a permanent structure of friendship and collaboration.
A deep love of peace is the common heritage of the people of both our countries and I fully agree with you that the cooperation of our great Nations will inevitably be of the highest importance in the preservation of world peace. The successful accomplishment of this mutual task will be of immediate and lasting benefit not only to the people of our countries but to all peace-loving peoples everywhere.
I welcome you personally, Mr. Ambassador, with especial satisfaction. On more than one occasion during recent years you have shown your friendliness for the American people. This has not been unnoted or unappreciated by the Government of the United States and I consider it most auspicious that the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics should have selected as its first Ambassador to this country not only one of its most distinguished citizens but also one whose friendly feelings for this country are well known.
You may be assured, Mr. Ambassador, of reciprocally friendly feelings toward you on the part of the American Government and people. Members and officials of this Government will do all in their power to cooperate with you and will be glad to lend you every assistance that may contribute to the accomplishment of your mission, the success of which is greatly desired by my own as well as your Government.
I trust that you will inform His Excellency, the President of the Central Executive Committee, the Government, and the people of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics that their kind messages of good-will are deeply appreciated and that I send in return sincere wishes for their peaceful progress and happiness.
  