
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals, designate one individual and appoint five individuals to serve as members of his administration:
The President intends to nominate Vernon Bernard Parker of Arizona, to be Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights. For the past two years, Mr. Parker has served as the Interim Senior Pastor at the Calvary Church of the Valley in Paradise Valley, Arizona. Before becoming a pastor, he was the president and CEO of the international nutritional supplement company, BelSante International LLC. Previous government service includes an appointment as Special Assistant to the President from 1992 until 1993. Prior to working in the White House, Mr. Parker served as General Counsel in the Office of Personnel Management. Mr. Parker is a graduate of California State University, Long Beach and received his law degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to designate John Arthur Hammerschmidt of Arkansas, to be Vice Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of two years. Mr. Hammerschmidt is currently a member of this board.
The President intends to nominate Eugene J. Corcoran of New York, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of New York. He is currently the Deputy Chief of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority Police Department in New York City. Previously, he was with the New York State Police, serving as a Captain. Mr. Corcoran earned a bachelor's degree from the State University of New York, and went on to receive a master's in public administration from Marist College.
The President intends to nominate Earl Cruz Aguigui of Guam, to be United States Marshal for the District of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands. Mr. Aguigui is currently a Major with the Guam Police Department. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Guam and is a graduate of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's National Academy.
The President intends to nominate Allen Garber of Minnesota, to be United States Marshal for the District of Minnesota. Mr. Garber is currently the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. From 1993 until 1999, he served as Chief of Police in the city of Champlin, Minnesota. From 1968 until 1993, Mr. Garber served as a Special Agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigations. He also served as a member of the United States Army before receiving an honorable discharge in 1968. Mr. Garber is a graduate of Rutgers University and went on to earn a master's degree from Minnesota State University.
The President intends to appoint John Emory Fleming of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Museum of African History and Culture Plan for Action Presidential Commission. Dr. Fleming is currently the Vice President of Museums for the Cincinnati Museum Center. Previously, he was the Director and Chief Operating Officer for the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center. Earlier in his career, Dr. Fleming served as the Director of the National Afro-American Museum and Cultural Center. He is a graduate of Berea College, and went on to earn a master's degree and a Ph.D. from Howard University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals as Members of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars:
The President intends to appoint Doanld Earl Garcia of California, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 23, 2008.
The President intends to appoint Bruce Stuart Gelb of New York, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 23, 2008.
The President intends to appoint Tamala Lynne Longaberger of Ohio, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 23, 2008.
The President intends to appoint David Allan Metzner of New York, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 28, 2008, and upon confirmation designate as Vice Chairman.
  