
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and statutes of the United States of America, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. I), and in order to create an advisory commission to review outdoor recreation resources, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established the Presidential Commission on Outdoor Recreation Resources Review.
(b) The Commission shall be composed of not more than 15 members appointed or designated by the President from among the private sector, the Legislative branch of the Federal government, recreational and other service organizations, and State and local governments. The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the members of the Commission.
Sec. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission shall review existing public outdoor recreation policies, programs, and opportunities provided by the Federal government, State and local governments, and private organizations and entities and shall review privately provided outdoor recreation resources to the extent that they affect the demand for public outdoor recreation resources. The Commission shall, consistent with the need for fiscal economy at all levels of government, make recommendations to the President concerning the outdoor recreation resources, programs, and opportunities that will ensure the future availability of outdoor recreation for the American people. In making its recommendations, the Commission shall assess the budgetary and regulatory cost increases or cost savings of its proposals, and shall, to the extent possible, utilize such studies, data, and reports previously prepared or under preparation by Federal agencies, States, private organizations or other entities.
(b) In conducting its review, the Commission shall examine:
(1) existing outdoor recreation lands and resources and the land and resource base necessary for future outdoor recreation;
(2) the roles of the Federal, State, county, and municipal governments in providing outdoor recreation opportunities, protecting outdoor recreation resources, and meeting anticipated outdoor recreation conditions;
(3) the role of the private sector in meeting present and future outdoor recreation needs, and assess the potential for cooperation between the private sector and government in providing outdoor recreation opportunities and protecting outdoor recreation resources;
(4) the relationship between outdoor recreation and personal and public health, the economy, and the environment;
(5) the future needs of outdoor recreation management systems, including qualified personnel, technical information, and anticipated financial needs;
(6) the relationship of outdoor recreation to the broader range of recreation pursuits and its implications for the supply of and demand for outdoor recreation resources and opportunities;
(7) underlying social, economic, and technological factors that are likely to affect the demand for and supply of outdoor recreation resources, including trends in disposable income and demographic characteristics of the United States;
(8) the findings and recommendations of the National Urban Recreation Study (1978), the Third Nationwide Outdoor Recreation Plan (1979), the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act—Assessment Supplement (1984), and other relevant Federal survey and planning activities.
(c) The Commission may conduct public hearings and otherwise secure information and expressions of public opinion on recreation issues, policies and programs, and anticipated national, regional, State, and local recreation needs and concerns.
(d) The Commission shall submit its report and recommendations to the President not later than twelve months after the date of this Order.
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of Executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission with such information as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.
(b) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for their work on the Commission. Members appointed from among private citizens of the United States may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).
(c) The Secretary of the Interior shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Commission with such administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services as may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.
Sec. 4. General. (a) Notwithstanding any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended, which are applicable to the Commission, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of the Interior, in accordance with guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.
(b) The Commission shall terminate 30 days after submission of its report, or March 1, 1986, whichever sooner occurs.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
January 28, 1985.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:37 p.m., January 29, 1985]
  