
    
  Three GOP Chairman Candidates Join The Fight!

Mt. Pleasant, SC - The Rick Santorum for President Campaign has received the endorsement of three 2011 South Carolina State GOP Chairman Candidates: Stephen Brown, Bill Connor, and Patrick Haddon. Previously, Mr. Brown had endorsed Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN) and Mr. Haddon had endorsed Governor Rick Perry (R-TX).
Stephen Brown said: "For months I have been concerned that the conservative base in South Carolina would splinter behind multiple candidates, allowing a moderate to win with the help of the Democrats and independents who are permitted to vote in our open primary. We all desperately want to defeat Barack Obama in November, but we will only do so with a principled conservative candidate who is committed to and can articulate our message of limited constitutional government. We have been searching for the candidate who can both energize the base to win the nomination and lead the effort to remove Barack Obama from the White House. Rick Santorum has demonstrated that he is that candidate and I am excited to be part of the conservative leadership across South Carolina rallying behind him. Senator Santorum is the consistent conservative in this race who can, and will, win the Republican nomination and lead our Nation back from the brink of fiscal and moral bankruptcy."
Bill Connor said: "Senator Rick Santorum is the true and consistent 'comprehensive' conservative in this race: A fiscal conservative who will slash the size of government, but passionate about Christian issues like Life, Marriage, and Family. As someone who has led troops in combat, I deeply appreciate Rick's guarantee that he will keep a strong national defense and not let our military become 'hollow' as it did when we drastically cut defense spending coming out of Vietnam. Rick has the character to lead our nation during these troubled times."
Patrick Haddon said: "After looking at all the candidates and their political careers, and looking for a true conservative that has been fighting for real republican causes, there is only one candidate that has been a consistent conservative fighting family values and supporting pro-life issues. That is why Shelly and I are proud to endorse Senator Rick Santorum for President of the United States."
Rick Santorum said: "As our momentum and campaign organization grow in the Palmetto State, it is becoming clearer and clearer to conservatives that our campaign is the one true conservative alternative to Barack Obama. Today's endorsement by the three GOP Chairman candidates is a clear indication that South Carolina conservatives want bright lines drawn between our nominee and the President on issues ranging from health care to climate change and the traditional family. I am thrilled to welcome Stephen, Bill and Patrick to our team, and look forward to working with them as we continue our momentum in the First-in-the-South primary."
  