
    Today, President Biden announced details on how his Bipartisan Infrastructure Law INCLUDES THE largest investment in America's bridges since the creation of interstate highways.
The U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) and Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) outlined $27 billion in funding that all 50 states, D.C., Puerto Rico, and Tribal governments can use over the next five years to replace, repair, and rehabilitate an estimated 15,000 bridges nationwide. These investments will not only create good-paying jobs fixing bridges, but improve their safety, make them more resilient to climate change, and connect entire towns and regions to economic opportunities. And, improving the nation's bridges will rebuild supply chains at home and strengthen domestic manufacturing so we make more in America.
The investments to repair the nation's bridges are just one of many from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that will go directly to states, Tribes, and communities to better the lives of Americans across the country.
Here's a sample of what Americans are reading in the states:
Associated Press: Biden administration launches program to fix 15,000 bridges[Josh Boak, 1/14/22]
The Transportation Department is launching a $27 billion program to repair and upgrade roughly 15,000 highway bridges as part of the infrastructure law approved in November. The effort is being announced Friday as President Joe Biden tries to showcase how his policies are delivering for the public…Under the five-year program, the federal government will release nearly $5.5 billion this fiscal year to states, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia and tribes, according to senior administration officials who insisted on anonymity to preview the plans.
ABC News: President Biden announces new investment in nation's bridges[Molly Nagle, 1/14/22]
"Bridges in general are neither red nor blue. They're an important piece of infrastructure in communities," [a senior administration] official said. "And the state transportation departments have a good track record of investing in bridges based on the condition of those bridges. And we're confident that with these funds and with the guidance we've provided and with the conversations that we've been having with them, they're going to be directing the funds to the bridges that are in most need of repair."
Spectrum News: Biden admin. announces $27B investment to repair, replace roughly 15,000 bridges[Rachel Tillman and David Mendez, 1/14/22]
The funds represent "the single largest dedicated bridge investment since construction of the Interstate Highway System," senior administration officials said … "when faced with the choice to build new bridges, we're encouraging them to address equity, barriers to opportunity, challenges faced by individuals and underserved communities and rural areas and restoring community productivity."
Chicago Tribune: Illinois in line for $1.4 billion to fix bridges under Biden infrastructure plan[Dan Petrella, 1/14/22]
The funding, which comes from the $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure plan President Joe Biden signed into law in November, is just a portion of the roughly $17 billion the state is expected to receive from the overall package … This federal investment "is going to have immediate impact, create quality jobs and improve the lives in every one of our communities," [Congressman Brad] Schneider said."
Philadelphia Inquirer: Pa. will get $1.6 billion to fix bridges, like the MLK Bridge across the Schuylkill[Thomas Fitzgerald, 1/14/22]
"We're in delivery mode now," Buttigieg said, joking with Sen. Bob Casey (D.Pa.) about the difficult path to passage of the infrastructure act … Dr. Martin Luther King often spoke of building bridges between all Americans," Buttigieg said. "Both literally and symbolically, we have a lot of bridges to repair as well as build." … Pennsylvania has 3,353 total bridges in poor condition, the second most in the nation.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: Pennsylvania will receive an extra $1.63 billion in federal infrastructure funds to fix bridges, 3rd most in U.S.[Ed Blazina, 1/14/22]
Pennsylvania has the second most bridges in poor condition and will receive an additional $1.63 billion in federal funds over the next five years to help fix some of them, according to details of a new federal bridge program announced Friday…Alexis Campbell, spokeswoman for the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation … [said] "We will put that money to good use, for sure.' U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg is expected to be in Philadelphia on Friday morning to highlight the new program."
Detroit News: Michigan set to receive $563M in federal aid for bridge repairs, replacements[Melissa Nann Burke, 1/14/22]
Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Lansing, applauded the funding, calling it a 'game-changer' and saying it would "transform how Michiganders get around the state and strengthen the safety of our bridges for future generations."
Star Tribune: First round of federal infrastructure spending heading for Minnesota[Briana Bierscbach, 1/14/22]
Minnesota will see $60 million flow into the state for bridge projects this year from the new federal infrastructure law, the first batch of funding in what state leaders are calling a "historic" investment in the nation's transportation systems. The funding is part of the $302 million overall projected for state bridges over the next five years as part of the roughly $1 trillion infrastructure package.
Miami Herald: How much will Florida receive to fix its bridges under Biden's infrastructure law?[Alex Roarty and Bryan Lowry, 1/14/22]
Florida will receive roughly $245 million to repair and improve its bridges over five years under President Joe Biden's bipartisan infrastructure law, the Department of Transportation announced Friday. The state has 408 bridges in poor condition, according to the agency's 2020 National Bridge Inventory report. Florida will receive $49 million in federal aid to replace and preserve bridges during the 2022 federal fiscal year, which lasts through September.
Cleveland Plain Dealer: Ohio to get $483.3 million from feds over the next five years to fix deteriorating bridges[Sabrina Eaton, 1/14/22]
The transportation department said Ohio would use its money to improve the condition of around 1,300 bridges in the state that are in poor condition and preserve and improve about 9,320 bridges in fair condition in the state.
Kansas City Star: Bridges in Missouri and Kansas are falling apart. How much will they get to fix them?[Daniel Desrochers and Alex Roarty, 1/14/22]
Missouri and Kansas are set to receive $96.9 million and $45 million respectively in federal funding over the next year to help fix thousands of bridges that have fallen into disrepair, the White House announced Friday. The money is the first tranche of hundreds of millions in federal aid for bridge repairs over the next five years — Missouri is set to receive $484 million and Kansas is set to receive $225 million — part of a larger $1.2 trillion infrastructure measure signed into law by Biden in November and backed by a bipartisan coalition of Republican and Democratic lawmakers.
The Oklahoman: Oklahoma set to get $266.9 million from infrastructure bill to repair and replace bridges[Steve Lackmeyer, 1/14/22]
Transportation officials reported Oklahoma's funding will address 2,295 bridges in poor condition with any remaining funding to go to 11,025 bridges listed as being in fair condition … Oklahoma has spent the past 20 years trying to improve bridges that were once listed by federal transportation officials as being the worst in the country.
Post & Courier: SC set to receive about $55M this year to fix hundreds of bridges across state[Thomas Novelly, 1/14/22]
South Carolina will receive around $55 million this year from the Biden administration's infrastructure bill toward fixing hundreds of bridges throughout the Palmetto State that are in poor condition…The funds, from the $1.2 trillion federal infrastructure bill signed last year by the president, are the first wave of more than $200 million being used to fix South Carolina bridges over the next five years…Since passing the bipartisan infrastructure bill, the Biden White House has promoted that it is providing more than $5 billion to South Carolina for roadwork. But most of that was already destined for the state DOT's coffers under prior federal law.
The Gazette (Cedar Rapids, IA): $431 million for Iowa bridges in federal infrastructure package[James Lynch, 1/14/22]
For Iowa, the bipartisan infrastructure package means $431,828,580 over five years, or about $86.2 million a year…Iowa has 4,571 bridges in poor condition, according to the federal DOT…The state's share can be spent on bridges normally eligible for federal aid, Anderson explained. That includes a large number of bridges on the county and city system and all other bridges…That means about $13 million each year must be spent on bridges that are not normally eligible for federal aid. These "off-system bridges" are on city and county systems, with the great majority of them being on the county system.
Shreveport Times: Shreveport, Bossier City bridge among many to receive federal infrastructure money[Kendrick Dante, 1/14/22]
The effort to replace the Jimmie Davis Bridge connecting Shreveport to Bossier City has been allocated even more money…The bridge is among 400 in Louisiana and 15,000 across the nation set to be assisted by The Bridge Formula Program, which is a program made possible through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law passed late last year…The federal program will be charged with granting $26.5 billion to states for investments "to replace, rehabilitate, preserve, protect, and construct highway bridges," according to a Governor John Bel Edwards press release sent out Friday…Louisiana will receive $1 billion from the program over five years. In year one, the state is set to receive $202.6 million.
What's Up NewP: Rhode Island getting $47.1 million in federal funds for bridge projects[Ryan Belmore, 1/14/22]
As the Rhode Island Department of Transportation (RIDOT) plans out their 2022 construction season, the Ocean State is getting a $47.1 million federal boost for bridge projects this week, thanks to the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (P.L. 117-58)…To go with this $47.1 million infusion of federal bridge funds this year, Rhode Island will get a projected total of $289,730,682 in base formula funding from the highway portion of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, according to the Congressional delegation.
Maine Public: Maine receives $225 million from Infrastructure Bill to repair bridges[Patty Wight, 1/14/22]
Maine will receive $225 million in federal funding over the next five years to repair bridges…Rep. Chellie Pingree and Sen. Susan Collins announced the funding Friday, which is available through the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act…315 bridges in Maine are currently in poor condition. Nationwide, funding from the Infrastructure Act is expected to help repair roughly 15,000 bridges.
NJBIZ: NJ gets $1.1B to fix crumbling bridges[Daniel Munoz, 1/14/22]
New Jersey is slated to get $1.14 billion of federal money that would go toward major upgrades to nearly all of its bridges in need of major repairs, and the maintenance of 4,500 others, the Biden and Murphy administrations announced on Jan. 14…A joint statement from New Jersey's two Democratic U.S senators said the funds would go toward all 502 bridges listed by the USDOT as being in "poor condition," though a statement from Murphy's office indicated that the funds would go toward just 480 of those bridges.
WPMI (NBC Mobile, AL): Alabama to receive $225 Million in bridge investment funding from DOT[Keith Lane, 1/14/22]
Alabama will receive a total of $225 million under the new program to address highway bridge needs. The funding is available to improve the condition of about 620 bridges in poor condition and to preserve and improve more than 8,000 bridges in fair condition in the state.
KNWA/KFTA (NBC/FOX Ft. Smith-Fayetteville, AR): U.S. Department of Transportation announces bridge investment; Arkansas to receive $278.7 million[Jacob Smith, 1/14/22]
The U.S. Department of Transportation announced on Friday, Jan. 14 the historic Bridge Replacement, Rehabilitation, Preservation, Protection, and Construction Program, made possible by President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law…According to a news release, the program represents the single largest dedicated bridge investment since the construction of the interstate highway system: providing $26.5 billion to states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico over five years, $825 million for Tribal transportation facilities, and $278.7 to Arkansas…The state will address highway bridge needs with the funding, which will help improve the condition of 663 bridges and also preserve and improve nearly 6,000 bridges in fair condition throughout the state.
KCAL (CBS Los Angeles, CA): California Will Get $4.2 Billion From Infrastructure Law Funds To Repair, Upgrade Bridges[1/14/22]
Earthquake-prone California is getting billions of dollars to help renovate and upgrade its bridges…The White House on Friday earmarked $26.5 billion from last year's infrastructure bill to fix the nation's 15,000 crumbling bridges to help move goods across the country more efficiently and help ease the ongoing supply-chain crisis…"Bridges are vital arteries for our economic activity, helping commuters get to work and keeping goods moving efficiently through the supply chain," California Sen. Alex Padilla said in a statement…California, which the U.S. Department of Transportation says has 1,536 bridges rated in poor condition, will get $4.2 billion of those funds over five years.
KCRA3 (NBC Sacramento, CA): Sacramento, West Sacramento leaders to pitch I Street Bridge for first in spending of billions[Mike TeSelle, 1/14/22]
"This shovel-ready project, already approved by Caltrans, is a perfect candidate for funding," read a news release. "The current I Street Bridge, built 110 years ago, is too narrow for buses, lacks bike lanes and is particularly hazardous for pedestrians. The replacement, which was designed with extensive public input, includes car lanes, bike lanes and a broad pedestrian walkway with built-in benches."
KMGH (ABC Denver, CO): New Federal Highway Administration program aims to fix 481 bridges in 'poor' condition around Colorado[Stephanie Butzer, 1/14/22]
The Federal Highway Administration announced its new Bridge Formula Program on Thursday, which dedicates $26.5 billion to states for bridge investments, including $225 million to fix hundreds of bridges in Colorado…The state of Colorado will receive $225 million to improve the conditions of 481 bridges listed in "poor" condition and to preserve more than 5,000 bridges in "fair" condition, according to the FHWA…"These federal dollars represent the strong first step towards putting Coloradans to work building and rebuilding the bridges that drive our local economies," said Colorado Congressman Joe Neguse, who represents the 2nd congressional district and encompasses much of Denver's northwestern suburbs. "
WFSB (CBS Hartford, CT): CT to get $500 million in federal funding to fix bridges[Rob Polansky, 1/14/22]
Connecticut is expected to receive more than $500 million in funding to fix bridges…The Transportation Department is launching a $27 billion program to repair and upgrade U.S. bridges…It'll be used for bridge repairs, upgrades, and replacements. The funding, made available through the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, is the single largest dedicated bridge investment since the construction of the interstate highway system…In Connecticut, lawmakers said there are 248 bridges considered to be in "poor condition" according to the FHWA. Since 2011, commute times have increased by 10.9 percent in Connecticut, and on average, each driver pays $711 per year in costs due to driving on roads in need of repair.
KPTH (CBS Sioux City, IA): Tri-state region get billions from infrastructure plan to fix bridges[Taylor Deckert, 1/14/22]
The tri-state area will be getting billions of dollars in funding to improve bridge conditions through the new infrastructure plan. The U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) announced Friday that Iowa will get $86.4 million to fix poor infrastructure bridges during the FY2022…. The state of Iowa currently has 4,571 bridges in poor condition, ranking 2nd in the nation for worst bridge conditions. Nebraska will get $45 million, and South Dakota will also get $45 million during the FY2022. A total of $225 million will be spent over the next 5 Years through Bridge Formula Program Funding in both Nebraska and South Dakota.
KMVT (CBS Twin Falls, ID): Idaho to receive $225 million under infrastructure bill[1/14/22]
The state of Idaho will be receiving $225 million under a new program part of President Biden's infrastructure bill….The money will come as a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation's Bridge Replacement, Rehabilitation, Preservation, Protection, and Construction program…"The Biden-Harris Administration is thrilled to launch this program to fix thousands of bridges across the country – the single largest dedicated bridge investment since the construction of the interstate highway system," said U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg in a press release. "Modernizing America's bridges will help improve safety, support economic growth and make people's lives better in every part of the country – in rural, suburban, city, and tribal communities."…For Idaho, the money allocated will go towards improving about 286 bridges considered to be in poor condition, and more than 2,900 bridges considered to be in fair condition statewide.
WHAS (ABC Louisville, KY): Kentucky to receive $438 million to fix state bridges[Kennedy Thompson, 1/14/22]
Congressman John Yarmuth stated in a press release that the investment is "an enormous win for the people of Kentucky." He went on to say that this record-breaking investment will help make "critically needed repairs that will not only improve our infrastructure but will also create good jobs here in the Commonwealth."
KATC (ABC Lafayette, LA): Louisiana to receive $1 billion for bridge repairs and improvements[1/14/22]
Louisiana is expected to receive $1 billion in funding to improve the conditions of bridges across the state…In Louisiana, funding is set to improve the conditions of around 1,630 bridges in poor condition and preserve and improve about 5,040 bridges in fair condition in the state. "Louisiana will be well served by this program, as our funding needs for infrastructure projects are immense," said Governor John Bel Edwards. "I applaud the Biden administration for seeing the transportation needs of our nation, and state, by launching this investment program that will greatly aid our communities.
WBTS (NBC Boston, MA): $1.12 Billion Heading to Mass. to Replace, Rebuild Bridges[1/14/22]
Massachusetts is receiving $1.12 billion to replace and rebuild troubled bridges as part of a federal infrastructure program… The money will help improve the condition of about 455 bridges in poor condition and to preserve and improve about 3,465 bridges in fair condition in the Bay State. Nationwide, the Bridge Formula Program is expected to help repair approximately 15,000 bridges.
WDIV (NBC Detroit, MI): Michigan gets $563.1M to fix thousands of bridges in poor condition[Ken Haddad, 1/14/22]
As a part of the bipartisan infrastructure bill passed by Congress and signed by President Biden last year, Michigan will receive a large chunk of funding to fix bridges in desperate need of repair…Michigan will receive $563.1 million under the new program to address highway bridge needs. The funding will help improve the condition of about 1,240 bridges in poor condition and to preserve and improve more than 5,950 bridges in fair condition in the state…"Since day one, I have been focused on fixing the damn roads and I am proud of the progress we have made to fix 13,198 lane miles of road and 903 bridges over the last three years," said Governor Whitmer. "With passage of the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Michigan will receive billions of dollars to build on our efforts at the state-level."
WZZM (ABC Grand Rapids, MI): Michigan receives millions to fix unsafe bridges across the state[1/14/22]
"Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Michigan is expected receive $563.1 million over five years to support thousands of good-paying jobs and build or fix hundreds of bridges," said Governor Gretchen Whitmer in a statement released on Friday. "I look forward to using these resources to put Michiganders first, improving countless commutes and keeping families safe on the road."'
KSHB (NBC Kansas City, MO): Missouri to receive $484M to repair, preserve bridges[Katelyn Brown, 1/14/22]
Missouri will receive $484.3 million in federal funding to go toward bridge repairs and preservation…The U.S. Department of Transportation said the money is coming from President Joe Biden's recently signed Bipartisan Infrastructure Law…According to USDOT, Missouri's allotment will help repair 2,215 bridges listed as being in poor condition…An additional 12,715 bridges in fair condition will receive improvements to preserve them in the state.
WLBT (NBC Jackson, MS): Mississippi to receive $225M from DOT for bridges[Sharie Nicole, 1/14/22]
Mississippi will soon receive $225 million for bridges, compliments of President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law…Friday, U.S. Department of Transportation launched the historic Bridge Replacement, Rehabilitation, Preservation, Protection, and Construction Program (Bridge Formula Program)…The funding will help improve the condition of about 1,170 bridges in poor condition and to preserve and improve more than 5,690 bridges in fair condition in the state.
KEZI (ABC Eugene, OR): Funding on its way for repairs to Oregon bridges[Chelsea Hunt, 1/14/22]
Oregon's bridges will be getting $53.6 million to fund repairs this year, Congressman Peter DeFazio announced on Friday…It's part of a larger sum -- $268.2 million -- that will be provided to the state over the next five years…"With over 44,000 bridges in poor condition around our country, including 395 in Oregon alone, today's announcement of $27.5 billion in long-overdue funding is great news for rural and urban communities alike," said DeFazio…DeFazio shared hopes that the investments will create good-paying jobs here at home and across the country.
WATE (ABC Memphis, TN): Over $60 million being put towards Tennessee bridges for 2022[Hannah Cain, 1/14/22]
"The IIJA will make transformational improvements to our state's infrastructure, creating good-paying jobs and cutting commuting times ... These long-term investments will pay dividends for decades," said Congressman Cohen (TN-09).
WDBJ (CBS Roanoke, VA): Virginia to receive millions for bridge repair from bipartisan infrastructure bill[Justin Geary, 1/14/22]
U.S. Senator Mark Warner and U.S. Senator Tim Kaine (both D-VA) announced Virginia will receive its largest federal investment ever in the states bridges … "We're thrilled to announce this record amount of funding to fix aging bridges across Virginia," said the senators. "Modernizing bridges will improve safety and support economic growth in every corner of the Commonwealth."
WCAX (CBS Burlington, VT): Federal funding to help improve nearly 70 Vermont bridges[1/14/22]
New guidance is available as states prepare to receive federal money to fix thousands of bridges across the country…The historic investment was made as part of President Biden's infrastructure bill. More than $27 billion will go to states over five years to make improvements. Vermont will receive $225 million under the new program…That will help improve the condition of nearly 70 bridges deemed to be in poor condition and to help preserve more than 1,200 bridges found to be in fair condition.
KCPQ (FOX Seattle, WA): Washington state to receive $121M in federal funding to repair bridges[1/14/22]
The Transportation Department is launching a $27 billion program to repair and upgrade roughly 15,000 highway bridges as part of the infrastructure law approved in November…Washington state will be receiving $121 million in new bridge funding this fiscal year as part of the more than $605 million in funding that the state will get over the next five years…"As a West Seattle resident, I know how important it is to our neighbors, businesses, cities, ports, and economy that we quickly and safely repair bridges across our region. That is why I fought to secure the largest bridge funding since the mid-1900s as part of the infrastructure package that we passed last year," said Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal…There are currently 416 bridges in Washington state that are in poor condition.
  