
    Jonathan Baron, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2011. (Reappointment)
Julia W. Bland, of Louisiana, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2012, vice Margaret Scarlett, term expired.
William J. Brennan, of Maine, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice James R. Mahoney.
Jan Cellucci, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2012, vice Edwin Joseph Rigaud, term expired.
J. Gregory Copeland, of Texas, to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy, vice David R. Hill.
Nelson M. Ford, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice Preston M. Geren.
Joxel Garcia, of Connecticut, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to the qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice John O. Agwunobi, resigned.
Joxel Garcia, of Connecticut, to be Representative of the United States on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization, vice James O. Mason.
Jeffrey J. Grieco, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice J. Edward Fox.
William J. Hagenah, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2012, vice Judith Ann Rapanos, term expired.
Frank Philip Handy, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2011. (Reappointment)
Mark Y. Herring, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2012, vice Renee Swartz, term expired.
Dorla M. Salling, of Texas, to be a Commissioner of the United States Parole Commission for a term of six years, vice Deborah Ann Spagnoli, resigned.
Sally Epstein Shaywitz, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2011. (Reappointment)
Kurt Douglas Volker, of Pennsylvania, a Career Foreign Service Officer of Class One, to be United States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
Joanne Weiss, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2010, vice James R. Davis, term expired.
  