
    
"The presidency is not an entry-level position."
The Des Moines Register, Iowa's largest newspaper, and the Concord Monitor, a major daily in the first primary state of New Hampshire, agree—Hillary Clinton is the best Democratic choice for president.?
Here's what they had to say:
She has the experience to lead on day one.


  " No other candidate can match the depth or breadth of her knowledge and experience."Des Moines Register


  " No contender's resume can come within miles of matching Clinton's. She's ready to take up the nation's top job on day one, and her knowledge of domestic issues and foreign policy is encyclopedic."Concord Monitor

She knows how to get things done.


  " The presidency is not an entry-level position. Whoever is sworn into office next January must demonstrate not only a deep understanding of the issues facing America, but also possess the diplomatic skills that enable presidents to forge alliances to get things done."Des Moines Register


  " She knows how to get things done in a country with many needs and many threats, the greatest of which is the political dysfunction that has prevented their being addressed."Concord Monitor

She will reach across party lines to find common ground.


  " As a senator, she reached across party lines and joined forces with conservatives, including Sen. Lindsey Graham and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, to fight for job creation and universal health care."Des Moines Register


  " There is also a strong chance, should Clinton become president, that the poisonous partisanship that's paralyzed Washington will be diminished rather than increased. Why? During her eight years as a senator from New York, she proved her ability to find common ground with Republicans, accords that allowed needed legislation to advance."Concord Monitor

She's offering in-depth, concrete solutions for American families.


  " Clinton has demonstrated that she is a thoughtful, hardworking public servant who has earned the respect of leaders at home and abroad. She stands ready to take on the most demanding job in the world."Des Moines Register


  " The plans Clinton has put forward—whether on foreign policy, making college more affordable, addressing climate change or increasing access to health care—display her knowledge of the issues."Concord Monitor

Iowa and New Hampshire aren't the only states with major papers endorsing Hillary. Read the Boston Globe's endorsement here.?
  