
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 5
The President announced his intention to nominate Luis Valdez to the National Council on the Arts.
January 8
At noon, the President attended a Clinton/Gore fundraising luncheon at the Hay Adams Hotel.
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Mayor Willie L. Brown, Jr., of San Francisco, CA, during the mayor's swearing-in ceremony.
January 10
The President announced his intention to appoint Stuart G. Moldaw to the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
The President named Evelyn S. Lieberman as Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joel I. Ferguson as a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
January 11
In the evening, the President addressed the Ohio caucuses by telephone from the Oval Office.
Later in the evening, the President traveled to Nashville, TN, where he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan.
The President sent a letter to Gov. Parris N. Glendening declaring a major disaster in the State of Maryland due to damage resulting from the "Blizzard of 1996," which occurred on January 6-10, and authorized Federal relief and recovery assistance in the affected area.
The President sent a letter to Mayor Marion S. Barry declaring a major disaster in the District of Columbia due to damage resulting from the "Blizzard of 1996," which occurred on January 6-10, and authorized Federal relief and recovery assistance in the affected area.
January 12
In the afternoon, the President attended a Clinton/Gore fundraising luncheon at the Opryland Hotel.
In the evening, the President traveled to Aviano Air Base, Italy.
The President sent a letter to Gov. Thomas R. Carper declaring a major disaster in the State of Delaware and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area impacted by the "Blizzard of 1996," which occurred on January 6-12.
The President sent a letter to Gov. George E. Pataki declaring a major disaster in the State of New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by the "Blizzard of 1996," beginning on January 6 and continuing.
  