
    
  "America Was Worth It To Do It The Right Way."

Tampa, FL - At this evening's NBC/National Journal/Tampa Bay Times Republican Presidential Debate, again Rick Santorum stood alone as the one candidate ready and able stand firm, stand tall, and effectively implement conservative principles as our next commander-in-chief.
Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director, said: "While some on stage bickered back and forth about issues that won't put one person back to work, Rick Santorum stood as the statesman ready to lead our nation on day-one."
Santorum SAID:
On The Choice Between Romney And Gingrich:
"I am painting a positive vision for this country and my path is one of providing a clear contrast, making a clear contrast and making Obama the issue... In 2006, I talked about the issues that we are all talking about today while a lot of folks crouched down. There is one thing worse than losing an election, it's not standing for the principles you hold."
On Governor Romney's Work With Bain Capital:
"I have not fired at Governor Romney on his work at Bain Capital. In fact, I've been unique in that. I believe in capital, I believe in free markets."
"To be a great defender of capitalism and free markets, my question to Governor Romney and Speaker Gingrich is if you believe in capitalism that much, why did you support the bailout of Wall Street?"
On Dealing With Foreclosures:
"The answer is unfortunately yes. There were several of us in the United States Senate in 2005 and 2006, who saw the problem with Freddie and Fannie, who saw this on the horizon and tried to move forward with a bill. I was on the Banking Committee and we voted a bill out tried to move forward to solve this problem to constrain Fannie and Freddie. And there were a lot of people fighting that including Harry Reid and his minions. I signed a letter either do something now urging them to release the filibuster... We need to allow capitalism to work. Let these companies realize these losses."
On US/Cuba Policy:
"You are right Ron, it's not 1962."
"There are now, with the Cubans and the Venezuelans, there is a growing network of folks working with the Jihadists, the Iranians who are very excited about the opportunity of having platforms 90 miles off our coast, just like the Soviets were."
On Striking Iran:
"The contrast is what happens if Iran gets a nuclear weapon? Iran is not a small little country like the President has said."
"Obama's Iran policy has been a colossal failure."
"It would be reckless to not stop them from getting a nuclear weapon."
On Offshore Oil Drilling:
"What threatens the tourist industry is a very bad economy, like that in 2008 caused by a spike in energy prices."
On Amnesty:
"My grandfather came to this country and left my dad behind for 5 years. America was worth it to do it the right way."
"If you want to be an American, you respect the laws of America."
On The Differences Between Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich:
"When push came to shove, they got pushed. They rejected conservatism when it was hard to stand."
  