
    AD FACT:
Narrator: "Aumentan los impuestos – los seguros. A todos nos afecta."
English Translation: "Taxes increase – insurance. We're all affected."
BACKGROUND:
FLORIDIANS AFFECTED BY HIGH PROPERTY TAXES
Floridians Have Seen Their Property Taxes Increase Rapidly. "In Palm Beach County, [Florida Governor Charlie] Crist visited the home of Michael and Jeanette Waddle west of West Palm Beach to tout the tax cut and court voter support for super-sizing the homestead exemption. The Waddles paid $250,000 for their single-story house on a quiet suburban street in 2005. The first year they had a $2,062 tax bill based on the previous owner's homestead exemption. A year later, the home was reassessed and the tax bill soared to $4,650." (Linda Kleindienst and Josh Hafenbrack, "Gov. Crist Signs Historic Bill Calling For $15.6 Billion In Tax Cuts," South Florida Sun-Sentinel, 6/22/07)
"Crist Estimated The Tax Rollback Would Save The Waddles $350 This Year. If The Constitutional Amendment Passes, He Said Their Tax Bill Would Plummet To $1,600 – A 66 Percent Reduction." (Linda Kleindienst and Josh Hafenbrack, "Gov. Crist Signs Historic Bill Calling For $15.6 Billion In Tax Cuts," South Florida Sun-Sentinel, 6/22/07)
Increased Property Taxes Are Causing Some Floridians To Consider Moving Out Of State. "In expensive markets like South Florida, for example, homeowners who have yet to qualify for a state property-tax cap say they've seen better than 100% increases over the past few years. It's a large reason why, according to a new Zogby International poll, half of South Floridians and 37% of all Floridians say they're considering moving out of the state." (Tim Padgett, "Behind Florida's Property Tax Revolt," Time, 6/12/07)
Amendment 1, Which Is On The January 29 Ballot, Reforms Property Tax Laws In Florida. "Amendment 1 proposes changes to the state constitution, including increasing the homestead exemption to $50,000 from $25,000 and allowing homestead property owners to transfer up to $500,000 of the cap on their property assessment to a new home. It also provides a $25,000 exemption for tangible personal property and limits assessment increases for some non-homesteaded property except for assessments pertaining to school district taxes." (Shelly Sigo, "Crist Pushes Amendment 1," The Bond Buyer, 1/3/08)
Gov. Charlie Crist And Several Business Organizations Support Amendment 1. "Crist joined FAR and other business groups that support Amendment 1, including the Florida Chamber of Commerce, Associated Industries of Florida, Florida Power & Light, Florida Retail Federation, the Florida Outdoor Advertising Association, and the Florida Medical Association, in unveiling a campaign called 'Vote on 1' and a Web site at www.Yeson1Florida.com." (Shelly Sigo, "Crist Pushes Amendment 1," The Bond Buyer, 1/3/08)
FLORIDIANS AFFECTED BY HIGH INSURANCE RATES
Concerns Over Hurricanes Have Led To Increases In Insurance Rates. "All along the U.S. Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, from Texas to New England, insurers suffering from hurricane jitters are raising rates and cutting back on coverage. But nowhere is the situation more severe than in Florida, particularly here in South Florida and in the Florida Panhandle, where storms in recent years have added billions to the insurers' losses." (Joseph Treaster, "Hurricane Jitters Lift Florida Insurance Rates," International Herald Tribune, 9/1/06)
In Florida, Insurance Premiums Are High And "Financial Burden" For Storm Damage Falls On Taxpayers. "[T]he problems with Florida's home insurance market overshadow the improvements: Consumer premiums remain high. The financial burden for repairing the damage caused by a big storm has shifted to Florida taxpayers, the result of what some call questionable public policy. Also, many private insurers still won't do business in the state because they can't compete with the low rates of state-run Citizens Property Insurance Corp. and in a political environment they consider hostile to the insurance industry." (Russell Ray, "Stormy Conditions Rage On In Home Insurance Market," Tampa Tribune, 12/2/07)
AD FACT:
Narrator: "Rudy Giuliani tiene un plan. El recorte de impuestos más grande en la historia de este país."
English Translation: "Rudy Giuliani has a plan. The largest tax cut in the history of this country."
Chryon: "El recorte de impuestos más grande en la historia de este país"
English Translation: "The largest tax cut in the history of this country."
BACKGROUND:
GIULIANI'S TAX CUT PLAN IS LARGEST IN HISTORY
Americans For Tax Reform President Grover Norquist: Giuliani's Tax Cut Is "The Largest In History." (Americans For Tax Reform, "Rudy Giuliani Tax Cut Plan," Press Release, 1/9/08)
Townhall.Com's Matt Lewis: "According To One Economic Expert I Talked To: '[Giuliani's] Plan Would Be Huge. It Would Be 4% Of GDP. By Comparison, GWB Tax Cut Was 1.3% Of GDP. Reagan's Was 1.9% Of GDP.'" (Matt Lewis, "Rudy's New Tax Plan Unveiled," Townhall.com, http://townhall.com/blog/g/4478b4ef-1344-42e8-8fc6-4c519e681a9a, 1/9/08, Accessed 1/9/08)
U.S. News & World Report's James Pethokoukis: Giuliani's Tax Plan "Would Be The Largest Tax Cut In The History Of The American Republic. Actually, Of Any Republic—Ours, Rome's, Greece's. Just Huge…" (James Pethokoukis, "Giuliani's Shock-and-Awe Tax Plan," U.S. News & World Report's "Capital Commerce" Blog, http://www.usnews.com/blogs/capital-commerce/2008/1/10/giulianis-shock-and-awe-tax-plan.html, 1/10/08, Accessed 1/10/08)
GIULIANI'S TAX CUT PLAN WOULD SAVE TAXPAYERS TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS
Giuliani's Tax Plan Will Simplify The Tax Code By Introducing FAST Form. "Mayor Giuliani plans to simplify the tax code by introducing the Fair and Simple Tax (FAST) form. The FAST form gives American taxpayers the option of filling out their taxes on a single page, while cutting the current six brackets in half and preserving the major deductions that Americans depend upon – mortgage interest, charity, state & local taxes, the child tax credit, the personal exemption and the new health care exclusion." (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
"Rudy's Plan Also Cuts The Corporate Tax Rate From 35% To 25% To Keep America Competitive In The Global Economy." (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
"In addition, the Mayor proposes giving the death tax the death penalty, cutting the capital gains tax from 15% to 10% and indexing the Alternative Minimum Tax for inflation and eventually eliminating it." (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
"In Addition, The Mayor's Proposal Eliminates The Double-Taxation Of Personal Saving Accounts, Reinstates The Research And Development Tax Credit And Makes The Current Bush Tax Cuts Permanent." (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
According To The Congressional Budget Office, Permanently Extending The Bush Tax Cuts Would Save Taxpayers $3.1 Trillion. ("The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Year 2008 To 2017," Congressional Budget Office, 1/07, p. 107)
According To The Congressional Budget Office, Eliminating The Death Tax Would Save Taxpayers $480 Billion. ("The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Year 2008 To 2017," Congressional Budget Office, 1/07, p. 81)
According To The Congressional Budget Office, Indexing The Alternative Minimum Tax To Inflation Would Save Taxpayers $1.1 Trillion. ("The Budget and Economic Outlook: An Update," Congressional Budget Office, 8/07, p. 20-21.)
AD FACT:
Narrator: "Y Rudy Giuliani es el único candidato Republicano que apoya un fondo nacional para aliviar el alto costo de los seguros a la propiedad."
English Translation: "And Rudy Giuliani is the only Republican candidate that supports a national fund to provide relief with the high cost of property insurance."
Chryon: "Apoya un fondo nacional para aliviar el alto costo de los seguros a la propiedad."
English Translation: "Supports a national fund to provide relief with the high cost of property insurance."
BACKGROUND:
MAYOR GIULIANI FULLY SUPPORTS THE NATIONAL CATASTROPHE FUND
Giuliani Supports Catastrophe Fund As A "Federal Backstop." "Giuliani supports one of the top priorities of Crist and other Florida leaders from both parties: creation of a national fund to help cover catastrophic loses from national disasters. The idea is to spread the risk and limit the liability of insurance companies so they can provide more affordable rates. 'You should have a federal backstop for once-in-a-century catastrophes, once-in-a-decade catastrophes, these horrible things that happen,' he said. He said beneficiaries and state and local governments need to absorb some risk. Noting New York's potential vulnerability to hurricanes and the West Coast's susceptibility to earthquakes, Giuliani said such a program would be good for other parts of the country as well as Florida." (Anthony Man, "Giuliani Visits Florida," South Florida Sun-Sentinel, 12/7/07)
"Former New York Mayor And GOP Presidential Hopeful Rudy Giuliani Stopped In Tallahassee On [4/4/07], Vowing To Support A National Catastrophe Fund …" (Joe Follick and Lloyd Dunkelberger, "Parliamentarianism Clogs Clarity Quest," The [Lakeland, FL] Ledger, 4/8/07)
"Giuliani Told Legislators While In Tallahassee That He Backs A National Catastrophe Fund To Bail Out States Hit By Disasters, Including Hurricanes, One Of The Top Federal Government Priorities Of Florida Leaders." (William March, "Giuliani Puts Democrats On Defensive," Tampa Tribune, 4/5/07)
Giuliani Said He Thought National Catastrophic Insurance Was A "Very Good Idea." QUESTION: "Can you share your thoughts on a national catastrophic insurance program?" GIULIANI: "I just talked to your Governor about that. Talked to your Governor about it many times. He's explained it to me in great detail. The Attorney General, when he was a candidate, when I supported him, I think it is a very good idea. I think it's a very good idea not just for Florida, it's a very good idea for the whole country. We all need it. You need it for hurricanes, California needs it for earthquakes, somebody else needs it for tornadoes. New York needs it for ice storms and for hurricanes. During the time I was the mayor, my governor, Governor Pataki, had to deal with two really catastrophic ice storms in northern New York. We sent him some help, he did a great job of doing it, but we need that help. The parts of the country that think it only helps Florida, I think are missing all the other natural catastrophes and disasters and maybe they are not hurricanes, but they are all the other things I mentioned." (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks To Florida Legislators, Tallahassee, FL, 4/4/07)
OTHER REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES HAVE NOT ENDORSED CATASTROPHE FUND
Romney Wouldn't Fully Support National Catastrophe Fund. "Addressing a question about the impact of high property insurance rates on Florida's economy, Romney said he would like to investigate options for expanding the private insurance market before he supports a national catastrophic insurance fund, an idea endorsed by Florida Gov. Charlie Crist. If he were to support a multistate catastrophe fund, Romney said, it should include only states at high risk for natural disasters. 'I do not believe that you're going to hear the nation say we're going have other states subsidize states that are high risk,' he said." (Mike Salinero, "Romney Supports Letting All Cubans Migrate To U.S.," The Tampa Tribune, 11/28/07)
With Little Thought On The Topic, Thompson Was Inclined To Oppose The Plan. "Though he appeared not to have given the topic much thought, Thompson also seemed inclined to oppose a national catastrophe insurance plan that could make property insurance more affordable in states prone to natural disasters, a critical issue in Florida." ("Thompson Sets Off Florida Alarms," Tampa Tribune, 9/20/07)
Huckabee Was "Sympathetic" To Some Homeowners' Plight But Did Not Endorse Fund. "Asked about a national catastrophe fund to ease the property insurance crisis in Florida and other states, [Huckabee] was receptive but said he'd have to see the details. Rebuilding people's beach homes doesn't appeal to him, but, 'I come from a state that's prone to tornadoes and floods. I understand how devastating it can be, so I'm very sympathetic.'" ("State Is Gaining Clout, GOP Told," St. Petersburg Times, 5/20/07)
McCain Wanted To Read More "Of The Fine Print" Before Offering Support Of Catastrophe Fund. "During their private meeting, Crist and McCain discussed the possibility of a national catastrophe fund, about which McCain said he wants to learn more. 'I want to read some of the fine print, but I think that what is being done here is the outline and the model of what needs to be accomplished,' he said." (Dara Kam, "McCain: I Meant To Say 'Judeo-Christian' Values," Palm Beach Post, 10/3/07)
NATIONAL CATASTROPHE FUND WILL REDUCE INSURNACE RATES
Gov. Charlie Crist (R-FL): "A National Catastrophe Fund Would Not Only Lower Insurance Rates For Our Citizens, It Would Also Use Taxpayers Dollars In The Most Efficient Manner." (Gov. Charlie Crist, Op-Ed, "National Catastrophe Fund Needed Now," [Fort Lauderdale] Sun-Sentinel, 5/14/07)
"[A] National Catastrophe Fund Could Go A Long Way Toward Providing Incentives For More Insurers To Write Policies In Florida, Bringing Competition And The Promise Of Lower Rates Without Putting The State's Finances Any Further On The Hook." (Editorial, "Crist Lobbies Congress," [Fort Lauderdale] Sun-Sentinel, 2/28/07)
National Catastrophe Fund Would Lower Rates By Boosting Competition. "Lastly, the Legislature should strongly back creation by Congress of a national catastrophe fund, to protect insurers from enormous losses and boost rate-lowering competition." (Editorial, "D-Day For The Legislature," Florida Today, 3/5/06)
AD FACT:
Narrator: "Sus logros demuestran su capacidad. Su visión nos da esperanza."
English Translation: "His accomplishments demonstrate his capability."
BACKGROUND:
AS MAYOR, GIULIANI TURNED AROUND NEW YORK
Giuliani Turned New York Into Safest Large City In America
FBI Statistics Established New York City As Safest Large City In America. "According to FBI statistics, New York is the safest large city in the nation. From July 1, 1996, through June 30, 1997, the graphs showed 44% fewer major felonies and 60% fewer murders." (John J. Goldman, "Giuliani's State Of Mind Goes From N.Y. To National," Los Angeles Times, 10/18/97)
Crime Dropped Dramatically Under Mayor Giuliani:
56% Drop In The FBI Crime Index Between 1993 And 2001, Far Outpacing 16% Decline In National Crime Index. (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, www.fbi.gov/ucr/ucr.htm, Accessed 3/12/07)
66% Cut In Murder Rate; From 1,946 In 1993 To 649 In 2001. ("1993 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area," 1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report, p. 139; "2001 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area, 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, www.fbi.gov/ucr/ucr.htm, Accessed 3/12/07)
Over 70% Drop In Shootings. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 16)
New York Saw A 45.7% Decline In Rapes, A 67.2% Decline In Robberies, A 39.6% Decline In Aggravated Assault, A 68.2% Decline In Burglary, A 43% Decline In Larceny, And A 73.3% Decline In Motor Vehicle Theft. (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, www.fbi.gov/ucr/ucr.htm, Accessed 3/12/07)
New York Observer: "The Phenomenal Decline Under Mr. Giuliani Of Larger Crimes Such As Murder, Robbery And Rape Was Matched By A Reduction In Quality-Of-Life Offenses – Which In Turn Contributed To The Drop In Major Crime …" (Editorial, "Return Of The Squeegee?" New York Observer, 1/7/02)
"New York Ranked As The Safest Big City In The U.S. For The Fourth Straight Year As Crime Dropped Around The State And Nation, According To An FBI Report Released Yesterday." (K.C. Baker and Corky Siemaszko, "N.Y. Notches 4th Year As Safest Major City," Daily News, 5/17/99)
"Under Giuliani's Leadership, New York City Was Able To Turn Its Crime Infamy Into The FBI's Safest Large City In America For The Past Five Years." (Aaron Fried, Op-Ed, "Small Numbers Oppose Time's Person Of The Year," The [Syracuse] Post-Standard, 5/3/02)
The Daily News: "New York Is The Safest Big City In The Nation." (Editorial, "No Watchdog For NYPD," Daily News, 3/28/00)
Giuliani Turned Welfare Into Workfare
Newt Gingrich Called Giuliani An "Absolute Revolutionary" On Welfare Reform. "[O]ur moral critique — if anything, I feel, in retrospect, I was not bold enough in Washington, DC. Our moral critique of the welfare state is going to accelerate, and the place it's happening is at the state and local governments. I mean, Giuliani, in his real reform of welfare, is in fact, behaving as an absolute revolutionary." (Newt Gingrich, Remarks At Progress And Freedom Foundation Conference, Washington, DC, 1/22/96)
While Washington Was Held Back By Endless Discussion, Giuliani "Raced Ahead" To Create Nation's Most Successful Welfare-To-Work Program. "The Giuliani administration, which created the nation's largest and most successful workfare program among single adults in the Home Relief program, is now extending the work requirement to recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children i.e., single mothers. The program continues the city's ambitious efforts at reform, one based on action. While Washington and Albany talk endlessly … Mayor Giuliani has raced ahead by going back to basics: work." (Editorial, "The Four-Letter Fix For Welfare," Daily News, 3/23/96)
Giuliani Cut Over 640,000 People From City Welfare Rolls To The Lowest Number Since 1966. (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
58.37% Decrease In Number Of Welfare Recipients, From 1.1 Million In January 1994 To 462,595 In December 2001. (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet)
Giuliani Turned Welfare Offices Into Job Centers, Which Made 151,376 Placements In FY 2001. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
New York City's Workfare Program Required 20 Hours/Week Of Able-Bodied Recipients. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
Over 250,000 Total Work Experience Program (WEP) Participants. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
35,599 WEP Participants At Program's Peak In 1999. (Independent Budget Office Of The City Of New York, "Welfare And Work," http://www.ibo.nyc.ny.us/newsfax/nws61welfareandwork.html, 2/14/05)
Mayor Giuliani Turned New York City's Finances Around
$2.3 Billion Dollar Budget Deficit Was Turned Into A Multi-Billion Dollar Surplus By FY 2001. (Steven Lee Myers, "A Deficit Revisited," The New York Times, 7/31/94; City Of New York Office Of The Comptroller, Fiscal Year 2001 Comprehensive Annual Report: Basic Financial Statements Part II-A, p. 14)
Over 20,000 Full-Time City-Funded City Jobs Cut (Or Nearly 20%) Excluding Teachers And Uniformed Police Officers. (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor: Appendix 5A, p. 276)
Giuliani Reduced Real Per Capita Government Spending By Unprecedented 6.82%. (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3; Comptroller of the City of New York, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Comptroller for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003, 10/31/03; U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics Website, data.bls.gov, Accessed 5/3/07)
Reduced Government Spending As Percentage Of City Economy Every Year Except 2001. (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3)
New York's Economy Grew Nearly Twice As Fast As Government Spending Did. (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3)
$11.9 Billion In Savings By Controlling The Growth In Projected City-Funded Spending Alone (FY95-01). (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Budget Summary, p. 9; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 242)
Mayor Giuliani Achieved Results That People Didn't Think Were Possible
Gov. Haley Barbour (R-MS): "And For Those Of Us Who Would Go To New York During That Period Of Time, The Change Was Breathtaking. It Was A Tremendous, Tremendous Difference That You Could See Even If You Only Went Up There Every Now And Then." (Gov. Haley Barbour, Remarks, Pearl, MS, 9/4/07)
"As For Rudolph W. Giuliani, He Has Had A Remarkable Run As Mayor. He Has Accomplished Things That Some Thought Impossible: Cutting Crime." (James Ahearn, "Politically Correct But Unwarranted," The [Bergen County, NJ] Record, 12/30/01)
Stuart Rothenberg: "Remember, The Former New York Mayor Earned Raves For Cleaning Up New York City, Including The Once-Sleazy Times Square Area, An Accomplishment Once Considered Impossible By Most Americans, Certainly By Most New Yorkers." (Stuart Rothenberg, Op-Ed, "Is Rudy Likely To Be A Favorite Or A Flop?" Roll Call, 1/16/07)
Robert Novak: "Well, Nearly Everybody Agrees That He Accomplished The Impossible By Turning Around The Nation's Largest City …" (CNN's "Crossfire," 2/17/99)
U.S. ATTORNEY GIULIANI ATTACKED MAFIA, DRUG DEALERS AND CORRUPT POLITICIANS
Praise For Giuliani
"[I]n Areas Ranging From White-Collar Crime To The Mob, [Giuliani] Has Been The Most Effective Prosecutor In Recent Memory…" (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
"[Giuliani's] Office's Conviction Rate Of Better Than 90% — And Its Record Of Winning Many Big Ones — Speaks For Itself." (Stephen Adler et. al., "Litigator's Legacy," The Wall Street Journal, 1/11/89)
NY1's Andrew Kirtzman: "He Was A Hero In The Eyes Of People For Fighting Corruption In Politics, Organized Crime, Insider Trading On Wall Street. He Was The White Knight." (MSNBC's "Headliners & Legends," 11/17/01)
RICO Statute Author Praised Giuliani's Innovative Use Of RICO To Prosecute Mob. "[N]otre Dame Law School professor G. Robert Blakey, who drafted the RICO statue, says that as early as 1980 he gave a lecture to the FBI suggesting a RICO case against the mob. But Blakey says, 'If Rudy wants to claim credit, I say, give it to him. Because it wouldn't have happened without him.'" (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
New York State Commission On Judicial Conduct Administrator Gerald Stern Called Giuliani "Innovative" And An "Excellent U.S. Attorney." "'Over all, he's been an excellent U.S. Attorney,' said Gerald Stern, who as administrator of the State Commission on Judicial Conduct has complained about Mr. Giuliani's public disclosures regarding criminal defendants. 'He's intelligent, innovative, hard-working and has done a fine job.'" (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
Giuliani Took On The Mob
18 Members Of New York And Sicilian Mafia Were Convicted For Cocaine And Heroin Smuggling In "Pizza Connection" Case. "Eighteen men were convicted today of operating an international heroin and cocaine ring that distributed more than $1.6 billion in drugs through pizza parlors in the Northeast and Midwest. The convictions of the men, who include former leaders of the Sicilian Mafia and the New York-based Bonnano crime family, follow the convictions late last year of the members of a ruling Mafia commission. 'It is a tremendous victory in the effort to crush the Mafia,' U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani said. 'Five years ago nobody would have thought it possible to convict the head of the Sicilian Mafia and the head of a major part of an American Mafia family.' He added, 'The impact on the Mafia of these cases has been devastating. If this continues, there's not going to be a Mafia.'" (Margot Hornblower, "18 Guilty In 'Pizza Connection' Trial," The Washington Post, 3/3/87)
Under Giuliani's Leadership, U.S. Cooperation With Italian Authorities On "Pizza Connection" Case Was "Fabulous And Unprecedented." "In the so-called 'pizza connection' case in the Southern District, which includes Manhattan, the Bronx and seven upstate counties, 22 defendants are accused of operating a Mafia-connected drug ring that smuggled at least $1.65 billion in heroin from Sicily. A defense attorney in the 'pizza connection' case said the quality of the cooperation marshaled by American and Italian authorities in that and other recent cases he was familiar with was 'fabulous and unprecedented.' 'Italy and the United States have been talking cooperation for a decade,' he said, 'but now they're doing it, and it's going to make a difference. …'" (M. A. Farber, "U.S.-Italian Teamwork Bringing Organized-Crime Chiefs To Trial," The New York Times, 10/18/85)
Eight Organized-Crime Leaders Were Convicted As Members Of "National Ruling Commission Of Mafia Families," Receiving Sentences Of 40 To 100 Years. "Eight organized-crime leaders were convicted last November as members of a national ruling commission of Mafia families that prosecutors said coordinated activities, resolved disputes and sometimes ordered executions. As a Justice Department official, Mr. Giuliani had helped devise the strategy of prosecuting a Mafia directorate; this case was the major result. The defendants, who for the most part did not deny the existence of a Mafia or a commission, represented the Colombo, Genovese, Lucchese and Bonanno families. They received sentences of 40 to 100 years." (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
History Channel's Bruce Cutler: "Of All Of The Mafia Targets That An FBI Man Could Dream Of, There Is None Higher Than The Commission: The Senate, House And Supreme Court Of The American Mob." (History Channel's "Mouthpiece," 6/03)
Giuliani's Office Had Series Of "Sweeping" Victories Against Mafia. "Ending a 17-month racketeering trial, a Federal jury yesterday convicted seven men of being members or associates of a murderous crew of the Gambino crime family that operated out of a Brooklyn apartment. The verdict in Federal District Court in Manhattan gave prosecutors a sweeping victory in the second of two trials stemming from a 1984 indictment that originally included charges against the man prosecutors said was then chief of the Gambino family, Paul Castellano, who was killed in 1985 … In its verdict, which came in the 13th day of deliberations, the jury found the defendants guilty of all the charges presented in a 21-count indictment. … The trial, which included testimony by 207 witnesses for the Government, was the last of a series of large criminal cases begun by former United States Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani against people prosecutors have called major figures in the Mafia." (William Glaberson, "Seven Guilty In Racket Case At Mob Trial," The New York Times, 6/29/89)
Giuliani Took Federal Drug Crackdown To The Streets
Giuliani Focused On Both International And Local Street-Level Drug Cases. "Right after coming into office, Giuliani announced a Federal 'sweep' to rid Manhattan's Lower East Side streets of small-time drug dealers. Most Federal prosecutors believe their limited resources for drug enforcement should be concentrated on international cases. They leave the $40 'busts' to local authorities. Not Giuliani. He said his office could do both." (Michael Winerip, "High-Profile Prosecutor," The New York Times, 6/9/85)
Giuliani Even Went Undercover To Buy Crack To Show How Easy It Was To Purchase. "One thing his predecessors did not do is prosecute street-level drug cases. But Mr. Giuliani volunteered his office in a city police drive to rid the Lower East Side of its conspicuous drug commerce – an initiative that was not especially popular in the office or among defense lawyers. Last year Mr. Giuliani and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, in sunglasses and funny clothes, made a crack buy on 160th Street – to illustrate, they said, how easy it was." (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
Residents Cheered When Giuliani Evicted Drug Dealers From Housing Projects. "Randy Mastro, a former federal prosecutor who became one of Giuliani's top mayoral aides, said one of Giuliani's achievements included using federal forfeiture laws to evict drug dealers from low-cost rental apartments in housing projects. 'When agents showed up, the other residents of those projects literally stood and cheered,' he said." (Larry Neumeister, "Giuliani Was Hard-Charging Prosecutor," The Associated Press, 4/9/07)
Then-Mayor Ed Koch Praised Giuliani's "Federal Day" Initiative To Bust Street-Level Crimes As More Effective Than State Efforts. "Mr. Koch said that even criminals knew they were likely to escape severe punishment in state courts. He said this was demonstrated when the United States Attorney in Manhattan, Rudolph W. Giuliani, agreed to bring Federal rather than state charges against drug dealers picked up in sweeps on one day each week. 'When a drug pusher is caught,' Mr. Koch said, 'he asks, is this the Federal day. And if the cop says, yes, this is the Federal day, the drug pushers in many cases try to break away and run because they know they are going to jail. And if it is state day, there is no resistance.' According to city police officials, Federal judges impose heavier sentences than state judges in drug cases." (Josh Barbanel, "Koch Recommends Stiffer Penalties And More Prisons," The New York Times, 2/15/85)
Giuliani Cracked Down On Public Corruption
Giuliani Prosecuted Democratic Party Boss Stan Friedman And Three Others For Racketeering And Mail Fraud In "Largest New York Corruption Trial In Decades." "A New York City Democratic boss and three co-defendants were convicted today of racketeering and conspiracy for corrupting the city's Parking Violations Bureau through six years of bribery. The 12-member federal jury deliberated four days before returning the verdict against Bronx party leader Stanley Friedman and the others in what was the largest New York corruption trial in decades. The four were accused of turning the [Parking Violations Bureau] into their 'private gold mine' through a pattern of bribery from 1979 to 1985. Friedman, who sat impassively as the verdicts were read, was also convicted of two counts of mail fraud. Michael Lazar, former city transportation head, was also convicted of two counts of mail fraud; ex-PVB director Lester Shafran was convicted of two counts of mail fraud; and businessman Marvin Kaplan was convicted of one count of mail fraud and perjury for lying before the Securities and Exchange Commission. … The trial began Sept. 22, with U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani … accusing Friedman of sitting on a corrupt 'board of directors' which converted the PVB into 'an enterprise for illegal plunder.'" (Larry McShane, "Bronx Democratic Boss, Others Guilty In Corruption Trial," The Associated Press, 11/25/86)
Following Parking Violations Bureau Convictions, Nine More Public Officials In New York City Either Resigned Or Came Under Indictment. Frontline's Mark Obenhaus: "The revelation that officials as powerful as Donald Manes and Stanley Freidman were corrupt has shaken public confidence in New York City government. The scandal has spawned a wrath of other investigations. During 1986 and 1987, the Commissioners of Hospitals, Taxis, Transportation, Cultural Affairs, Business Development, two members of the City Planning Commission, a borough president and a United States Congressman all resigned or were under indictment." (PBS's "Frontline," 6/23/87)
Giuliani Unraveled Wedtech Scandal, Where Executives Engaged In Massive Military-Contract Fraud, Leading To Guilty Verdict For Former U.S. Rep. Mario Biaggi (D-NY). "Former congressman Mario Biaggi (D-N.Y.), sobbing and still protesting his innocence, was sentenced today to eight years in federal prison for extorting payoffs from Wedtech Corp. in return for his political influence. U.S. District Court Judge Constance Baker Motley said she would have given the 71-year-old Biaggi a 'substantially longer' prison term if it were not for his age and poor health. She also fined him $242,000 and ordered him to start serving his sentence Jan. 9 …" (George Lardner Jr., "Biaggi Gets Eight-Year Sentence," The Washington Post, 11/19/88)
Giuliani Also Obtained Guilty Pleas From Four Wedtech Executives, Who Implicated Over A Dozen Public Officials For Illegal Payoff Public Corruption Scheme. "[P]rosecutors have described as a wide set of illegal payoffs made by Wedtech executives as the company grew from a small machine shop to a $100-million-a-year military contractor, largely through contracts obtained without competitive bidding. So far, four top former executives of the company are said to have implicated more than a dozen public figures … The former Wedtech officials have pleaded guilty to Federal charges brought by Mr. Giuliani and have agreed to cooperate with investigators in exchange for leniency. They have also agreed to plead guilty to state charges in Manhattan and the Bronx." (Mark A. Uhlig, "Two Accused Of Extorting From Wedtech," The New York Times, 1/30/88)
AS ASSOCIATE ATTORNEY GENERAL, GIULIANI GOT RESULTS
John Hinckley Case
After Being Notified Of Attempted Assassination Of President Reagan, Giuliani Immediately Took Charge And Coordinated Detention Facilities And Physical Security Of John Hinckley. (Office of the Associate Attorney General, "Hinckley Sequence Of Events," U.S. Department of Justice)
As Associate Attorney General Designate, Giuliani Oversaw Criminal Investigation Of John Hinckley. "Associate Attorney General designate Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is directing the investigation, would say only that thus far the evidence indicated Mr. Hinckley acted alone. 'There is no suggestion of a conspiracy thus far,' Mr. Giuliani said. 'The F.B.I. is investigating that possibility along with all others.' Government investigators are wary of repeating the history of other assassination inquiries, notably the Warren Commission investigation into the slaying of President Kennedy, which has been followed by widespread suspicions of conspiracy and complaints of slipshod methods." ("Agents Tracing Hinckley's Path Find A Shift To Violent Emotion," The New York Times, 4/5/81)
Attorney General William French Smith Appointed Giuliani DOJ's Spokesman With Regard To The Criminal Investigation Against John Hinckley. (Office of the Associate Attorney General, "Hinckley Sequence Of Events," U.S. Department of Justice)
Following Hinckley Verdict, Giuliani Said DOJ Wanted To "Substantially Narrow" The Insanity Defense. "The administration is supporting legislation which, in the words of Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani, would 'substantially narrow' that defense. Currently, a defendant can present a defense to a jury that he was either too ill to determine right from wrong or too ill to conform his conduct to what was right. Giuliani said the administration now supports legislation which would eliminate that second insanity defense. Giuliani said, 'The vast majority of federal insanity pleas are like Hinckley's where it is not a case of telling right from wrong but rather of conforming behavior.'" (Michael Sniffen, "Attorney General Seeks To Plug 'Fatal Flaws' In The Law," The Associated Press, 6/22/82)
Associate Attorney General Giuliani Recommended The Congress Should Enact Legislation To Commit Dangerously Disturbed Defendants Who Are Not Convicted. Giuliani: "The lack of such a commitment procedure in the federal system creates the very real potential that the public will not be adequately protected from a dangerously insane defendant who is acquitted at trial." (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani, Statement Before The National Commission On The Insanity Defense, Arlington, VA, 10/27/82)
Narcotics Trafficking
Giuliani Among "Chief Strategists" Of Reagan Administration's Effort Against Narcotics Trafficking. "At the Justice Department, Mr. Giuliani has been highly visible, particularly as one of the chief strategists of the Reagan Administration's stepped-up effort to combat narcotics trafficking. He was instrumental in devising the Reagan budget request of $130 million granted by Congress last year to finance 12 new investigative drug task forces across the nation." (Jane Perlez, "Giuliani Willing To Accept U.S. Attorney Job In State," The New York Times, 3/10/83)
Giuliani Realized Increased Sophistication Among International Drug Traffickers Required New Emphasis On Drug Enforcement Policies. Giuliani: "[T]he international network of drug traffickers is far more sophisticated than ever before. Sales of illicit drugs … has attracted organized crime leaders, shrewd businessmen and political leaders. Large criminal organizations can respond to isolated law enforcement efforts simply by changing transportation routes or sources of supply … In short, increasing criminal sophistication requires an equally sophisticated law enforcement organization with a world-wide intelligence, enforcement and diplomatic capability." (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And Special Assistant To The Attorney General Hank Habict, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith And Deputy Attorney General Edward Schmults, 5/7/81)
"[Giuliani] Has Been The Chief Designer Of The Expansion Of The Federal Bureau Of Investigation In Narcotics Enforcement And The Creation Of 12 Drug-Enforcement Task Forces." ("Man In The News; Nominee For U.S. Attorney," The New York Times, 4/13/83)
Violent Crime
Giuliani Oversaw Creation Of Violent Crime Committee. "The following sequence of steps is recommended: 1. Authorize us to select an initial staff of five Department employees – Criminal Division, FBI, DEA being crucial – to prepare under the supervision of Messrs. Giuliani and Jensen a draft agenda and background material for the Committee…" (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And D. Lowell Jensen, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith, 2/24/81)
Jeffery Harris, Giuliani's Deputy Associate Attorney General, Served As Executive Director Of The Attorney General's Task Force On Violent Crime. ("Phase 1 Recommendations," Attorney General's Task Force On Violent Crime, p.ii)
The Attorney General's Task Force On Violent Crime Made Numerous Recommendations On Ways To Combat Violent Crime, With An Emphasis On Coordination Between State, Federal And Local Law Enforcement Agencies. (Special Assistant To The Associate Attorney General Fred Friedman, Memo To Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, 7/22/81)
By The End Of September 1981, Attorney General Smith Has Implemented Two-Thirds Of Task Force's Recommendations And Was Working On Implementation Of The Remainders. (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Memo To Counsel To President Reagan Fred Fielding, 9/25/81)
AD FACT:
Narrator: "Su visión nos da esperanza."
English Translation: "His vision gives us hope."
Mayor Giuliani: "Soy Rudy Giuliani y apruebo este mensaje"
English Translation: "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message."
BACKGROUND:
Foster's Daily Democrat: "If Republicans Have Any Chance Of Having Their Lease Renewed On The White House They Must Adopt And Develop Leaders Like Giuliani — Someone Who Raised One Of The World's Great Cities Out Of Despair And Returned It To The Pride It Earned Over More Than Two Centuries." (Editorial, "Rudy Giuliani Is Out Choice In The GOP," Foster's Daily Democrat, 12/20/07)
Mayor Giuliani Believes America Should Choose Optimism And Strength Over Pessimism And Weakness. "But as I travel across our land, I've begun to hear a murmur that America somehow has lost the ability to achieve great goals. Some good people have come to believe that our country is on the wrong track. Middle class families feel that the American dream may be slipping away. They're worried about the future. They're worried that the future may not be as bright as the past. They're worried that this may be the time where the next generation of Americans doesn't do as well as the last generation. It doesn't have to be that way. We — we, you and I — can decide America's direction. We can determine America's future. After all, that's what an election is all about. So let's decide for optimism, not pessimism; for hope, not despair; for strength, not weakness; for victory, not defeat." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks In Tampa, FL. 12/15/07)
Mayor Giuliani: "I Believe America Solves Its Problems Best From Strength, Not Weakness, And From Optimism, Not Pessimism. My Twelve Commitments Are A Promise To This Generation And Generations To Come That We Will Keep The American Dream Alive." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "Rudy Giuliani Unveils Twelve Commitments To The American People," Press Release, 6/11/07)
Giuliani's 12 Commitments Lay Out His "Bold Vision" For America. "During a speech at the Old Bedford Town Hall in New Hampshire today, Mayor Rudy Giuliani announced Twelve Commitments to the American people, a bold vision aimed at moving America forward through change and reform, overcoming new challenges and increasing accountability in Washington. Rudy's Twelve Commitments are based on the principles of giving people more freedom, more power, and more responsibility over their own lives, while protecting our nation, strengthening our economy, and improving the quality of life." (Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee, "Rudy Giuliani Unveils Twelve Commitments To The American People," Press Release, 6/11/07)
  