
    Manchester, NH — Today, State Senator Martha Hennessey (Hanover) announced her endorsement of Pete Buttigieg, citing his ability to defeat Donald Trump and heal a divided nation.
Sen. Hennessey is the first New Hampshire state senator to endorse Buttigieg. She had previously endorsed Sen. Cory Booker.
"Pete Buttigieg's values, honesty, temperament, and intelligence make him the best candidate to turn the page on the Trump era and restore dignity and respect to the White House," said Sen. Hennessey. "As our nominee, I know I can count on Pete to resist the president's taunts, rise above the gutter politics of this administration, and defeat Donald Trump. With our nation in crisis, Pete will be able to unite the country and heal our divides so we can begin the difficult work of tackling the problems this administration has created."
Sen. Hennessey has been at the forefront of confronting the mental health and opioid crisis — especially as it impacts children and families. She has also been a tireless advocate for criminal justice reform, gun violence prevention, women's health and reproductive rights, and sexual assault prevention.
Sen. Hennessey is the latest prominent New Hampshire leader to endorse Buttigieg. Last week, U.S. Representative Annie Kuster announced her endorsement, joining other high-profile leaders in supporting Pete including: NEA-NH Executive Director Rick Trombly, 12-term State Representative Susan Almy and fourteen other state representatives, Cheshire County Sheriff Eli Rivera, women's health and rights advocate Jennifer Frizzell, Carroll County Democratic Chair Knute Ogren, former Somersworth Mayor Lincoln Soldatti, and former Lebanon Mayor Suzanne Prentiss.
ABOUT SENATOR MARTHA HENNESSEY
Martha Hennessey is currently in her second term representing Canaan, Charlestown, Claremont, Cornish, Enfield, Hanover, Lebanon, Lyme, and Plainfield in the New Hampshire Senate, where she is chair of the Judiciary Committee and a member of the Transportation Committee. Previously she served as a school psychologist, psychotherapist, and a college professor. Before being elected to the State Senate, she served as a New Hampshire state representative.
  