
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, DailyMail



Sent:
Reports:




January 3, 2020
[APP Note: Report #1 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


January 3, 202008:52

Travel Pool Report No. 2 - "no updates" 
At 8:48 a.m., White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham informed your pooler there are "No updates at this time."
The pool remains in the three press vans parked outside the perimeter of Mar-a-Lago.



January 3, 202008:55

Travel Pool Report No. 3 - lunch lid until 1:45 p.m. 
There's a lunch lid until 1:45 p.m.



January 3, 202009:10

Travel Pool Report No. 4 - press returns to hotel 
The press vans arrived back at the hotel at 9:08 a.m.
And again, we have a lunch lid until 1:45 p.m.



January 3, 202014:03

Travel Pool Report No. 5 - pool headed to airport
The pool vans departed the hotel at 2 p.m., heading to the West Palm Beach airport.
President Trump will depart separately from Mar-a-Lago, per White House guidance sent out last night.



January 3, 202014:58

Travel Pool Report No. 6 - MAL return 
The pool vans pulled out of the West Palm Beach airport at 2:39 p.m.
We were informed after driving for several minutes that we were headed back to Mar-a-Lago, reportable when we arrived. We arrived at 2:56 p.m.
On the president's schedule, he's due to leave from the Mar-a-Lago landing zone at 3:30 p.m. for his event in Miami.



January 3, 202015:09

Travel Pool Report No. 7 - MAL, statement forthcoming 
At 3:07 p.m. the pool entered a room at MAL set up with a podium. I'd snag a seat by a TV.
More TK



January 3, 202015:17

Travel Pool Report No. 8 - Trump speaks 
At 3:13 p.m. the president strolled slowly to the podium. There are two teleprompter stands on either side of the podium.
Trump talked of Soleimani planning "Imminent and sinister attacks."
"But we caught him in the act and terminated him."
"Soleimani made the death of ... people his sick passion," he added.
"We took action last night to stop a war. We did not take action to start a war."
"We do not seek regime change ... "
More TK



January 3, 202015:29

Travel Pool Report No. 9 - no Qs 
President Trump concluded his remarks at 3:18 p.m. and didn't take questions. Pool is on the move



January 3, 202015:27

Travel Report No. 10 - heading back to WPB airport 
At 3:21 p.m. the pool vans departed Mar-a-Lago en route to the Palm Beach Airport.
Some color from MAL: the statement was given in a partitioned off room with gold trim and ceilings that were painted to look like clouds. There were two ornate gold chandeliers hanging in our section of the room.
We are leaving for Miami separately from President Trump.



January 3, 202015:41

Travel Pool Report No. 11 - Trump departure timestamp 
From the White House:
The President departed Mar-a-Lago Landing Zone at 3:37PM.



January 3, 2020
[APP Note: Report #12 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


January 3, 2020
See below, past Report #21 for report #13.


January 3, 202016:09

Travel Pool Report No. 14 - landed 
Pool is Osprey down at 4:07 p.m.
Thank you to my colleague David Martosko for filing a transcript for the pool while I was in flight.



January 3, 202016:35

Travel Pool Report No. 15 - arrival 
The motorcade arrived at King Jesus Ministry at 4:33 p.m. Pool did not see President Trump enter.
A lot of folks with their cell phones out along the route, but no noticeable signs of support or protest.
The event is open press, but your pooler will send along color/highlights.



January 3, 202016:28

Travel Pool Report No. 15 - POTUS arrival 
Pool watched POTUS disembark from Marine One at 4:24 p.m. at the Miami Executive Airport.
Marine One had landed at 4:18 p.m.
He saluted to the Marines. Pool was rushed to vans so couldn't see if he was followed by any aides.
We're rolling at 4:26 p.m.
We're heading to King Jesus International Ministry for a 5 p.m. campaign event.



January 3, 202017:13

Travel Pool Report No. 16 - event details 
President Trump took the stage of King Jesus International Ministry at 4:49 p.m.
He said a few newsy things after a group prayer on Qassem Soleimani's death.
He first touted the death of ISIS leader al-Baghdadi
"He was a depraved butcher who will never hurt another innocent person."
Turning to yesterday's events he called it a "flawless strike."
"Qassem Soleimani has been killed and his bloody rampage is now, forever gone."
"He was plotting attacks Americans, but we've now insured his atrocities have been stopped for good."
… "He was planning a major attack, but we got him."
"We do not seek war, we do not seek nation-building, we do not seek regime change."
"So let this be a warning to terrorists, if you value your own life, you will not threaten the lives of American citizens."
He's now back to your typical rally fodder including knocking ex-2020 candidate Beto O'Rourke and Elizabeth "Pocahontas" Warren.
A couple other notes –
During the opening prayers, audience members stood with both of their arms outstretched as faith leaders huddled around Trump onstage.
This is indeed a mega-church, with your pooler counting 10 jumbotron screens throughout the main sanctuary.
Your pooler has asked the Trump campaign for attendance numbers and a list of notables.
More TK



January 3, 202018:25

Pool Report No. 17 - event ending/leaving site 
A couple other things –
There was a brief "Lock Her Up" chant that broke out upon Trump's reference to Hillary Clinton.
He also suggested three-quarters of "the squad" was anti-Semitic.
‘These people hate Israel. They hate Jewish people. I won't name them. I won't bring up the name of Omar, Tlaib, AOC. I won't bring that name up. Won't bring it up. I will not bring it up! But where do these people come from?'
Also notable, the granddaughter of Billy Graham – Cissie Graham Lynch – briefly spoke.
A campaign spokesperson also sends along some names:
Pastor Maldonado Welcomes Audience
Prayer Tony Perkins Delivers Pledge
Danny Gokey Performs National Anthem
Paula White introduces POTUS
The spokesperson said "thousands of supporters in attendance."
Pool was pulled at 6:11 p.m.
Motorcade pulled out at 6:20 p.m.



January 3, 202018:24

Pool Report No. 18 - site departure 
Motorcade left the event site at 6:20 p.m.
We're en route to the Miami Executive Airport. We didn't see POTUS.
Pool Report No. 17, that contains additional event details, is currently stuck in my Outbox, but your pooler assures you it's coming.



January 3, 202018:33

Travel Pool Report No. 19 - Miami airport arrival 
Motorcade arrived at 6:26 p.m.
The pool did not see POTUS go between the Beast and Marine One.



January 3, 202018:59

Travel Pool Report No. 20 
Marine One was wheels up at approximately 6:35 p.m., with pooler watching it from the Osprey.
The pool landed at West Palm Beach International at 6:54 p.m.
We're heading to the vans.



January 3, 202019:14

Travel Pool Report 21 - travel/photo lid 
From the White House:
The President arrived at the Mar-a-Lago Landing Zone at 7:10 p.m.
We have a travel/photo lid.
A huge thanks to my co-pooler Maggie Haberman and to radio pooler Patsy Widakuswara for all of their help today.
Have a great Friday night!
Cheers,




 
Pool Reports below by David Martosko, DailyMail



Sent:
Reports:




January 3, 202015:50

Travel Pool Report #13 -- Trump transcript 
Filing this in lieu of pooler Nikki Schwab, who is getting on an Osprey. As always, check against the official transcript.
-----
Thank you very much and good afternoon. As president my highest and most solemn duty is the defense of our nation and its citizens. Last night, at my direction, the United States military successfully executed a flawless precision strike that killed the number one terrorist anywhere in the world, Qassem Soleimani. Soleimani was plotting imminent and sinister attacks on American diplomats and military personnel, but we caught him in the act and terminated him.Under my leadership America's policy is unambiguous to terrorists who harm or intend to harm any American. We will find you. We will eliminate you. We will always protect our diplomats, service members, all Americans and our allies. For years the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and its ruthless Quds Force under Soleimani's leadership has targeted, injured and murdered hundreds of American civilians and servicemen.
The recent attacks on U.S. targets in Iraq, including rocket strikes that killed an American and injured four American servicemen very badly, as well as a violent assault on our embassy in Baghdad, were carried out at the direction of Soleimani. Soleimani made the death of innocent people his sick passion, contributing to terrorist plots as far away as New Delhi and London. Today we remember and honor the victims of Soleimani's many atrocities and we take comfort in knowing that his reign of terror is over. Soleimani has been perpetrating acts of terror to destabilize the Middle East for the last 20 years. What the United States did yesterday should have been done long ago. A lot of lives would have been saved. Just recently Soleimani led the brutal repression of protesters in Iran, where more than 1,000 innocent civilians were tortured and killed by their own government.
We took action last night to stop a war. We did not take action to start a war. I have deep respect for the Iranian people. They are a remarkable people with an incredible heritage and unlimited potential. We do not seek regime change. However, the Iranian regime's aggression in the region, including the use of proxy fighters to destabilize its neighbors, must end and it must end now. The future belongs to the people of Iran, those who seek peaceful co-existence and cooperation, not the terrorist warlords who plunder their nation to finance bloodshed abroad.
The United States has the best military by far anywhere in the world. We have the best intelligence in the world. If Americans anywhere are threatened, we have all of those targets already fully identified, and I am ready and prepared to take whatever action is necessary. And that in particular refers to Iran. Under my leadership we have destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate, and recently American special operations forces killed the terrorist leader known as al-Baghdadi. The world is a safer place without these monsters.
America will always pursue the interests of good people, great people, great souls, while seeking peace, harmony and friendship with all of the nations of the world. Thank you, God bless you. God bless our great military, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you.




  