
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, U.S. Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) announced that he is endorsing Governor Mitt Romney and his campaign for President of the United States. Congressman Rohrabacher joins a strong Romney for President California team that includes Congressmen Howard "Buck" McKeon, John Campbell and Wally Herger.
Making today's announcement, Congressman Dana Rohrabacher issued the following statement: "Our country is facing great challenges. Among the most ominous is illegal immigration, which has been permitted to spin out of control for the last decade and a half. The safety of our country and the prosperity of our people are at great risk because of the magnitude of this problem. Mitt Romney is the candidate I trust most to take the steps necessary to secure our borders and protect the American people.
"Governor Romney can also be expected to provide strong economic leadership because he is the only candidate with private sector experience and a successful track record of creating jobs and managing a major corporation.
"I'm confident in Governor Romney's character and commitment to the principals at the heart of the Republican party. I cannot say that about the other candidates vying for the Republican nomination. Mitt Romney is the best candidate available for our party's nomination, and I'm going to vote for and support him. I encourage my fellow conservatives to do the same."
Welcoming Congressman Rohrabacher's support, Governor Romney said, "Throughout his time in Washington, Congressman Rohrabacher has stood strong for our Republican, conservative values. He has been a steadfast voice for fiscal responsibility, border security and limited government. These are values that our leaders in Washington cannot abdicate. I am grateful that Congressman Rohrabacher will be joining our campaign, and I look forward to seeing him in California."
Background On Congressman Dana Rohrabacher:
Congressman Dana Rohrabacher Is Serving His Ninth Term Representing California's 46th Congressional District. Representative Rohrabacher is the Ranking Member of the Investigations and Oversight Subcommittee of the House Committee on International Relations and is a senior member of the House Committee on Science. He's noted for his principled decision-making, commitment to issues on illegal immigration, national security and responsible economic policy. Throughout his years in Congress, Representative Rohrabacher has been a strong voice for fiscal restraint and has earned the praise of the National Taxpayers Union, Citizens Against Government Waste, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business.
Prior to his first election to Congress in 1988, Representative Rohrabacher served as Special Assistant to President Reagan and was one of the President's senior speechwriters. In Congress, he has been a strong advocate for the principles of President Reagan. Prior to joining Ronald Reagan's White House staff, he was an editorial writer for the Orange County Register. He and his wife are the proud parents of triplets.
  