
    
  Join the Gingrich Faith Leaders Coalition HERE


Atlanta, GA - Several prominent Christian leaders from across the country have signed on to lead the official pastors and leaders faith coalition for Newt Gingrich's presidential campaign.
The Gingrich Faith Leaders Coalition will be led by George Barna who has been hailed as "the most quoted person in the Christian Church today" having founded one of the country's preeminent Christian polling and market research firms.
Barna, who has never before endorsed a political candidate, explained in a statement that he broke his precedent in endorsing Gingrich to restore the "American vision."
"He is a man of great intellect and passion for America, and has the requisite wisdom and courage to guide this nation back to sanity and health. His policy prescriptions are well-conceived, practical, and reflect his deep understanding of government and our Constitution", said Barna. "There are no other candidates running for the presidency who possesses his unique mix of skills, knowledge, and experience - and the ability to win in November."
The coalition will assist Gingrich to engage with thousands of Christians across the country, and is already working with the candidate on a White House initiative to defend religious liberty.
"I am thrilled to have the support of George and the rest of the coalition to work with me to defend life and religious liberty not just for this campaign, but also over the next eight years," Gingrich said. "The Obama administration and activist judges have aggressively sought to undermine religion in America, and they need to be thwarted."
Barna will lead a team of 4 national co-chairs, including Dr. Jim Garlow, the California pastor behind the Proposition 8 Battle, Congressman J.C. Watts, Don Wildmon of the American Family Association, and Mat Staver, Founder and Chairman of Liberty Counsel.
Today, the Faith Leaders Coalition will be holding a national conference call, with over 50,000 pastors invited. In the coming weeks, the Gingrich Faith Leaders Coalition will be announcing several regional advisers in South Carolina, Florida, and the West Coast.
Pastor Garlow, a national co-chair, explained that the coalition's mission is both political and religious.
"Pastors and Christians across the country must recognize that this is a two man race between Romney and Gingrich. Gingrich is the man who will best represent biblical principles and will be best equipped to defeat President Obama in November", Garlow said. "For me and the people of faith joining this coalition, this is not a political move; it is a spiritual one."
Mat Staver, also a national co-chair, echoed Garlow's sentiment. "America will be unrecognizable if Obama is elected for four more years", Staver said. "We need a strong leader with domestic, international, and political experience who can inspire a new conservative resurgence in the line of Ronald Reagan. Speaker Gingrich is the clear choice."
  