
    HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz released the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address:
"The President continues to be in denial of reality. He would have us believe that global warming is our greatest threat, our military is as strong as it can be, the economy is working for American families, and that the key to alleviating poverty is more government dependence.
"The reality is very different. We have had at least eight ISIS inspired attacks on innocent Americans, including law enforcement, yet he refuses to acknowledge the root of the cause of these attacks, radical Islamic terrorism. Our military needs greater support and the economy only works for those in Washington.
"The President gives lip service to "We the People" yet has rejected the entire idea of a "government of the people, by the people, and for the people." He has issued endless executive orders, ignoring longstanding principles of separation of powers and constitutional limits on his own power.
"He lectures us on civility yet has been one of the most divisive presidents in American history. He has tried to divide us by race, class, and gender, and our beliefs. He railed tonight against "rancor" yet has done little to lead or to bring people together. While he suggested that political differences at home may be the most significant concern, he neglected the 10 American sailors who have been taken hostage by Iran today. Instead, he praised the Iran deal and no less than three times professed the threat of climate change.
"Obama's final State of the Union address marks the end of eight years of lost potential for America. We have lost opportunities for economic growth and expanding freedom. It's a sad chapter in American history that will fortunately soon come to a close. And it's a signal that Americans are ready to stand together to elect a leader who will bring back jobs and growth, champion every citizens' God-given liberties, and restore our security and our leadership in the world."
  