
    
  Perkins: Cruz is exactly the leader America needs to lead this nation to greatness again

HOUSTON, Texas – Today, the Cruz for President campaign announced the endorsement of Tony Perkins. Perkins is the Family Research Council's (FRC) fourth and longest serving president, joining the organization in August of 2003. He is one of the nation's leading voices on pro-life and pro-family issues and has been a crucial leader in promoting policies that support conservative values. Perkins hosts a daily, nationally syndicated radio show, Washington Watch with Tony Perkins and is the author of No Fear: Real Stories of a Courageous New Generation Standing for Truth.

"Tony is a man of incredible principle and faith," said Cruz. "His unwavering commitment to fight for life and marriage, and religious liberty have reverberated throughout the nation and continue to awaken a culture of life and faith throughout our communities. Tony is a steadfast fighter for the principles that have made this country a shining beacon for liberty. I am honored to have his blessing and endorsement for 2016 so that we can together coalesce conservatives and restore the values upon which this nation was founded."
Perkins served two terms in the Louisiana Legislature, where he authored and passed the nation's first Covenant Marriage law in 1997. He is a veteran of the United States Marine Corps and a former police officer. As President of FRC, Perkins has expanded the organization's reach across the nation by building a major network of pastors and churches, encouraging them to impact the culture by thinking nationally, but acting locally.
"Ted is a constitutional conservative who will fight for faith, family and freedom," said Perkins. "He will defend our right to believe and live according to those beliefs. Our families will be protected and freedom will once again mean something in America. I trust Ted to fight to pull America out of the political and cultural tailspin that President Obama's policies have put us in. This is no normal election; this election is about the very survival of our Constitution and our republic."
Perkins is also an ordained minister and remains active in Christian ministries serving as an elder in his home church and frequently filling pulpits across the country. He is a board member of Caring to Love Ministries, one of Louisiana's largest pregnancy resource centers, a trustee of Louisiana College and a member of the Louisiana Commission on Law Enforcement. Additionally, he serves as president of the Council for National Policy.
Perkins joined Cruz for the Cruz Campaign's Rally for Religious Liberty in South Carolina at Bob Jones University in Greenville last November. The rally highlighted recent acts of government-sanctioned religious persecution against Americans of faith, and in particular recent attacks against evangelical Christians.
The Family Research Council was founded in 1983, inspired by Dr. James Dobson, who endorsed Cruz in December. Past FRC President Gary Bauer endorsed Cruz last week. FRC's vision is "a culture in which human life is valued, families flourish, and religious liberty thrives."
*Titles and affiliations of Tony Perkins are provided for identification purposes only.
  