
    Note: "Further, as the rest of the 2016 GOP field has worked to make fear and prejudice the prevailing concerns of voters, Kasich has steadfastly made economic growth and reining in government spending the cornerstones of his campaign."
The Keene Sentinel
As the Iowa caucuses and our state's first-in-the-nation presidential primary draw near, the Republican field of potential nominees remains unusually crowded, to the point where Thursday night's debates on Fox, even separated into two tiers, may not include all the nationally recognized candidates still in the running.
Despite the congestion, we feel one candidate clearly stands above the other GOP contenders in both experience and temperament. That candidate is Ohio Gov. John Kasich.
Among Republicans hoping to champion the party's chances in November, Kasich's resume is unusually impressive. During his nine terms in Congress representing Ohio, he was a key figure in constructing federal budgets and reducing the national deficit, chairing the House Budget Committee for six years. He also demonstrated considerable knowledge in the areas of defense and foreign policy as an 18-year member of the House Armed Services Committee. After leaving Washington, he eventually returned to Ohio, where he's in his second term as governor of a large and politically diverse state. There, he turned a projected $6 billion state budget deficit into a $2 billion Rainy Day fund.
In both roles, Kasich has distinguished himself as a pragmatist, willing to make tough choices even when they go against conventional party wisdom. In Washington, his effort to balance the budget included strong advocacy for reassessing the nation's military bases, closing some and realigning others, and fought to end the expensive B-2 bomber program. While in Congress, he voted for an assault weapons ban and favored background checks at gun shows.
In Ohio, he stood out as a Republican governor willing to implement the expansion of Medicaid services through the Affordable Care Act. Criticized by his former tea party supporters for the move, Kasich said two things that are indicative of his leadership style. He noted the program would be paid for mainly by the federal government, including with money Ohioans had sent to Washington and deserved to see return to the state. More to the point, he noted it was simply the right thing to do to help those most in need in his state. While opposing the ACA, he acknowledges that any reworking or replacing of that law needs to include continuing to care for those Americans who have gained coverage through the program.
Read the entire endorsement here.
The Sentinel's endorsement follows closely after five other New Hampshire newspapers' endorsements, including the Concord Monitor, Nashua Telegraph,Valley News, Portsmouth Herald, Foster's Daily Democrat and Bow Times.
  