
    
At the Fox News debate tonight, Senator Ted Cruz repeatedly cited Senator Jeff Sessions as an ally of his on immigration — but the facts suggest Cruz has been all over the place.
Ted Cruz voted 11 times against Sessions during the immigration debate.

The Facts:
Cruz voted opposite of Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL) "on 11 occasions during the Senate Judiciary Committee's consideration of the immigration bill."
"On 11 occasions during the Senate Judiciary Committee's consideration of the immigration bill, Cruz voted opposite of the two staunchest immigration hardliners on the committee, Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Sessions." (CNN, 1/6/16)
Cruz "has long been a fierce proponent of expanding legal immigration and visas" and "repeatedly broke with immigration hardliners like Sen. Jeff Sessions." 
"The Texas senator has long been a fierce proponent of expanding legal immigration and visas for high-skilled workers, so much so that he repeatedly broke with immigration hardliners like Sen. Jeff Sessions during Senate Judiciary Committee proceedings in 2013." (CNN, 1/6/16)
"When Sessions, the Alabama Republican, sought to issue stringent new caps on visas issued to foreigners from across the globe, Cruz pushed back."
"When Sessions, the Alabama Republican, sought to issue stringent new caps on visas issued to foreigners from across the globe, Cruz pushed back. 'I intend to vote no on this amendment, and the reason is I think legal immigration is a fundamental pillar of our country,' Cruz said at the committee debate. 'And I think, as a nation, we need to remain a nation that doesn't just welcome, but that celebrates legal immigrants around this table.'" (CNN, 1/6/16)
Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL) on Cruz amendment to increase H-1B visas 500%: "I think the number that Senator Cruz has raised is a bit high."
"'I think the number that Senator Cruz has raised is a bit high,' Sessions said with some alarm at the time. Cruz strongly defended his idea. 'High- skilled immigrants whether temporary or permanent are, I believe, the data demonstrates pro-growth,' Cruz said. 'They generate jobs. They generate economic productivity.'" (CNN, 1/6/16)
  