
    
January 14, 2016
This week, Team Marco announced an expanded Georgia Leadership team. More leaders in Georgia are excited and inspired by Marco's vision for our country, and eager to help him win the Georgia primary on March 1. U.S. Rep. Austin Scott, Marco's Georgia Chairman, had this to say:
I'm proud to support Marco Rubio for president. As I speak to fellow conservatives in Georgia it's been impossible to ignore the growing enthusiasm for Marco Rubio's campaign, and I am glad to expand our team today.
For the first time in a long time, even many young Americans and disaffected voters have a true conservative candidate that can connect with them about the challenges they face. With Marco Rubio as America's next president, the future will be very bright.
Vic Reynolds, who is District Attorney of Cobb County (the 4th largest in Georgia), said he made his choice based on foreign policy expertise:
I'm proud to support the only candidate in this race who has the experience and record of judgement to keep our people safe.
America needs a leader with the courage to roll back the disastrous foreign policy of Barack Obama, which has done so much damage to America's standing around the world. Marco Rubio has the strength to restore our military might, destroy ISIS, protect Israel, and secure our homeland. I'm excited to join his effort to build a New American Century.
State Rep. Howard Maxwell is backing Marco because he understands the American Dream:
When Marco Rubio talks about the American Dream, he speaks from experience. He knows what it's like to come from a family without wealth or power and to achieve success.
Marco wants to ensure that it's still possible in this century for my kids and your kids to go as far as their talent and work will take them. That is what this election is all about — restoring the American Dream. That's why I decided to support Marco Rubio and why I hope others will too.
Momentum is building in Georgia for Marco!The full list of new members of the Georgia Leadership team:
Cobb County DA Vic Reynolds
Cherokee County DA Shannon Wallace
Paulding County DA Dick Donovan
Douglas County Assistant DA Ryan Leonard
Senator Rick Jeffares; Chairman of Senate Regulated Industries
Representative Howard Maxwell; Chairman of House Regulated Industries
Mayor Teresa Philyaw, Hiram
Councilman Brandon Hembree, Sugar Hill
  