
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 1601 of the National Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law 103-160), and the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 2) ("Act"), except that subsections (e) and (f) of section 10 of such Act do not apply, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established within the Department of Defense the "President's Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy" ("Board"). The Board shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the President from among persons in private life who are noted for their stature and expertise regarding the proliferation of strategic and advanced conventional weapons and are from diverse backgrounds. The President shall designate one of the members as Chairperson of the Board.
Sec. 2. Functions. The Board shall advise the President on implementation of United States conventional arms transfer policy, other issues related to arms proliferation policy, and on other matters deemed appropriate by the President. The Board shall report to the President through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) The heads of executive agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide to the Board such information as it may require for the purpose of carrying out its functions. (b) Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law, including 5 U.S.C. 5701-5707 and section 7(d) of the Act, for persons serving intermittently in government service. (c) The Department of Defense or the head of any other Federal department or agency may detail to the Board, upon request of the Chairperson of the Board, any of the personnel of the department or agency to assist the Board in carrying out its duties. (d) The Secretary of Defense shall designate a federally funded research and development center with expertise in the matters covered by the Board to provide the Board with such support services as the Board may need to carry out its duties. (e) The Department of Defense shall provide the Board with administrative services, facilities, staff, and other support services necessary for the performance of its functions.
Sec. 4. General. (a) The Board shall terminate 30 days after the date on which the President submits the final report of the Board to the Congress. (b) For reasons of national security or for such other reasons as specified in section 552(b) of title 5, United States Code, the Board shall not provide public notice or access to meetings at which national security information will be discussed. Authority to make such determinations shall reside with the Secretary of Defense or his designee who must be an official required to be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. (c) Information made available to the Board shall be given all necessary security protection in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. (d) Each member of the Board and each member of the Board's staff shall execute an agreement not to reveal any classified information obtained by virtue of his or her service with the Board except as authorized by applicable law and regulations.
William J. Clinton
The White House,
January 20, 1995.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 5:01 p.m., January 20, 1995]
  