
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Holly W. Greaves of the District of Columbia, to be the Chief Financial Officer of the Environmental Protection Agency. Ms. Greaves is a former senior manager at the public accounting firm KPMG LLP, where she provided auditing and advisory services to cabinet-level Federal agencies. She has extensive knowledge of Federal financial and IT environments, Federal accounting standards, and the laws and regulations applicable to financial management and operations. Ms. Greaves was a lead developer for industry-specific training content for KPMG's Federal audit practice, and served as a supporting lecturer for a government accounting class at George Washington University. Prior to joining KPMG, Ms. Greaves worked at the public accounting firm Ernst & Young, where she served public and private companies in a variety of industries. Ms. Greaves currently serves as the Senior Advisor for Budget and Audit to the EPA Administrator. A Tennessee native, she earned a B.S. in Accounting and Masters of Accountancy from the University of Tennessee, and is a licensed CPA, CGFM, and CISA.
Josephine Olsen of Maryland, to be Director of the Peace Corps. Ms. Olsen, Ph.D., is senior lecturer at the University of Maryland, Baltimore, and has served for the past eight years as a visiting professor at the School of Social Work and Director, Center for Global Education Initiatives. She has taught on issues of international health and social services, and has authored numerous articles and spoken frequently at academic conferences on teaching and studying abroad. Before joining the faculty, Ms. Olsen was Deputy and Acting Director of the Peace Corps from 2001 - 2009. She was also a Peace Corps volunteer in Tunisia, a country director, a regional director, and agency chief of staff. She received her Bachelor's Degree from the University of Utah and both her M.S.W. and Ph.D. from the University of Maryland.
Anne M. White of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environmental Management). Ms. White is the founder of Bastet Technical Services, LLC, a consulting firm that has been engaged in providing strategic solutions to solve complex environmental challenges across the Department of Energy complex. She has more than 25 years of experience across a broad range of activities within the nuclear field, mainly focused on project and program management projects with complex technical, regulatory, and stakeholder challenges. She has industry-recognized credentials in technical skills that lead to sound, technically underpinned, cost effective solutions. She has extensive hands on in the field experience at many of the Environmental Management sites for which she will have responsibility. Further, Ms. White has supported a number of emerging nuclear power nations to develop legal and regulatory structures and national policies. She received her Master's Degree of Science in nuclear engineering from the University of Missouri-Columbia.
Marco M. Rajkovich Jr. of Kentucky, to be a Member and Chairman of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for the remainder of a six year term expiring August 30, 2022. Mr. Rajkovich is a member of the law firm of Rajkovich, Williams, Kilpatrick & True, PLLC and has practiced for more than 30 years in mine safety and health law. He is a professional mining engineer, land surveyor, and was a certified Kentucky underground mine foreman. Prior to his law career, he worked for U.S. Steel Mining Company, Inc. for 10 years serving in various engineering and production positions. He earned a B.S. in Civil Engineering in 1977 from the University of Kentucky, a J.D. in 1987 from the University of Kentucky, and an M.A. in pastoral theology in 2016 from Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology.
Marie Royce of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Educational and Cultural Affairs). Ms. Royce, a businesswoman and former professor, has been the CEO and Principal of Marie Royce, LLC in Fullerton, California since 2016. She has more than 30 years of experience in the private sector with Fortune 500 companies and as a small business owner, creating and launching start-ups and new initiatives and serving as a key business liaison to 80 countries. As a former educator and full-time university professor, Ms. Royce led an international grant program between two universities. She is a private sector appointee on the Advisory Committee on International Communications and Information Policy (ACICIP) at the Department of State and has served on two U.S. Cultural Exchange Boards. She served as an American Council of Young Political Leaders (ACYPL) delegate to Hungary & Poland. Ms. Royce earned a B.S. and B.A. at California State Polytechnic University and an M.B.A. at Georgetown University. She speaks Spanish.
William Roper of Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition). Dr. Roper currently serves as the founding Director of the Strategic Capabilities Office in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. He previously served as the Acting Chief Architect at the Missile Defense Agency (MDA). Prior to this, Dr. Roper analyzed national security problems at MIT Lincoln Laboratory and served as a missile defense advisor to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT&L)). His awards include the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service, Secretary's Award for Excellence, USD(AT&L) Award for Excellence (Innovation), MDA Contractor of the Year, MDA Award for Innovation, and MDA Award for Technology. Both a Truman and Rhodes Scholar, Dr. Roper graduated with highest honors from Georgia Tech with Bachelor's and Master's in physics and a doctorate in mathematics from Oxford University where he studied String Theory.
Kevin Fahey of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (Acquisition). Mr. Fahey most recently served as vice president of combat vehicles and armaments at Cypress International, Inc. Mr. Fahey previously served as executive director of Systems Engineering, integration directorate in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology, and as program executive officer for combat support and combat service support at Program Executive Officer Ground Combat Systems in Warren, Michigan. He entered civil service in 1981 following graduation from the University of Massachusetts with a B.S. in industrial engineering and operations research. He has been the recipient of the Presidential Distinguished Rank Award, Exceptional Civilian Service Award, Meritorious Civilian Service Award, and the Superior Civilian Service Award.
-------
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Personnel to Key Administration Posts
The following individual to be a Member of the the Alyce Spotted Bear and Walter Soboleff Commission on Native Children

Jesse Delmar of Arizona

  