
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, designate one and appoint one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Ellen G. Engleman of Indiana, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 31, 2007. The President also intends to nominate her for the position of Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a two-year term. Ms. Engleman is currently the Administrator of the Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA) with the Department of Transportation, where she has served since 2001. In this capacity, she has led the RSPA in ensuring the safe transportation of approximately 800,000 daily shipments of hazardous materials; the safety of America's energy infrastructure of 2.2 million miles of liquid and gas pipeline; and of emergency transportation in times of civil or natural disasters. From 1994 until 2001, Ms. Engleman was president and CEO of Electricore, Inc. She previously served as both Director of Corporate and Government Affairs at Direct Relief International, the nation's oldest non-sectarian medical relief agency. Ms. Engleman is a graduate of Indiana University, earned her law degree from Indiana University School of Law and went on to receive her master's in public administration from Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government.
The President intends to designate Diane M. Stuart of Utah, to be Acting Director of the Violence Against Women Office at the Department of Justice. She has served as Director of this office for the past year at the Senior Executive Service level. Ms. Stuart has an extensive record of working to protect victim's rights throughout her career. She was the State Coordinator for the Utah Domestic Violence Cabinet Council. Prior to that, Ms. Stuart worked as a Domestic Violence Victim Advocacy Specialist in the Division of Child and Family Services for the State of Utah. In addition to having been on the leadership group of the National Advisory Council on Violence Against Women, Ms. Stuart also served on the Woman's Advisory Council for Senator Orin G. Hatch, the Utah Council on Victims of Crime, and Utah Domestic Violence Advisory Council. She is a graduate of the University of Pittsburgh and earned her master's degree from Utah State University.
The President intends to nominate Jerry Pinkney of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 3, 2008. Mr. Pikney is a retired Professor of Art and is a graduate of the University of the Arts.
The President intends to nominate Karen Lias Wolff of Michigan, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 3, 2008. Dr. Wolff currently serves as Dean at the University of Michigan, School of Music. She is a graduate of Morningside College and received both her master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to appoint Jose Luis Galvez III of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Capital Planning Commission for a six year term expiring January 1, 2009. Mr. Galvez is Senior Vice President of Cochran Stephenson & Donkervoet, Inc. He received his bachelor's degree in architecture from the University of Virginia.
  