
    Thank you all. I hope you've enjoyed this fantastic concert. I'm traveling—as you can see, I'm traveling in pretty good company today, with the First Lady of the United States, Laura, the mother of Barbara and Jenna who we love dearly.
Listen, I want to thank all the entertainers who were here today. How about Hilary Duff. She was fantastic. Thank you, Hilary. JoJo—JoJo is here—[applause]— yes. Ruben Studdard—you talk about a success story. Ryan Cabrera—I appreciate Ryan being here. How about 3 Doors Down? Pretty cool guys, right? Seem cool to me. Fuel—I appreciate Fuel being here.
Jason Sehorn—I'm honored that my friend Jason—and I'm really proud and pleased that he brought his wife, Angie Harmon. I want to thank Steve Baldwin for being with us today. I'm honored that Steve was here. Erika Harold, Miss America 2003—what a fine person Erika is. How about Kelly Perdew, "The Apprentice." Next thing you know, the guy will be running for President. Nancy O'Dell—I'm honored that Nancy is with us. I appreciate you all coming.
Listen, I'm particularly thrilled to be standing on the stage with some of America's soldiers in the army of compassion. So the theme of this Inauguration is to celebrate freedom and to honor service. Today Laura and I went by and we were able to thank some of the men and women who wear our Nation's uniform for their service to our country, for their sacrifice for our freedoms. And today, at this concert, we're particularly thrilled that we're honoring service.
You know what that means? It means love a neighbor just like you'd like to be loved yourself. Take time out of your life to make somebody else's life better. By helping heal a broken heart or surrounding a friend with love or feeding the hungry or providing shelter for the homeless, you can help change America for the better, one heart, one soul, one conscience at a time.
I want to thank you all for setting such a fantastic example. Thank you for your service.
And my call to you all is that as you enjoy the great freedoms of America and as you enjoy yourself at this Inauguration, I hope you take away the lesson of helping somebody in need. And when you do, it will not only make our country a better place; it will lift up your own spirit.
Thanks for coming. Enjoy yourself. May God bless you all, and may God bless America.
  