
    Georgia supporters, including former Lt. Governor Mark Taylor, go door-to-door for Edwards in Greenville
Greenville, South Carolina – Today, as Senator John Edwards embarked on Day Two of his four-day "Bringing It Home" South Carolina bus tour, Edwards supporters from Georgia traveled to Greenville, South Carolina to campaign on his behalf. More than 30 Georgians for Edwards, among them former Georgia Lt. Governor Mark Taylor, spent the morning and afternoon going door-to-door, making the case for Edwards to Greenville voters. The group also participated in a phone bank operation, organized by Edwards campaign volunteers in Greenville.
"It is critical that the Democratic Party nominate a candidate who can compete anywhere in America and win," said former Lt. Gov. Mark Taylor. "We know that candidate is John Edwards – and that's why we're all here today, talking to voters on his behalf. As a fellow Southerner who grew up in a rural area, John Edwards shares our values, understands our issues and, most importantly, he's offered bold and specific solutions to address what matters most to voters in states like Georgia and South Carolina. I believe he's the only candidate with the vision and leadership needed to win both the primary and the general election."
Yesterday, Edwards launched four-day sprint across the state of South Carolina aboard the Main Street Express. Edwards, who was born in South Carolina, is the only Democratic candidate to ever win in a "red" state. Edwards leads the Democratic field in both campaign stops and money raised in the Palmetto State, and his campaign boasts an impressive statewide grassroots organization strengthened by deep support from Edwards' 2004 campaign.
Edwards has garnered strong support from leaders in South Carolina's neighboring states. In addition to former Lt. Gov. Taylor, Edwards has earned the endorsement of former Georgia Gov. Roy Barnes, as well as Georgia State Senate Democratic Leader Robert Brown and Georgia State House Democratic Leader DuBose Porter. Former U.S. Rep. Ed Jenkins, from Georgia, has also endorsed Edwards, along with former U.S. Rep. Ben "Cooter" Jones, who has campaigned extensively for Edwards in Iowa and New Hampshire.
Last week, the Edwards campaign announced a list of current and former elected officials in Georgia and eight other February 5th states who were joining the campaign's team of advisors in all 22 February 5th states. The campaign highlighted the strength of its organization in February 5th states all across the country, including:

State advisors in all 22 February 5th states
Endorsements from seven labor unions that together represent more than 1.5 million members in February 5th states
Endorsements from a majority of State House and Senate Democratic legislators in North Dakota and Oklahoma
706 One Corps chapters, the local service arm of the Edwards campaign, in February 5th states
Statewide grassroots organizing calls held with advisors and supporters in all 22 February 5th states this month.

  