
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seventeen individuals to serve as members of his administration.
The President intends to nominate Jack C. Chow for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Representative of the Secretary of State for HIV/AIDS. Dr. Chow will also continue his service as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Health and Science issues in the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental Scientific Affairs. As Special Representative for HIV/AIDS, Dr. Chow will co-chair with the Department of Health and Human Services the Policy Coordination Committee on HIV/AIDS. Additionally, he will oversee the intra-Department coordination on HIV/AIDS issues including through active direction of the Department of State's HIV/AIDS Coordination Committee and represent the Department of State and the Administration at international policy meetings on HIV/AIDS. Chow has previously worked at the Department of Health and Human Services as well as the Office of Science and Technology Policy. He received his undergraduate degree from the University of Pennsylvania, a Master's from the University of California at Berkley, a M.D. from the University of California at San Francisco, and M.P.A. from Harvard University and a M.B.A. from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to nominate the following three individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Trustees for the Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation:


Margaret Goldwater Clay of California, for the remainder of a term expiring June 6, 2006
Michael Goldstein of New York, for the remainder of a term expiring October 13, 2005
John Henry Winston of Alabama, for the remainder of a term expiring August 11, 2004

The President intends to nominate the following three individuals to serve as Members of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board:


Andrew Saul of New York, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring September 25, 2004, and upon confirmation, designate as Chair
Gordon Whiting of New York, for the remainder of a four year term expiring September 25, 2003
Alejandro Modesto Sanchez of Florida, for the remainder of a four year term expiring October 11, 2002

The President intends to nominate the following ten individuals to serve as Members of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board:


  Carol C. Gambill of Tennessee
  Douglas Carnine of Oregon
  Carmel Borders of Kentucky
  Blanca E. Enriquez of Texas
  Jean Osborn of Illinois
  Phyllis C. Hunter of Texas
  Mark G. Yudof of Minnesota
  Juan R. Olivarez of Michigan
  William T. Hiller of Ohio
  Robin Morris of Georgia

  