
    Klobuchar Receives Endorsement from 13th Sitting Iowa Legislator
DES MOINES, IA — On the heels of Tuesday's debate at Drake University, Iowa State Representative Karin Derry today endorsed U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for President. Derry, who flipped suburban House District 39 from Republican to Democratic hands in 2018, cited Klobuchar's legislative record and history of bringing voters together in announcing her decision.
"Amy Klobuchar's message of unity and progress for working families is exactly what we need to offer voters across Iowa and the country to win back the White House in November," said Iowa Representative Karin Derry. "Amy's focus on the issues that most directly impact peoples' lives -- like access to healthcare, job training and education -- and her long track record of delivering for her constituents make her the strongest candidate to lead our party to victory in the Presidential election and down ballot races across the country. I strongly encourage my friends and constituents to join me in caucusing for her in just a few weeks' time."
An attorney and longtime resident of Johnston, Iowa, Derry first ran for office in 2018 on a platform to improve public education and access to affordable healthcare. She currently serves on the Iowa House Judiciary Committee and has sponsored legislation on mental health care, climate change, agriculture and education.
Klobuchar, who has been widely praised for her legislative record in the U.S. Senate, has the support of more than 20 current and former members of the Iowa Legislature -- the most of any candidate. Each time she has led the ticket as a Senate candidate in Minnesota, Democrats have flipped the State House of Representatives from Republican to Democratic control.
Klobuchar now has the support of 13 current Iowa legislators -- more than any other candidate in the field. Other sitting Iowa legislators supporting her include:
• Iowa Senator Kevin Kinney• Iowa Senator Liz Mathis• Iowa Senator Rich Taylor• Iowa Senator Todd Taylor• Iowa Representative Marti Anderson• Iowa Representative Bruce Bearinger• Iowa Representative Molly Donahue• Iowa Representative Ruth Ann Gaines• Iowa Representative Charlie McConkey• Iowa Representative Andy McKean• Iowa Representative Sharon Steckman• Iowa Representative Cindy Winckler
  