
    Thomas J. Barrett, of Alaska, to be Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation. (New Position)
Steven G. Bradbury, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Jack Landman Goldsmith III, resigned.
Vanessa Lynne Bryant, of Connecticut, to be United States District Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice Dominic J. Squatrito, retired.
Renee Marie Bumb, of New Jersey, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice William H. Walls, retired.
Michael A. Chagares, of New Jersey, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Michael Chertoff, resigned.
Rajkumar Chellaraj, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Administration), vice William A. Eaton, resigned.
Brian M. Cogan, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Frederic Block, retired.
Thomas M. Golden, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Franklin Van Antwerpen, elevated.
S. Pamela Gray, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice Susan Rebecca Holmes, retired.
Andrew J. Guilford, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Dickran M. Tevrizian, Jr., retired.
Noel Lawrence Hillman, of New Jersey, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice William G. Bassler, retired.
Brett M. Kavanaugh, of Maryland, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Laurence H. Silberman, retired.
Gray Hampton Miller, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Ewing Werlein, Jr., retired.
Richard T. Miller, of Texas, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.
Richard T. Miller, of Texas, to be Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
Susan Davis Wigenton, of New Jersey, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice John W. Bissell, retired.
  