
    
  Rep. Robideaux and Davis to serve as state co-chairs of the Ron Paul 2012 campaign in Louisiana

BATON ROUGE, Louisiana — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul was endorsed today by Louisiana State Representative Joel Robideaux (R-Lafayette) and former Deputy Chairman of the Louisiana State GOP Charlie Davis.
Rep. Robideaux and Mr. Davis will serve as Louisiana co-chairs for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign. In making his endorsement and assuming campaign co-chair responsibility for Louisiana, Rep. Robideaux offered the following statement:
"Ron Paul is the only Republican running for President who has the credibility to actually follow through on his commitment to stop the runaway train of federal bureaucracy and spending.
"None of the other Republican candidates have offered a plan to make any meaningful cuts in federal spending. In fact, the other candidates only seem interested in wearing the conductor's hat and tooting the horn a few times as the train goes over the cliff.
"Only Dr. Paul has actually offered a plan to cut spending in real terms rather than just trimming the planned increases. Dr. Paul has proven he has no interest in wearing the conductor's hat or tooting the horn. He is only interested in pulling hard on the brake to keep the train from going over the cliff and taking all of us down with it.
"As a CPA, and Chairman of the Ways & Means Committee with responsibility for taxation and revenue, Dr. Paul is the only candidate I trust to deal with this immense problem and restore fiscal sanity to America's budget process. Only Dr. Paul has consistently proven his commitment to limited government and less spending over the last 35 years."
A former Deputy Chairman of the Republican Party of Louisiana, Charlie Davis has held many positions in the Party since 1995, and was recently elected unopposed to a new term on the Republican State Central Committee. A chief organizer of the "Pro-Life, Pro-Family" delegate slate that won the majority of the state's 2008 Republican delegates, he also served as a delegate to the 2004 Republican National Convention and was a member of the 2008 Electoral College.
Mr. Davis also currently serves on the board of the Louisiana Family Forum and is married to Ellen Wray Davis with one son and two daughters. Mrs. Davis is former Political Director of GOPAC, former Executive Director of the Republican Party of Louisiana, and 2008 Republican National Convention delegate.
"Ron Paul best addresses the core problems that face America—the bloated federal bureaucracy, an ever-growing national debt, and a systemic loss of personal liberties that are threatening the very foundation of our Republic," said Mr. Davis in his endorsement as he joined Rep. Robideaux for the Louisiana campaign co-chairmanship.
Ron Paul 2012 campaign Louisiana State Director Pete Chamberlain welcomed the endorsements as well as the intensity the co-chair structure will bring to the Bayou State effort.
"We are excited to announce Charlie Davis' and Rep. Joel Robideaux' leadership in the Louisiana campaign. The support of such highly esteemed Republican leaders, both of whom are on the vanguard of the conservative movement in Louisiana, speaks highly of the work already in progress and forthcoming efforts. It's clear that the Ron Paul campaign is building the momentum and organization it will take to win Louisiana," said Mr. Chamberlain.
For more information on the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign in Louisiana, or to register to volunteer, please visit http://www.ronpaul2012.com/states/louisiana/.
  