
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint seven to serve as members of his administration:
The President intends to nominate Michael Schwartz of Illinois, to be Member at Large and Chairman of the Railroad Retirement Board for the remainder of a five-year term expiring August 28, 2007. Mr. Schwartz is the retired Director of the Illinois Department of Central Management Services. He received his bachelor's degree from Illinois State University and earned his master's degree from the University of Illinois.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals as Members of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of Health Sciences:
The President intends to nominate Lawrence Mohr, Jr. of South Carolina, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring June 20, 2003
The President intends to nominate Sharon Falkenheimer of Texas, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring June 20, 2007.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Committee For Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled:
The President intends to appoint William Mea of Virginia (Department of Labor).
The President intends to appoint Boyd Kevin Rutherford of Maryland (General Services Administration).
The President intends to appoint John Surina of Virginia (Department of Agriculture).
The President intends to appoint Joanne M. Wilson of Virginia (Department of Education).
The President intends to appoint Rear Admiral Justin D. McCarthy of Michigan (Department of the Navy).
The President intends to appoint Andrew D. Houghton of California (Public Citizen Representing Severely Handicapped Employed In Nonprofit Agencies for Other Severely Handicapped), for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 21, 2005.
The President intends to appoint James Omvig of Louisiana (Public Citizen Representing Blind Employed In Nonprofit Agencies for the Blind), for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 21, 2006.
  