
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
January 8
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton attended the memorial service for his mother, Virginia Clinton Kelley, at the Hot Springs Convention Center in Hot Springs, AR. They then traveled to Hope, AR, where they attended the burial service at Rose Hill Cemetery and a reception following the service. In the late afternoon, they returned to Washington, DC.
In the late evening, the President traveled to Brussels, Belgium.
January 9
After arriving in Brussels in the afternoon, the President met with King Albert II of Belgium at Laeken Palace.
In the evening, the President toured the Grand Place. Following a visit to a local cafe, the President returned to the Conrad Hotel, his residence during his stay in Brussels.
January 10
In the morning, the President went to NATO Headquarters where he met with NATO Secretary General Manfred Woerner and attended a briefing by U.S. military commanders. Following the briefing, the President attended the opening session of the NATO summit.
In the afternoon, the President went to Laeken Palace where he attended a luncheon hosted by King Albert II of Belgium for NATO leaders and ministers of foreign affairs. Following the luncheon, the President returned to NATO Headquarters where he attended afternoon sessions of the NATO summit.
In the evening, the President attended a summit working dinner at the Chateau Val Du Chesse. Following a late evening walk and visit to a toy and novelty shop, he returned to the Conrad Hotel.
January 11
In the morning, the President attended the final session of the NATO summit at NATO Headquarters. He then attended meetings and a working lunch with European Union officials at European Union Headquarters.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Prague, Czech Republic. Following his arrival, he attended official welcoming ceremonies in the First Courtyard of Prague Castle.
In the evening, after a walk across the Charles Bridge, the President and President Václav Havel of the Czech Republic had dinner at the Golden Tiger Pub. Later in the evening, he went to the Reduta Jazz Club.
January 12
In the morning, the President was given a tour of the Holocaust memorial at the Pinkas Synagogue and the Old Jewish Cemetery. Following the tour, he went to the U.S. Ambassador's residence where he hosted a working lunch for Visegrad leaders.
In the afternoon, the President discussed the expansion of trade in Eastern Europe with members of the business community in a K-Mart store. He then went to the Prague Airport where he attended a U.S. Embassy reception before traveling to Kiev, Ukraine.
In the late evening, the President traveled to Moscow, Russia, where he remained overnight.
The White House announced that the President has directed Bernard Nussbaum to request the Attorney General to appoint a special counsel to conduct, as expeditiously as possible, an appropriate, independent investigation of the Whitewater matter and report to the American people.
January 13
In the morning, the President met with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia, who then gave him a tour of the Kremlin.
In the afternoon, the President again met with President Yeltsin. The President then visited the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia, Alexy II, at Central Clinical Hospital.
In the evening, the President attended a reception at the Spaso House, the residence of the U.S. Ambassador. He then attended a private dinner with President Boris Yeltsin at his country home.
January 14
In the morning, the President placed a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. He then went to the Kremlin where he met with President Yeltsin. Following their discussions, the two Presidents held a news conference.
In the afternoon, the President went to Ostankino Television Station where he participated in a question-and-answer session with Russian citizens.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a state dinner hosted by President Boris Yeltsin in the Hall of Facets at the Kremlin.
The President named Michael Blumenthal as Chairman of the Fund for Large Enterprises in Russia.
  