
    Mt. Pleasant, SC - Republican Presidential candidate Rick Santorum has received the endorsement of Congressman Lou Barletta (R-PA).
Representative Lou Barletta said: "Rick Santorum has been a good friend of mine for many years. He was always supportive, especially when I was mayor of Hazleton and during my campaigns. He is a great leader and an incredibly hard worker."
Rick Santorum said: "I am honored to receive Lou's endorsement today. Lou has been a national leader on fighting illegal immigration and has been a fighter for the people of northeastern Pennsylvania in Congress. I am looking forward to working with Lou as we continue to build upon the momentum generated in the Iowa Caucuses."
Born and raised in Hazleton, Barletta and his wife started their own business. For $29.95, the Barlettas began a line-painting business. Through hard work and perseverance, they grew that business into the largest of its kind in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the sixth-largest of its kind in the entire nation.
As a small business owner, Lou Barletta saw how government regulation and taxes could affect the bottom line. Even though he had very little interest in politics for years, he decided to run for a slot on City Council in his home town of Hazleton. He was first elected to City Council in 1998, then was elected mayor in 2000.
Despite inheriting a massive budget shortfall, he was able to turn the city of Hazleton around with tough fiscally responsible decisions, earning statewide praise and recognition. In addition, his leadership on the issue of illegal immigration in Hazleton garnered national attention. Representative Barletta served as Hazleton's mayor for three terms, each time being re-elected by increasing vote margins.
In September 2004, Lou Barletta was appointed by the White House to serve on the United Nation Advisory Committee of Local Authorities as the representative of the United States of America. In November 2010, Lou Barletta was elected to the U.S. Congress.
Representative Barletta and his wife, Mary Grace, are the parents of four daughters: Kelly, April, Lindsey, and Grace. His wife and two of his daughters are teachers, and a third daughter is studying to become a teacher. Representative Barletta and Mary Grace also have one grandson, Gabriel Louis.
  