
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Board of Directors of the Federal National Mortgage Association for terms ending on the date of the annual meeting of the stockholders in 1982.
Merrill Butler is currently president of Butler Housing Corp. (Irvine, Calif.) and Bullard Homes Corp. (Fresno, Calif.). He began his home building career in 1956 when he founded the Butler-Harbour Construction Co. in Anaheim, Calif. Mr. Butler is president of the National Association of Home Builders and is a member of the advisory committee of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. He is a past president of the Building Industry Association of Southern California. He was named Southern California Builder of the Year by that association in 1978. Mr. Butler graduated from the University of Southern California (1948) and served during World War II as a combat officer and earned a Silver Star, Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Presidential Unit Citation, and Army Commendation Ribbon. Mr. Butler is married, has three children, and resides in Corona Del Mar, Calif. He was born February 18, 1925, in Los Angeles, Calif.
James B. Coles has been engaged as a general contractor and owner and chairman of the board of James B. Coles, Inc., and the Coles Development Co., Inc. (San Diego, Calif.), since 1972. He is a member of the National Association of Home Builders and serves on the executive board and board of directors of San Diego State University. Mr. Coles was Reagan for President finance chairman for San Diego, Imperial, and Riverside Counties in 1979-80. He graduated from San Diego State University (B.A., 1967) and served in the U.S. Army in 1960-63. Mr. Coles is married, has two daughters, and resides in Del Mar, Calif. He was born September 29, 1941, in Camden, N.J.
Bert A. Getz has been president and director of the Globe Corp., a family-owned holding company (Scottsdale, Ariz.) since 1959. He has also served as director of the Arizona Bank since 1970, and the First National Bank of Winnetka (Winnetka, Ill.) since 1968. Mr. Getz graduated from the University of Michigan (B.B.A., 1959). He is married, has three children, and resides in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was born May 7, 1937, in Chicago, Ill.
Dianne E. Ingels is currently an independent real estate broker, investor, and consultant in Colorado Springs, Colo. In 1965-68 she was a licensed realtor with Weidman and Co. and was a partner of Villa de Mesa development project. Miss Ingels was a partner with Smartt-Ingels & Associates, Realtors, in 1968-75. She was appointed to the Colorado Springs Urban Renewal Commission in 1972 and was elected chairman of the Commission in 1974. In 1976-77 Miss Ingels was president and broker, Ingels Co. She then created Dianne Ingels and Associates. She is a member of the National Association of Realtors and the Colorado Association of Realtors. She served on the board of directors of Columbia Savings and Loan Association. Miss Ingels graduated from the University of Colorado (B.S., 1963) and New York University (M.S., 1964). She resides in Colorado Springs, Colo., and was born August 8, 1941, in Denver, Colo.
James E. Lyon is currently chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the River Oaks Bank & Trust Co., the River Oaks Financial Corp., and Ruska Instruments Corp. He also is a member of the World Business Council, American Institute of Banking, Houston Bankers Association, National Board of Realtors, Texas Real Estate Association, Houston Board of Realtors, and the Houston Home Builders Association. Mr. Lyon has been actively involved in the Republican Party in Texas. He was Texas finance chairman for Citizens for Reagan in 1976 and was involved in fundraising activities during the 1980 Reagan-Bush campaign. Mr. Lyon attended Rice University in Houston and the University of Houston. He served in the U.S. Marine Corps in 1945-47. Mr. Lyon has three children and resides in Houston, Tex. He was born August 25, 1927, in Houston.
  