
    LAS VEGAS, NV -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced the leadership of Oregon Veterans for John McCain, a statewide grassroots organization that will work to bolster John McCain's support within Oregon's veterans' community.
"John McCain recognizes and understands the sacrifices of those who serve our country in the armed forces. John McCain served our country heroically for 25 years in the Navy including 5 1/2 years in the Hanoi Hilton,'" said Congressman Denny Smith, Honorary Co-Chair of Oregon McCain Campaign. "John McCain has put our country's interest ahead of his own self-interest through his bipartisan work in Congress and his military service. He has worked tirelessly to improve veterans' health care by introducing several bills to ensure equal access to quality care, including a bill to restore coverage to retired service members."
Greg Wooldridge, Chairman of Oregon Veterans for McCain, added: "Barack Obama met with our military men and women serving on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan to talk about what he has done to support them. Yet, in May 2007, Barack Obama was one of only 14 Senators to vote to cut off critical funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Had Barack Obama had his way, our troops would not have had billions in vital equipment. Senator Obama continues to play politics with our nation's foreign policy by announcing his plan for Iraq and Afghanistan before his fact finding' trip, further proving that John McCain is the only candidate with the courage and judgment to lead our country at this time."
McCain's campaign announced the leadership of Oregon's Veterans for John McCain today at a press event in Wilsonville that featured veterans across generations and branches of the military.
OREGON VETERANS FOR JOHN MCCAIN LEADERSHIP TEAM
Leadership
Congressman Denny Smith, Honorary Co-Chair of Oregon McCain Campaign, Salem Greg Wooldridge, Chairman of Oregon Veterans for McCain, Portland
Coalition Members
Russ Walker, Keizer
John C. "Jake" McMichael, Wilsonville
David Flores, Portland
Dave Hoover, Canby
Don Bourgeous, Portland
Paul Bourgeous, Portland
Sharon Claflin, Portland
David Strong, Wilsonville
Bill Adams, Beaverton
Mike Fitz, Bend
John Wight, Eugene
Mark L. Rathburn, Eugene
Dr. Pat Marmion, Portland
Ray Anderson, Portland
Rupert Fixott, Portland
Ken Hergenhan, Portland
Bru ce Brossard, Portland
Troy Ferguson, Portland
M. Alex "Tex" Harkins, Portland
Eric Watkins, Tigard
  