
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
S. Lane Genatowski of New York, to be Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy at the Department of Energy.
Mr. Genatowski is currently a managing partner in investments in Dividend Income Advisors, a firm he founded in 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Genatowski was a senior energy investment banker and business group manager at JP Morgan Chase, Kidder, Peabody, Bank of America, and Wells Fargo. His involvement in the energy industry started in 1976 as an attorney at Hawkins, Delafield & Wood in New York. Mr. Genatowski earned a bachelor's degree from the City University of New York and a J.D. from Fordham University School of Law. He currently resides in Houston, Texas.
David Hale of New Jersey, to be an Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs.
Ambassador David Hale, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career-Minister, is the Ambassador to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, a position he has held since 2015. He previously served as the United States Ambassador to the Republic of Lebanon from 2013 to 2015 and as the United States Ambassador to Jordan from 2005 to 2008. In Washington, D.C., he has served as the Special Envoy and Deputy Special Envoy for Middle East Peace from 2009 to 2013 and as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs from 2008 to 2009. From 2001 to 2003, Ambassador Hale was Director for Israel-Palestinian Affairs. He was Executive Assistant to the Secretary of State from 1997 and 1998. Mr. Hale received a B.S.F.S. from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and he is the recipient of numerous senior State Department awards, including the Distinguished Service Award and the Presidential Rank Award of Meritorious Service.
Bryan Jarrett of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor for Policy.
Mr. Jarrett is the Acting Administrator of the United States Department of Labor's Wage and Hour Division, which administers and enforces various Federal labor laws. Prior to joining the Department of Labor, Mr. Jarrett worked as an attorney for the law firms of Jones Day and Morgan, Lewis & Bockius. He also clerked on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Mr. Jarrett graduated summa cum laude with a B.A. from Brigham Young University and graduated with Pro Bono Distinction and a J.D. from Stanford Law School.
  