
    If I could have everybody's attention for just a moment, the first thing I would like to do is to ask Mr. Walter Haas, who's head of Levi Strauss, to come up here so everybody can thank him for his generosity-Is he here?—and also Mrs. Haas. While they are coming up, I would like to say that the uniforms they've given out are just beautiful.
All of you are standing in front of one of the world's symbols of freedom and democracy, and that's our White House, on my left. Every President of this Nation has lived here except George Washington, and it was built before the second President left office.
All of you are part of a great team, assembled here together, but we know that your achievements in the past, present, and future are because of your own individual courage, commitment, and initiative. You'll be going from here to compete in international competition in the future. I know, because of your own excellence and commitment, that you'll do well and continue to represent our Nation in the finest possible way.
I want to say again that this has been a day of opportunity for me, as President of our great Nation, and for the Members of Congress, representing the legislative branch, to pay our tribute to you on behalf of more than 220 million Americans, who share with you a deep commitment to individuality, to freedom, to personal achievement, and to liberty not only for ourselves but for others around the world.
You have honored me by letting me shake your hand, and you have honored the White House and all it stands for by representing our Nation so well. God bless you. I love every one of you.
Thank you very much.
Here's Mr. Haas, who's been so nice to all of you. And I think you might want to just express your pleasure and your thanks to him.
Rosalynn asked me to announce that the White House is open, if you'd like to visit it. In the meantime, of course, we have refreshments and things for you and your parents and your friends.
Thank you very much.
If the employees of Levi Strauss would come to the stage, we'd like to see you just a moment. The employees of Levi Strauss, who came into Washington to help with the fittings of the uniforms and the clothing-if you'd just come to the stage for a moment, we'd appreciate it.
  