
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to Section 123 d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d) ), the text of the proposed Agreement for Cooperation between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy with accompanying agreed minute; my written approval, authorization and determination concerning the agreement; and the memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the agreement. The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy, which includes a summary analysis of the provisions of the agreement, and the views of the Members of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency are also enclosed.
The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, which I signed into law on March 10, 1978, calls upon me to renegotiate existing peaceful nuclear cooperation agreements in order to obtain the new provisions set forth in that Act. In my judgment, the proposed agreement for cooperation between the United States and Indonesia, together with its agreed minute, meets all statutory requirements.
I am particularly pleased to note in this connection that Indonesia deposited its instrument of accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons on July 12, 1979, thereby becoming the 109th Party to that landmark treaty and cornerstone of international nonproliferation efforts. This action reflected Indonesia's commitment to international non-proliferation efforts, and marks a notable step toward the ultimate goal of universal acceptance of the objectives of the NPT.
The proposed bilateral agreement between us reflects the desire of the Government of the United States and the Government of Indonesia to update the framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between our two countries in a manner that recognizes both the shared nonproliferation objectives and the close relationship between the United States and Indonesia. The proposed agreement will, in my view, further the non-proliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed agreement and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution, and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 2, 1980.
  