
    "Days after President Obama insulted business owners by crediting government for their achievements, his campaign has doubled down on Solyndra, calling the company 'successful and innovative.' There was nothing 'innovative' about giving political payoffs to campaign donors. There was nothing 'successful' about 1,800 workers losing their jobs or taxpayers losing hundreds of millions of dollars. Once again, we are reminded why President Obama's approach to the economy has so utterly failed." —Ryan Williams, Romney Spokesman
The Obama Campaign Claims The Now-Bankrupt Solyndra Was "Widely Praised As Successful And Innovative":
Obama Campaign Spokesperson Lis Smith, On Solyndra: "Widely Praised As Successful And Innovative." SMITH: "In fact, both Republican and Democratic administrations advanced Solyndra's application, and the company was widely praised as successful and innovative both before and after receiving the Department of Energy loan guarantee." (David Shepardson, "Romney Targets Obama, Loan For Electric Vehicle Startup In New Ad," The Detroit News, 7/18/12)
Hundreds Of Millions Of Wasted Tax Dollars And 1,800 Lost Jobs Is "Successful?"
In March 2009, President Obama's Energy Department Awarded A $535 Million Loan Guarantee To Solyndra — The First Loan Approved By The Obama Administration. "Energy Secretary Steven Chu today offered a $535 million loan guarantee for Solyndra, Inc. to support the company's construction of a commercial-scale manufacturing plant for its proprietary cylindrical solar photovoltaic panels. The company expects to create thousands of new jobs in the U.S. while deploying its solar panels across the U.S. and around the world." (U.S. Department Of Energy, "Obama Administration Offers $535 Million Loan Guarantee To Solyndra, Inc.," Press Release, 3/20/09)
Solyndra Went Bankrupt In 2011, Costing Taxpayers Hundreds Of Millions Of Dollars. "In a blow to the Obama administration's efforts to create green jobs, solar-cell maker Solyndra announced Wednesday that it will close its remaining Fremont factory, lay off its 1,100 employees and file for bankruptcy. The news marked an abrupt end for a company once considered among the most innovative in a fast-changing industry. The bankruptcy also represents a high-profile failure for a federal stimulus program that gives loan guarantees to green-tech manufacturers." (David R. Baker and Carolyn Said, "Solyndra Closes Fremont Plant - Stimulus Hopes Dim," San Francisco Chronicle, 9/1/11)
Solyndra's Bankruptcy Cost 1,861 Workers Their Jobs. "On the day it closed, Solyndra said it was laying off 1,100 full-time and temporary employees. But 1,861 workers lost their jobs as the solar panel manufacturer shut its doors, according to U.S. Labor Department documents provided to The Bay Citizen under the Freedom of Information Act." (Aaron Glantz, "Solyndra Layoffs Larger Than Previously Reported," The Bay Citizen, 6/13/12)
Who Had Reason To Praise The Solyndra Loan? President Obama's Donors And Allies Who Were Profiting From Solyndra:
The Administration Restructured The Solyndra Loan "In Such A Way That Private Investors — Including A Fundraiser For President Barack Obama — Moved Ahead Of Taxpayers For Repayment..." "The Obama administration restructured a half-billion dollar federal loan to a troubled solar energy company in such a way that private investors — including a fundraiser for President Barack Obama — moved ahead of taxpayers for repayment in case of a default, government records show. ... Under terms of the February loan restructuring, two private investors — Argonaut Ventures I LLC and Madrone Partners LP — stand to be repaid before the U.S. government if the solar company is liquidated." (Matthew Daly, "Obama Admin Reworked Solyndra Loan To Favor Donor," The Associated Press, 9/16/11)
George Kaiser's Argonaut Ventures Is The "Single Largest Shareholder Of Solyndra." "Kaiser's Argonaut Ventures and its affiliates have been the single largest shareholder of Solyndra, according to SEC filings and other records. The company holds 39 percent of Solyndra's parent company, bankruptcy records filed Tuesday show." (Ronnie Greene And Matthew Mosk, "Obama Officials Sat In On Solyndra Meetings," iWatch And ABC News, 9/9/11)


    During President Obama's 2008 Campaign, Kaiser Raised At Least $50,000 For The Obama Campaign. (Center For Responsive Politics, Accessed 7/13/12)
  

Steve Spinner — "An Elite Obama Fundraiser" — Presided Over The Energy Investment Program And "Pushed And Prodded" For Solyndra Loan Approval While His Wife's Law Firm Represented The Company. "An elite Obama fundraiser hired to help oversee the administration's energy loan program pushed and prodded career Department of Energy officials to move faster in approving a loan guarantee for Solyndra, even as his wife's law firm was representing the California solar company, according to internal emails made public late Friday." (Matthew Mosk, "Obama Fundraiser Pushed Solyndra Deal From Inside," ABC News, 10/7/11)


    Spinner Raised Over $500,000 For President Obama's 2008 Campaign. "One of them was Steven J. Spinner, a high-tech consultant and investor in energy companies who raised at least $500,000 for Obama. He became one of Energy Secretary Steven Chu's key loan programs advisors while his wife's law firm represented a number of the companies that had applied for loans." (Ronnie Green And Matthew Mosk, "Bundlers On The Inside," iWatch, 9/29/11)
  

While President Obama's Donors Got Special Treatment, Solyndra Workers Lost Their Jobs:
"Why Is It That You Can Plead The Fifth When Millions Of Dollars Are Involved?" BOBBY STRICKLAND: I think people who were let go, everybody else wants to know what happened to the money? Why is it that you can plead the fifth when millions of dollars are involved? People want to know why? I would like to know why I was put out of a job. I'm pretty sure Lindsey would like to know why he was put out of a job. I'm sure everybody else would like to know why they were put out of a job. Where is the money?" (Fox News' "On The Record," 9/23/11)
"We Have A Job Fair Coming Up Next Friday I'm Planning To Attend ... Just Looking For Jobs." ELIZABETH CHELETTE: "I'm sitting at my computer everyday looking for jobs. We have a job fair coming up next Friday I'm planning to attend. Just pretty much putting my resume out there to all the companies out there. Just looking for jobs." (Fox News' "America's Newsroom," 9/16/11)
"Obama Being There And Everybody Figured Out, This Company Can't Fail. ... All The News That Is Coming Out, You Wonder Where A Lot Of The Money Went." CBS' JOHN BLACKSTONE: "Solyndra boasted about its advanced technology, but now there are suspicions its political connections were at least as important in securing its huge government loan. The biggest investor in Solyndra is Oklahoma billionaire, George Kaiser, a major fundraiser for the Obama presidential campaign." PETER KOHLSTADT: "Obama being there and everybody figured out, this company can't fail. ... All the news that is coming out, you wonder where a lot of the money went." (CBS' "Evening News," 9/14/11)
  