
    THE PRESIDENT. [Inaudible]—Commissioner Brown and others:
I've directed the Federal Emergency Management Agency—[inaudible]—intense heat wave that has covered a large part of our Nation in the last few weeks. It's been now 4 weeks in this area when the temperatures have been at or above 100 degrees every day, and we've had, up through yesterday, more than 1,150 Americans who've died with the heat wave itself. Missouri, for instance, had 283 people die, and now 98, up through yesterday, have died in Texas alone.
This field, which I wanted to come and visit because it is typical, shows the difference between what has occurred with this drought and the normal production of milo, which is used on this farm as a feed for hogs. And this particular head of milo was brought in from about 50 miles east, where they happen to have gotten adequate rainfall.
We are directing emergency loans. I think more than 20 counties in Texas now get emergency feed allocations. But of course, hay is difficult to find, and the price has gone up 50 or 60 percent in the last few weeks alone. We're giving, also, direct disaster aid and conservation payments. But this is the kind of thing that is afflicting farmers in a large part of our Nation.
Just north of Texas, in Oklahoma and Kansas, they have had a cold or cool front come through now, and they've had a good bit of relief. And Mr. Range, I tried to send a nice shower— [laughter] but just a little relief for this visit. But my heart goes out to you. And I wanted to come here to dramatize for the rest of the Nation the practical effect of the intense heat wave that has stricken most of Texas and also a large part of the West and also down in the Southeast. But we're trying to do everything we can with the commissioner of agriculture, with Bob Bergland, and with the Federal Emergency Management Agency to help out as best we can.
Good luck. God bless. We'll be: praying for rain and cooler weather in the future. Good luck to you.
MRS. RANGE. We enjoyed having you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. I appreciate your letting me come here and see you this way.
Can I take these with me?
MR. RANGE. Yes, sir.
MRS. RANGE. Sure. Sure thing.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I'd better leave you this one. You can feed the hogs with it. [Laughter]
  