
    Sanders announces additional endorsers, including the Hon. Mark MacKenzie
MANCHESTER -- Following his most recent visit to the Granite State, Sen. Bernie Sanders announced an additional slate of endorsements from state elected officials and notable leaders in New Hampshire. The endorsements come a day after announcing nearly one million small-dollar contributions to the campaign in the second quarter, predominantly given by working-class voters.
Headlining the latest endorsements, New Hampshire AFL-CIO President Emeritus the Hon. Mark MacKenzie said:
"My life has been about fighting for working people and there's no other candidate in the field who embodies that solidarity more than Sen. Bernie Sanders. He is deeply committed to helping create good jobs and opportunities for Granite Staters, ensuring everybody in our state has healthcare, and strengthening collective bargaining rights for all people. He's always held consistent pressure on that pedal of change. Bernie is the best person to take the fight directly to Donald Trump and deliver a historic win for Democrats in 2020."
The Hon. Mark MacKenzie is the Former President of the New Hampshire American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO). He became the president of the New Hampshire chapter of the country's largest labor federation in 1989, and served through 2015. MacKenzie has been a lifelong servant to his community, working both in the labor movement and as a firefighter serving 25 years.
Four additional state representatives join MacKenzie in endorsing Sen. Sanders:

Representative and Alderman Jan Schmidt, (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 28: Representing Ward 1 in the City of Nashua in the New Hampshire House of Representatives and on the Board of Aldermen, Rep. and Ald. Schmidt was first elected to the NH House in 2012 and to the Nashua Board of Aldermen in 2017.


Representative Ryan Buchannan, (Concord) Merrimack - District 15: Representing the City of Concord, and a U.S. Navy veteran, Rep. Buchannan was first elected in 2018 and serves on the House State-Federal Relations and Veterans Affairs Committee.


Representative Frances Nutter-Upham, (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 33: Representing Ward 6 in the City of Nashua, Rep. Nutter-Upham was first elected in 2018 and serves on the House Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs Committee.


Representative Dan Toomey, (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 32: Representing Ward 5 in the City of Nashua, and a retired Firefighter, Rep. Toomey was first elected in 2018 and serves on the House Committee on Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services Committee.

Nine initial endorsers were announced May 15 and include:
Alderman at-Large Brandon Laws, City of Nashua, Representative Josh Adjutant, (Ashland) Grafton - District 17, Representative Mark King, (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 33, Representative Skip Cleaver, (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 35, Representative Tim Smith, (Manchester) Hillsborough - District 17, Representative Catherine Sofikitis, (Nashua) Hillsborough - District 34, Representative Ellen Read, (Newmarket) Rockingham - District 17, Representative Art Ellison, (Concord) Merrimack - District 27, and Representative Cam Kenney, (Durham) Strafford - District 6.
  