
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today several members of Mayor Giuliani's foreign policy team. The team will advise the Mayor on a foreign policy vision that advances the United States as a world leader, while expanding America's involvement in the global economy, strengthening our reputation around the world, and keeping our country on the offense in the Terrorists' War on Us.
Charles Hill, former executive aide to President Ronald Reagan's Secretary of State George P. Shultz, a lecturer in the International Security Studies program at Yale University, a special consultant on policy to the United Nations Secretary-General, and a research fellow at the Hoover Institution, will serve as the Chairman of the Senior Foreign Policy Advisory Board. He is also the campaign's Chief Foreign Policy Advisor.
Senior foreign policy team members include Norman Podhoretz and Senator Bob Kasten. Other team members include Steve Rosen, Senior Defense Advisor; Martin Kramer, Senior Middle East Advisor; S. Enders Wimbush, Senior Public Diplomacy Advisor; Peter Berkowitz, Senior Statecraft, Human Rights and Freedom Advisor; and Kim R. Holmes, a Senior Foreign Policy Advisor.
"This group is committed to helping the Mayor develop a comprehensive foreign policy vision that keeps America globally strong, promotes the expansion of freedom, and recognizes that our greatest challenge is remaining on offense in the Terrorists' War on Us," said Bill Simon, the campaign's Policy Director. "Mayor Giuliani understands the critical foreign policy issues facing our nation, and we've assembled an outstanding team with decades of experience and knowledge to help advise the Mayor."
Mayor Giuliani's Foreign Policy Advisors Include:
Charles Hill, Chief Foreign Policy Advisor and Chairman of Senior Foreign Policy Advisory Board
Hill, a career minister in the U.S. Foreign Service, is a research fellow at the Hoover Institution. He served as executive aide to former U.S. Secretary of State George P. Shultz and as special consultant on policy to the United Nations Secretary-General. Hill is also diplomat-in-residence and the Brady-Johnson Distinguished Fellow in Grand Strategy and lecturer in International Security Studies at Yale University.
Hill's experience reaches around the globe, having served in Switzerland, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Saigon. He was involved in the 1974 Panama Canal negotiations and served as a member of the policy planning staff for Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.
Hill's Middle Eastern experience includes time in Israel as the political counselor for the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv and director of Israel and Arab-Israeli affairs.
Among Hill's awards are the Superior Honor Award from the Department of State, the Distinguished Honor Award, the Presidential Meritorious Service Award, the Presidential Distinguished Service Award, and the Secretary of State's Medal.
Hill is a graduate of Brown University and received graduate and law degrees from the University of Pennsylvania. He served as a fellow at the Harvard University East Asia Research Center and a Clark fellow at Cornell University.
Norman Podhoretz, Member, Senior Foreign Policy Advisory Board
Podhoretz is an adjunct fellow at the Hudson Institute with expertise in American Culture, Religion and Foreign Policy. He served as editor-in-chief of Commentary magazine from 1960-1995. He was awarded the nation's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, in 2004.
He has authored eleven books and has written hundreds of articles for most major American periodicals. He is an experienced lecturer on foreign policy, American culture and Jewish affairs and appears frequently on radio and television.
Podhoretz was a Pulitzer Scholar at Columbia University, where he earned his undergraduate degree. He also holds Bachelor's and Master's degrees from Cambridge University, England. While at Cambridge, he served as a Fulbright Scholar and Kellett Fellow. He also has a degree in Hebrew Literature from the Jewish Theological Seminary.
Senator Bob Kasten, Member, Senior Foreign Policy Advisory Board
Senator Kasten represented Wisconsin, serving as a U.S. Representative from 1975 to 1979 and as a U.S. Senator from 1981 to 1993, where he was an outspoken conservative.
Kasten served as delegate to the United Nations General Assembly during his first term in the U.S. Senate. He served as Chairman of the Foreign Operations Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee. He also served on the Appropriation's Defense Subcommittee.
Prior to serving in Congress, Kasten served in the Wisconsin State Senate and served in the Wisconsin Air National Guard. He graduated from the University of Arizona and received a graduate degree from the Columbia Business School.
Stephen Rosen, Ph.D., Senior Defense Advisor
Rosen is the Beton Michael Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs at Harvard University. He was the civilian assistant to the director, Net Assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Director of Political-Military Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council, and a professor in the Strategy Department at the Naval War College.
Rosen participated in the President's Commission on Integrated Long Term Strategy and in the Gulf War Air Power Survey sponsored by the Secretary of the Air Force. He has published articles on ballistic missile defense, the American theory of limited war, and on the strategic implications of the AIDS epidemic. He is the author of Winning the Next War: Innovation and the Modern Military, which won the 1992 Funriss Prize. His most recent book is War and Human Nature.
Martin Kramer, Ph.D., Senior Middle East Advisor
Kramer is Olin Institute Senior Fellow at Harvard University. He is an authority on contemporary Islam and Arab politics. Kramer is also the Wexler-Fromer fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, and a senior fellow at the Shalem Center in Jerusalem.
During a twenty-five-year career at Tel Aviv University, he directed the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies. He served twice as a fellow of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington.
Kramer is the author of the best-selling monograph, Ivory Towers on Sand: The Failure of Middle Eastern Studies in America. He earned his undergraduate and doctoral degrees in Near Eastern Studies from Princeton University and another graduate degree from Columbia University.
S. Enders Wimbush, Senior Public Diplomacy Advisor
Wimbush currently serves as the Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and is a Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute. His expertise includes strategic communications and national security and defense planning.
He spent 10 years with Booz Allen Hamilton and Science Applications International Corporation analyzing future security environments for both government and corporate clients. He also directed international risk and opportunity assessments for a number of large corporations. Wimbush spent 12 years as an expatriate in Europe and performed extended travel for business, research, network building, and consulting in Asia, the Middle East, and the former U.S.S.R.
Wimbush also served as director of Radio Liberty in Munich, Germany. He founded and directed the Society for Central Asian Studies in Oxford, England and served as a Senior Analyst for the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, California. He is the author of many books, articles and policy studies on strategic cultures and competition.
Peter Berkowitz, Ph.D., Senior Statecraft, Human Rights, and Freedom Advisor
Berkowitz is the Tad and Dianne Taube Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution and teaches at George Mason University School of Law. He focuses on the interplay of law, ethics, and politics in modern society.
Berkowitz is the cofounder and director of the Israel Program on Constitutional Government, has served as a senior consultant to the President's Council on Bioethics, and is a member of the Policy Advisory Board at the Ethics and Public Policy Center.
Berkowitz holds law and doctoral degrees in political science from Yale University and a master's in philosophy from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
Kim R. Holmes, Ph.D., a Senior Foreign Policy Advisor
Holmes serves as the Vice President of Foreign and Defense Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation as well as Director of Heritage's Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies. He joined Heritage in 1985.
Holmes helped expand Heritage's homeland security research in areas like improving border security and government response to natural disasters like Hurricane Katrina.
Holmes was the founding editor of the Heritage Foundation and Wall Street Journal's Index of Economic Freedom.
Holmes was nominated just months after the September 11th terrorist attacks to be the Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs, where he directed the diplomatic efforts to protect and promote U.S. interests and policy on issues such as Iraq, Afghanistan, terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and peacekeeping. Holmes was responsible for U.S. negotiations at the United Nations and 46 international organizations.
Holmes is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a former member of its Washington Advisory Committee. He has served as a member of the Defense Department's Defense Policy Board and on the Executive Committee and Board of Directors of the Center for International Private Enterprise. Holmes was a public member of the U.S. delegation to the Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe. His experience also includes time as a Senior Fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis.
Holmes earned a master's and doctorate degrees from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. He also worked as a research fellow at the Institute for European History in Mainz, Germany.
  