
    Pool Reports by Jessica Floyd, TheGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




July 16, 202113:23

VP Pool Report #1 - Awaiting Event/Background 
Hello all,
Your pooler has been tested and now awaits an escort to the Vice President's meeting with members of the Black Women's Roundtable, NCNW and other women leaders on voting rights in the Roosevelt Room.
When full list of participants becomes available, your pooler will share it with remarks from the pool spray at the bottom of this meeting.



July 16, 202114:51

VP Pool Report #2 - Remarks 
Hi all,
Please check quotes with official transcript.
The Vice President gave remarks to the pool spray at 2:26 pm ET. She compared the civil rights leaders to historic figures like Fannie Lou Hammer and others.
"These are the modern versions of those great women," the Vice President said. "All Americans have the blessing and the benefits of standing on their shoulders."
The Vice President took one question from April Ryan, who asked if this is an LBJ moment and whether the president is looking forward the public to "make me do it," more specifically meaning to pass the voting rights despite the filibuster.
"No one is going to make us do what we know is our right and responsibility," Vice President Harris said.
The pool spray ended after her response at 2:36 pm ET.




 
Pool Reports below by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




July 16, 202117:14

VP Pool Report #1: Harris speaks at virtual DNC fundraiser pt. 1 
Vice President Harris delivered roughly 8 minutes and 30 seconds of remarks during a virtual DNC fundraiser this afternoon that began at 4:20 pm and ended at 4:50 pm.
DNC Chair Jaime Harrison spoke first, followed by California Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis, who introduced the VP.
Here are some highlights of the VP's remarks. (I'll send remarks from other speakers in a separate report later.)
Harris thanked Kounalakis and asked her to "give my best to Gov. Gavin Newsom for the incredible work that he is doing." She also thanked Harrison, saying he's "everywhere, he's all over the country" and the party is "seeing the results" of his hard work.
She said that many of the people in attendance had supported her "almost every time, I think, that my name was on the ballot," mentioning her district attorney, attorney general, Senate and VP campaigns.
"Democrats won big in November -- last November. We held onto the house, we won back the Senate, and President Joe Biden and I are now hard at work in the White House. But to build on this momentum, we must prove that Democrats can not only win big, but that we can make big improvements in the lives of the American people, whoever they voted for."
She proceeded to tout the administration's vaccination efforts, the passage of their COVID relief plan and their efforts to extend and expand the Child Tax Credit, repeating comments she has made in the past about alleviating poverty for children.
"So today, as our nation is emerging from the pandemic. We are expanding our focus from relief to rebuilding."
Harris said that when she was in the Bay area a few months ago, the water treatment facility she toured in Oakland was just across the freeway from where her family lived in Oakland.
She talked about what it takes to get clean water, and said that clean water and access to it "is and should be a right for all people in our country."
More to come.



July 16, 202117:14

VP Pool Report #2: Harris speaks at virtual DNC fundraiser pt. 2 
Here are additional highlights from the VP's fundraising event with the DNC, which was California themed with Harris referring to the state repeatedly.
Harris said that access to affordable high speed Internet is also important and that Democrats also believe that everyone should have access to affordable childcare, too.
"These are just some of the beliefs that we have that fuel our priorities and our fight. And that's why, all that to say, is why the president and I are supporting very strongly, the bipartisan infrastructure agreement, which will help us rebuild our nation and make our communities more resilient, in particular -- and this is a big concern for all of us as Californians but all the Western States, in particular, in the face of wildfires and other natural disasters.
"At the same time, we are working hard to pass our American Families Plan, which would support working families. With hard work together, we can claim victory on both fronts. Together, we can help Democrats claim victory again in 2022.
"And here's the truth. Our majorities in the House and the Senate are incredibly slim. OK? They are. And we know that Democrats are going to need big voter turnout in 2022 to hang on to the House and the Senate. And in states across the country, there are some who are pushing legislation that would make it more difficult for people to vote. I believe, with the hope that people just won't vote."
She said that as Democrats "fight back against these anti-voter efforts with everything we have, and as we fight forward on federal legislation" they are expanding their voter campaign.
She noted that she recently announced a $25 million investment by the Democratic Party to support that effort.
"I believe we can get this done. We drove together -- we drove historic voter turnout in the middle of a pandemic. And if we start now -- and it's earlier than we usually do, but you all know that, that's why you're here -- if we start now. We can do it again."
Harris said it is "never too early to defend our rights" and commented that it will be one year tomorrow since Rep. John Lewis passed away.
"As we mourn his loss, I think we must all, as we know, carry on his legacy."
She recalled walking across the Edmund Pettus Bridge with Lewis before he passed away. "We know that our commitment must be strong, and we must be vigilant," Harris said.
"So all of this is the work ahead," she said, thanking them on behalf of herself and President Biden. "I thank you all for all your hard work and all your support. Please keep it going. And with your help, I am confident that Democrats will keep winning elections, and keep getting results for all the American people. Thank you all very much. Thank you."
At 4:48 PM VP Harris concluded her remarks and Kounalakis thanked her again and the fundraiser's participants. DNC Chairman Harrision then made short concluding remarks.
"If we are really serious about bringing hope to this country, we have the power, and that power is wrapped up into a four letter word, which is our vote."
"Let's make sure that we, folks, we fight for this right to vote. It's the most sacred one that we have as Americans, and it's the right that all others are built upon."
The event ended at about 4:50 pm with Harrison telling attendees, "Take care of yourselves."



July 16, 202118:24

VP Pool Report #3: Harrison/Kounalakis 
At the top of the event, DNC Chair Jamie Harrison, who spoke first and was wearing a light blue shirt and green tie, said that it is because of the Biden-Harris administration that the "pandemic on the ropes, America is once again a leader on the world stage, and our economy is picking up speed."
Harrison said that because of their actions, "We can now proudly say that America is coming back."
He spoke about the American Rescue Plan and Democratic priorities, mentioning the infrastructure framework and what's in it.
"But we got more work to do.The 2022 election is happening right now. Across the nation, we're organizing early to beat the Republicans, and we've already committed $43 million to be ready for the midterms."
He said the DNC is a "community organization" that addresses "every day needs of voters," including the right to vote. He said the DNC is building the largest voter protection team in the DNC's history.
"The Supreme Court may have dealt a blow to voting rights a couple of weeks ago, but we're not going to wring our hands. We're going to keep up the fight. We're going to force the Republicans to play defense and to empower folks on the ground who know best how to talk to their communities. We are not going to cede ground anywhere."
"We're going to need the avengers assembled to win in 2022. And no, I don't mean Black Widow and Thor and Vision and Captain America. I mean, all of you. We've got a winning game plan, but it's going to take each of us giving just a little bit more than we think we can," he said.
California Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis spoke next, wearing a white suit jacket and white top and appearing in front of a background that had the Golden Gate Bridge in the background.
She called the VP an "extraordinary daughter of California" and said she could see "many people who have been friends of Vice {resident Harris's for a very, very long time," some supporting her as far back as her district attorney race, Kounalakis commented.
(The Zoom fundraiser allowed for gallery view and pooler saw 8 pages of participants including one that was mainly reporters.)
Kounalakis said that the "energy" around Harris being in DC is "just electric."
"There is something about her that truly excites and inspires, and I personally happen to believe that it is her skillfulness, it is her talents, it is her own personal story," she said. "She in her way brings all of us with her to Washington. She brings California with her to Washington. She brings California values. She brings California's optimism, and perhaps most important of all, Vice President Harris brings California's know-how to Washington, D.C."
Among those: "progressive ideas" the state's passion for innovation, for education, and the right policies, according to CA's LG.
She spoke more about California and Harris's ties to the state.
Kounalakis said that she and Harris would have period luncheons after Kounalakis served as a U.S. ambassador. "We would talk about everything from which comfortable shoes you could wear out on the campaign trail that were also at least marginally fashionable to the challenges that we faced every day in the work that we did and challenging some of the stereotypes that we know are out there for women and certainly in her case for people of color."
She said Harris once told her, "No matter what, don't let anybody make you feel small." She said, "I was stunned."
"And what she was doing was helping me prepare for what it would mean to come back to a place where people might not be particularly -- either understand or give me credit for what I had done, and it was a very personal and very important thing that she did," she said.
"I remembered this story, because no matter who you are, even the first woman Vice President of the United States, there will be people out there who will use those tropes to try to minimize you and make you feel small and make you look small to others. The best antidote for this, I have learned in my life, are your friends. Your friends, your supporters and your networks."
She said that she scrolled through 217 people on the call, many of whom are Harris's friends.
She brought up voting rights and said, "This may be the most important work that will be done in the coming months. And to see Vice President Harris stand up as a phenomenal partner to the President of the United States Joe Biden and to step forward to lead in this effort, gives me great hope."
While the California Lt. Gov. was speaking, Harris briefly popped up in the gallery of attendees. She appeared to be listening intently. Harris had on a light purple jacket and a white top.
Spotted among those in attendance: "Christine Pelosi."
Audio from this event is available upon request for this event for anyone seeking additional quotes. Have a good evening everyone.




  