
    Gephardt Will Serve as Economic Adviser and Campaign Co-Chair
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of former House of Representatives Majority Leader Richard Gephardt. He will serve as an Economic Adviser and Co-Chair of Hillary's campaign.
"Hillary Clinton is the champion working families deserve in the White House," Gephardt said. "Her commitment to health care for all Americans and her vision for this country make her uniquely qualified to be President. She's got the strength and experience to deliver the kind of change America wants."
"Dick Gephardt has devoted his life to public service, and will be an invaluable adviser and friend in this campaign," Clinton said. "I'm honored that he will join me in our efforts to expand economic opportunity for all Americans."
"Throughout his entire career, Congressman Gephardt has consistently stood with workers, and his endorsement of Sen. Hillary Clinton sends a powerful message," said International President Michael Goodwin of the Office and Professional Employees International Union. "Congressman Gephardt's role within Senator Clinton's campaign combined with her strong record on behalf of working families in New York and throughout the nation ensures that the issues workers care deeply about will be central to her campaign."
Gephardt was the leader of the House Democrats for nearly 14 years, serving as House majority leader from 1989 to 1995 and minority leader from 1995 to 2003. He became a national leader on health care, trade and tax fairness during his 28 years in Congress representing St. Louis.
As a Presidential candidate in 1988 and 2004, Gephardt elevated the economic concerns of working families, focusing on universal health care, retirement security, fair trade policies, shrinking school class sizes and promoting energy independence.
Gephardt is currently President and CEO of the Gephardt Group, and serves as advisory board chairman of the Richard A. Gephardt Institute for Public Service at Washington University in St. Louis.
  