
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his third wave of United States Attorney candidates. The United States Attorney serves as the chief Federal law enforcement officer within his or her Federal judicial district. These candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve as United States Attorney:
If confirmed, Peter E. Deegan, Jr. of Iowa will serve as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Iowa. Mr. Deegan is currently an Assistant United States Attorney and the Chief of the Criminal Division in the Northern District of Iowa. He has worked at the Iowa U.S. Attorney's Office for more than 10 years. He also served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Michigan from 2004 to 2006. Mr. Deegan has prosecuted a variety of Federal offenses with an emphasis on complex white collar and business crime. He previously was an associate attorney at Murphy Smith & Polk PC in Chicago, where his practice focused on labor and employment litigation. Mr. Deegan clerked for the Honorable Lawrence P. Zatkoff of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. He received his B.A., cum laude, from the University of Notre Dame and his J.D., cum laude, from Wayne State University Law School.
If confirmed, Robert J. Higdon, Jr. of North Carolina will serve as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Mr. Higdon is currently a partner at the law firm of Williams Mullen. He previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in both the Western and Eastern Districts of North Carolina. In the Eastern District U.S. Attorney's Office, Mr. Higdon served as Chief of the Criminal Division for more than 11 years. Mr. Higdon also served as senior trial counsel in the Public Integrity Section of the Department of Justice. He received his B.A., cum laude, from Wake Forest University and his J.D. from Wake Forest University School of Law.
If confirmed, Jeffrey B. Jensen of St. Louis will serve as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri. Mr. Jensen is currently a partner at Husch Blackwell LLP. He served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Missouri starting in 1999, and was Executive United States Attorney from 2005 to 2009. Prior to joining the U.S. Attorney's Office, Mr. Jensen was an FBI Special Agent from 1989 to 1999. While working at the FBI, Mr. Jensen attended St. Louis University School of Law at night, graduating magna cum laude. He also received his B.A., cum laude, from Indiana University School of Business.
If confirmed, Thomas L. Kirsch II of Indiana will serve as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Indiana. Mr. Kirsch is currently a partner at Winston & Strawn LLP, where his practice focuses on complex litigation and corporate investigations. Previously, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Indiana and as counsel to the Assistant Attorney General at the Department of Justice Office of Legal Policy. Mr. Kirsch clerked for the Honorable John Daniel Tinder of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. He received his B.A. from Indiana University and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
If confirmed, Marc Krickbaum of Illinois will serve as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Iowa. Mr. Krickbaum is currently an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Illinois, and he previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of Iowa. Prior to joining those U.S. Attorney's Offices, Mr. Krickbaum served as counsel to the Deputy Attorney General, and as a trial attorney in the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. Mr. Krickbaum clerked for the Honorable Steven M. Colloton of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit and the Honorable Mark Filip of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. He received his B.A. with highest distinction from the University of Iowa, and his J.D., cum laude, from Harvard Law School.
If confirmed, Joshua J. Minkler of Indiana will serve as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana. Mr. Minkler has served as the interim United States Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana since June 2015. Prior to that appointment, he served for 21 years as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of Indiana, where he held the positions of First Assistant United States Attorney and Chief of the Drug and Violent Crime Unit. Before he joined the U.S. Attorney's Office, Mr. Minkler served for five years as an assistant prosecuting attorney in the Office of the Kent County Michigan Prosecuting Attorney, where he prosecuted violent crimes. Mr. Minkler received his B.A. from Wabash College, and his J.D. from Indiana University Maurer School of Law.
  