
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 5
The President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Palma de Mallorca, Spain, where they were greeted by King Juan Carlos I and Queen Sofia of Spain and toured Bellver Castle.
In the evening, they toured the cathedral.
July 7
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Madrid, Spain.
In the evening, the President met with NATO Secretary General Javier Solana in the Miguel Angel Hotel.
Later, the President and Hillary Clinton attended an informal dinner for NATO leaders and their spouses hosted by Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain in the Garden of the Official Residence at Moncloa Palace. Following the dinner, the President met with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom at the Miguel Angel Hotel.
The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe thunderstorms and flooding beginning June 21 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Wisconsin and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding June 21-23.
July 8
In the morning and afternoon, the President attended NATO Summit sessions in the Palacio Municipal de Congresos. In the late afternoon, he met with President Jacques Chirac of France.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner for NATO leaders and their spouses hosted by King Juan Carlos I and Queen Sofia at the Royal Palace.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donna Jean Hrinak as Ambassador to Bolivia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Dale Kauzlarich to be Ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
July 9
In the morning, the President met with President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine in the Palacio Municipal de Congresos. Later in the morning, he attended the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council meeting and, in the afternoon, a Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council luncheon in the Palacio Municipal de Congresos.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Granada, Spain, where they toured the Alhambra castle with King Juan Carlos I and Queen Sofia. After midnight, they returned to Madrid.
The President announced his intention to nominate John C. Angell as Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate I. Miley Gonzales as Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics at the Department of Agriculture.
July 10
In the morning, the President traveled to Warsaw, Poland.
In the afternoon, following an arrival ceremony, he met with President Aleksander Kwasniewski of Poland in the White Room of the Presidential Palace.
In the evening, the President met with former President Lech Walesa in the Royal Castle.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward M. Gramlich and Roger W. Ferguson, Jr., to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
The President announced his nomination of August Schumacher, Jr., as Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, Department of Agriculture.
July 11
In the morning, the President traveled to Bucharest, Romania.
In the afternoon, he attended a reception hosted by President Emil Constantinescu of Romania in the Cotroceni Palace, during which he met with Romanian political and opposition leaders. Later, he addressed the citizens of Bucharest at the Piata Universitatii.
In the evening, the President greeted the U.S. Embassy community at the Ambassador's residence. He then traveled to Copenhagen, Denmark.
The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy F. Geithner to be Assistant Secretary for International Affairs at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate John J. Hamre as Deputy Secretary of Defense.
The President announced his intention to appoint Attorney General Janet Reno, Donald Gips, and Brig. Gen. Donald Kerrick to serve as members of the Steering Committee of the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection.
The President declared a major disaster in Michigan and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on July 2.
  