
    Las Vegas, NV -- Ahead of Cory Booker taking the stage at the second Democratic debate this week, Cory 2020 announced that 16 activists and community leaders across Nevada have endorsed Cory for President of the United States.
"It's clear that the more people get to know Cory they like what he has to say and are inspired by his vision for America," said Cory 2020 Nevada State Director Phil Kim. "These endorsements demonstrate the continued momentum and grassroots support we have here in Nevada. We are so excited to earn the support of such respected community leaders and powerful activists."
Albert Lee, Publisher, Korean Las Vegas Times: "Cory's smart and empathetic leadership inspires me and gives me hope for our country. As a leader in the Korean community, I'm proud to support his campaign for president and I know he will fight for all of us."
Rebecca Cohen, Washoe County Community Activist: "I support Cory Booker for President of the United States summed up in one word: JUSTICE! I completely agree with Cory on his stance on criminal justice reform. He has big plans for our country which makes it easy to get behind him."
Sharon Courtney, Immigration Activist: "Our immigration system has been broken for far too long. We need a leader who can tackle difficult issues and find solutions that work for everyone. I believe Cory Booker is that leader. He will work to make sure our immigration system reflects the values of the nation - freedom, hope, opportunity, and dignity."
Katie Lim, Nevada Chair, High School Democrats of America: "As a high school student from Las Vegas, I witnessed firsthand the effects of the October shooting on my friends and community, and the after effects continue to serve as a reminder that we desperately need Senator Booker's dedication to gun control reform in the White House. Universal background checks and the assault weapons ban of Senator Booker's gun control plan are not only common sense priorities, but necessities in protecting our nation's students."
The full list of Nevadans formally announcing their endorsement of Cory Booker today include:Albert Lee, Publisher, Korean Las Vegas TimesRebecca Cohen, Washoe County Community Activist Michael Williams, Community ActivistPam Gormly, Retired Teacher and Faith Leader Sharon Courtney, Immigration Activist and Artist Jose Ricardo Lopez, Immigration Activist Benita Sager, Teacher and Education Activist Nikki Ryan, Community ActivistJosh Schwartz, Community ActivistKathie Klass, Community ActivistVilha Perdomo, Immigration Activist Lamar "Mar da Barber" Robertson, Las Vegas Barbershop Owner and StylistMarty Robertson, Union Member and Labor Activist Kerry Ahearn, Community Activist Monika Payne, Clark County Grassroots Volunteer Katie Lim, Nevada Chair, High School Democrats of America
Since launching his campaign, Cory Booker has visited the state four times as a candidate and held over 20 events in both northern and southern Nevada, including in Minden where he became the first candidate to visit rural Nevada and was one of the first candidates to participate in a virtual meet and greet with over 200 rural Nevadans.
Earlier today, Cory 2020 announced that Cory Booker has met the requirements set by the DNC to participate in the third and fourth Democratic primary debates. Booker was the sixth Democratic presidential candidate to reach the required polling threshold for the fall DNC debates. Now, in surpassing the second requirement of 130,000 individual campaign donors, he has secured a spot on the fall debate stages.
  