
    Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to announce today that King Hussein of Jordan and Prime Minister Rabin of Israel have agreed to my invitation to meet at the White House on July 25th.
I am also pleased that Speaker Foley, after discussions with Majority Leader Mitchell, has invited both leaders to address a joint session of Congress. And Hillary and I are delighted that both of them have agreed to join us at a dinner at the White House on that day.
This historic meeting is another step forward toward achievement of a comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East. The meeting will build on the dramatic progress made in the trilateral U.S.-Israel-Jordan meetings here in Washington last month and King Hussein's recent declaration in Parliament that he was prepared to meet with Prime Minister Rabin. It reflects the courageous leadership and the bold vision with which both King Hussein and Prime Minister Rabin have displayed as they work together to create a new future for their people and for all the region.
On behalf of all Americans, I salute their commitment to peace. I have pledged my personal dedication to the goal of a comprehensive settlement in the Middle East. Accordingly, Secretary Christopher will be traveling to the region next week. I want to compliment him on his tireless efforts to achieve peace in the region and the contribution he has made to the announcement today.
He will continue our efforts to achieve progress in the Israel-Syria negotiations. That also is a very, very important thing for us. I am committed to working to achieve a breakthrough on those talks as soon as possible so that we can make the dream of a lasting peace of the brave a reality.
Secretary Christopher will follow up on the discussions that the President and King Hussein have had on this initiative, and he will proceed and participate in the U.S.-Jordan-Israel discussions. He'll also meet with Chairman Arafat to review progress in implementing the Declaration of Principles on Palestinian self-rule.
The Middle East is entering a new era. I'll do everything I can to make certain that all the peoples of the region realize the blessings of peace that have been denied too long to them. This meeting on July 25th will be another important step on that long road. Now I have to go to Pennsylvania. I'm running a little bit late, and I want to turn the microphone over to Secretary Christopher.
  