
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




July 4, 202107:56

Travel Pool Report #1: church 
Good Sunday morning and Happy Independence Day,
At 7:45 am the motorcade arrived at the president's church after a brisk drive from his personal residence. Pool saw the president enter the church a minute later from a distance as traveling press arrived in a bus.
The White House shares the following: The President is attending mass at St. Joseph on the Brandywine in Wilmington, DE.
A rundown of the morning so far:
-- Pool departed at roughly 6 am at call time from the press hotel.-- It was swept, but not coronavirus tested, near the president's home, where it held on a bus until the motorcade departed.-- Before leaving the White House for Michigan on Saturday, traveling press tested for COVID at the White House.



July 4, 202108:24

Travel Pool Report #2: church departure/breakfast lid 
At 8:14 am pool saw the president exit church from a distance. He appeared to be wearing a very similar outfit to yesterday's -- medium blue jacket and dark pants.
The motorcade left immediately after and arrived back at President Biden's private residence at 8:20 am. Pool is continuing on down the road in its bus. The White House has called a breakfast lid until 9:30 am.



July 4, 202110:24

Travel Pool Report #3: on the move 
At 10:21 am the motorcade departed the president's residential area in Delaware. It is currently on the move to an undisclosed location.



July 4, 202110:33

Travel Pool Report #4: golf course 
At 10:27 am the motorcade turned and began to pass a golf course.
The White House sends along the following:
The President is at Wilmington Country Club.
Along the way, pool saw a group of motorcycle riders pulled over on the side of the road while the president's motorcade passed through.
Pool has asked the White House to confirm that the president is indeed golfing today -- and who his partners are if that is the case.



July 4, 202111:30

Travel Pool Report #5: golf partner 
The pool is holding at a coffee shop near the country club where the president is indeed golfing this July 4 holiday.
Per the White House: The President is golfing with former Senator Ted Kaufman.



July 4, 202113:27

Travel Pool Report #6: leaving the country club 
The pool joined the motorcade outside the country club at 1:22 pm as President Biden departed. Another pooler spotted the president in a Black SUV wearing a polo shirt.
About 45 minutes before the president left, the pool was brought back to the country club. Press held in the bus, parked alongside the road outside the club, while it waited.



July 4, 202113:41

Travel Pool Report #7: POTUS at his residence 
At roughly 1:32 pm the presidential motorcade arrived back at the Biden residence. The pool split off from him again and is headed to another hold location.
Pool does not expect to lay eyes on the president again, for awareness, until the flight back to Washington later today.



July 4, 202115:02

Travel Pool Report #8: POTUS speech background 
From a White House official:
In his remarks this evening, the President will celebrate the progress the country has made in its pandemic response. Thanks to his whole-of-government approach and the strength of the American people, vaccinations continue to rise and cases and deaths have fallen by more than 90% since January. Because of this, Americans across the country are able to celebrate this Fourth of July together.
The President will also reflect on the over 600,000 lives lost from the virus. He will note that, while we’ve made strong progress against the virus in the United States, the job is far from over. He will urge every American to join the fight—to roll up their sleeves and get vaccinated—and reiterate his Administration’s redoubled efforts to boost vaccinations.
The President will thank the military families and essential workers who are attending the event for their sacrifices for our country, especially during the pandemic. And he’ll reflect on the progress our nation has made to live up to our founding ideals, and the work still to be done.



July 4, 202115:21

Travel Pool Report #9: departing the Biden residence 
The presidential motorcade departed for Delaware Air National Guard at 3:17 pm from the Biden residence.
President Biden will soon be heading back to JBA and the White House for a July 4 celebration.
A reminder that pool is on the small plane this weekend and will do its best to file reports as quickly as possible once it reaches the plane.



July 4, 202115:34

Travel Pool Report #10: POTUS leaving DE 
President Biden arrived at the DE National Guard at 3:27 PM and boarded immediately. He was accompanied by first lady Jill Biden and Finnegan, as well as another woman, who WH says was her friend.
Asked if he had been briefed yet by FEMA on Surfside he said he has not.



July 4, 202116:19

Travel Pool Report #11: JBA arrival + question 
The president was wheels up from DE and 3:39 pm and wheels down at 4:02 pm after a quick flight to JBA. As established yesterday, he is motorcading back to the White House because the South Lawn is set up for tonight's celebration.
He deplaned at 4:12 pm. Jill, Finnegan and the Biden granddaughter's friend followed behind, in that order.
A member of the pool asked if he would talk about the nation's vaccination rate.
"We're almost there," POTUS said, per TV pool.
At 4:16 pm the vehicles were rolling down the tarmac away from AF1.
A quick note: as he boarded AF1 earlier the president was first asked if he would talk to press about tonight's event. He said he'd talk to pool about it later, which seemed to be a reference to his scheduled speech.
Asked for an update (on the planned demolition of the) Surfside tower and a FEMA briefing (whether he had received one yet on that development) he said: "Not yet."



July 4, 202116:40

Travel Pool Report #12: back at the WH 
The motorcade arrived at the White House at 4:37 pm from JBA, with President Biden and company entering the building via the North Portico entrance the same way the president left yesterday. Pool did not see them go in but that is where they were let off.
Scenes from Delaware in the same folder as yesterday's Michigan trip. The motorcade returned to the White House via a cleared out Pennsylvania Avenue, lined with people in red, white and blue holiday attire.
Handing off to the in-town pool, which is covering tonight's remarks. Travel pool is declaring its independence and breaking off.
Enjoy the rest of your holiday, everyone.




 
Pool Reports below by Philip Wegmann, RealClearPolitics 



Sent:
Reports:




July 4, 202119:02

In-Town Pool Report #1: Checking In 
Happy Birthday, America!
I am your in-town print pool reporter for this evening's 4th of July celebration at the White House. A crowd of first responders and military families were spotted more than an hour ago lining up for the BBQ. It looks to be a packed house.
Around 7:30 on the South Lawn, President Biden is expected to address those guests in remarks celebrating "Independence Day and independence from COVID-19." Per the White House, POTUS and FLOTUS will then watch the fireworks over the National Mall around 9:09.
I expect the remarks to be streamed live of course, but I'll do my best to pass along any color not visible from your television screen.



July 4, 202119:28

In-Town Pool Report #2: Awaiting POTUS 
It is a party on the South Lawn. No other way to describe it.
The Marine Band is playing while we await the President. There are big red and white and blue orbs in the trees, bounce castles and volleyball nets in the lawn, and refreshments surged under big tents.
The crowd is packed tightly together. A lectern is set up in the grass for POTUS. A White House aide guesses that the guest count is somewhere between 1,300 and 1,500.
Of note: Your pooler hasn’t spotted a single mask.



July 4, 202119:32

In-Town Pool Report #3: Remarks Begin 
President Biden emerged from the WH at 7:30 and waited for the cheers to die down before he began speaking.
"Today we celebrate America," he said to start.



July 4, 202119:46

In-Town Pool Report #4: Remarks Conclude 
Remarks concluded at 7:45.



July 4, 202120:01

In-Town Pool Report #5: Biden Back Outside
?Biden emerged from the White House a few minutes ago. POTUS is now shaking hands and visiting with the families.



July 4, 202120:34

In-Town Pool Report #6: Biden and FLOTUS on stage
President and First Lady Biden are both on the riser as Jennifer Nettles belts out the National Anthem.



July 4, 202121:13

In-Town Pool Report #7: Fireworks
President and First Lady Biden are now watching the fireworks from the White House balcony.



July 4, 202121:42

In-Town Pool Report #8: Lid
President Biden watched the fireworks with his extended family on the balcony, then moved down to a landing on the steps for a series of photos. He entered the residence at 9:38.
White House declared a lid shortly after. Happy Independence Day!




  