
    Pool Reports by George Condon, National Journal



Sent:
Reports:




July 16, 202010:13

Pool report 1 
Greetings from a steamy White House. Pool has been Covid tested and a press secretary briefing has been added for 1 p.m.



July 16, 202011:42

Pool Report #2 
Larry Kudlow fielded some questions in the driveway. Your pool, alas, was not there. But here is the link from C-SPAN. He took questions on deregulation, lamented that "our opponent" wants to end "shareholder capitalism" and called India "a very protectionist country."
https://www.c-span.org/video/?473939-1/larry-kudlow-comments-reporters-w...



July 16, 202012:55

Pool report #3 
In case you did not see the White House guidance, be advised the briefing has been moved to 2 p.m.



July 16, 202015:01

Pool report 4 
The press secretary's briefing began at 2:30 and concluded at 2:55.



July 16, 2020
[APP Note: See report by Tom DeFrank below which is labed as Report #5.]


July 16, 202017:01

Pol report 6
After talking about his dereulatpry agenda and hearing from a new jersey car dealer, a Virginia nurse practitioner and an Arizona rancher he took aim at Joe Biden and his policy alliance with Bernie Sanders or as he called, the Biden-bernie plan.'  Nothing less than "The destruction of the suburbs" is at stake. He promised that "The suburban destruction  will end with us." He said that "Joe Biden and his bosses from the radical left" have to be stopped. If they get their way "suburbia would be no more." He also said Biden wants to empty the prisons.
He promised a whirlwind eight weeks "like no one has ever seen.:More to come



July 16, 202017:44

Pool Report 7 - quotes on Biden 
(apologies for typos in 6; never a good idea to type in a sun glare that prevents you from seeing your screen) Color and more comments to follow in next report.
Here are the key comments by the President concerning Joe Biden, delivered after he had made his standard pitch on the evils of regulations and the success of his de-regulatory efforts:
"Our entire economy and our very way of life are threatened by the Biden plan to transform our nation and subjugated our communities through the blunt force instrument of federal regulations at a level that you haven't even seen. You think that was bad? You haven't even seen anything yet. They want to go many times what they [did] in the past.Under the unity platform Joe Biden published with socialist Bernie Sanders, they are proposing --- and this is all in writing. It's done. They agreed. They are proposing to reenter the job-killing unfair Paris Climate Accords which will cost our country trillions of dollars. Trillions and trillions of dollars. And put us in a very, very bad competitive position ... Not surprisingly, China will be greatly advanced under this ridiculous agreement. So will Russia. So will many other countries.They propose to mandate net zero emissions form all news homes and buildings, skyrocketing he cost of construction and putting the goal of home ownership out of reach for millions. Destroying the look of the home, the beauty of the home. I'm somebody's that built many homes, many buildings... Still have to sell. This would put it out of reach, totally out of reach....They want to eliminate carbon from the U.S. energy industry, which means abolishing all American oil, clean coal and natural gas. No coal, no gas, no oil. Nothing to fire our massive plants. The result of this federally mandated shutdown would be the wholesale destruction of the entire energy industry and many other industries, the economic evisceration of entire communities and the unfettered off-shoring of millions of our best jobs to foreign countries and foreign polluters. Millions and millions of jobs would go; thousands and thousands of countries would be at a level that you've never seen. Companies would be disappearing left and right just like they did with Nafta, which we terminated....Thousands of companies, plants, factories would be closed. Under this dismal future, energy would be unaffordable for the vast majority of Americans and the American dream would be sniffed out so quickly and replaced with socialist disaster. The Democrats in DC have been and want to at a much higher level abolish our beautiful and successful suburbs by placing far-left Washington bureaucrats in charge of local zoning decisions. They are absolutely determined to eliminate single family zoning, destroy the value of houses and communities already built just as they have in Minneapolis and other location that you read about today. Your home will go down in value and crime rates will rapidly rise. Joe Biden and his bosses from the Radical Left want to significantly multiply what they are doing now and what will be the end result is that you will totally destroy the beautiful suburbs. Suburbia will be no longer as we know it. So they want to defund and abolish your police and law enforcement while at the same time destroying our great suburbs. The suburb destruction will end with us. Next week, I will be discussing the AFFH rule – A-F-F-H-rule – a disaster. And our plan to protect the suburbs from being obliterated by Washington Democrats, by people on the far left who want to see the suburbs destroyed and don't care. People have worked all their lives to get into a community and now they're going to watch it go to hell. Not going to happen, not while I'm here. The Biden-Bernie plan would also use the weapon of federal regulation to tie the hands of our police departments by aboloishing cash bail. Think of that. think of that. Bail. No problem, you kill somebody, let 'em out. Take a look at what's happening. [remarks on New York crime statistics.] the problem they want to abolish, it's not even believable... How crazy is that that they are actually trying to put it into play.... So by getting rid of bail... [inaudible] They want to get rid of prisons. They don't think anybodyshould go to prison. Setting loose violent criminals; appointing left wing social justice prosecutors like you have in Philadelphia..." He added, "Unlike the socialists, we believe in the rule of the people, not the rule of the unelected bureaucrats that don't know what they're doing. We believe in the dignity of the individual, not the iron grip of the states. Our regulatory reforms are vital not only to the success of our economy but the strength of our democracy and the survival of liberty itself."



July 16, 202017:58

Pool report 8 
Travel/photo lid declared at 5:56.
But that doesn't mean you'll be deprived of the joy of further pool reports. One still to come.



July 16, 202018:08

Pool Report 9 
The White House had a beautiful day for the deregulatory event and the advance team outdid themselves with a colorful backdrop for the president's remarks. Behind him was the Truman Balcony. Over his right shoulder was a blue Chevy pickup trump. In its bed was what was supposed to look like three massive weights, not unlike what you would see in a Roadrunner cartoon. The bottom of the truck bore the sign: "40 Years of Regulatory Burden." Over his left shoulder was a similar red Chevy. This time, a construction crane had lifted the three weights out of the bed and they dangled above the truck. The sign on this truck was "4 Years of Regulatory Freedom." Arrayed in front of the president were 190 chairs, most of them filled with cheering supporters, most in shirtsleeves, few in masks.
At 4:15, Hail the Chief was played and the president and vice president arrived on the scene. The president joked about "a nice crowd on a nice cool day." For the next 14 minutes he talked mostly about the evils of regulation, but also about "the China virus," low-flow showerheads and washers, incandescent light bulbs, and people crying "like a baby" when he signed bills lifting regulations from their shoulders. His lament about the showerheads was it forced people to take longer showers. "My hair—and I don't know about you—but it has to be perfect. Perfect." He said worries about overuse of water are misplaced. "Water is not a problem. It's called rain."
On the virus, he trod familiar ground, boasting that the administration has produced "ventilators like nobody has seen before." He claimed "more than 100,000 ventilators in 100 days," adding "We've saved a lot of lives" and recalling that "the cupboard was bare when we took over." He added, "I don't want any credit." He linked the quest for a vaccine to his deregulatory push, stating, "No administration in history has removed more red tape more quickly."
After his initial regulatory pitch, he listened to remarks by a car dealer from New Jersey, a nurse-practitioner from Virginia and a rancher from Arizona who detailed how their lives had improved when regulations were lifted.
When they finished, the president pledged to "never return to the days of soul-crushing regulations" and transitioned into an assault on Joe Biden, starting with the "way of life" quote in Pool Report 7.




 
Pool Report below by Tom DeFrank, National Journal



Sent:
Reports:




July 16, 202016:13

Pool Report 5 
>From Judd Deere:Today, President Donald J. Trump will delivers remarks on Rolling Back Regulations to Help All Americans.
Over the last three years, the Trump Administration has fulfilled its promise to cut two regulations for every one new regulation, saving $50 billion in regulatory costs to date. Prior to the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic, these reforms contributed to more than 2 million Americans rising out of poverty, 7 million Americans liberated from food stamps, the highest median income in our Nation's history, lowest poverty rates, rising incomes, and lowest unemployment rates in half a century. President Trump's historic deregulation is lifting up forgotten American families, improving our Nation's infrastructure, and lowering the costs of essential everyday goods and services.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpVice President Mike PenceLarry Kudlow, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic CouncilRuss Vought, Director of the Office of Management and BudgetJared Kushner, Assistant to the President & Senior AdvisorChris Liddell, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy CoordinationBrooke Rollins, Assistant to the President & Acting Director, Domestic PolicyDr. Tyler Goodspeed, Acting Chairman, Council of Economic AdvisersRussell Vought, Acting Director of the Office of Management and BudgetDoug Hoelscher, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director, Intergovernmental AffairsTim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director, Office of Public Liaison
Trump AdministrationSecretary Elaine Chao, Department of TransportationSecretary Eugene Scalia, Department of LaborSecretary Wilbur Ross, Department of CommerceSecretary Alex Azar, Department of Health & Human ServicesAdministrator Jovita Carranza, Small Business AdministrationAdministrator Andrew Wheeler,Environmental Protection AgencyAdministrator Seema Verma, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid ServicesAdministrator Paul Ray, Office of Information and Regulatory Affair
State & Local OfficialsGovernor Brad Little, IdahoGovernor Mike Dunleavy, AlaskaCommissioner Doug Goehring North Dakota Agriculture CommissionerState Senator Phil Berger, North Carolina Senate President Pro TemState Senator Paul Gazelka,Minnesota Senate Majority LeaderState Senator Larry Obhof, Ohio Senate PresidentState Senator Roger Roth, Wisconsin Senate PresidentJudge Executive Gary Moore, Boone County (KY) & Incoming President, National Association of Counties
External ParticipantsJoe Cambria, Cambria Truck CenterDr. Amy Johnson, Family Nurse PractitionerJim Chilton, Chilton Ranch




  