
    Mr. Chancellor, Mrs. Schmidt, ladies and gentlemen:
I am delighted to welcome back to Washington a very steadfast ally, distinguished statesman, and an esteemed personal friend. Mr. Chancellor, the Federal Republic of Germany honors us through your presence in Washington as we celebrate our 200th anniversary of our independence.
Throughout the United States the Bicentennial celebrations of 1976 have rekindled our traditional optimism, strengthened our national unity and our pride as a people, and generated a new spirit of confidence and inspiration as we look to the challenges of America's third century.
Mr. Chancellor, as the American adventure continues to unfold for us, we are ever more mindful that we live in an interdependent world. Accordingly, we attach the greatest importance to our international responsibilities. The United States takes immense satisfaction in having in the Federal Republic of Germany a true friend and ally who shares our deep commitment to liberty, democracy, and human freedom.
Just 30 years ago, the world had witnessed the development in Germany of a democratic state which stands as a model of stability, social justice, and economic well-being. Americans admire the achievements of the Federal Republic and the vital role that you play within the Atlantic Alliance.
The close ties between our countries have this year been dramatically reaffirmed. On behalf of the American people, let me express to you, Mr. Chancellor, our heartfelt appreciation for the Federal Republic's generous participation in our Bicentennial anniversary. We are especially honored that over 4,000 events devoted to America's Bicentennial are being held in the Federal Republic this year.
The Federal Republic has given exceptional Bicentennial gifts to several American institutions. Among them is your establishment of the Albert Einstein Spacearium of the Smithsonian's Air and Space Museum, which you will inaugurate this afternoon. This new institution, dedicated to a great scientist, scholar, and humanist whose vision transcended national boundaries, is, indeed, a fitting symbol of humanity's progress.
Mr. Chancellor, your arrival today marks our eighth meeting over the past 2 years, underscoring the continuity of our consultations on both sides of the Atlantic. Since your first visit as Chancellor in 1974, the countries of the West have been working more closely than ever between ourselves.
At the NATO summit in Brussels, at the Helsinki summit last August, and in our conferences at Rambouillet and Puerto Rico, we have demonstrated new unity among the industrialized democracies, a new determination to achieve the objectives of peace and prosperity for all our peoples, and a new confidence that we will achieve these objectives. The progress over the past 2 years clearly indicates that we will succeed.
Mr. Chancellor, I look forward with great anticipation to our discussions. I bid a very hearty welcome to you, Mr. Chancellor, as well as to Mrs. Schmidt and to all the members of the German party.
  