
    Vice President Harris Participated in a Fireside Chat with Keke Palmer 
Yesterday, Vice President Harris traveled to New Orleans, Louisiana to attend the 28th ESSENCE Festival of Culture, where she participated in a fireside conversation with Emmy Award-winning actress and leading millennial voice Keke Palmer. The Vice President spoke to the most critical issues facing Black women, including the implications of the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade. This was the largest audience the Vice President has addressed since the Supreme Court rendered its decision. While in New Orleans, the Vice President also met with the leaders of reproductive justice organizations.
The Vice President has a long-standing record of fighting for health, safety, and wellbeing of women, including protecting access to women's reproductive health care. Over the last week, the Vice President has reaffirmed the Administration's commitment to protecting reproductive rights through remarks, interviews, and convenings. The Vice President also recently met with doctors and nurses, faith leaders, constitutional law and privacy experts, Attorneys General, and advocates to discuss what is at stake and chart the path forward.
Read more below:
ESSENCE: VP Kamala Harris Calls Out States Attacking Both Abortion And Voting Rights At ESSENCE Festival [Bry'onna Mention, 07/02/2022]
It only makes sense that the second most-powerful person in the world, who is also the most powerful Black woman in the world, Vice President Kamala Harris join the masses of Black women in attendance at ESSENCE Fest.
The fireside conversation included Emmy-winning actress–who also played a veep in Nickelodeon's True Jackson, VP—Keke Palmer.
Just a little over a week since the overturning of Roe v. Wade, the two joined forces on the ESSENCE Wealth & Power stage, on Saturday evening to discuss the fragility of our constitutional rights, memes, and the first Black woman on the Supreme Court. […]
Harris noted that Black women's right to choose is literally a matter of life and death. She said "Black women are three times likely to die during childbirth, while Indigenous women are twice as likely to die during childbirth." She also cited that the United States was among one of the worst nations globally for women's maternal health. […]
ABC News: Kamala Harris speaks on 'outrageous' repeal of Roe at Essence Festival [Alexandra Hutzler, 07/02/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris spoke Saturday about the implications of the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade.
"This is a serious matter," Harris said. "It requires all of us to speak up, speak out and to be active."
Harris made the remarks at the Essence Festival of Culture in New Orleans, one of the largest African American culture celebrations in the country, where she participated in a "fireside chat" with actress Keke Palmer. It was the largest audience the vice president addressed since the Supreme Court issued its ruling, White House officials said.
Harris called the court's decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization to end 50 years of nationwide abortion access "outrageous."
Bloomberg: Harris Links Abortion and Voting Rights, Says Fight Must Go On[Akayla Gardner, 07/02/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris drew a link between states moving to outlaw abortion and those limiting voting rights, telling an audience mostly of Black women that the overturning of Roe v. Wade "requires all of us to speak up."
"At least 11 states are doing both at the same time," Harris said at the annual Essence Festival in New Orleans on Saturday. "No surprise there." […]
"We must be vigilant and we must remember we are always going to have to fight to maintain these rights," Harris said.
NOLA: Kamala Harris Denounces Supreme Court anti-abortion decision at Essence Fest[Tyler Bridges, 7/2/22]
Vice President Kamala Harris excoriated the Supreme Court's recent decision to end the federal right to abortion, telling a crowd at the Essence Festival of Culture in New Orleans on Saturday that the ruling will set back women's rights in the country.
"What essentially has happened is the statement has been made that the government has the right to come into your home and tell you as a woman and as a family what you should do with your life," Harris told an appreciative crowd of mostly Black women while being interviewed by Emmy Award-winning actress Keke Palmer.
Harris repeatedly used what has historically been the language of conservatives in saying the Supreme Court's decision now has the government telling people how to live their lives. […]
FOX 8: Vice President Kamala Harris speaks at Essence Fest[Meg Gatto, 07/02/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris addressed the crowd at Essence Fest Saturday, for the first time as Vice President Kamala Harris telling the attendees to use their voices as the country faces the fallout from the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe V. Wade.
Walking onto the Essence Fest stage to a thunderous applause, Vice President Harris said it felt good to be back, in person. The last time Harris spoke here was in 2019, before she made history as the first woman of color to become Vice President of the United States. Breaking barriers throughout her life, prepared her for this role.
"Don't hear 'nobody like you has done this before', I like to say, I eat no for breakfast," Harris told the crowd.
WWL-TV: VP Kamala Harris speaks on abortion, inspiring the next generation at Essence Fest[Sam Winstrom, 07/02/2022]
Kamala Harris showed a side of herself we don't often see Saturday as she took the stage at the Essence Festival.
1,000 miles away from Washington, DC, the Vice President was relaxed as she took questions from actress Keke Palmer on everything from her personal life to politics.
She was blunt when asked about the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade.
"What essentially has happened is the statement has been made that the government has the right to come into your home and tell you as a woman and as a family what you should do with your life," Harris said.
When asked about what's next for the fight for abortion rights, Harris looked back to her own childhood, growing up with Civil Rights leaders.
"We have a history of these movements being fueled by students, by young leaders," Harris said.
WDSU: Vice President Kamala Harris speaks on abortion, gas, inflation and more[Eli Brand, 07/02/2022]
NEW ORLEANS — Vice President Kamala Harris was in New Orleans Saturday speaking at the annual Essence Festival of Culture.
Harris spoke on the Wealth and Power stage about the impacts of the Supreme Court's ruling to overturn Roe v. Wade, as well as other issues facing women of color.
After her speech at the festival, Harris spoke exclusively with WDSU about multiple topics that impact Louisiana residents.
Additional Coverage:
CNN: Harris compares overturning Roe to legacy of US government 'trying to claim ownership over human bodies'Business Insider: VP Harris said overturning Roe v. Wade is just another way the US tries 'to claim ownership over human bodies'Good Morning America: Vice President Kamala Harris speaks at Essence festNBC News: 'This is a serious matter': Harris speaks on overturn of Roe v. Wade at Essence FestivalWGNO: VP Kamala Harris takes Essence stage discussing wealth and powerNBC 10 Boston: Vice President Kamala Harris Speaks About Roe v. Wade at the 28th Essence Festival of Culture in New OrleansThe Grio: Vice President Harris, Biden officials to attend Essence Festival
  