
    "Twenty-three million Americans are struggling for work and the nation is experiencing its 'worst economic recovery' — but you wouldn't know it listening to President Obama, who thinks his economic policies have 'worked.' After three and a half years, it's clear President Obama just isn't up to the task of delivering the economy that he promised." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Last Week, President Obama Claimed His Economic Policies Have "Worked":
President Obama: "We Tried Our Plan -- And It Worked." OBAMA: "Just like we've tried their plan, we tried our plan — and it worked. That's the difference. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Oakland, CA, 7/23/12)
But President Obama's Policies Haven't "Worked" — They've Failed To Produce The 5.6% Unemployment President Obama Promised:
Before Taking Office, President Obama's Advisers Predicted The Stimulus Would Lower Unemployment To 5.6% Today — But It's Remained Above 8% For 41 Straight Months. (Christina Romer and Jared Bernstein, "The Job Impact Of The American Recovery And Reinvestment Plan," 1/9/09; Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/7/12)
More Than Twenty-Three Million Americans Are Unemployed, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking For Work. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/7/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, The Nation Has Lost 473,000 Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/8/12)
Under President Obama, Manufacturing Has Lost 590,000 Jobs. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 7/8/12)
The Current Number Of Long-Term Unemployed Americans Is "Staggering," With "The Average Length Of Time The Unemployed Have Spent Out Of Work" Climbing Steadily Higher. "The numbers are staggering. The ranks of the long-term unemployed swelled last month from 5.1 million to 5.4 million, and those individuals now account for 42.8% of the unemployed. Meanwhile, the average length of time the unemployed have spent out of work has climbed steadily higher -- and older Americans have been the hardest hit." (Charles Riley, "Long-Term Unemployment Crisis Rolls On," CNN Money, 6/11/12)
The Verdict On The Obama Economy? "The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had":
CBS News: We Are Experiencing "The Worst Economic Recovery America Has Ever Had." CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("CBS Evening News," 7/17/12)
"Weaker Hiring, Nervous Consumers, Sluggish Manufacturing And The Overhang Of Europe's Debt Crisis Might Be Pointing Toward Everyone's Big Fear: Another Recession." "A U.S. economy that plodded along in the first three months of the year likely grew even less in the April-June quarter. And most economists no longer think growth will strengthen much in the second half of 2012. Weaker hiring, nervous consumers, sluggish manufacturing and the overhang of Europe's debt crisis might be pointing toward everyone's big fear: another recession." ("Economists Think Another Recession Is Possible," The Associated Press, 7/27/12)
  