
    Pool Reports by Laura Figueroa, Newsday



Sent:
Reports:




July 17, 202010:22

Pool Report #1 - Conway Gaggle 
Happy Friday...
Pooler has her mask on, and has been tested...
Kellyanne Conway gaggled with reporters before pool call time. Below is a link to CSPAN video of gaggle where she suggested the president should resume daily coronavirus briefings with reporters.
https://www.c-span.org/video/?473966-1/kellyanne-conway-president-return...
So far, no public events on POTUS' schedule.



July 17, 202011:06

Pool Report #2 -- Readout of call with Australian Prime Minister 
Forwarding from WH's Judd Deere >>
"Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia to address growing security threats in the Indo-Pacific region. President Trump commended Prime Minister Morrison for increasing Australia's defense budget and thanked him for his leadership in calling for accountability and reform of the World Health Organization. President Trump also expressed his support for the people of Australia as they battle the coronavirus and face unfair retaliatory trade measures from China."



July 17, 202013:29

Pool Report 3 -- Lunch Lid until 2:30p.m. 
Enjoy...



July 17, 202013:44

Pool Report 4 - Credentialing Ceremony attendees 
>From WH's Judd Deere:
Today, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed ambassadors to Washington, D.C.
The following ambassadors participated:
Her Excellency Nomaindiya Mfeketo, Ambassador of the Republic of South AfricaHis Excellency Lazarous Kapambwe, Ambassador of the Republic of ZambiaHer Excellency Karen Elizabeth Pierce, DCMG, Ambassador of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandHis Excellency Eugen Caras, Ambassador of the Republic of MoldovaHis Excellency Alfonso Quinonez Lemus, Ambassador of the Republic of GuatemalaHis Excellency Jean-Claude do Rego, Ambassador of the Republic of BeninHis Excellency Lazarus Ombai Amayo, Ambassador of the Republic of Kenya



July 17, 202016:08

Pool Report #5 -- Travel/Photo Lid called at 4:07p.m. 
Have a great weekend...




  