
    Rep. Judge Joins Long List of Influential Iowa Leaders Backing Cory's Candidacy
Des Moines, IA — Following Cory Booker's breakout performance during the first Democratic debate, today Cory 2020 announced that Iowa State Representative Kenan Judge and more than 30 influential Iowa leaders — including renowned Iowa activists Nancy Bobo and Carolyn and John Klaus — have endorsed Cory for President of the United States.
"After listening to Cory's call for bipartisanship and detailed policy proposals during the first Democratic debate, it was clear to me that he is the leader we need to restore a sense of civility in our nation," said Rep. Kenan Judge. "Cory's executive experience, ability to work across the aisle, and courage to take on some of our nation's toughest challenges make him uniquely qualified to serve as President, and I am proud to join the campaign."
Judge joins a long list of influential Iowa leaders backing Cory's candidacy, including State Representatives Amy Nielsen and Jennifer Konfrst, who became the first two Iowa legislators to endorse any candidate in the 2020 field, and former State House Minority Leader Mark Smith.
"Over the last few months, I've had the privilege of getting to know Cory. Our families hail from the same part of Iowa and we share the same Iowa values of honesty, integrity, humility, and kindness. These are the values that I judge a person on and Cory exceeds these requirements," said Judge.
Earlier this month, Cory 2020 announced that a powerhouse list of Iowa activists, elected officials, and political influencers had joined the Iowa for Cory steering committee, including new endorsements from Cedar Rapids City Councilman Dale Todd, Iowa City Councilmembers Mazahir Salih and Bruce Teague, and Iowa political operative Jerry Crawford.
"We are thrilled to earn the support of such a respected community leader and effective legislator like Representative Judge, along with dozens of powerful activists" said Cory 2020 Iowa State Director Mike Frosolone. "Every campaign needs a robust infrastructure to be successful in the Iowa caucuses, and this strong show of support following the first debate adds to the growing momentum we have built over the last few months that will carry us to victory in February."
Judge is serving his first term in the Iowa House of Representatives and represents the District 44 which includes portions of includes Clive, Waukee and West Des Moines.
Polk County Activist Nancy Bobo: "After researching all the candidates — and meeting many of them — I found Cory's character, tenacity, and passion for the common person to be exceptional and exactly what we need to move our country forward. I wholeheartedly support his candidacy for President and will work hard to get him elected!"
Story County Activists Carolyn and John Klaus: "Cory outshined every other candidate on the debate stage with his signature poise, grace and grit. Cory is the leader we need to help heal the soul of our nation and unite our communities, and we are proud to endorse him for President of the United States."
Jasper County Activist Carol Kramer: "As a reservation-born and raised Ojibwa woman, I know Cory understands our plight. When he graced our home in person, it was the proudest moment for our family. Cory was powerfully eloquent, and when he stayed and spoke to most of the 100 people there, it showed how connected he is. Cory has a graciousness about him, coupled with strength and thoughtful intellect, and I am proud to join his team."
Former Lucas County Democrats Chair Joan Amos: "After seeing and following all of the different candidates in the presidential field, I am supporting Cory Booker because he knows what our country needs. Cory was one of the only candidates that's come to rural towns in southern Iowa like Chariton to see firsthand the issues we're facing, so I know he will support rural folks across our nation. From his executive experience fighting for the issues that matter most like health care and fully funded education, Cory is the person most qualified to beat Trump."
Polk County Activist Cathy Jury: "Right now, there is so much pain and anger in our country. We need to reignite our faith in each other to get things done. That's why I support Cory Booker for President. He knows how to bring people together to tackle tough problems and get results."
The full list of Iowans formally announcing their endorsement of Cory Booker today include:
Iowa State Representative Kenan Judge Kathi Judge, Dallas County activist Nancy Bobo, Polk County activist  John Klaus, former Story County Democratic Central Committee Vice Chair Carolyn Klaus, former Story County Democratic Central Committee Precinct Representative Carol Kramer, Jasper County activist Fritz Kramer, Jasper County activist Cathy Jury, Polk County activist  Scott Foens, Linn County Activist and Central Committee Member Linda Foens, Linn County Activist Joan Amos, former Lucas County Democrats Chair Julie Stewart, former Dallas County Democrats Chair Rachael Ferraro, Head of Dubuque Transgender Kim El-Baroudi, Polk County Activist Mike Weinard, Johnson County activist, AFSCME member Chris Weinard, Johnson County activist, AFSCME member Ellie Miglin, Roosevelt High School Democrats Chair Nick Pryor, Co-Founder of Students Against School Shootings Iowa Ian Russell, Scott County Activist and Central Committee Member Yena Balekyani, Polk County immigration activist  Reverend Charles Lane, Black Hawk County Lee Jolliffe, Drake University professor Tanya Keith, Polk County activist Ian Rappolt, Teacher and Woodbury County Activist Tatum Clayburn, member of Simpson College Democrats Marti Mefferd, Lucas County activist  Melissa Hale, Polk County activist Makenna Yates, Warren County activist Lael Neal, Polk County activist  Shaimaa Aly, Polk County activist Carol Clark, Johnson County activist  Lori A. Young, Polk County activist  Dava James, Story County activist  Judy Anderson, Polk County activist Kay Marcel, Polk County gun violence prevention activist
  