
    Nine elected officials from Texas, Georgia, Alabama, New York, and Illinois offer their support for Senator Harris
On the heels of a commanding debate performance and enthusiasm across the country, Senator Kamala Harris earned the endorsements of nine local elected officials from five different states. The list includes statehouse leaders like Georgia Minority Leader Bob Trammell, New York state senators Brian Benjamin and Kevin Parker, and a number of officials in public education.
These local leaders all agree that Harris is the best candidate to prosecute the case against Donald Trump and highlighted her 3AM agenda focused on lifting up American families. Senator Harris started her elected career as the District Attorney of San Francisco.
Texas, Georgia, Alabama, New York, and Illinois will award over 750 delegates in the 2020 Democratic primary.
The full list of local officials is below:

Bob Trammell, Minority Leader of the Georgia House of Representatives
Everton Blair, Jr., Member of the Gwinnett County, Georgia School Board
Jacinto Ramos, President of the Fort Worth, Texas Independent School District Board of Education
Aicha Davis, Member of the Texas State Board of Education
Roy Brooks, County Commissioner of Tarrant County, Texas
Brian Benjamin, State Senator from New York
Kevin Parker, State Senator from New York
Kam Buckner, Member of the Illinois House of Representatives
Rolanda Hollis, Member of the Alabama House of Representatives

"We need a leader in the White House who understands the Constitution and respects the rule of law-- and Kamala Harris fits the bill," said Leader Trammell. "It is dangerous when elected officials don't have a healthy respect for the rule of law, and that's exactly what we're seeing in Washington today. Her strong background in law enforcement makes Kamala the perfect candidate to prosecute the case against four more years of Trump."
"Her deep commitment to education and unwavering investment in our young people are why Senator Kamala Harris is the best candidate for President in 2020," said Blair. "Harris believes every child, regardless of their background or zip code, deserves high quality instruction and equitable opportunities to thrive. From eliminating the teacher pay gap to pushing for student loan forgiveness, she has been the leading candidate on educational issues in this race. After the disastrous leadership of Betsy DeVos, education must be a top priority for the next president, and Harris is the one who can get that done."
"I am proud to announce my endorsement and full support for Senator Kamala Harris," said President Ramos. "I believe it is crucial for our nation that we have a President that understands the opportunities and challenges our students, teachers and schools face in preparing the next generation to pursue the American Dream. All our students deserve a chance to thrive and achieve their full potential. America cannot afford to leave any student behind for any reason. Senator Harris has proven record of leadership and has provided clear proposals to help us achieve this goal. I am honored to stand with her today and join the growing movement across our nation to create the America we all want for our children."
"As a school teacher, I know that Kamala Harris will fight for people like me," said Davis. "Her 3AM agenda -- including plans to close both the teacher pay gap and the gender pay gap -- speaks volumes about the kind of leader Senator Harris will be in the White House. I'm proud to support her and her campaign for the presidency."
"Kamala Harris is exactly who our nation needs in this important moment," said Commissioner Brooks. "While American values are currently under attack by the current administration, Harris has built her career on upholding justice and equality. Her pioneering reentry initiative, Back on Track, continues to stand as the gold standard in preventing recidivism, and her commitment to lifting millions out of poverty through a much-needed $6000 tax credit proves she'll continue fighting for our values from the Oval Office."
"I'm backing Kamala Harris because she knows that real, meaningful criminal justice reform must be on the agenda for our next president," said Senator Benjamin. "Right now, our justice system -- with its private prisons, cash bail system, and failure to restore voting rights to individuals with felony convictions -- does not align with our American values. These are issues I have dedicated my career in public service to addressing and I know that Kamala deeply understands them and has tackled them head-on in her career and in this campaign, which is why I am excited to support her for president."
"Kamala Harris is a tireless fighter for working families -- and that's why she has my endorsement for president," said Senator Parker. "As a product of New York City public schools, I know first-hand that a good public education is the key to lifting children out of poverty. Senator Harris' plan to raise teacher pay and direct federal dollars into under-resourced communities is proof of her commitment to improving the lives of working people, and I have no doubt she'll do just that as our president."
"Kamala Harris is a bold leader who has big plans for our country's future, and I couldn't be prouder to endorse her for president," said Representative Buckner. "Throughout her entire career, Kamala has worked to bring people together and elevate often-forgotten voices -- from the single mother struggling to pay the bills to the college student drowning in debt to the formerly-incarcerated trying to reintegrate into society. I'm thrilled to be on Team Kamala to help elect a champion for working people and our first woman president."
"I couldn't be more proud to endorse my AKA sorority sister, Kamala Harris, to be the next president of the United States," said Representative Hollis. "Her bold plans to address the biggest challenges facing the black community, including expanding access to homeownership and fighting the maternal mortality crisis, shows that she will be a real force for good in Washington. America deserves a president who will fight for all of us -- and that's exactly the kind of president Kamala will be."
  