
    Pool Reports by Allie Feinberg, Arizona Republic 



Sent:
Reports:




July 6, 2023 11:11 MST

VP Travel pool report #1/Arrival
VP Harris and SG Emhoff arrived at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport at 11:10a.m. under clear, cloudless skies. They were greeted by Arizona Secretary of State Adrian Fontes before heading to the
Gila Crossing Community School in the Gila River Indian Community.


July 6, 2023 13:22 MST

Pool report #2/Arrival ceremony
VP Harris and SG Emhoff arrived at the Gila Crossing Community School at 11:45 p.m. She participated in a traditional welcome ceremony with Governor Stephen Lewis. Harris and Lewis shook hands and exchanged remarks while members of the Gila tribe sang with baskets and instruments. Lewis walked Harris through the ceremony before heading into the school.


July 6, 2023 13:22 MST

Pool #3/remarks to Gila community
Junior Miss Gila River and Pacific Region Representative on the Tribal Youth Executive Council Sinica Jackson spoke about her platform of self care.
i'll Assistant Secretary of the office of IndianAffairs Bryan Newland talked about his experience working under female leaders and spoke of the administration's efforts to respect tribal sovereignty. He touted SCOTUS' upholding of the ICWA and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Act to creat tribally owned, renewable energy.
Harris began making her remarks at 12:50 after being introduced by Governor Stephen Lewis (CHECK). The elected leaders of all 22 tribes in Arizona were present. He expressed deep appreciation for the administration's investment in tribal communities.
She thanked native Americans for serving in the armed forces, reaffirmed her duty to safeguard the bond between tribal nations and the US government. She said that the administration has a duty to address disparities that are the result of broken treaties, displacement, dispossession and violence.
She emphasized the importance of making sure that native communities are places of economic opportunity, specifically access to capital and financial services.
She talked about addressing the climate crisis and how the land that tribes have called home are being threatened by wildlife, droughts and floods. She emphasized the importance of native led efforts to improve conditions.
She emphasized the importance of the freedom to vote and protecting the native vote. She spoke about putting voting registration cites in health care centers.
She spoke about fighting for missing indigenous people, making sure that young people have mental health access.
she ended with a call to action to be vigilant about keeping the protections of ICWA.
quotes to come
color: rows of people enthusiastically cheering and clapping. in a school that was established due to the administration's efforts. a band played patriotic music as she walked up to the stage. 


July 6, 2023 14:32 MST

Pool Report #4 - treatment plant visit
VP Harris arrived at the Pima-Maricopa Irrigrayion Project at 2:23 p.m. She toured the facility accompanied by Governor Lewis, where they met the head of the project He told her that they're taking water from the cities of Mesa and Chandler and moving it downhill
Th spoke against a backdrop of dirt, mountains, trees and a "Building a Nwttwe America" sign
Background from WH staff:
At 9:55 am PT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will depart Los Angeles, CA en route to Phoenix, AZ. This departure from Los Angeles International Airport will be closed press.
At 11:05 am AT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will arrive at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport. This arrival in Phoenix, AZ will be open to pre-credentialed media.
At 11:45 am AT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will participate in an Arrival Ceremony with Governor Stephen Lewis of the Gila River Indian Community. This ceremony at the Gila Crossing Community School will be pooled press.
The VP spoke to David DeJong, Director if the Pima-Maricopa Irrigation Project.


July 6, 2023 14:40 MST

Pool #5/water plant
Harris addresses Pool acknowledging the climate crisis. She said that the work her administration has done is exhibited in the project. She mentioned innovation and training to reduce reliance okay the colorado rive. She reaffirmed hee partnership with native nations.
On background from a White House Official:
Upon arrival at the Pima-Maricopa Irrigation Project, the Vice President was briefed by Governor Stephen Lewis of the Gila River Indian Community and David DeJong, Director of the Pima-Maricopa Irrigation Project.


July 6, 2023 15:04 MST

pool CORRECTION
The sign said "Building a Better America, not what it said in the previous email.


July 6, 2023 15:07 MST

pool #6/quotes from remarks at Gila Crossing School
Bond between government and nations
"We are committed to make sure that are native communities are places of economic opportunity. In this community, and all across the country."
"President Joe Biden and I believe that the bonds between our nations are sacred. Legally, we have a duty to hold our trust and treaty obligations, to honor tribal sovereignty."
Economics
"To address inequity, our administration has invested more than 500 million dollars to native entrepreneurs and small businesses."
"People know firsthand the incredible potential in the community. People fail to realize the potential of the community."
Environment
"Every year, the land your tribes have long called home becomes increasingly threatened by wildfire, drought and flood. Native people have served as resourceful stewards of our environment for millennium. We must rely on the knowledge and experience of the native communities."
"That is why we are investing billion of dollars to help fund native led, not native consulted, native led climate resiliency efforts."
On voting
"President Joe Biden and I will continue to call on other to pass the Freedom to Vote Act, the John Lewis voting rights Act and the Native American Voting Rights Act."
From Governor Lewis:
"This administration has taken partnership to a whole new level, bringing tribes generally to the table and working with us on important business. Here in the community, I can easily point to our successful partnership. From federal funding, to new investments in buildings like this one, this school, with more to come."
From Cinica Jackson:
"Representation matters," she said. "I have the privilege of welcoming one of my role models to the community."



  