
    Mitt Romney today announced his Veterans and Military Families for Romney coalition.
"It is a true honor to have such strong support among our nation's veterans and military families," said Mitt Romney. "Veterans and their families sacrifice so much for our country; it is important that we recognize and honor the work that they do to keep us safe and free. As president, I will be an advocate for veterans and their families and will always fight to ensure that they get the opportunities and care they have earned."

"There is nothing more important than treating our veterans in a way that honors their service to the cause of freedom," said former President George H.W. Bush. "Their enduring courage continues to keep our country secure, our people safe, and our democratic values strong. I worry that so many of our veterans are unemployed and are struggling to provide basic necessities for their families.  Despite these challenges, I have full faith in Governor Romney's commitment to ensuring a bright future for our brave men and women who have served America with integrity and distinction."
"It is an honor to join with Mitt Romney in his effort to restore our country's prosperity and to uphold one of our nation's cherished values, commitment to our veterans and our respect for the sacrifices of our men and women in uniform," said Senator Bob Dole. "Too many of our military heroes are coming back home after valiantly serving our country overseas only to be ill-served by today's economic policies. A Romney administration would be an unflinchingly ally to veterans across the nation and ensure their families benefit from the liberty and freedom they defend. Mitt Romney will never forget our obligations to the members of our military. I am proud to stand with Governor Romney and our military families as he seeks the presidency of the United States."
"Our country owes a sacred debt to the brave men and women who have served this nation overseas," said Senator John McCain. "And that debt cannot be paid with gratitude alone. They deserve good jobs and quality medical care. The struggles they face here at home should never exceed those they face on the battlefield in defense of our country. Unfortunately, President Obama's policies have failed our veterans. It's time for a leader who will honor their sacrifices by securing their futures. Mitt Romney will lead where the President has not. He won't treat the challenges facing our current and retired military personnel as secondary objectives, but as a central focus of his presidency."
"Veterans have served our nation proudly for decades," said former Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jim Nicholson. "They deserve not only our respect and admiration, but top quality care for the rest of their lives. Mitt Romney will work tirelessly to ensure that veterans and military families are always cared for. That is why I am proud to join him in his campaign to keep America strong and prosperous."
Former Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony Principi said, "Mitt Romney has spent his life leading organizations and making them stronger and he will ensure that the Department of Veterans Affairs is able to provide for our veterans. Mitt Romney also has the plan and record to help fix our economy and help provide jobs for our veterans when they return home. I support Mitt Romney because I know that he understands the needs of our veterans and will be able to provide them the quality medical care, benefits and chance to find the good work that they deserve."
Former Secretary of Veterans Affairs James Peake said, "We need a president who will ensure that those who sacrificed the most for their country are able to find good work and live the American Dream. Many of our veterans face tough economic circumstances and this is unacceptable. Mitt Romney will use his decades-long job creation experience to spur growth and provide opportunities for our nation's veterans. I am proud to stand with Mitt Romney and our veterans should know that they will have a friend and ally with him in the White House."
"Mitt Romney has been a strong advocate for veterans and he will ensure that our veterans receive the medical care and benefits they deserve," said Lt. Col. Scott Rutter (Ret.), Chairman of the National Advisory Board. "Not only does he understand the needs of the millions who make the most sacrifices for our country, he also has a proven record of leadership that will be needed to provide for our veterans. Mitt Romney will put veterans first and will give them the opportunity to live the American Dream."
National Honorary Chairmen
President George H.W. Bush
Former Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole
National Chairs 
Secretary James Nicholson
Secretary Anthony Principi
Secretary James Peake
Senator John McCain
Honorary Co-Chairmen And Co-Chairwomen
Rep. Duncan Hunter, USMCR (Ret.)
Rep. Steve Pearce, Air Force (Ret.)
Rep. Joseph J. Heck, Army Reserve
Rep. John Kline, USMC (Ret.)
Rep. Todd Young, USMC (Ret.)
Sen. Lindsey Graham, Air Force
Rep. Ralph M. Hall, Navy (Ret.)
Rep. Sam Johnson, Air Force (Ret.)
Rep. Tim Griffin, Army Reserve
Rep. Diane Black
Rep. Steve Womack, Army National Guard (Ret.)
Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Congressional Military Families Caucus
Sen. James Inhofe, Army (Ret.)
Rep. Tom Rooney, Army
Former Rep. Mike Bilirakis, USAF (Ret.)
Rep. Steve Stivers, OHANG 
Rep. Bill Johnson, USAF (Ret.) 
Franklin County, Ohio Auditor Clarence Mingo, USA (Ret.) 
Rep. Jeff Miller, Florida 
National Advisory Board
Lt. Col. Scott Rutter, USA (Ret.), Chairman of the National Advisory Board
Secretary John Lehman, former Secretary of the Navy
Sharlene Hawkes, President, RMS Military Productions
Lieutenant Colonel Orson Swindle (Ret.)
Chief Warrant Officer Al Poteet, U.S. Army (Ret.) Deputy Assistant Secretary, Department of Veterans Affairs
Lt. Col. Howard Snow, USMC (Ret.), Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy
Colonel Ken Allard, US Army (Ret.)
Major General Donald Shepperd (Ret.)
Nick Combs, EMC Federal
Lt. Cmdr. Carl Smith, U.S. Navy (Ret.)
Rudi Gresham, former Senior Advisor to the Under Secretary of Health, Department of Veteran Affairs
Tom Bowman, USMC, (Ret.), former Chief of Staff to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Terrie Suit, Virginia Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Honorable Michael J. Kussman, MD, former Undersecretary for Health
Rear Admiral Donald Loren, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
Colonel Doug Morrison, U.S. Army (Ret.)
Capt. Chuck Nash, U.S. Navy (Ret.) 
Endorsers are retired or not on active duty. Use of military rank and job titles does not imply endorsement by the Department of Defense or any department thereof.
  