
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 18
In the morning, the President met with senior foreign policy advisers to discuss the situation in Bosnia and with Members of Congress to discuss affirmative action.
In the evening, the President met with David Daliberti, an American who had been imprisoned in Iraq after crossing the Iraqi border on March 13. He and Hillary Clinton then hosted a picnic for members of the press on the South Lawn.
The President announced his intention to nominate John A. Knubel to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to appoint William F. McSweeny to the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Smithsonian Institution.
July 19
In the morning, the President had telephone conversations with President Jacques Chirac of France and Prime Minister John Major of the United Kingdom.
In the afternoon, the President met with Members of Congress to discuss the situation in Bosnia.
The President announced his intention to appoint Harriett M. Wieder to the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States.
The President announced his intention to appoint Steven M. Eidelman; John F. Kennedy, Jr.; Barbara Yoshioka Wheeler; and Sheryl White-Scott to the President's Committee on Mental Retardation.
July 20
The White House announced that the President will attend World War II 50th anniversary commemorations in Honolulu, HI, on September 1-3.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Barry M. Goldwater to the U.S. Air Force Academy Board of Visitors.
July 21
The President announced his intention to nominate James A. Joseph as Ambassador to South Africa.
The President announced his intention to nominate Hal C. DeCell III to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul M. Homan as Special Trustee for American Indians at the Department of the Interior.
The White House announced that the President made available $100 million in emergency home energy assistance to States that have experienced extremely hot weather.
  