
    SAN ANTONIO, TX (July 25, 2019) – On Thursday, July 25, presidential candidate, former U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary under President Obama and San Antonio Mayor, Julián Castro, announced a new slate of 16 campaign hires and promotions in the San Antonio headquarters and in early primary states—building on the momentum he gained following the first Democratic debates. 
"We've seen an incredible outpouring of support and enthusiasm for Julián's campaign following the first debate," said campaign manager Maya Rupert. "As more and more Americans learn about his candidacy and our support continues to grow, so too will our campaign's presence across the country. We're excited to announce a new slate of talented operatives and organizers from all different backgrounds to help fulfill Julián's vision for a more prosperous country for all of us."
The announcement of new hires comes after news that Secretary Castro has secured three of the four required polls to qualify for the September debates. ABC and the Washington Post published a poll following the first debates putting Secretary Castro in the top five polling candidates nationally at 4 percent.
Following the debates, Secretary Castro announced that his campaign had the four best fundraising days since his announcement—raising more than $1 million in the last five days of the second quarter, and more than doubling the total sum raised in the first quarter. 
Earlier this month, the Castro campaign announced seven new endorsements from local leaders in Iowa, announced the endorsement of West Wendover Mayor Daniel Corona, the youngest elected mayor in Nevada and first openly gay mayor in Nevada history, and announced that Nevada's former Nye County Democratic Party chair had endorsed Secretary Castro. 
This weekend, July 26-27, Secretary Castro will travel to Iowa for his ninth trip to the first-in-the-nation caucus state, where he will attend national candidate forums and host various campaign events. Following his trip to Iowa, Secretary Castro will travel to Detroit for the second round of Democratic primary debates on Wednesday, July 31. 
The recent campaign hires include:
San Antonio Joseph Czajkowski - National Finance Director (Previously: Finance Director, Arizona Democratic Party) Benjamin Staton - Deputy Finance Director (Previously: Finance Director, Deidre Dejear for Iowa) Cassie Baars - Finance Assistant (Previously: Deputy Campaign Manager, Friends of Jake Castanza) Brielle Insler - Digital Director (Previously: Managing Partner, Düable) Sawyer Hackett - National Press Secretary (Previously: Deputy Press Secretary, Julián for the Future; Communications Director, Rep. David Price) Mili Gosar - Director of Voting and Delegate Strategy (Previously: National Voter Protection Director at the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee) Lillie Catlin - National Organizing Director (Previously: Deputy National Organizing Director at the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU))  Lauren Reyes - State Programs Director (Previously: New Hampshire Organizing Director, Julián for the Future; Field Director, Tim Kaine for Senate 2018 and as Field Director for the Virginia Coordinated Campaign 2018) Ashley Fairbanks - Creative Director (Previously: Digital Director, Ilhan Omar for Congress) Alex Sarabia - Deputy Communications Director (Previously: Communications and Policy Advisor, San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg) Sebastian Kitchen - Deputy Communications Director (Previously: Communications Director, Doug Jones for Senate) Liza Acevedo - Deputy Press Secretary (Previously: Spokesperson, Speaker of the House of New Jersey Craig J. Coughlin)
South Carolina Christina Cue - South Carolina State Director, (Previously: Director of Scheduling, Office of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development) Elizabeth Noble - South Carolina Organizing Director (Previously: Organizing Director, Ben Pogue State House 110)
Nevada Kristian Carranza, Nevada State Director (Previously: Organizing Director, Julián for the Future; Field Director, Gina Ortiz Jones for Congress)  Michael Cullen, Nevada Political Director (Previously: Attorney, Atkinson, Andelson, Loya, Ruud & Romo)
  