
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




July 18, 202322:05

FLOTUS pool report - POTUS drops by FLOTUS' soccer clinic
President Joe Biden made a surprise appearance at a Youth Soccer Clinic being held by First Lady Jill Biden on the South Lawn on Monday evening.
The president came out of the Diplomatic Reception Room exit shortly around 6:50 pm. The first lady was further down the South Lawn watching soccer drills and pick up games when he came out. The kids participating in the clinic noticed his appearance first and ran over to him yelling "Joe Biden. Joe Biden."
POTUS, wearing a suit and tie, posed for photos, shook hands, and chatted with the youth soccer players and the all-star soccer players who were participating in the clinic. Eventually Jill Biden made her way up to him. He and FLOTUS took a group photo with the players. POTUS returned to the residence at 7:07 pm.
Jill Biden hosted the clinic as "part of her continued efforts to highlight how sports unites us, and supports and empowers young people," per the East Wing. The clinic took place on a warm DC night but there was plenty of water, lemonade and goldfish snacks on hand for the kids, who were repeatedly encouraged to hydrate.
The first lady wore a black soccer jersey that read "FLOTUS 46" on the back.
About 100 kids – all pre-teen – were there. FLOTUS made remarks (which have been sent out by the East Wing) and then joined a group of kids to kick off the drills. She blew an air horn and about a dozen kids – in unison – kicked a soccer ball toward a large net set up. Only one ball missed and bounced toward the Rose Garden. The rest went in the net.
She then worked her way to a set of bleachers to greet watching parents. She shook hands and took selfies.
Then she made her way further down the South Lawn were most of the action was happening. Sections were roped off with cones so the kids could participate in drills and pick-up matches.
While watching one of the pick-up matches from the sidelines, the first lady was hit in the foot by a soccer ball. The ball bounced right back into the game. FLOTUS shrugged and laughed it off. She appeared uninjured.
Please note I was not the assigned pooler for this event but, because there was no print pooler and POTUS made an appearance, I filed this report. Thanks to the East Wing staff for moving a few reporters from the risers closer to the South Portico so we could have better eyes on POTUS after he made his surprise drop by.
Our friends at C-SPAN have posted footage of the entire event here: https://www.c-span.org/video/?529372-1/lady-youth-soccer-clinic-major-le...
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY
On Monday, July 17th, First Lady Jill Biden will host a youth soccer clinic with Major League Soccer (MLS) for children and families on the South Lawn of the White House as part of her continued efforts to highlight how sports unites us, and supports and empowers young people.
The clinic will be led by MLS All-Stars and feature a series of skills training stations and scrimmages for young athletes brought together by Washington, DC's Department of Parks and Recreation. The event will include remarks by the First Lady and feature Biden-Harris Administration officials and members of the MLS soccer community.
MLS GO is the League's recreational youth soccer program designed to increase participation, accessibility, and inclusivity for all children in soccer across the United States. The clinic will officially kick off the League's All-Star Week festivities in Washington, D.C.
Remarks program: • Don Garber, Commissioner, Major League Soccer (MLS) • Nevaeh Burroughs, DC Parks and Recreation Child Representative • First Lady Jill Biden
MLS All-Stars include • Christian Benteke, DC United • Lucho Acosta, DC Cincinnati • Kei Kamara, Chicago Fire • Jordan Morris, Seattle Sounders • Hany Mukhtar, Nashville SC • Walker Zimmerman, Nashville SC • Ryan Hollingshead, LAFC • Tim Parker, St. Louis City SC



  