
    SAN ANTONIO, TX (July 6, 2019) – On Saturday, July 6, presidential candidate and former Obama Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Julián Castro, was endorsed by West Wendover Mayor Daniel Corona, the youngest elected mayor in Nevada and the first openly gay mayor in Nevada's history.
Mayor Corona endorsed Secretary Castro on Saturday during a visit to West Wendover, where they participated in a roundtable with local stakeholders and residents on access to health care in rural communities such as West Wendover. Following his visit to West Wendover on Saturday, Secretary Castro will march with the Elko County Democrats at the 56th Annual Basque Festival and 4th of July Parade. In the afternoon, Secretary Castro will attend a town hall and meet-and-greet in Reno hosted by the Northern Nevada chapter of Indivisible, an organization that has been instrumental in pushing back against the Trump administration's immigration agenda.
"Julián Castro's family has a story that isn't too different from the story of my own family or that of countless families in my community, it is the embodiment of the American Dream," said Mayor Daniel Corona. "Throughout his career Julián has proven himself to be an even-headed leader who is capable of bringing folks who have disagreements together to find common ground and solutions to the problems they face, passing universal pre-k as Mayor of San Antonio is the perfect example. While it is impossible to ignore the history that will be made by electing our country's first Latino president, I truly believe that if we are going to send Donald Trump packing, it is going to take a candidate who has bold progressive policies who can also bring folks together to find common ground, I have no doubt that Julián Castro is that candidate."
"I'm honored to have the endorsement and support of Mayor Daniel Corona, a young Nevada mayor and outstanding public servant who is working to improve the lives of West Wendover residents every day," said Secretary Castro. "As a former mayor and city council member, I've seen firsthand how impactful local elected leaders can be in ensuring families can get a good education, find a home, or raise their children in a healthy, safe, and productive community. I'm pleased to have the support of one of those impactful leaders today in Mayor Corona."
Mayor Daniel CoronaDaniel Corona was born and raised in West Wendover, Nevada, and is a fourth generation resident. His great grandparents moved to the area with the railroad in the early 1950s. After graduating high school, Daniel attended the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, and the College of Southern Nevada in Las Vegas, eventually finding his way back to West Wendover to be closer to his family and the community he loves. Daniel is currently working to complete his Bachelor of Public Policy through Great Basin College and University of Nevada Reno extension programs.
Daniel is passionate about seeing young people involved in politics and works with various groups in the state to encourage youth involvement. Daniel believes that in a perfect world every young person will be informed and engaged in the political decisions that affect their futures. This belief was a key motivator for Daniel to run for Mayor of West Wendover. Daniel's success in the 2016 election earned him the distinction of being the youngest person to hold the office of mayor in the State of Nevada.
  