
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
Pursuant to section 203 of the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) (19 U.S.C. 3202), I wish to inform you of my intent to designate Bolivia as a beneficiary of the trade-liberalizing measures provided for in this Act. Designation will entitle the products of Bolivia, except for products excluded statutorily, to duty-free treatment for a period ending on December 4, 2002.
Designation is an important step for Bolivia in its effort to fight against narcotics production and trafficking. The enhanced access to the U.S. market provided by the ATPA will encourage the production of and trade in legitimate products.
My decision to designate Bolivia results from consultations concluded in April 1992 between this Administration and the Government of Bolivia regarding the designation criteria set forth in section 203 of the ATPA. Bolivia has demonstrated to my satisfaction that its laws, practices, and policies are in conformity with the designation criteria of the ATPA. The Government of Bolivia has communicated on these matters by a letter to Ambassador Hills and in so doing has indicated its desire to be designated as a beneficiary.
On the basis of the statements and assurances in Bolivia's letter, and taking into account information developed by the United States Embassy and through other sources, I have concluded that designation is appropriate at this time.
I am mindful that under section 203(e) of the ATPA, I retain the authority to suspend, withdraw, or limit the application of ATPA benefits from any designated country if a beneficiary's laws, policies, or practices are no longer in conformity with the designation criteria. The United States will keep abreast of developments in Bolivia that are pertinent to the designation criteria.
This Administration looks forward to working closely with the Government of Bolivia and with the private sectors of the United States and Bolivia to ensure that the wide-ranging opportunities opened by the ATPA are fully utilized.
Sincerely,
George Bush
  