
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 27
In the morning, the President participated in a welcoming ceremony with President Jiang Zemin of China in the courtyard at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
In the afternoon, the President had a working lunch with Premier Zhu Rongji of China.
June 28
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton toured the Forbidden City. In the afternoon, they traveled to the Great Wall at Mutianyu, and later, they returned to Beijing.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner with President Jiang and his wife, Wang Yeping, at the Zhongnanhai Government Compound.
June 29
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Shanghai.
June 30
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton toured the Shanghai Library.
The President declared a major disaster in Ohio and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes on June 24 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on June 17 and continuing.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Patrick John Finn to be Ambassador to Tajikistan.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Shattuck to be Ambassador to the Czech Republic.
July 1
In the morning, the President visited an Internet cafe. In the afternoon, he toured the Shanghai Stock Exchange and attended a luncheon for young entrepreneurs.
The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes beginning on June 26 and continuing.
July 2
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Guilin. In the afternoon, they took a cruise on the Li River, docking for a brief tour of Yucun village and then continuing the cruise to Yangshou. Later, they returned to Guilin.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Hong Kong. Later, the President met with Hong Kong Chief Executive C.H. Tung in the dining room of the Government House.
The Vice President announced that the President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on June 13 and continuing.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bert T. Edwards to be Chief Financial Officer at the State Department.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ann Lewis and Beth Newburger as Cochairs to the President's Commission on the Celebration of Women in American History and the following individuals as members: Johnnetta B. Cole, J. Michael Cook, Barbara Goldsmith, Ladonna Harris, Gloria Johnson, Elaine Kim, Ellen Ochoa, Frances Preston, and Anna Roosevelt.
The President announced his intention to accord the personal rank of Ambassador to Ronald D. Godard in his capacity as Special Representative to the Inter-American Council of Integral Development at the General Assembly of the Organization of American States.
The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on June 13 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area threatened by extreme fire hazards on June 29 and continuing.
The Vice President announced that the President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on June 12 and continuing.
  