
    Pool Reports by Zach Montague, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




July 8, 2023 09:37

Travel pool report #1 — call time now noon
Good morning from cool and sunny Rehoboth Beach. We've been pushed back to 12:00 pm ET to gather. Will share any more updates as they come. 


July 8, 2023 10:38

Travel pool report #2 — gathering
We've had our call time moved up to 10:40 am. The pool is assembling and heading to be swept shortly.


July 8, 2023 11:30

Travel pool report #3 — beach walk
Biden stepped out of the Beast at 11:25 am and walked solo out toward the water near North Shores beach.
He didn't appear to hear questions from the pool, but turned around briefly to acknowledge some cheers from supporters.
We're holding here while he walks. 


July 8, 2023 11:42

Travel pool report #4 — more beach time
The president appeared to stroll down to the water and then joined up with the First Lady who was already sitting down on the shore.
The pool is stationed back on the bus. 


July 8, 2023 14:07

Travel pool report #5 — back from the beach
After right around two and a half hours at North Shores beach, the president got back to the Beast at 1:58 pm ET. He's wearing short turtle-patterned trunks, a white polo and a blue baseball cap.
Before getting in he responded to a question about whether he has spoken to Janet Yellen regarding her trip to China. He appeared to say "no I haven't spoken to her yet, not personally," but the pool struggled to hear over the engines running.
Pool is now holding back in town for further instructions. 


July 8, 2023 15:31

Travel pool report #6 — holding
The pool is assembled again near the president's residence and awaiting a sweep. No confirmation yet on where we're headed.


July 8, 2023 16:15

Travel pool report #7 — church
POTUS took a quick ride to St. Edmond's Catholic Church, stepping inside at 4:09 pm ET. The pool was too far back to catch his arrival, but we'll hold outside while he attends mass.


July 8, 2023 16:58

Travel pool report #8 — leaving church
The president stepped out of mass at 4:54 pm ET, gave a quick wave to around 100 supporters and onlookers across the street, and with that we are rolling back.


July 8, 2023 17:08

Travel pool report #9 — lid and upcoming travel
The motorcade approached the president's home at 5:02 pm, and we were given a lid for the evening.
ICYMI, this is the travel plan for POTUS next week as shared by the White House last night:
 Week Ahead Pool Note 7/7
On the Sunday morning, the President will depart Rehoboth Beach, Delaware en route to London, United Kingdom.
On Monday, the President will participate in engagements with King Charles III and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak to further strengthen the close relationship between our nations.
After, the President will depart the United Kingdom en route to Vilnius, Lithuania.
On Tuesday morning, the President will participate in a bilateral meeting with the President of Lithuania Gitanas Naus?da.
Later, the President will participate in engagements for the 74th NATO Summit.
On Wednesday, the President will participate in engagements for the 74thNATO Summit.
In the evening, the President will deliver remarks highlighting how the United States, alongside our allies and partners, are supporting Ukraine, defending democratic values, and taking action to address global challenges.
Then, the President will depart Vilnius, Lithuania en route to Helsinki, Finland.
On Thursday afternoon, the President will participate in a bilateral meeting with President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic of Finland.
Later, the President will participate in U.S.- Nordic Leaders Summit engagements.
In the evening, the President will participate in a joint press conference with President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic of Finland.
After, the President will depart Helsinki, Finland en route to Washington, DC.
On Friday, the President will travel to Camp David where he will remain over the weekend. 



  