
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate Floor)(Sponsors: Hatfield (R), Oregon; Burns (R), Montana)
This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 1817, the Military Construction Appropriations Bill, FY 1996, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee.
The Administration is committed to balancing the Federal budget by FY 2005. The President's budget proposes to reduce discretionary spending for FY 1996 by $5 billion in outlays below the FY 1995 enacted level. The Administration does not support the level of funding assumed by the House or Senate Committee 602(b) allocations. The Administration must evaluate each bill both in terms of funding levels provided and the share of total resources available for remaining priorities. The Committee bill is $461 million above the President's request.
The Administration appreciates the Senate Committee's support of the request for the base realignment and closure program, the family housing program, and requested construction projects. The Administration particularly appreciates the Committee's approval of funding for the family housing improvement program.
However, the Administration strongly objects to $648 million in funding for approximately 100 unrequested military and family housing construction projects. With the Nation facing serious budget constraints, such a spending increase is not affordable.
The Administration also objects to the following:

The Committee would provide only incremental funding for several military construction projects for which full funding was requested. The need to fund completion of these projects in FY 1997 would reduce funding available for other projects, including readiness and quality of life programs supported by the Administration and the Appropriations Committees.   
The Committee bill would establish a ceiling on the amount of BRAC II and III funds that can be spent on environmental cleanup. This action would severely limit the ability to close bases and transfer property to local reuse authorities, thereby delaying economic redevelopment in base closure communities. 

The Administration urges the Senate to approve the transfer authority requested for Military Construction and Family Housing appropriations. This authority would increase the Department's ability to direct resources to emerging readiness and quality of life requirements.
  