
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to Section 123 d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d) ), the text of the proposed Agreement Between the United States and Australia Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy and accompanying annex and agreed minute; my written approval, authorization and determination concerning the agreement; and the Memorandum of the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with the Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement concerning the agreement. The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy, which includes a summary analysis of the provisions of the agreement, and the views of the Members of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission are also enclosed.
The proposed agreement with Australia is the first such agreement submitted to the Congress since enactment of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, which I signed into law on March 10, 1978 and which, among other things, calls upon me to renegotiate existing peaceful nuclear cooperation agreements to obtain the new provisions set forth in that Act. In my judgment, the proposed agreement for cooperation between the United States and Australia, together with its agreed minute, meets all statutory requirements.
I am particularly pleased that this first agreement is with Australia, a strong supporter of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and of international non-proliferation efforts generally. The proposed agreement reflects the desire of the Government of the United States and the Government of Australia to update the framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between our two countries in a manner which recognizes both the shared non-proliferation objectives and the close relationship between the United States and Australia in the peaceful applications of nuclear energy. The proposed agreement will, in my view, further the non-proliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed agreement and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the agreement and authorized its execution, and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 27, 1979.
  