
    "At such a time of difficulty and doubt throughout Europe, Poland's economic transformation over these past 20 years is a fitting turn in the story of your country. In the 1980s, when other nations doubted that political tyranny could ever be faced down or overcome, the answer was, 'Look to Poland.' And today, as some wonder about the way forward out of economic recession and fiscal crisis, the answer once again is 'Look to Poland.'" — Governor Mitt Romney
Remarks
Warsaw, Poland
July 31, 2012
Watch The Excerpt Of Gov. Romney's Speech In Poland


GOV. MITT ROMNEY: "The world should pay close attention to the transformation of Poland's economy. A march toward economic liberty and smaller government has meant a march toward higher living standards, a strong military that defends liberty at home and abroad, and an important and growing role on the international stage.
"Rather than heeding the false promise of a government-dominated economy, Poland sought to stimulate innovation, attract investment, expand trade, and live within its means. Your success today is a reminder that the principles of free enterprise can propel an economy and transform a society.
"At such a time difficulty and doubt throughout Europe, Poland's economic transformation over these past 20 years is a fitting turn in the story of your country. In the 1980s, when other nations doubted that political tyranny could ever be faced down or overcome, the answer was, 'Look to Poland.' And today, as some wonder about the way forward out of economic recession and fiscal crisis, the answer once again is 'Look to Poland.'
"It is not surprising that a people who waited so long, and endured so much, for the sake of liberty, are today enjoying liberty to the fullest.
"Poland has no greater friend and ally than the people of the United States of America.
"You helped us win our independence. Your bravery inspired the allies in the Second World War. You helped bring down the Iron Curtain. And your soldiers fought side-by-side with ours in Iraq and Afghanistan.
"We have fought together, we have died together.
"We share a common cause, tested by time, inseparable by foe.
"In times of trouble and in times of peace, we march together.
"God bless you, God bless America, and God bless the great nation of Poland."
  