
    This week Governor Christie received several key endorsements, both nationally and in the Granite State. Governor of Maryland Larry Hogan kicked off the week of endorsements at the Double T Diner in Annapolis. Governor Hogan officially and enthusiastically endorsed saying he thinks Christie "should be the next president and he will be the next president."

On Thursday, Governor Christie gave his fifth in a series of substantive policy speeches on criminal justice reform in Camden, New Jersey. While President Obama and others are just waking up to the challenges facing our cities, Governor Christie has been hands-on, working to overhaul a broken criminal justice system and focusing on communities that matter even though there is nothing to gain politically - a city where he only received 6% of the vote in 2009 and 19% in 2013.

Following the speech, Christie traveled to New Hampshire for his 10th trip. The most of any candidate in the field today and received three key local endorsements from Concord City Councilor Dan St. Hilaire, Rockingham County Commission Chairman Tom Tombarello, and Rockingham County Commissioner Kevin Coyle, as well as the notable endorsement from Sheriff Scott Hilliard who introduced the Governor at his 12th New Hampshire Town Hall. So far this year, Christie has held 13 town hall meetings and made more stops in New Hampshire than any other 2016 candidate.

Concord Monitor: My Turn: Christie can be trusted to lead, solve problems
  
New Hampshire Union Leader: 3 local leaders endorse Chris Christie
  

In town hall meetings across New Hampshire and in a sit down interview with CNN, Christie condemned the President's deal with Iran saying "it was an awful deal" and "the biggest lie of the President's second term."

VIDEO - Christie on CNN's New Day: The President's lying to us
  


Next week, Governor Christie heads to South Carolina and Iowa to continue talking to voters in town hall meetings and other forums about the critical issues facing our country.
  