
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 28
Richard Monroe Miles, of South Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bulgaria.
Michael Edward Ranneberger, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mali.
Carl Spielvogel, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Slovak Republic.
Submitted June 30
Charles A. Blanchard, of Arizona, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army, vice William T. Coleman III.
Carol DiBattiste, of Florida, to be Under Secretary of the Air Force, vice F. Whitten Peters.
Barbro A. Owens-Kirkpatrick, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Niger.
Submitted July 1
Curt Hebert, Jr., of Mississippi, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2004 (reappointment).
Major General Phillip R. Anderson, United States Army, to be a member and President of the Mississippi River Commission, under the provisions of Section 2 of an Act of Congress, approved June 1879 (21 Stat. 37) (33 USC 642).
Michael Cohen, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, vice Gerald N. Tirozzi, resigned.
James B. Cunningham, of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be the Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, vice Peter A Burleigh.
Earl E. Devaney, of Massachusetts, to be Inspector General, Department of the Interior, vice Eljay B. Bowron, resigned.
Q. Todd Dickinson, of Pennsylvania, to be Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, vice Bruce A. Lehman, resigned.
Harriet L. Elam, of Massachusetts, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Senegal.
J. Richard Fredericks, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Switzerland, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein.
Barbara J. Griffiths, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iceland.
Gregory Lee Johnson, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Swaziland.
Sally Katzen, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice G. Edward DeSeve.
Jimmy J. Kolker, of Missouri, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Burkina Faso.
Anthony Musick, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Corporation for National and Community Service, vice Donn Holt Cunninghame, resigned.
Sylvia Gaye Stanfield, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Brunei Darussalam.
Clifford Gregory Stewart, of New Jersey, to be General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term of 4 years (reappointment).
Lawrence H. Summers, of Maryland, to be United States Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years; United States Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 5 years; United States Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 5 years; United States Governor of the African Development Bank for a term of 5 years; United States Governor of the Asian Development Bank; United States Governor of the African Development Fund; United States Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Withdrawn July 1
G. Edward DeSeve, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice John A. Koskinen, which was sent to the Senate on February 12, 1999.
  