
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 17
Eileen B. Claussen,
of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice Elinor G. Constable.
Greta Joy Dicus,
of Arkansas, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of 5 years expiring June 30, 1998, vice James R. Curtiss, term expired.
Lee F. Jackson,
of Massachusetts, to be U.S. Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice James H. Scheuer, resigned.
Eluid Levi Martinez,
of New Mexico, to be Commissioner of Reclamation, vice Daniel P. Beard, resigned.
Ernest J. Moniz,
of Massachusetts, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Mary Rita Cooke Greenwood, resigned.
Donald S. Wasserman,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 1, 2000, vice Pamela Talkin, term expired.
Harris Wofford,
of Pennsylvania, to be Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service, vice Eli J. Segal.
Withdrawn July 17
Robert M. Sussman,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a term of 5 years expiring June 30, 1998, vice James R. Curtiss, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 1995.
Submitted July 19
Thomas R. Bloom,
of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Department of Education, vice James Bert Thomas, Jr., resigned.
Jill L. Long,
of Indiana, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Bob J. Nash, resigned
Sidney R. Thomas,
of Montana, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Dorothy Wright Nelson, retired.
Submitted July 20
James A. Joseph,
of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Africa.
Submitted July 21
John H. Bingler, Jr.,
of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Maurice B. Cohill, Jr., retired.
  