
    To Chairman Alfred Kahn
On July 23, 1977, the United States intends to sign a new Air Services Agreement with the United Kingdom.
The Agreement authorizes new nonstop services to certain U.S. cities for U.S. and U.K. carriers. Also, the carrier authorizations and designations under the new Agreement at certain currently certificated cities must be revised pursuant to the Agreement's new provisions regarding multiple designation.
The United States is entitled to designate a U.S. carrier to provide immediate service in the Atlanta-London and Dallas/Fort Worth-London markets. Fairness to the public requires the authorization of immediate U.S.-flag service. And to promote our foreign commerce policy of increased competition worldwide we should act with the greatest possible speed. For these reasons, I am requesting that you submit a recommendation to me by early October designating a carrier to begin service to the Atlanta-London market and a carrier to begin service to the Dallas/Fort Worth-London market.
I hope to make designations by November 1, 1977, after considering your recommendation. Service could then begin shortly thereafter. The services you recommend should enhance the competitiveness of the U.S.-flag air system and be economically viable. I would also urge you to take into account in your recommendation the fact that a U.S. carrier may provide nonstop Houston-London service after July 23, 1980, and U.S. carriers may provide one-stop service in this market upon signing of the Agreement.
The United States must move promptly to issue the requisite foreign air carrier permits under ยง 402 of the Federal Aviation Act to those carriers designated by the United Kingdom for scheduled operations. Therefore, I request that you send me by early October, your recommendations for any necessary amendments of the ยง 402 permits of the designated U.K. carriers which have filed timely applications with the Board for such amendments.
With respect to those cities which are already gateways for service to the United Kingdom, the United States is required to submit new designations by November 1, 1977, and I also request your recommendation on these designations by early October, consistent with the provisions of the new Agreement regarding single and multiple designation.
Finally, I request that you move expeditiously to forward to me your recommendations concerning the other air services which were addressed by the Board in the Transatlantic Route Proceedings, but on which final action was postponed pending completion of the bilateral air negotiations with the United Kingdom.
I have directed the Secretaries of State and Transportation to provide any assistance that you may require in meeting these dates and implementing the new Agreement.Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Alfred Edward Kahn, Chairman, Civil Aeronautics Board, Washington, D.C. 20428]
  