
    
  Expanded NC grassroots operation represents every Congressional district, Reflects makeup of old Reagan Coalition

HOUSTON, Texas — U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, candidate for President, today announced dozens of new members to his North Carolina statewide leadership team, which now covers every Congressional district in the state and reflects his growing grassroots support across the country.
"This ever-growing coalition of state grassroots activists shows how broad and competitive our North Carolina Cruz for President team will be in the Republican primary," Sen. Cruz said. "I am humbled and honored by the support of these leaders in the Tarheel State who are standing with the American people to take on the Washington Cartel."
The diverse team of leaders reflects the old Reagan Coalition: a full spectrum of conservative support from across North Carolina. Cruz Leadership Team members include current and former Republican Party and Republican Women officers, pastors and ministry leaders, homeschool families, grassroots organizers, long-time campaign operatives, College Republicans, Independent and Unaffiliated voters, Second Amendment advocates, numerous veterans, and hard-working business owners.
"I especially welcome our honorary co-chairwoman Myrtle Spry, of Concord, to the team. She is an American hero, and at 96 years young, is an inspiration to all!" Cruz added. Spry is a World War II Navy veteran, who decoded messages from the field. She spent much of the rest of her career in education and is a longtime political activist.
The 43 members of the Cruz for President North Carolina Leadership Team are as follows:
John Aistrop, Salisbury
Edie Benchabbat, Raleigh
Tracy and David Bengtson, Davidson
Sue Butcher, Willow Springs
Velvet and Bill Cowan, Mt. Airy
Angie Cutlip, Wendell
Dr. Tim and Judy Daughtry, Yanceyville
Bob Diamond, Charlotte
Deon Dunn, Columbus
Jo Elvis, Stokes
Marisa Gaither, Apex
Christine Gates, Lenoir
Jean Griswold, Concord
Lee Haywood, Summerfield
Joel Hudson, Asheboro
Missy Jones, Mt. Pleasant
Rev. Murray and Susan Kartanson, Winston-Salem
Carmen Maddrey, Burlington
Rev. Darin and Angie Moser, Mt. Airy
Joanne Muller, Hampstead
Aimee Rose Mulligan, Holly Springs
Steve Noble, Raleigh
Tanya and Jason Oesterreich, Concord
Lori Phillips, Raleigh
Hugh Rillie, Cary
Teresa Rodriguez, Holly Springs
Larry F. Schug, Zebulon
Kevin Shenault, Pilot Mountain
Myrtle Spry, Concord
Judy Steele, Lenoir
Justin Tart, Winterville
Dr. Dwane Thomas, Marion
Paul Valone, Bryson City
Michael Weiss, Esq., Huntersville
Rosemarie Wenzel, Chapel Hill
Joanne Wittenborn, Greensboro
Rev. Roger Woodard, Kings Mountain
  