
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Wendy Long will be joining his Advisory Committee on the Constitution and the Courts. A Vice-Chair of Governor Romney's National Faith and Values Steering Committee and Chief Counsel of the Judicial Confirmation Network, Wendy Long will be an important voice in advising Governor Romney on judicial matters, separation of powers and federalism issues.
Making today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "Throughout her distinguished legal career, Wendy Long has been an important conservative voice on family and legal issues. With her experience, Long's counsel will be invaluable in my campaign for our nation's highest office. I am greatly honored to have her service on my campaign."
In June, Governor Romney announced that Professors Mary Ann Glendon and Douglas Kmiec will serve as Co-Chairs of the Romney for President Advisory Committee on the Constitution and the Courts. Additional members of the Committee will be announced at a later date.
With today's announcement, Long said, "Our country faces a new generation of challenges, which has presented our courts with a new generation of legal issues. As Governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney witnessed firsthand the impact our courts can have when facing these new challenges. I believe that he, better than any other candidate for President, understands the need for our courts to respect democracy and the will of the people. I believe that he, better than any other candidate for President, would nominate judges and justices of the highest caliber, who would be faithful to the text, history, and principles of our Constitution. I look forward to working with the Governor."
Background On Wendy Long:
Wendy Long Is Chief Counsel To The Judicial Confirmation Network. Until March 2005, Wendy Long was a litigation partner in the New York office of Kirkland & Ellis LLP. She was a law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas and to U.S. Appeals Court Judge Ralph Winter. She is a graduate of Northwestern University School of Law, where she was Articles Editor of the Northwestern University Law Review. She previously served as a press secretary for former U.S. Senators Bill Armstrong (R-CO) and Gordon Humphrey (R-NH).
  