
    John L. Brownlee, of Virginia, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia for the term of four years, vice Robert P. Crouch, Jr., resigned.
Brian E. Carlson, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia.
Paul K. Charlton, of Arizona, to be United States Attorney for the District of Arizona for the term of four years, vice Jose de Jesus Rivera, resigned.
Todd Peterson Graves, of Missouri, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri for the term of four years, vice Stephen Lawrence Hill, Jr., resigned.
Michael G. Heavican, of Nebraska, to be United States Attorney for the District of Nebraska for the term of four years, vice Thomas Justin Monaghan, resigned.
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter, of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland.
William Walter Mercer, of Montana, to be United States Attorney for the District of Montana for the term of four years, vice Sherry Scheel Matteucci, resigned.
Thomas E. Moss, of Idaho, to be United States Attorney for the District of Idaho for the term of four years, vice Betty Hansen Richardson, resigned.
John N. Palmer, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Portugal.
Mattie R. Sharpless, of North Carolina, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Central African Republic.
Martin J. Silverstein, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.
John W. Suthers, of Colorado, to be United States Attorney for the District of Colorado for the term of four years, vice Thomas Lee Strickland, resigned.
John F. Turner, of Wyoming, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice David B. Sandalow.
Anna Mills S. Wagoner, of North Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina for the term of four years, vice Walter Clinton Holton, Jr., resigned.
R. Barrie Walkley, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea.
  