
    
(Scroll down to watch the ads)
President Donald J. Trump's re-election campaign announced the launch of a new wave of Spanish-language TV and radio ads today, holding Democrats and Joe Biden accountable for their extremism. The ads highlight the Democrats' shameful smear campaign against Goya Foods, a beloved Hispanic-owned family business. "Goya," narrated by popular Cuban actress Susana Pérez, will air in Florida, as will radio spots "Marita y Yesenia" and "Están al Garete." A third radio ad, "Carmen y Araceli," will air in other regions.As both English and Spanish-language media have reported, the Democrats' attacks on Goya have backfired. Just like Joe Biden said that Black Americans who support the President "ain't Black," Democrats are trying to shame one of America's largest Hispanic-owned business because its CEO said the country is "truly blessed … to have a leader like President Trump, who is a builder." President Trump's record includes historically low unemployment rates and millions of jobs created for Hispanic workers. The Democrats' smearing of Goya follows leftist thugs targeting statues of Hispanic icons in recent weeks, including Miguel de Cervantes, Saint Junípero Serra, and Simon Bolivar. Amid growing leftist intolerance, violence, and calls to cut police funding, Joe Biden's silence is deafening. He continues to hide while prominent supporters of his campaign — including socialist Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and open-borders extremist Julian Castro — viciously go after a Hispanic business that employs thousands of people, offers academic scholarships to our kids, and operates humanitarian missions to help the people of Cuba, Venezuela, and Puerto Rico. From Democrats' support for socialism, to cutting school choice and police funding, they are just too extreme for Hispanic Americans—and Joe Biden is too weak to stand up for us. Now, with the left's assault on Goya, it's clear that noteven your abuela's Sazónwould be safe in Joe Biden's America.

The Ads

"Goya" is narrated by award-winning Cuban actress Susana Pérez, who is admired by generations of Cubans and Cuban-Americans. The ad addresses the smear campaign against the popular Hispanic food brand.
"Carmen y Araceli" is a 60-second radio ad featuring two Mexican-American women discussing leftist attacks on Hispanic culture, faith, and Joe Biden's immigration record.
"Marita y Yesenia" is a 60-second radio ad featuring a conversation between two Cuban-American women discussing the Goya boycott and Democrats' embrace of socialism.
"Están al Garete" is a 60-second radio ad highlighting Goya's contributions to the people of Puerto Rico and denouncing the Democrats' growing extremism.

The ads are accompanied by a call-to-action campaign encouraging Hispanic Americans to text "Goya" to 88022.
  