
    LAS VEGAS, NV -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced the leadership of California Veterans for John McCain, a statewide grassroots organization that will work to bolster John McCain's support within California's veterans' community.
Gabrial Groves, a veteran of both the Air Force and Navy, said, "John McCain has never played party politics when it comes to funding our troops. He has always put the men and women serving our country first, and has always put our country's interest before his own. On the other hand, Senator Obama was one of only 14 Senators to vote to cut off over $94 billion in critical funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Sadly, it has taken a presidential campaign for Senator Obama to visit Iraq for a so-called 'fact-finding' trip, during which he's made clear that he will continue to ignore the facts and the commanders on the ground."
Navy veteran Alexis Haftvani added, "John McCain has the proven judgment and experience to lead our country as our next commander in chief. John McCain had the strength and vision to support the surge in Iraq, even though it was politically unpopular. He served his country heroically in the U.S. Navy, including 5 1/2 years in the 'Hanoi Hilton,' and throughout his distinguished career, John McCain's many accomplishments have always been marked by bipartisan leadership and a willingness to put solutions above party politics. Unfortunately the same cannot be said of Barack Obama's limited, yet remarkably partisan record."
John McCain's campaign announced the leadership of California Veterans for John McCain today at a press event in San Diego that featured veterans from numerous wars and branches of the military. Alongside the veterans in the energetic crowd in San Diego, families with strong military history dating back to World War I came out to show their support for Senator McCain's campaign.
CALIFORNIA VETERANS FOR JOHN MCCAIN LEADERSHIP TEAM
Honorary Chairman
Vice Admiral Ed Martin, USN (Ret.), Former POW, Vietnam War
Director
Chuck McDougald -- Captain, U.S. Army Special Forces, 1964-1969, Vietnam War
Regional Chairs
Northern California -- Larry Wahl
San Francisco Bay Area -- Bill Applegate
Central Valley -- Charlie Waters
Central Coast -- Rob Bryn
Inland Empire -- Robby Hightower
Los Angeles County -- Gabrial Groves
San Diego County -- Bob Rubin
Orange County -- Orange County
Imperial County -- Tom Topuzes
  