
    By Governor Mitt Romney
Townhall.com July 13, 2007
...
"Around the world, our goal should be to employ American strength, courage, fortitude and goodness. Our country leads in not only military technology, but in science, education, health care and innovation. It is time that we apply the things that make America the world's leader to making America a safer, freer, and more prosperous nation. By doing so, we can project America's strength and goodness to the world.
"Where does our strength and goodness come from? Many Democrats would say that America is great today because of our great government. While our government is great, it is hardly the source of our strength. The source of America's strength is the American people – hard working, educated, risk-taking, God-loving, family-oriented, sacrificing and freedom-loving people."
...
"I have great faith in the American people and in the American family. I have faith in our children and our grandchildren. At the same time, I am deeply troubled by the culture that surrounds them today. Following the Columbine shootings, author Peggy Noonan wrote a column describing what she called 'the ocean in which our children swim.' It was a cesspool of violence, sex, drugs, indolence, and perversion. She wrote that the boys who did the shooting had 'inhaled too deep the ocean in which they swam.'
"We need to clean up the water in which our children are swimming. We need to keep pornography from coming up on kid's computers, and we need to keep drugs off the streets. We need less violence and sex on TV when kids are watching and in movies and video games that are marketed to young people. If we get serious about this, we can do a great deal more to clean the water in which our children swim.
"Cleaning 'the ocean in which our children swim' begins with ensuring that we have strong families. The most important work being done to strengthen America's future is the work that is being done within the four walls of the American home. Children need the guiding hand of responsible parents."
...
"America is a nation of stature thanks to the great and noble men and women serving our country here and abroad. It is why we know that America will rise to face today's challenges." ...
To read the full op-ed, please click here.
  