
    Richardson raises more than $7 million in 2nd quarter,
Doubles number of contributors
SANTA FE, NM -- Governor Bill Richardson's Presidential Campaign showed impressive growth and momentum with a strong second quarter filing with the Federal Election Commission. The campaign finance report was submitted today, one day before the official deadline, and shows that during the period from April 1 to June 30 Governor Richardson's campaign received more than $7 million in contributions and posted more than $7 million cash on hand as of June 30.
"We're very pleased- support for Governor Richardson is spreading across the country and voters are excited about his unparalleled experience and his vision for America," said Amanda Cooper, Deputy Campaign Manager for Governor Richardson. "This is more proof that the Governor's focus on grassroots campaigning- shaking hands, attending house parties and community events, working tirelessly to meet voters -- is working."
The campaign raised a total of $7,016,163.48 in the 2nd quarter, with approximately 98% designated for the primary election. The campaign is not actively seeking general election contributions, and received only $150,638 designated for that purpose. Actual cash on hand as of June 30 was $7,129,684.07. The report shows a debt of $61,104.45.
The number of individual contributors to the Richardson campaign virtually doubled, increasing from 13,787 in the first quarter to 27,046 in the second quarter.
Nearly 33% of the contributions came from grassroots sources, and the list of prominent individuals contributing to Governor Richardson continues to grow as well. Here is a partial list of the most recent prominent contributors:
Contributors in Political Offices

Beverly Byron - Former Representative, State of Maryland
Victor Fazzio - Former Representative, State of California
Ned McWherter - Former Governor, State of Tennessee
Mike Fahey - Mayor of Omaha, Nebraska
Ross C. "Rocky" Anderson - Mayor of Salt Lake City, Utah
Andrea Conte - First Lady of Tennessee

Celebrity Contributors

Steven Spielberg -Director
Edward James Olmos - Actor
Kate Capshaw - Actress
Paul Newman - Actor
Christie Brinkley - Model
Jason Alexander - Actor
James L. Brooks - Producer & Director
Bette Midler - Actress
Whoopi Goldberg - Actress, Comedian
William Friedkin - Director, Screenwriter
Sherry Lansing - Former CEO of Paramount and wife of Director William Friedkin

  