
    From botching the name of the virus to defending China, it's clear Biden is struggling despite his extremely light schedule. 
Joe Biden did not have a good week. Even Charlamagne Tha God said he wished Biden would "shut the eff up forever." The only positive for Barely There Biden is he won't remember any of it tomorrow – but we will. Here are the lowlights:

Biden announced another big government spending plan written by the radical left, which will kill millions of good-paying union jobs and crush middle-class Americans with massive tax hikes. He refused to answer reporters' questions, claiming he had another event to attend – but no one knows what event he was referring to.
Biden again suggested coronavirus actions that President Trump has already done.
Biden referred to "covid-9," babbled about nurses that would "breathe in my nostrils to make me move," invented the term "voter registration physicians," admitted "I'm confused who I'm talking to," forgot what he was saying and had to be prompted by a staffer, defended China, struggled to remember the word "aneurysm," and had his staff interrupt and end a local TV interview.
Biden sided with the violent rioters in Portland and called them "peaceful" even as they barricaded law enforcement inside a courthouse and attempted to set it on fire. Biden's staff support the radical movement to defund the police and Biden himself said he would "redirect" funding away from police.
After portraying Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan as racists in 2012, Biden launched the same attack against President Trump. He bungled it badly, and was widely ridiculed by fellow Democrats, allies and some members of the media. Biden's handlers had to go out and do cleanup.

Unlike Biden's bad week, President Trump's was incredibly successful:

President Trump announced a historic deal with Pfizer to secure 100 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine for the American people at no cost.
President Trump announced the expansion of Operation Legend to save the lives of Americans trapped in Democrat-run cities plagued with violent crime.
Under the President's leadership, America surpassed 51 million completed coronavirus tests, continuing to lead the world by far.
The President raised over $20 million from a historic, nationwide virtual fundraiser, demonstrating the incredible enthusiasm for the President's reelection campaign.

  