
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
On June 18, 1993, the U.N. Security Council adopted Resolution 842, expanding the size of the U.N. Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The Security Council acknowledged the important contribution of the existing UNPROFOR presence to stability in the region and welcomed the addition of a U.S.. peacekeeping contingent to UNPROFOR in Macedonia. I have since ordered the deployment of U.S.. Armed Forces to Macedonia for these purposes and am providing this report, consistent with Section 4 of the War Powers Resolution, to ensure that the Congress is kept fully informed about this important U.S.. action in support of United Nations efforts in the region.
After the adoption of U.N. Security Council Resolution 795 (1992), which established the UNPROFOR Macedonia mission under Chapter VI of the U.N. Charter, UNPROFOR deployed a Nordic battalion composed of some 700 military personnel to Macedonia in early 1993. This peacekeeping force has been stationed along the northern Macedonian border with the mandate of monitoring and reporting any developments that could signify a threat to the territory of Macedonia. Norway, Finland, and Sweden have contributed infantry companies to this battalion, which is under the U.N. command of a Danish Brigadier General.
Over the past several days, we have begun implementing plans to augment UNPROFOR Macedonia with U.S.. Armed Forces, consistent with Security Council Resolution 842 and as part of the U.S.. commitment to support multilateral efforts to prevent the Balkan conflict from spreading and to contribute to stability in the region. At my direction, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff through the Commander in Chief, U.S.. European Command, ordered the deployment of Company C, 6th Battalion, 502nd Infantry Regiment of the Berlin Brigade to Macedonia. On July 3, advance parties and support elements began transporting equipment into Macedonia by U.S.. C-141 aircraft. The main body of this unit began arriving by U.S.. C5 aircraft on July 7. The unit's equipment, including M-113 Armored Personnel Carriers (APCs), has also been delivered to the operating area. It is expected that the full contingent of U.S.. military personnel, numbering approximately 350, will be in place and equipped by July 12.
The U.S.. contingent will serve under the operational control of UNPROFOR Macedonia and will conduct missions as directed by the U.N. commander. Although UNPROFOR Macedonia is a U.N. peacekeeping force under Chapter VI of the Charter and has not encountered hostilities to date, our forces are fully prepared not only to fulfill their peacekeeping mission but to defend themselves if necessary.
This deployment is important to our foreign policy and natural security interests and has been directed in accordance with Section 7 of the United Nations Participation Act and pursuant to my constitutional authority as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive. I will continue to keep you informed about the progress of this and other U.S.. efforts towards peace and stability in the vital Balkan region.
Sincerely,
BILL CLINTON
  