
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eleven individuals and designate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate George M. Gray, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (Research and Development). Dr. Gray currently serves as Executive Director of the Center for Risk Analysis and a faculty member at the Harvard University School of Public Health. He previously served as an Instructor in Risk Analysis for the University's Department of Health Policy and Management. Earlier in his career, Dr. Gray was a Research Associate at the Center for Risk Analysis. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan. He later received his master's degree and his PhD from the University of Rochester.
The President intends to nominate Christine M. Griffin, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 1, 2009. Ms. Griffin currently serves as Executive Director of the Disability Law Center. She previously served as Attorney Advisor to the Vice Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Paul Igasaki. Earlier in her career, Ms. Griffin served in the United States Army Medical Corps. She received her bachelor's degree from the Massachusetts Maritime Academy and her JD from Boston College.
The President intends to nominate Emil W. Henry, Jr., of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Financial Institutions). Mr. Henry is currently a senior partner with Gleacher Partners, an investment banking and asset management firm. In addition, he serves as Chairman of Asset Management, Chairman of Gleacher Fund Advisors and Chairman of Gleacher Investment Corporation. He previously worked in Morgan Stanley's merchant banking division. Mr. Henry received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his master's degree from Harvard Business School.
The President intends to nominate Kathryn Higgins, of South Dakota, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 31, 2009. Ms. Higgins recently served as President and Chief Executive Officer of TATC Consulting. She previously served as Vice President for Public Policy at the National Trust for Historic Preservation. Prior to that, Ms. Higgins was Deputy Secretary at the Department of Labor. Earlier in her career, she served as Assistant to the President and Secretary of the Cabinet at the White House. Ms. Higgins received her bachelor's degree from the University of Nebraska.
The President intends to nominate William E. Kovacic, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring September 25, 2011. Mr. Kovacic is currently a Professor at The George Washington University Law School. He previously served as General Counsel of the Federal Trade Commission. Earlier in his career, Mr. Kovacic clerked for the Honorable Roszel C. Thomsen, Senior U.S. District Judge, District of Maryland. He received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his JD from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Barry F. Lowenkron, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor. Mr. Lowenkron currently serves as Principal Deputy Director of Policy Planning at the Department of State. He previously served as the National Intelligence Officer for Europe at the National Intelligence Council. Earlier in his career, Mr. Lowenkron served as Director of European Security Affairs at the National Security Council. He received his bachelor's degree from Northeastern University and his master's degree from The Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies.
The President intends to nominate Edward McGaffigan, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2010. Mr. McGaffigan has served as a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission since 1996. He previously served as Senior Policy Advisor to Senator Jeff Bingaman. From 1976 to 1983, Mr. McGaffigan was a member of the Foreign Service, serving in a variety of positions including the National Security Council and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. He received his bachelor's degree from Harvard College. He later received his first master's degree from the California Institute of Technology and his second master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate James F. X. O'Gara, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director for Supply Reduction at the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Mr. O'Gara currently serves as Special Assistant to the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. He previously served as Executive Director of The Philanthropy Roundtable. Prior to that, Mr. O'Gara was a Drug Policy Analyst for the Senate Committee on the Judiciary. Earlier in his career, he served as Foreign Policy Specialist Advising the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration at the Department of Justice. Mr. O'Gara received his bachelor's degree from St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland.
The President intends to nominate John J. Young, Jr., of Virginia, to be Director of Defense Research and Engineering. Mr. Young currently serves as Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Research, Development and Acquisition). He previously served as a Professional Staff Member of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Defense. Earlier in his career, Mr. Young worked for the Sandia National Laboratories and the Missile Systems Division of Rockwell International. He received his bachelor's degree from Georgia Institute of Technology and his master's degree from Stanford University.
The President intends to nominate Roland Arnall, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Mr. Arnall currently serves as Co-Chairman of Ameriquest Capital Corporation, a company he founded in 1979. He has served two-terms as a Trustee of the California State University System, the largest university system in the United States. Mr. Arnall is also a founding co-chairman and board member of the Simon Wiesenthal Center and the Museum of Tolerance.
The President intends to nominate William McCormick, of Oregon, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to New Zealand and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Samoa. Mr. McCormick is Co-Founder and Chairman of McCormick & Schmick Management Group. He opened the company's first McCormick and Schmick's Seafood Restaurant thirty years ago. Prior to that, Mr. McCormick was co-owner of Refectory International, Inc. Earlier in his career, he served in the United States Army Reserve.
The President intends to designate John F. Clark, of Virginia, to be Acting Director of the United States Marshals Service.
The President intends to designate Preston M. Geren, of Texas, to be Acting Secretary of the Air Force.
The President intends to designate Thomas E. Harvey, of New York, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Public and Intergovernmental Affairs).
  