
    MINNEAPOLIS, MN -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced its Minnesota Small Business Leaders for McCain coalition chairs. Today several metro area small business owners endorsed John McCain's economic plan, joining business leaders across the country who have praised John McCain's jobs-first plan to grow the economy as president.
"John McCain is committed to holding the line on taxes and keeping regulations simple," said Paul Burke, who owns and operates Mike's Clean Sweep, a Minnesota-based industrial cleanup company. "He knows that the key to growing jobs and turning our economy around is not to stifle small business, but to promote it."
Burke joined with fellow small business people and entrepreneurs in Minnesota, many of whom spoke about current economic challenges to their businesses, and discussed their strong belief that John McCain's jobs first plan shows the right vision and approach to the U.S. economy and American jobs.
"Higher taxes would be terrible for small businesses," said Nkajlo Vangh, President of the Hmong American Federal Credit Union. "John McCain's support of lower taxes makes him the best choice to lead this country forward."
Today in Denver, Colorado, John McCain announced his Jobs for America economic plan, kicking off a week of events focusing on his jobs-first proposal in critical battleground states.
SMALL BUSINESS LEADERS FOR MCCAIN
Co-Chairs, Paul and Pam Burke -- Owners, Mike's Clean Sweep
Co-Chair, Nkajlo Vangh -- President, Hmong American Federal Credit Union
Co-Chair, Dirk Bak -- CEO, SDQ, Ltd.
Co-Chair, Steve Williams -- Owner, Bobby and Steve's Auto World
Richard Aguilar -- CEO, Aguilar Productions
Jon Ball -- Detailing Group
Kirstin and Mike Beach -- Beach Expeditions
Dick Pellow -- All State Salvage
Ron Zenk -- CEO, Humanetics
Mike Hickey -- Mike Hickey and Associates
Greg Frankenfield -- Magenic
Joan Thompson -- CFO, Minnesota Wire
Steven Langsdale -- Mohawk Moving & Storage
Greg Merz -- President, GTM Consulting Inc.
Martin Mohamed -- African Chamber of Commerce
Sheldon Anderson -- Capital Investigation & Security
Joe Swanson -- Lighthouse Financial Marketing Services
Max Pizano -- Pizano Insurance Agency
  