
    Ladies and gentlemen:
We are gathered here today for the purpose of presenting the Medal of Freedom to Dr. Charles Lowman. I shall read a citation in just a moment, but it is very difficult on such an occasion like this not to mention the distinguished career of this very distinguished Californian and distinguished American without going into a little more length than the citation itself.
First, he is 94 years of age and in magnificent health, as you can see. Second, in his 94 years, he has been eminently successful as a doctor, but he has devoted most of his time in that 94 years helping other people, free of charge. He is particularly known for his work in orthopedics and, in that field, especially known for his work with young people.
There are thousands and thousands of children, for example, today in California and in other parts of this Nation who are walking who otherwise would be crippled except for Dr. Lowman. There are thousands and thousands of adults who are standing straighter, feeling better, who do not suffer from the various ailments involved in this kind of medicine because of Dr. Lowman's hard work and also his real genius.
He is, as we know, a distinguished man in his field. He will be remembered by his colleagues for what he has written, for what he has said, for what he has done, for his great technical skill. But he will be remembered by those he has helped and, I think, by his fellow Americans by the millions, because he has a great heart. He is a very fine human being, generous with his time, concerned about those less fortunate than he is, and it is this kind of man who deserves the Medal of Freedom, the highest recognition that our Government can give to an individual who is not in the Armed Forces of the United States.
I will now read the citation, and we will present the Medal of Freedom:
[At this point, the President read the citation, the text of which follows:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AWARDS THIS PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM TO
CHARLES LEROY LOWMAN, M.D.
A pioneer in medicine, a physician of surpassing skill, and a great humanitarian, Dr. Charles LeRoy Lowman has devoted his life to the service of his fellow man. His good works have enriched the lives of thousands of patients, but none more so than the generations of handicapped children who have been treated at the hospital that he founded in Los Angeles early in this century. The world will long be indebted to this distinguished and noble American.]
  