
    TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Covering eight Iowa counties in just two days, Ron DeSantis and Casey DeSantis blitzed the Hawkeye State over the weekend. They met with Iowans in Webster, Hamilton, Boone, Story, Marshall, Madison, Warren, and Polk counties.
On Friday, Governor DeSantis and First Lady Casey DeSantis spoke to a packed room of Iowans at Olde Boston's Restaurant and Pub in Fort Dodge.
Following this, Governor DeSantis joined Iowa Secretary of Agriculture Mike Naig for a tour of the POET Biorefining plant in Jewell, IA. He later heard from farmers, producers, and agricultural leaders at a roundtable in Boone County with Secretary Naig. The group discussed energy independence and Joe Biden's suffocating regulations, which have hurt farmers in Iowa and across America.
Governor DeSantis then headed to Des Moines to speak at the annual FAMiLY Leadership Summit, where he delivered the best interview performance of all the Republican presidential candidates. Watch his full remarks here.
Florida's First Lady Casey DeSantis spent time hearing from local residents at a coffee shop in Ames, followed by a stop at the Central Iowa Fair in Marshalltown. There, she spoke with mamas, grandmas, and parents about Mamas for DeSantis: an effort she launched last week in Johnston alongside Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds to elect Ron DeSantis as President of the United States.
On Saturday, the Governor and First Lady DeSantis hosted another meet and greet in Winterset at a packed Pizza Ranch. Iowa Senate President Amy Sinclair introduced the governor for his remarks.
After this, they met with 35 pastors and faith leaders in Indianola. They discussed their faith, the Governor's leadership in Florida, and the First Lady's Hope Florida initiative before taking questions from the group. The pastors then prayed over the couple on their journey.
To top off the trip, the Governor headlined Congressman Zach Nunn's Top Nunn: Salute to the Troops BBQ celebrating and honoring veterans alongside the congressman and Senator Joni Earnst. After speaking, the three leaders launched paper airplanes into the crowd and then stood together for a press gaggle.
  