
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 3
The President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan and Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India concerning the situation in Kashmir.
July 4
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India concerning the situation in Kashmir.
Later, the President made brief remarks on the South Lawn before the fireworks presentation.
July 5
In the morning, the President traveled to Hazard, KY. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Northern Ireland Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble concerning the Northern Ireland peace process.
In the afternoon, the President toured the Whispering Pines neighborhood, where he talked with residents. Later, the President toured the Mid-South Electric Co.
In the evening, the President traveled to Memphis, TN.
July 6
In the morning, the President traveled to Clarksdale, MS, where he toured local businesses.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to East St. Louis, IL, where he visited a Walgreens drugstore.
In the evening, the President traveled to Rapid City, SD. Later, he toured Mount Rushmore and the Crazy Horse Memorial.
The President announced the nomination of Q. Todd Dickinson to be Assistant Secretary and Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to appoint George Becker and to reappoint Marc S. Tucker as members of the National Skill Standards Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Amy W. Meyer as a member of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust.
July 7
In the morning, the President traveled to Pine Ridge, SD, where he toured the new housing complex at the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Phoenix, AZ, where he toured Chicanos Por La Causa, Inc., a successful local business, and the La Canasta Mexican Food Products factory.
In the evening, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel on July 15.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Des Moines, IA, on July 16.
July 8
In the morning, the President toured the Transportation Academy Youth Training Facility at Alain Leroy Locke High School.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Anaheim, CA.
July 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Torrance, CA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Los Angeles.
The President announced his intention to nominate Tibor P. Nagy, Jr., to be Ambassador to Ethiopia.
The President announced his intention to appoint William K. Reilly as a member of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust.
  