
    By: Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Secretary of Commerce
From day one, the Trump administration has fulfilled its promise to create good jobs for American workers.
…
To ensure that all Americans are prepared for today's and tomorrow's jobs and that the historic economic expansion continues, President Trump has called on his administration to create the first-ever National Workforce Strategy. It is essential that this strategy responds to the needs of business and America's workers.
To that end, he created the American Workforce Policy Advisory Board, which I co-chair with Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump.
The board was created by executive order in July 2018 and brings together 25 of our top leaders from business, education, organized labor, state and local governments, trade associations, and non-profits to build out the National Workforce Strategy. The board is currently working on recommendations for the president to promote the many pathways to good careers, provide greater jobs data transparency, increase skills-based hiring, and measure and encourage employer-led training.
The Pledge to America's Workers, a core component of that effort, is already a resounding success. The pledge celebrates and encourages an invisible cornerstone of the U.S. education and training system employer-provided training. Through apprenticeships, university and community college classes, boot camps, on-the-job training, online learning, and many other paths, American companies are increasing the skills of millions of workers.
Already, more than 280 companies and organizations have pledged nearly 10 million enhanced training and career opportunities for American students and workers over the next five years. By building worker training programs tailored to their needs, both employers and prospective employees win.
…
Through our work, and that of the Trump administration, all Americans will benefit from the country's economic success.
This op-ed appeared in The Virginian-Pilot on July 23, 2019.
  