
    House Parties To Coincide With July 23rd CNN/YouTube Debate
On Monday, supporters of Hillary Clinton for President will gather at over 400 house parties around the country to watch the latest Democratic presidential primary debate, which is hosted by CNN/YouTube in South Carolina. The house parties are part of the campaign's Club44 women's outreach program. Club44 has the dual goals of reaching women through their networks and raising money at low dollar amounts. The debate watch house parties are expected to take place in almost all 50 states and the District of Columbia.
"I'm overwhelmed by the support from the women of Club44," said Hillary Clinton. "These house parties are an excellent way to ensure that the debate taking place in South Carolina continues as a conversation in our homes and communities."
The women hosting the Club44 debate watch parties represent the diversity of support for Hillary Clinton's candidacy. Notable hosts include Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, National Campaign Co-Chair and Gulf States Regional Co-Chair, who will host a house party at a home in Houston, TX and New Hampshire State Representatives Deana Rollo and Melanie Levesque, who will each host a party in the Granite State. Grassroots activists like Carrie Tedore from Iowa will also be hosting events. Tedore is a Clinton campaign county coordinator and will host an event in Dubuque.
Kim Gandy is another prominent supporter hosting a house party. Gandy, who is the president of the National Organization of Women (NOW), will host a debate watch party at her home in Maryland.
"We're excited to cheer Hillary on during the debate," said Gandy. "She has been a champion for women and families throughout her years of public service. We know she'll be ready to lead this country in a new direction as our next President."
While money will be raised at the events, the goals of the house parties are to organize and recruit supporters. Actor Mary Steenburgen will help energize house party participants by encouraging them on a conference call before the start of the debate.
The Clinton campaign launched Club44 in June with a huge rally of 8,000 people in Washington, D.C. To find out how to host a Club44 debate watch house party, go to www.hillaryclinton.com/women for more information.
  