
    The suburb destruction will end with us. --President Donald J. Trump
PROTECTING AMERICAN COMMUNITIES: President Donald J. Trump is protecting American communities from excessive Federal overreach and preserving local decision-making.

The Trump Administration is releasing a new rule that will further fair housing, while respecting the role of State and local decision-making for their communities.

This action will repeal the Obama Administration's Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) rule, which took away decision-making from local communities.


The new rule eliminates the excessive burden put on local communities and gets rid of the top-down approach that dictated zoning for communities.
The rule will help promote housing that is affordable, decent, safe, and free from discrimination.
Under the President's new rule, localities will continue to certify that they will affirmatively further fair housing, as required by law.

SAVING OUR SUBURBS: This action ends the Federal encroachment on local communities that threatened our nation's suburbs.

The Obama Administration's original AFFH rule attempted to take local zoning decisions out of the hands of local communities.
AFFH would have imposed a massive regulatory burden on localities, required high density zoning, eliminated single family zoning, and destroyed our suburbs.
This overregulation of our suburbs would have harmed Americans' abilities to work, buy homes, and build lives for their families, including many minority communities.

Our suburbs are diverse and thriving communities where the majority of African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans now live.


The suburbs represent a vital part of the American dream, as Americans work to build a better life for themselves and start a home for their families.

Providing Americans with the opportunity for homeownership is key to expanding opportunity and helping all Americans prosper.
Homeownership offers the chance for all Americans to build wealth for their families.



UNLEASHING REGULATORY RELIEF: Through this action, President Trump is building upon his historic reversal of the Obama Administration's disastrous regulatory policies.

President Trump is delivering on his promise to free Americans from Federal overreach, with Federal agencies taking over 7 deregulatory actions for each significant regulatory action.
The President reversed the Obama Administration's Clean Power Plan, regulation that would have raised electricity prices and driven up costs for Americans.
President Trump stopped the egregious abuse of the Clean Water Act, which threatened American farmers, ranchers, and landowners with endless litigation.
The President did away with a ridiculous Obama-era rule that would have banned the incandescent lightbulb, restoring freedom for Americans to choose how they light their homes.
The President replaced Obama-era fuel standards with the much improved Safer Affordable Fuel Efficient (SAFE) Vehicles Rule, which is expected to lower the price of new vehicles by $2,200 and make cars cheaper for low-income Americans.

  