
    Following winning debate performance, Booker campaign building momentum ahead of next visit to the Granite State this weekend
Manchester, NH --On the heels of Cory Booker's widely-praised first Democratic primary debate appearance and ahead of his upcoming visit to the Granite State on July 13 and 14th, Cory for New Hampshire announced six new endorsements from prominent New Hampshire Democrats:

Rep. Anita Burroughs (Bartlett)
Rep. Linn Opderbecke (Dover)
Rep. Lee Walker Oxenham (Plainfield)
Rep. Katherine Rogers (Concord)
Rep. Jeffrey Salloway (Lee)
Rep. Bruce Tatro (Keene)

These six Granite State leaders join the only two state Senators to endorse in the Democratic primary, Sens. Jon Morgan and David Watters.
Rep. Anita Burroughs:"Cory Booker is a committed public servant who brings experience, passion, and integrity to this race. When I saw him speak in Conway recently, I was moved by the way he brought people together and encouraged them to fight for justice. He's a proven fighter who knows that beating Donald Trump is the floor, not the ceiling, of what's possible for our country. Cory is a dedicated champion for Granite Staters, and is the best choice to lead our party in November 2020."
Rep. Linn Opderbecke:"I'm proud to support Cory Booker because he is not just smart, driven and qualified, but there is no one stronger in this race on criminal justice reform — period. As a mayor and as a senator, he has a proven record of taking on big challenges, and getting results. Cory is a fighter for the people of Strafford County and a champion for the least among us, and I am thrilled to stand with him in this race."
Rep. Lee Walker Oxenham:"Our leaders must take threats to the environment and the climate crisis very seriously. Cory understands this. His environmental justice plan would protect our precious natural resources, keep PFAS out of our water, and strengthen critical EPA protections. He understands that we can't wait to save our planet. Cory is the best choice to take on Donald Trump in November, and I'm excited to help share his vision with voters in Sullivan County and across the Granite State."
Rep. Katherine Rogers:"Cory is a proven fighter who takes on the toughest challenges, and he knows that beating Trump is the bare minimum -- and that we must also make progress immediately to improve the lives of all Americans. He has proposed the most ambitious gun violence prevention plan of any presidential candidate, which would address our nation's gun violence epidemic. Cory understands that we can't just arrest our way out of the opioid crisis and that justice is not about throwing a generation behind bars. And he would ensure economic justice by repealing tax cuts for the wealthy and putting money back into the pockets of hardworking Granite Staters. I'm thrilled to get to work to elect Senator Booker our next president."
Rep. Jeffrey Salloway:"Cory Booker brings decades of leadership experience to what is shaping up to be the biggest political fight of our generation. But, critically, he recognizes that beating Donald Trump is just the beginning of what a presidential candidate must do. Cory has proposed thoughtful, progressive policies that will help fix our broken health care system, defend individual freedoms, and help improve the lives of every Granite Stater. Cory brings justice and grace back into our politics, and I'm proud to stand with him in this fight."
Rep. Bruce Tatro:"I have a responsibility to the people of Cheshire County to support the candidate in this primary who has the drive, the passion, and the experience to lead our country forward. It's clear that candidate is Cory Booker. He is true to his values — I respect that he has lived in the same community for decades. Unlike many politicians, he is a leader who understands the struggles people are facing in Newark and across the country. In the first debate, Cory continued to be the definition of presidential, and I'm proud to support him in this race."
Since launching his campaign, Cory Booker has held 35 public events, met more than 4,000 voters, and campaigned in all ten counties in New Hampshire alone. The Booker campaign was the first to open multiple offices in the state, with locations in Manchester, Nashua and Portsmouth, and more on the way.
In June, Booker kicked off the second Day of Action in New Hampshire, launching canvasses in ten cities all across the state. Last month, he also launched the Justice Academy, an eight-week leadership development program for volunteers that trains participants in the nuts and bolts of community organizing.
  