
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Conrad Ernest Candelaria, of New Mexico, to be United States Marshal for the District of New Mexico for the term of four years, vice Gorden Edward Eden, Jr., term expired.
James Edward Clark, of Kentucky, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Kentucky for the term of four years, vice Ronald Richard McCubbin, Jr., term expired.
Mark F. Green, of Oklahoma, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Oklahoma for the term of four years, vice Sheldon J. Sperling, term expired.
Joseph H. Hogsett, of Indiana, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana for the term of four years, vice Susan W. Brooks, resigned.
Marco A. Hernandez, of Oregon, to be United States District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Garr M. King, retired.
Beryl Alaine Howell, of the District of Columbia, to be United States District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Paul L. Friedman, retired.
Steve C. Jones, of Georgia, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Orinda D. Evans, retired.
Sue E. Myerscough, of Illinois, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Jeanne E. Scott, resigned.
Victoria Frances Nourse, of Wisconsin, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit, vice Terence T. Evans, retired.
Joseph Anthony Papili, of Delaware, to be United States Marshal for the District of Delaware for the term of four years, vice David William Thomas, term expired.
Diana Saldaña, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice George P. Kazen, retired.
Michael H. Simon, of Oregon, to be United States District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Ancer L. Haggerty, retired.
James Alfred Thompson, of Utah, to be United States Marshal for the District of Utah for the term of four years, vice Randall Dean Anderson, term expired.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Sue E. Myerscough, of Illinois, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Joe B. McDade, retired, which was sent to the Senate on June 17, 2010.
  