
    [APP Note:  As with all "Campaign Documents" archived by the APP, the content of this document was prepared by the presidential campaign. This is not the analysis or work product of the American Presidency Project.  We do not vouch for the accuracy of ANY campaign document published by any presidential campaign. They are provided as part of the historical record.]
Biden even plagiarized his family history. 
16 years ago today, Joe Biden claimed he probably would have been elected president in 1988 if he hadn't lied that he came from a family of coal miners, in a speech plagiarized almost word-for-word from British politician Neil Kinnock. In 2004, Biden admitted that he made it all up. "Turns out I didn't have anybody in the coal mines, you know what I mean?" he laughed. "I tried that crap – it didn't work."
But in 2008, Biden shamelessly tried it again anyway, claiming that he himself had been a coal miner: "I hope you won't hold it against me, but I am a hard-coal miner, anthracite coal, Scranton, Pennsylvania." By 2012, he had revised his life story yet again: "My mom and dad weren't poor. Barack [Obama] makes me sound like I climbed out of a coal mine in Scranton with a lunch bucket…. No one in my family worked in a factory."
Given his plagiarism in law school, lies about marching in the civil rights movement and being shot at in Iraq, and false story about being arrested in South Africa, Biden's tall tales about coal mining are just another chapter in Joseph's Book of Fables.
We know where Biden stands on coal today. After appropriating the life experiences of coal miners for political gain, Biden embraced the far-left and pledged to eliminate hundreds of thousands of blue-collar jobs and make sure that "not another new coal plant will be built." He said there would be no place for coal and fracking in a Biden Administration, and dismissively told coal miners to "learn how to program."
Joe Biden is a lot of things: a plagiarist, a liar, a failed politician, an empty vessel for the radical left. One thing he is not is a coal miner.
  