
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 14
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
July 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—the bipartisan congressional leadership;
—the senior White House staff:
—the Cabinet.
The White House announced that the members of the Cabinet and the senior White House staff have offered their resignations to the President.
July 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Patricia R. Harris.
The White House announced that the President has appointed Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, as White House chief of staff.
July 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr.;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore; —Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal;
—Deputy Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti.
The President hosted a reception for Americans for SALT in the State Dining Room at the White House.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Kentucky as a result of severe storms and flash flooding on July 15, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Wyoming as a result of severe storms and tornadoes on July 16, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 annual report of the National Advisory Council on Extension and Continuing Education.
July 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan; —Mr. Moore;
—Jaime Roldos, President-elect of Ecuador;
—Secretary of Transportation Brock Adams;
—Gov. Hugh Gallen of New Hampshire.
The President declared a major disaster for the Commonwealth of Virginia as a result of severe storms and flash flooding on July 15-16, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
  