
    President George W. Bush today announced his appointment of the following individuals to serve as Members of the President's Board of Advisors on Tribal Colleges and Universities:
Ron S. McNeil of Fort Yates, North Dakota, has been designated as Chairman. McNeil is a member of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and President of Sitting Bull College. McNeil has also served as President of Little Hoop Community College and Standing Rock Community College. McNeil earned a law degree from the University of South Dakota School of Law and a bachelor's degree in Political Science from Black Hills State College.
David W. Anderson of Edina, Minnesota, is an enrolled member of the Chippewa and Choctaw tribes. He is chairman of the restaurant chain, Famous Dave's of America, and a founder of The Rainforest Café. Anderson is the founder and Chairman of the LifeSkills Center for Leadership, which creates life-changing programs for at-risk youths. Anderson earned a Master's degree in Public Administration from Harvard University John F. Kennedy School of Government.
Carl J. Artman of Golden, Colorado, is an enrolled member of the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin. He is currently the General Counsel and Vice-President of Business Development at CorAccess Systems, LLC, in Denver. Artman was Director of Federal Affairs for the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin from 1994 to 1995. He earned a Master's degree in Business Administration from the University of Wisconsin, a law degree from Washington University Law School, and a bachelor's degree from Columbia College.
Eddie F. Brown of Chesterfield, Missouri, is a member of the Pascua Yagui tribe. He is currently Associate Dean for Community Affairs and Director of the Kathryn M. Buder Center for American Indian Studies at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri. Brown is a former Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs for the U.S. Department of Interior and former Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Brown earned a Ph.D. in Social Work from the University of Utah.
Kathryn L. Domenici of Albuquerque, New Mexico, has worked with tribal colleges to build economic development through technology. Domenici is currently the owner of Communication Services, a mediation and facilitation training service, an instructor at the University of New Mexico, and a partner in Domenici Littlejohn, a communications consulting firm. Domenici earned a Master's degree in Communication from the University of New Mexico and a bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota.
Ann Marie Downes of Homer, Nebraska, is an enrolled member of the Winnebago Tribe of Nebraska. She has been President of Little Priest Tribal College in Winnebago, Nebraska, since June of 2000. Downes earned a Juris Doctorate from Arizona State University and a bachelor's degree from Wayne State College.
Senator Mark O. Hatfield of Tillmook, Oregon, retired from the U.S. Senate in 1997, after 30 years of service. Senator Hatfield is currently an adjunct professor at Portland State University, Lewis and Clark College, and George Fox University. Hatfield earned a Master's degree and bachelor's degree from Stanford University.
Daniel G. Keating of Tulsa, Oklahoma, is the President of Summit Consolidated Group in Tulsa, Oklahoma, a financial consulting firm. Keating is an active participant in many civic groups including the Salvation Army and the Easter Seals. A retired Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Marine Corp, Keating earned a Master's degree in Business Administration from the University of Oklahoma and a bachelor's degree from the University of Tulsa.
David J. Matheson of Worley, Idaho, is a member of the Coeur d'Alene tribe. He is the Chief Executive Officer of Coeur d'Alene Casino in Worley, Idaho. From 1991 to 1993, he was Deputy Commissioner for Indian Affairs at the Department of the Interior, where he received a Certificate of Commendation by the Secretary of Interior. Matheson earned a Master's degree in Business Administration and bachelor's degree from the University of Washington.
Martha A. McLeod Brimley, Michigan, is currently the Provost and Vice President of Charter Schools at Bay Mills Community College, and she recently stepped down as President of Bay Mills Community College. Under Dr. McLeod's leadership, the college grew from eleven members in the basement of a tribal center to a fully accredited institution with a campus consisting of multiple buildings. McLeod earned Ph.D. from Nova Southeastern University, a Master's degree from Vermont College, and a bachelor's degree from the State University of New York.
Karen M. Gayton Swisher of Lawrence, Kansas, is a member of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe. She has served as the President of Haskell Indian Nations University, one of the country's largest tribal universities, since May of 2000. Her past teaching experience includes service at Arizona State University and the University of Utah. In 1997, she was named National Indian Educator of the Year by the from the National Indian Education Association. Swisher earned an Ed. D. from the University of North Dakota and a Master's degree and bachelor's degree from Northern State College.
Della C. Warrior of Santa Fe, New Mexico, is a member of the Otoe-Missouria tribe. She is President and Development Director of the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe, New Mexico. Previously, Warrior was Otoe-Missouria Tribal Chairperson, the first and only woman to date to hold that position. Warrior earned a Master's degree from Harvard University and a bachelor's degree from Northeastern State University.
Richard B. Williams of Broomfield, Colorado, is a member of the Oglala Sioux Tribe. He is the Executive Director of the American Indian College Fund, a national nonprofit organization that raises private support for all 32 tribal colleges and universities in the United States. Williams also currently teaches American Indian History for the graduate program in Indian Studies at the University of Denver. Williams earned a Master's degree from the University of Wyoming and a bachelor's degree from the University of Nebraska.
  