
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Ronald E. Neumann to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of Bahrain. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he most recently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs from 1997 to 2000 and was Ambassador to Algeria from 1994 to 1997. From 1991 to 1994, Neumann served as the Director of the Office of Northern Gulf Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. He has completed a variety of other assignments both in Washington, D.C., and overseas and has received several award for his service. He earned both an undergraduate and Master's degree from the University of California at Riverside. The President intends to nominate Linton F. Brooks to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the Department of Energy. He is currently the Vice President and Director of Policy, Strategy and Forces Division at the Center for Naval Analysis, a federally funded research and development center in Alexandria, Virginia. During the Bush Administration, Brooks was Assistant Director for Strategic and Nuclear Affairs in the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and head of the U.S. Delegation on Nuclear and Space Talks. He was Chief Strategic Arms Reductions Negotiator, where he was responsible for final preparation of the START Treaty signed by Presidents Bush and Gorbachev in Moscow on July 31, 1991. Brooks joined the National Security Council after a thirty years in the U.S. Navy. He is a graduate of Duke University and received a Master's degree from the University of Maryland.
The President intends to nominate Benigno G. Reyna to be Director of the United States Marshals Service. He has served with the Police Department of the City of Brownsville, Texas, since 1976, and has been Chief of Police since 1995. He was named a Commissioner on the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement Officer Standards and Education in 1997, and became the Presiding Officer in 2000. Reyna has served as a Regional Expert for the Office of National Drug Control Policy's Counter Drug Technology Assessment Center since 1997, and he has been a Law Enforcement Advisor to the U.S. Attorney's Office in the Southern District of Texas since 1995. He is a graduate of the University of Texas -- Pan American.
  