
    Pool Reports by  Chris Johnson, Washington Blade 



Sent:
Reports:




July 18, 2022 13:15

FLOTUS pool report #1 - Equality PAC fundraiser
FLOTUS at 12:48 entered the main room of the Longview Gallery, where she was set to deliver remakes at a fundraiser for the Equality PAC.
"Right now, we're fighting the battles we thought we already won," FLOTUS said, referencing the SCOTUS decision and Justice Thomas' threats in his concurrence.
Listen: https://otter.ai/u/QxstqHlHMt3KnvgGsS-OA6VilMI
Guess included men and women in suits, dresses and other business attire. Appetizers included mini-sandwiches and selections from a fruit tray.
"Progress isn't a line," FLOTUS said. "It sometimes feels like an ocean, pushing forward and pulling back. But with time and persistence, the shore of injustice does wear away."
FLOTUS touted POTUS, pointing out he signed an executive order against anti-LGBT discrimination, ended the transgender military ban and appointed LGBTQ federal officials.
Also ticked off by FLOTUS was an executive order POTUS signed in June, including new prohibitions on widely discredited conversion therapy.
"I was so proud he stood against the practice of dangerous and discredited conversion therapy," FLOTUS said.
FLOTUS closed the event urging action and expressing solidarity, although she monetarily tripped over the LGBTQ acronym.
"I want you to know that I will be there beside you every step of the way. It won't be easy," FLOTUS said. "For me, the LGD - the LGBTQI community is a hope that has never been crushed."
FLOTUS exited the event promptly at 12:55.
The Equality PAC is a congressional political action committee led by the openly gay and lesbian members of the U.S. House. Among the notables seen in attendance were Reps. Mark Takano (D-Calif.) and David Cicilline (D-R.I.), co-chairs of the PAC.
Cicilline introduced FLOTUS at the event, saying she brings "warmth, dignify and a sense of compassion" to the position.
Takano also spoke and said Equality PAC raised a total of $217,000 at the event and more $10.8 million this cycle.
"We need a trans member of Congress," Takano said, pointing out a first not yet achieved.
"We our going to keep our majority and I dare say we're going to expand it," Takano said.
From the Office of the First Lady: The First Lady is joining a fundraising event for Equality PAC. There will be 120 guests in attendance. The audience includes local and national LGBTQ supporters, community allies, Members of Congress, and LGBTQ congressional candidates will also be in attendance.
Members of CongressEquality PAC Co-Chairs Chairman Mark Takano (CA) and Congressman David Cicilline (RI)Equality PAC Board Member Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester(DE) and Equality Caucus Co-Chair Congresswoman Sharice DavidsEquality Caucus Co-Founder Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA)


July 18, 2022 13:35

FLOTUS pool report #1a - correction
Correction to the front part of a quote from FLOTUS at the Equality PAC event.
"I want you to know that I will be there beside you every step of the way. It won't be easy," FLOTUS said. "The legacy of the LGD - the LGBTQI community is a hope that has never been crushed.



  