
    INDO-PACIFIC BUSINESS FORUM: Administration officials reaffirmed a whole-of-government commitment to enhancing economic and commercial engagement in the Indo-Pacific region.

Today, Trump Administration cabinet members and other senior officials joined American business leaders and foreign dignitaries at the Indo-Pacific Business Forum in Washington, D.C.

The heads of the Department of State, Department of Commerce, Department of Energy, United States Agency for International Development, Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), and Export-Import Bank all spoke at the Forum. 


Trump Administration officials underscored that United States investment in the Indo-Pacific region is good for America, good for business, and good for the world. 
Administration officials announced new initiatives aimed at accelerating United States private sector involvement in the region and supporting more United States export opportunities. 
Officials reaffirmed support for the Better Utilization of Investments Leading to Development (BUILD) Act, to reform, modernize, and more than double development finance capacity. 

A STRATEGIC INVESTMENT: The Trump Administration announced $113.5 million in immediate funding to seed new strategic initiatives in the Indo-Pacific region. 

These new strategic initiatives will focus on:

Enhancing United States private investment in the region 
Improving digital connectivity and cybersecurity 
Promoting sustainable infrastructure development 
Strengthening energy security and access 


The Digital Connectivity and Cybersecurity Partnership will use public-private partnerships and technical assistance to support digital infrastructure in the Indo-Pacific. 
The Infrastructure Transaction and Assistance Network will form an interagency body to coordinate efforts to assess projects, direct development finance, and give technical assistance. 
Asia EDGE – Enhancing Development and Growth through Energy – will promote energy security and access by boosting United States exports and encouraging market-based policies. 
Department of Commerce (DOC), through Access Asia program, will dedicate 25 events, and its 2019 flagship trade mission, to connecting American firms with Indo-Pacific markets. 

COOPERATION WITH PARTNERS: The Trump Administration announced a range of new economic cooperation efforts with Japan, Australia, India, and Mongolia. 

OPIC released a statement of cooperation with Japan and Australia. Japan recently created a $50 billion fund for regional infrastructure. 
DOC granted Strategic Trade Authorization Tier 1 status to India, enabling American companies to export more high-technology items under a streamlined license exception. 
The Millennium Challenge Corporation will implement a $350 million compact with Mongolia to enhance sustainable water supply to the Mongolian capital of Ulaanbaatar. 
The United States Trade and Development Agency signed an agreement on new energy development in India, and launched a liquefied natural gas cooperation program with Japan. 
The United States announced strengthened support for important regional institutions, including the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, the Lower Mekong Initiative, and the Indian-Ocean Rim Association. 

  