
    "My Administration remains very focused on the issues that will encourage economic growth — that's what we're all about." – President Donald J. Trump
GROWING THE ECONOMY TO NEW HEIGHTS: The American economy continues its strong growth under President Donald J. Trump, with GDP growth reaching 4.1% in the second quarter.

With GDP growth reaching 4.1% in Q2 of 2018, it's clear that President Trump is delivering on his promise to revitalize the American economy.

GDP growth is one of the most important economic indicators and shows that America is continuing to grow more and more prosperous under President Trump. 


Average annual growth has been a strong 2.8% over the past four quarters.

During President Obama's 8 years in office, GDP growth averaged just 1.9%. 


If our current pace continues, we are on track to see the economy grow over the course of a calendar year by more than 3% for the first time in 13 years. 

DEFYING THE CRITICS: Under President Trump, the economy is achieving the kind of growth critics derided as unrealistic. 

The Administration has long maintained that implementing the President's pro-growth economic agenda would lead to at least 3% growth, a prediction met and exceeded in Q2. 
GDP is now on track for 3.1% growth in 2018, a level of growth that was previously dismissed by the media and economic "experts" as unrealistic.

Larry Summers, said 3% annual growth was "fair enough if you believe in tooth-fairies." 
The Los Angeles Times' Michael Hiltzik called 3% annual growth a "pipe dream." 


Recent growth stands in stark contrast to the absurd claim by Paul Krugman in 2016 that President Trump's Presidency would lead to a "global recession." 

AN ECONOMIC RESURGENCE: The latest GDP figures show President Trump's pro-growth economic agenda is delivering exactly what it promised. 

President Trump's historic tax cuts and deregulation have been key in making higher economic growth possible.

Money held overseas is flooding back to the United States following President Trump's tax cuts and reforms, with companies repatriating a record $306 billion in Q1 of 2018. 


A stronger economy means more job creation, with more than 3.2 million nonfarm payroll jobs created since President Trump took office.

Under President Trump, the number of job openings has surpassed the number of job seekers for the first time on record. 
Around two-thirds of Americans believe now is a good time to find a quality job, according to Gallup. 



  