
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 3
In the late evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Elmendorf Air Force Base, AK, and Washington, DC, arriving early the next morning.
July 6
The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn Dee Robinson to be Ambassador to the Republic of Ghana.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ruby Butler DeMesme as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower, Reserve Affairs, Installations and Environment.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick T. Henry to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carolyn H. Becraft as Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles F. Kartman for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Envoy for the Korean Peace Talks.
The President announced his intention to appoint Philip Condit, Lodewijk J.R. de Vink, Gary DiCamillo, John P. Manning, Ernest Micek, and Jonathan Tisch to be members of the President's Export Council.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ambassador Richard Henry Jones to be Ambassador to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The President announced that he has accepted an invitation from President Boris Yeltsin of Russia to meet in Russia in early September.
July 7
The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning June 25 and continuing.
The President announced his intention to appoint Linda Chavez-Thompson as a member of the President's Committee on Employment of People with Disabilities.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas K. Thomas to serve as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to nominate D. Bambi Kraus to serve as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development.
July 8
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Arlington, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Simon Ferro to be Ambassador to the Republic of Panama.
The President announced the nomination of David Gordon Carpenter to be Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security and Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, with the Rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eugene A. Conti, Jr., to serve as Assistant Secretary for Domestic Transportation Policy at the Department of Transportation.
July 9
In the morning, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA. In the afternoon, he traveled to Daytona, FL.
In the evening, the President traveled to Miami, FL, and later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to nominate William B. Milam to be Ambassador to Pakistan.
The White House announced that the President has invited President Julio Maria Sanguinetti of Uruguay for a working visit on July 23.
July 10
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia and then met with Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek of Poland in the Oval Office. Later, the President and Hillary Clinton were interviewed by Stars and Stripes in the Map Room at the White House and later participated in a celebration for the 200th anniversary of the Marine Band on the South Lawn.
The President announced his intention to appoint John Silberman, Jeff Valdez, and Ruth Whetstone Wagner as members to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
  