
    SAN ANTONIO, TX (July 8, 2019) – On Monday, July 8, the presidential campaign of former U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary under President Obama and San Antonio Mayor, Julián Castro, announced seven new endorsements from local Iowa leaders during Secretary Castro's seventh trip to the first-in-the-nation caucus state.
In a letter released Monday, the leaders wrote, "Secretary Castro has proven time and again that he will be a president for all Americans — including those whose voices are not being heard in Washington today. Our job this year couldn't be more critical —- we must choose a candidate who not only has a vision for the future but also the ability to beat Donald Trump. Julián Castro has shown he can do both. And there is simply too much at stake for our country right now to choose anything less. For us, there is only one candidate, and we hope you'll join us and support Julián Castro."
The endorsements were announced during Secretary Castro's seventh trip to Iowa, where he hosted meet-and-greets in Council Bluffs and Montgomery County, before traveling to Tabor and Bartlett to tour damage from recent flooding along the Missouri River. Secretary Castro's trip to Iowa follows his stand out performance at the first Democratic debates, which the New York Times described as "Castro's big night." Following the debates, ABC and the Washington Post published a poll in which Secretary Castro moved into the top five polling candidates nationally at four percent.
"As our campaign continues to pick up momentum following the first debates, I'm honored to announce the support of five incredible political and community leaders from across Iowa," said Secretary Castro. "We continue to expand our presence in the first-in-the-nation caucus state, and with the support of impactful and influential leaders like these, we can win the Iowa caucuses next February."
The full letter can be read below:
Why Julián Castro is our candidate
As Iowans, we understand the responsibility that comes with being the first in the nation to vote. We want to not only hear where the candidates stand on the issues, but to truly understand how their vision for our country will impact our neighbors and our community. We want to be confident that our nominee has the strength, empathy, passion and experience to deal with the challenges ahead.
Secretary Julián Castro's vision to make this country the smartest, healthiest, most prosperous, and fairest for all Americans is the real deal. Growing up in San Antonio, he was raised by a single mother and attended public schools. After graduating from Stanford University and Harvard Law School, Julián embarked on public service and became the youngest city council member in his hometown, and then was elected Mayor. In 2014, President Obama nominated him to be Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Julián's story is the American Dream. Like so many working families across Iowa, Julián wasn't given a head start, but through hard work and determination both he and his twin brother, Joaquin, now a U.S. Congressman, have been able to accomplish their dreams.
Julián understands that what matters most to voters is showing up. That's why he's sat with and listened to residents in a mobile home park in Waukee, is traveling to rural Tabor and Bartlett to hear how ongoing flooding continues to impact these communities, and has shown up in deep-red Steve King country to meet voters in Orange City. Secretary Castro has proven time and again that he will be a president for all Americans — including those whose voices are not being heard in Washington today.
Our job this year couldn't be more critical —- we must choose a candidate who not only has a vision for the future but also the ability to beat Donald Trump. Julián Castro has shown he can do both. And there is simply too much at stake for our country right now to choose anything less.
For us, there is only one candidate, and we hope you'll join us and support Julián Castro.
Signed:
Rob Barron, Des Moines School Board member and Founder Latino Political Network
Mary Campos, Longtime Activist and Community Leader
Steve Villatoro, Community Leader and Vice Chair of Latino Caucus
Joe Henry, Longtime Leader and Activist in Latino Community
Jose Ibarra, Storm Lake Councilman
Bonnie Brown, Community Leader and SCC Member
Sally (Araceli) Goode, Community Leader and Activist
  