
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 11
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a concert at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts honoring the 200th anniversary of the Marine Corps Band.
July 13
In the afternoon, the President had a luncheon with Senator Thomas A. Daschle and Representative Richard A. Gephardt in the Oval Office Dining Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Karl J. Sandstrom to serve as a Commissioner of the Federal Election Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher W.S. Ross for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Coordinator for Counterterrorism at the State Department.
July 14
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles R. Rawls to serve as General Counsel at the Department of Agriculture.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mike Walker to serve as Deputy Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate George M. Staples as Ambassador to Rwanda.
July 15
The President announced his intention to nominate John J. Pikarski, Jr., to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
July 16
In the morning, the President met with President Emil Constantinescu of Romania in the Oval Office. Later, he attended a meeting with National Security Adviser Samuel Berger and NATO Secretary General Javier Solana in Mr. Berger's office at the White House. In the evening, he traveled to Chevy Chase, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate John D. Hawke, Jr., to serve as Comptroller of the Currency at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Melvin Yates to be Ambassador to Cameroon.
July 17
In the morning, the President attended an American Legion Boys Nation reunion reception in the State Dining Room at the White House. In the afternoon, he traveled to Little Rock, AR.
The President announced his intention to nominate Romulo L. Diaz, Jr., to serve as Assistant Administrator for Administration and Resources Management at the Environmental Protection Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Charles Fox to serve as Assistant Administrator for Water at the Environmental Protection Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia T. Montoya to serve as Commissioner of the Administration on Children, Youth, and Families at the Department of Health and Human Services.
  