
    ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's campaign today announced its North Carolina Sheriffs for McCain leadership. The coalition leadership will work to build on John McCain's grassroots support in their communities.
"John McCain has made tough choices and always put his country first," said Coalition Co-Chair B.J. Barnes, a thirty-four year veteran of law enforcement and current sheriff of Guilford County. "As a sheriff and former member of the military, I believe John McCain will lead this country with honor, integrity, compassion and strength of character, and it's for those reasons that I will be supporting John McCain for president."
Co-Chair Sheriff Steve Bizzell of Johnston County said, "John McCain has always been a staunch advocate for our nation's police force. In the Senate John McCain supported legislation which ensured law enforcement officials would have the tools they need to protect our nation. Senator McCain also sponsored and supported bills designed to win the war on drugs and protect our children from sexual exploitation. John McCain has consistently advocated for stricter criminal penalties for repeat felons, gang members and drug dealers. I am proud to support his campaign for the presidency."
John McCain added, "I am grateful for the support of Sheriff Barnes and Bizzell, as well as the other distinguished coalition leaders. I thank each one of them, and the hundreds and thousands of law enforcement officers across America who put their lives on the line every day to keep America safe, for their tremendous sacrifice and commitment to our security."
Today in Indianapolis John McCain addressed the National Sheriffs Association.
NORTH CAROLINA SHERIFFS FOR MCCAIN LEADERSHIP
Statewide Co-ChairsSheriff B.J. Barnes, Guilford County
Sheriff Steve Bizzell, Johnston County
Former Sheriff Litchard D. Hurley, Randolph County
Statewide Vice-ChairsSheriff David R. Edwards, Alleghany County
Sheriff Kevin L. Frye, Avery County
Sheriff Asa B. Buck, III, Carteret County
Sheriff L. David Huffman, Catawba County
Sheriff William "Bill" T. Schatzman, Forsyth County
Sheriff Phillip H. Redmond, Iredell County
Sheriff Lane Carter, Moore County
Sheriff Carson H. Smith, Jr., Pender County
Sheriff Maynard B. Reid, Jr., Randolph County
Sheriff Samuel S. Page, Rockingham County
Sheriff George A. Wilhelm, Rowan County
Sheriff E.G. "Eddie" Cathey, U nion County
Sheriff Donnie Harrison, Wake County
Sheriff Carey A. Winders, Wayne County
Sheriff Dane C. Mastin, Wilkes County
Sheriff Kermit Banks, Yancey County
  