
    "Coming off the worst quarter of job creation in two years, and with the worst jobs record of any president in modern history, it's clear President Obama has failed to live up to his promises. Yet President Obama is listening more to his campaign donors and special interest groups than to his own jobs council. That makes perfect sense for a president more concerned with re-election than getting the economy back on track." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today It Was Reported That President Obama's "Jobs Council" Hasn't Met For Six Months:
President Obama's Jobs Council Hasn't Held A Meeting In The Last Six Months. "President Barack Obama's Jobs Council hasn't met publicly for six months, even as the issue of job creation dominates the 2012 election. At this point, the hiatus — which reached the half-year mark Tuesday — might be less awkward than an official meeting, given the hornet's nest of issues that could sting Obama and the council members if the private-sector panel gets together." (Josh Gerstein, "Obama Jobs Panel Lays Low," Politico, 7/18/12)
"The Last Official Meeting Of The 26-Member President's Council On Jobs And Competitiveness Took Place Jan. 17 In The White House Complex." (Josh Gerstein, "Obama Jobs Panel Lays Low," Politico, 7/18/12)
"It Appears The Panel Won't Convene This Month." "Under rules governing federal advisory boards, the jobs council is required to announce its meetings 15 days in advance. With no such announcement out right now, it appears the panel won't convene this month." (Josh Gerstein, "Obama Jobs Panel Lays Low," Politico, 7/18/12)
Perhaps It's Because President Obama Has Rejected Their Input:
President Obama Has Dismissed His Jobs Council's Advice On Reforming The Tax Code. "One sign of the continuing potential for awkwardness came Monday at a campaign stop in Cincinnati at which Obama denounced Romney's proposal for a so-called territorial tax system. That proposal, to limit U.S. taxes on American multinational companies to their profits inside the U.S., was also endorsed by Obama's Jobs Council — but rejected by the president." (Josh Gerstein, "Obama Jobs Panel Lays Low," Politico, 7/18/12)
Click To Watch President Obama Call His Own Jobs Council's Advice "Wrong"
Who Has President Obama Been Meeting With Instead? His Campaign Donors And Political Supporters:
President Obama Has Attended 106 Political Fundraisers Since The Last Meeting Of His Jobs Council. (National Journal's "Daybook," 7/18/12)
As President Obama Raises Money And Ignores His Jobs Council, Middle-Class Americans Are Suffering From Layoffs And Chronic Unemployment:
The Economy In June "Remained In A Spring Slump" As Employers Added A Lower-Than-Expected 80,000 Jobs. "The employment market emerged remained in a spring slump in June as employers added 80,000 jobs. The nation's unemployment rate was unchanged at 8.2% for the second consecutive month, the Labor Department said Friday. A consensus of economists had estimated that payrolls grew by 95,000 jobs last month, including 103,000 in the private sector." ("8.2% Unemployment Rate Unchanged In June," USA Today, 7/6/12)
"The Weakest Job-Adding Quarter In Two Years..." CNBC's JOHN HARWOOD: "Just 80,000 jobs added in the month of June, Michelle. 8.2% unemployment rate, unchanged, 12.7 million unemployed people, also unchanged. That makes the second quarter the weakest job-adding quarter in two years, an average of 75,000 jobs added in the second quarter of this year." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 7/6/12)
"U.S. Job Growth Barely Picked Up In June, The Latest Sign That Economic Growth Has Slowed." "U.S. job growth barely picked up in June, the latest sign that economic growth has slowed. Nonfarm payrolls grew by 80,000 last month, the Labor Department said Friday. The politically important unemployment rate, obtained by a separate survey of U.S. households, was unchanged at 8.2%." (Jeffrey Sparshott and Eric Morath, "Jobs Data Indicate Slowing Growth," The Wall Street Journal, 7/6/12)
The Current Number Of Long-Term Unemployed Americans Is "Staggering," With "The Average Length Of Time The Unemployed Have Spent Out Of Work" Climbing Steadily Higher. "The numbers are staggering. The ranks of the long-term unemployed swelled last month from 5.1 million to 5.4 million, and those individuals now account for 42.8% of the unemployed. Meanwhile, the average length of time the unemployed have spent out of work has climbed steadily higher -- and older Americans have been the hardest hit." (Charles Riley, "Long-Term Unemployment Crisis Rolls On," CNN Money, 6/11/12)
The Long-Term Unemployment Rate Among Middle-Aged Americans Is "Unprecedented In Modern U.S. History." "More than 3.5 million Americans between the ages of 45 and 64 were unemployed as of May, 39% of them for a year or more—a rate of long-term unemployment that is unprecedented in modern U.S. history, and far higher than among younger workers." (Ben Casselman, "For Middle-Aged Job Seekers, A Long Road Back," The Wall Street Journal, 6/22/12)
  