
    South Carolina Women's Support for Clinton Continues to Grow
COLUMBIA -- The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of State Rep. and Deputy Minority Leader Cathy Harvin, demonstrating Hillary Clinton's growing support in the Palmetto State.
"The 2008 Presidential election could be this nation's last opportunity to elect a President who can regain our position as '˜most dominant' in the global landscape we call home. We need a President, who understands the needs of '˜working-class America', one who will reverse the staggering number of lost manufacturing jobs. We need an individual who can craft a healthcare plan that is comprehensive, for all people, that is focused on quality of delivery and cost of care. We need an individual that understands that National Security is as much about strategic tactics and negotiation, as it is about flexing muscle. This election is not about gender, race, or political party for that matter. It is about credentials, and the skills and abilities to get the job done. After assessing the credentials of all candidates, I am firmly convinced that there is no better candidate than Senator Clinton to lead that change."
Harvin's endorsement of Clinton follows the announcement last week of State Sen. Linda Short, South Carolina's only woman senator, as one of Clinton's state Campaign Co-Chairs.
"I am honored to have the support of such influential women from across the Palmetto State," Clinton said. "Working together, we're going to bring our message of change across South Carolina and the nation."
Harvin represents District 64 (Clarendon and Williamsburg Counties) and serves as Chair of the House Committee on Health and Environmental Affairs. She is past president of the South Carolina Higher Education Foundation and served on the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education and the Coastal Carolina University Board of Trustees. Harvin was President of the Clarendon County Chamber of Commerce and is an active member of Summerton Presbyterian Church. Harvin is a Major Accounts Manager for Dell Computer.
"From our first events in Charleston and Rock Hill, to the major endorsements thus far, Hillary Clinton's support among South Carolina women is more evidence of the enthusiasm behind our next President," said Jane Emerson, South Carolina Women's Outreach Director for the Clinton Campaign and former CEO of South Carolina Planned Parenthood.
Women for Hillary Clinton meetings were held in Charleston, Thursday, June 21, and in Rock Hill, Saturday, June 23.
Other major women leaders among Clinton's South Carolina team include State Campaign Co-Chair and Aiken City Councilperson Lessie Price and Richland County Councilpersons Bernice Scott and Joyce Dickerson.
  