
    "[Democrats] think about big government, big taxes and Big Brother. That's the same course Europe has taken over the last couple of decades that has led to a level of growth far below our own." – Gov. Mitt Romney (Lisa Rossi, "Romney Blasts Obama, Others," The Des Moines Register, 7/21/07)
Romney's Vision Of A Stronger Defense Vs. Defeatist Democrats
Gov. Romney Stresses The Importance Of Winning In Iraq And Defeating Radical Islam Globally. "The congressional debate in Washington has largely, and myopically, focused on whether troops should be redeployed from Iraq to Afghanistan, as if these were isolated issues. Yet the jihad is much broader than any one nation, or even several nations. ... The jihadist threat is the defining challenge of our generation and is symptomatic of a range of new global realities." (Gov. Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," Foreign Affairs, July/August 2007)
But Sen. Hillary Clinton Claims The U.S. Has Already Lost In Afghanistan To Al Qaeda And Bin Laden. SEN. HILLARY CLINTON: "We've got to figure out what we're doing in Iraq, where our troops are stretched thin, and Afghanistan, where we're losing the fight to al Qaeda and bin Laden." (CNN/YouTube, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Charleston, SC, 7/23/07)
While Sen. Barack Obama Would Jump At The Chance To Meet With Dictators In Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Cuba And North Korea. YOUTUBE QUESTION: "...would you be willing to meet separately, without precondition, during the first year of your administration, in Washington or anywhere else, with the leaders of Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea, in order to bridge the gap that divides our countries?" ... SENATOR BARACK OBAMA: "I would. And the reason is this, that the notion that somehow not talking to countries is punishment to them -- which has been the guiding diplomatic principle of this administration -- is ridiculous." (CNN/YouTube, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Charleston, SC, 7/23/07)

Romney's Vision Of A Stronger Economy Vs. Tax-And-Spend Democrats
Gov. Romney Believes Lower Taxes Lead To A Stronger American Economy. GOV. MITT ROMNEY: "Raising taxes will slow down the economy, will make it more and more difficult to create jobs here. It's the wrong direction. The right direction is always to bring tax rates down. If you believe that the strength of America flows from government, then you want more taxes. But if you believe that the strength of America flows from the American people, you want to hold their taxes down for themselves and for the employers that employ them." (Fox News Channel's "Hannity & Colmes," 4/4/07)
But Sen. Joe Biden Would Raise Taxes, Rolling Back The Bush Tax Cuts. SEN. JOE BIDEN: "First of all, change the tax structure. We are giving people tax breaks who don't need it. The top 1 percent got an $85 billion a year tax break. It is not needed. My dad used to have an expression -- don't tell me what you value; show me your budget. And the budget we have here is we all dance around it. We need more revenue to be able to pay for the things the governor and everybody else talks about. And there's only one way to do it. You either raise taxes or take tax cuts away from people who don't need them. I'd take them away from people who don't need them." (CNN/YouTube, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Charleston, SC, 7/23/07)
While Sen. John Edwards Would Create A Big Government-Run Health Insurance Program, Paid For By Taxpayers. SEN. JOHN EDWARDS: "No, because the only way to provide universal coverage is to mandate that everyone be covered. But I want to say, you know, I came out with a universal plan several months ago. A couple of months later, Senator Obama came out with a plan. He's made a very serious proposal, and I'm not casting aspersions on his plan. I think it's a very serious proposal. It just doesn't cover everybody. The only way to cover everybody is to mandate it." (CNN/YouTube, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Charleston, SC, 7/23/07)

Romney's Vision Of Stronger Families Vs. Out-Of-The-Mainstream Democrats
Gov. Romney Believes A Stronger American Family Leads To A Stronger America. GOV. MITT ROMNEY: "How is the American family made stronger? With marriage before children. With a mother and a father in the life of every child. With healthcare that is affordable and portable. With schools that succeed. With taxes that are lower. And with leaders who strive to demonstrate enduring values and morality." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Presidential Announcement, Dearborn, MI, 2/13/07)
But Sen. Barack Obama Supports Sex Education For Kindergarteners, And Wrongly Claimed That Gov. Mitt Romney Does, Too. CNN's ANDERSON COOPER: "Senator Obama, Mitt Romney has accused you this week of saying that 5-year-old children should be getting sex education. Was he right?" SEN. BARACK OBAMA: "Ironically, this was actually a proposal that he himself said he supported when he was running for governor of Massachusetts. ... I've got a 9-year-old daughter and a 6-year-old daughter. And I want them to know if somebody is doing something wrong to them, encroaching on their privacy, that they should come talk to me or my wife. And we've had that conversation, but not every parent is going to have that conversation with their child, and I think it's important that every child does, to make sure that they're not subject to the sexual predators." (CNN/YouTube, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Charleston, SC, 7/23/07)
- In Fact, Sen. Obama Specifically Called For Sex-Ed In Kindergarten, Which Gov. Romney Did Not Support. "The Romney campaign is saying there is a difference here. Kevin Madden, Romney's national spokesman says, 'Obama specifically advocated sex-ed for small children in kindergarten.' Undaunted today, Romney said the following in South Carolina about Obama: 'Senator Obama is wrong if he thinks science-based sex education has any place in kindergarten.'" (David Brody, "Kindergarten Cop: Romney Versus Obama," CBN's The Brody File, www.cbn.com/CBNnews/198676.aspx, Posted 7/19/07)
- The Legislation Sen. Obama Voted For In Illinois Went Even Further – Calling For STD Prevention To Be Taught In Kindergarten. Illinois Senate Bill 99, which Obama supported in the 93rd Assembly (2003-2004), reads, in part: "...whenever such courses of instruction are provided in any of grades K through 12, then such courses also shall include age appropriate instruction on the prevention of sexually transmitted infections, including the prevention, transmission and spread of HIV." (IL General Assembly Website, www.ilga.gov/legislation/, Accessed 7/24/07)
  