
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama nominated Conrad Ernest Candelaria, James Edward Clark, Joseph Anthony Papili, and James Alfred Thompson to serve as U.S. Marshals.
"These individuals have demonstrated an unwavering commitment to public service throughout their careers," said President Obama. "I am proud to nominate them to serve and protect the American people as U.S. Marshals."
Conrad Ernest Candelaria: Nominee for United States Marshal for the District of New Mexico
Conrad Candelaria began his career as a Public Safety Aide in 1985 at the Albuquerque Police Department, and ultimately rose to the position of Commander in August of 2003. Now retired after serving the Albuquerque Police Department for 25 years and holding the position of Commander for nearly seven years, Mr. Candelaria teaches part-time at the University of New Mexico, where he previously earned a Bachelor's degree, a Masters in Public Administration, and an Associate's Degree.
James Edward Clark: Nominee for United States Marshal for the Western District of Kentucky
James (Jim) Clark has worked in the Marshals Service since 1996. Prior to his tenure in the Marshals Service, Mr. Clark worked for the Bureau of Prisons in West Virginia, and also served in the U.S. Air Force. He is currently the Acting Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal of the Western District of Kentucky.
Joseph Anthony Papili: Nominee for United States Marshal for the District of Delaware
Joseph Papili is a twenty-four and a half year veteran of the Delaware State Police. Holding the rank of Major, he is the Special Operations Officer currently overseeing the Intelligence, Homeland Security, Homicide, Tactical, and other specialized units within the agency. He has been a member of the Executive Staff of the State Police since 1999. He received his Bachelor's degree from the University of Delaware in 1983.
James Alfred Thompson: Nominee for United States Marshal for the District of Utah
James Thompson began his law enforcement career within the U.S. Marshals Service in 1983 as a Deputy U.S. Marshal in Greensboro, North Carolina. In 1987, he became an Inspector in the Witness Security Division of the U.S. Marshals Service in Nashville, Tennessee. Before filling the position of Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal of Utah in 1995, Mr. Thompson served as an instructor at the U.S. Marshals Service Training Academy in Glynco, Georgia for four years. He earned a Bachelor's degree in Education from the University of Memphis. He is currently the Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal for the District of Utah.
  