
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
July 13
The President arrived in the Federal Republic of Germany at the Bonn-Cologne Airport and proceeded with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt to the U.S. Ambassador's residence in Bonn, where he stayed during his visit.
July 18
The President met at the White House with Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
July 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Members of Congress to discuss the Bonn Economic Summit Conference;
-Vice President Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President attended a portion of the breakfast held for Members of the Senate in the State Dining Room at the White House to discuss the situation in Turkey and Greece.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1977 annual report of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.
July 20
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall;
—Mayor Thomas Bradley of Los Angeles, Calif.;
—Coy. Juan F. Luis and a delegation from the Virgin Islands.
July 21
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Carrie Lynn Christensen, Ms. United Teenager, and Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Senator Alan Cranston of California;
—Rev. Jesse Jackson and the board of directors of Operation PUSH (People United to Save Humanity).
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  