
    With everyone returning today from the July 4th holiday, we wanted to share some highlights from the Clintons' trip across Iowa last week.
Fort Dodge Messenger: Clinton calls for change
Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham Clinton finished a four-day campaign push through Iowa speaking to more than 1,100 people in Fort Dodge Thursday night...
"She's the most experienced in the race who can begin repairing the damage done to America abroad," former Iowa Governor Tom Vilsack said after the event. "I've seen them all. She's the most extraordinary. She listens to people." To read the full story [Click here].
Des Moines Register: I'm right choice to clean up D.C., Clinton tells Iowans
Expecting a crowd of 250 at a riverside barbecue Thursday in Muscatine, members of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's campaign staff bought enough hot dogs, burgers and lemonade to feed about 300. Then 1,256 people signed in to attend the event...
"I hope she can draw all the women from both sides, and I hope the men are smart enough to elect her," said Ottumwa resident Dan Brinegar, a John Deere retiree. To read the full story [Click here].
Quad-City Times: Candidate Clinton hits mark with those in crowd
The Clintons worked hard to connect with the Quad-City area audience, fondly recalling their 1992 post-convention bus tour that stopped late one summer's night in Bettendorf, and his tour of flood-ravaged Davenport on the Fourth of July in 1993..."Her experience speaks for herself," Jean Burke of Charlotte, Iowa, said. "There's no one more clever or smarter than Hillary..."
"It was a great speech," said Marlene Arp, of Walcott, Iowa, who attended the event with her husband, Rudy. Arp said President George Bush's White House needs to be cleaned up, and "it will take a woman to get that done right." To read the full story [Click here].
Cedar Rapids Gazette: Hillary Clinton--Road to White House starts in Linn County
For a while, it sounded like a homecoming when Bill and Hillary Clinton took the hay-bale ringed stage in Cedar Rapids. The former president and the presidential hopeful shared fond memories of earlier visit....Former President Clinton, who at one point threatened "I could keep you here until tomorrow morning" talking about his wife, said knowing what he knows makes it easy to support his wife's campaign.
"I would be doing this, if asked, even if we weren't married," President Clinton said, drawing laughter from the crowd. To read the full story [Click here].
  