
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:

Gregory D. Winfree – Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation 
Rhonda Schnare Schmidtlein – Member, United States International Trade Commission

The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:

Angelique M. Crumbly – Assistant Administrator for Management, United States Agency for International Development
Admiral John B. Nathman, USN (Ret) – Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy
Rion Joaquin Ramirez – Member, President's Commission on White House Fellowships

President Obama said, "It gives me great confidence that such dedicated and capable individuals have agreed to join this Administration to serve the American people. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Gregory D. Winfree, Nominee for Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation
Gregory D. Winfree is the Deputy Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA), a position he has held since 2011. He also served as Acting Administrator of RITA from September 2011 to January 2012 and as Chief Counsel for RITA from 2010 until 2011. From 2004 to 2010, Mr. Winfree was Chief Litigation Counsel for Phelps Dodge Corporation, and from 2000 to 2004 he served as Director of Litigation for Wyeth Pharmaceuticals. Previously, from 1993 to 2000, Mr. Winfree was Litigation Counsel for Union Carbide Corporation, and from 1991 to 1993 he was a Trial Attorney for the U.S. Department of Justice. He was a litigation associate at Venable, Baetjer, Howard & Civiletti from 1989 to 1991. Mr. Winfree received a Sc.B. from St. John's University and a J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center. 
Rhonda Schnare Schmidtlein, Nominee for Member, United States International Trade Commission 
Rhonda Schnare Schmidtlein is currently a consultant to the World Bank on projects seeking to strengthen accounting regulation and oversight, a position she has held since 2012. Ms. Schmidtlein worked within the Office of International Affairs at the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as Director from 2005 to 2011 and Special Counsel to the Chairman from 2003 to 2005. Previously, she served as Associate General Counsel for the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) from 1999 to 2003, and Assistant General Counsel from 1998 to 1999. Prior to USTR, she was an Honors Program Trial Attorney from 1993 to 1998 in the Civil Division of the Commercial Litigation Branch at the U.S. Department of Justice. From 1995 to 1997, Ms. Schmidtlein was an Adjunct Professor for Legal Research and Writing at the National Law Center at George Washington University and a Law Clerk for Chief Judge Howard F. Sachs of the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri from 1991 to 1993. Ms. Schmidtlein received a B.S. from University of Missouri and a J.D. from University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Angelique M. Crumbly, Appointee for Assistant Administrator for Management, United States Agency for International Development
Angelique M. Crumbly is Senior Deputy Assistant Administrator in the Bureau for Management at the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). She has served in various capacities at USAID since 1994. From 2010 to 2012, she served as Senior Deputy Assistant Administrator in the Bureau for Management. From 2005 to 2007, she served as Senior Advisor to the Counselor and Supervisor of the Management Bureau. She also held a number of positions in the Office of Food for Peace at USAID from 1998 to 2005, including Chief in the Policy and Technical Division and Team Leader for the Development Programs Division. From 1994 to 1998 she served as a Procurement Analyst in the Office of Procurement. She received a B.A. from George Washington University and an M.P.M. from Georgetown University.
Admiral John B. Nathman, USN (Ret), Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy 
Admiral John B. Nathman, USN (Ret), was first appointed to the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy in 2010. After 37 years of service in the U.S. Navy, he retired as Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces. He held a number of high ranking positions, including Vice Chief of Naval Operations; Commander, Naval Air Forces; Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Warfighting Requirements; and Commander, Battle Force Fifty in the Persian Gulf. His personal decorations include the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star with Combat V. He serves on the board of directors for the Custiss Wright Corporation and the Strategic Advisory Board for Boeing Defense, Space and Security. Admiral Nathman received an M.S. from the United States Naval Academy and is a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School.
Rion Joaquin Ramirez, Appointee for Member, President's Commission on White House Fellowships
Rion Joaquin Ramirez is General Counsel at Port Madison Enterprises, the economic development arm of the Suquamish Tribe. From 2001 to 2005, he was an Associate at Dorsey & Whitney LLP, and prior to that, he was an Associate at Schwabe, Williamson & Wyatt, P.C. from 1997 to 2001.  He also served as Counsel for the University of Washington's Child Advocacy Clinic from 1997 to 1998. In 2012, Mr. Ramirez was a member of the Obama for America National Finance Committee and co-chair of the Obama Native Outreach Group. He is a past President of the Northwest Indian Bar Association and a former Appellate Court Justice for the Turtle Mountain Band of the Chippewa Indians, where he is an enrolled member. He is a member of the American Bar Association, the Washington Bar Association, and the Native American Bar Association. Mr. Ramirez received a B.A. from the University of Washington and a J.D. from the University of Washington School of Law.
  