
    Chancellor Schmidt, distinguished officials of the Federal Republic of Germany and the great city of Frankfurt:
I bring you greetings and friendship from the 220 million people of the United States of America.
In a few moments I will visit the Kaisersaal and sign your Golden Book. Fifteen years ago, President John F. Kennedy signed this same historic roll, and he said, and I quote, "We are partners in peace—not in a narrow bilateral context, but in a framework of Atlantic partnership."
Today that partnership is stronger than it has ever been, and our two nations are united in an ever-broader alliance of military, economic, and political purpose.
Our military partnership is evident. I've come here from a visit to Brigade '76, where I spoke to both German and American troops and their families. At your airport, I reviewed German and American aircraft. Everywhere in Germany I see evidence of our mutual commitment, our mutual endeavor. German and American troops, working side by side, are tangible evidence of our shared responsibility and our joint commitment to the continuing freedom not only of Germany and of the Continent but of the United States and of all Allied territory.
Our economic partnership is equally visible. Tomorrow your Chancellor and I will join our colleagues from five other great nations to consider the economic problems of our regions and the world in the summit conference in Bonn.
The economic summit is one tangible sign of a continuing search for solutions to age-old problems of global inequity. The United States and the Federal Republic attend these deliberations with united purpose—to look beyond narrow self-interest to the broader interest of all nations. Our two great and free nations believe equally in our obligation to promote global—and not just national-prosperity.
Our political partnership is the bulwark of freedom for all nations. Together our people, yours and mine, demonstrate democracy in action: two free nations-one with an old culture and a new Constitution, the other with a newer culture and an older Constitution—both equally committed to the vision of a free people living at peace under governments chosen and controlled by the people.
In this vibrant city of contrast and tradition, near these buildings of such great significance to all who love liberty, it is easy to take our freedoms for granted. Here at last, the ideals of the Frankfurt Assembly are realized.
So, it is a pleasure for us to be in Frankfurt, home not only of the first German vision of democracy but of great German intellectuals and musicians, home of Goethe, of Hindemith and Humperdinck, cradle of the great house of Rothschild.
I wish I had more time to explore your ancient city and beautiful countryside. Rosalynn tells me that I will miss the best part of the trip to Germany by not joining her and Amy on her Rhine cruise from Bingen to Bonn. So, I hope to come back, my friends, to see more of the "life, bustle, and motion" that Thomas Jefferson found in Frankfurt in 1788—and that I find here today.
So, we pray for the unification of Germany as the expression of will by the people of your great nation. We pray for the continuation and even the further strengthening of cooperation and mutual commitment between the people of our two great democracies. And we pray that through political, economic, and military strength, that we might together enhance the cause of freedom and human rights around the world.
Our future in the United States is tied intimately with the future of the people of Germany. Any attack on your soil will be the same as an attack on the soil of my own country. We are bound together with unshakable bonds of friendship and mutual commitment. This gives us strength and gives us strength together.
Thank you very much, my friends.
  