
    Newt is often called the Republican party's "idea machine" and a strong, principled alternative to the Left-wing idealogy that currently runs Washington. The Boston Globe reports that Newt's New Hampshire strategy emphasizes substance and conservative ideals that will resonate with primary voters.
Gingrich said he believes his campaign will have a "genuine impact" in Iowa and New Hampshire because of the substantive ideas he is proposing. "The difference in substance and difference in experience will make a difference by January," Gingrich told reporters in Manchester. He pledged, "You'll see me here a lot just as you'll see me in Iowa a lot."
Gingrich said he believes he will attract support from the Tea Party through a "10th amendment enforcement act." Hammond said that refers to an initiative to have citizens identify areas like education or health care where the federal government is overreaching. Republicans promoted a similar concept in 1996, when Gingrich was speaker, through legislation ensuring the federal government does not infringe on states' rights.
Gingrich also suggested health initiatives focusing on brain science, regenerative medicine, and diabetes. He has said Congress should repeal the Dodd-Frank bill, President Obama's reform of the financial industry.
"I'll rely on a strategy of substance and the notion that this country is in very deep trouble," Gingrich said. He pointed specifically to the problems of China outpacing the United States in science, technology, and manufacturing; the erosion of American exceptionalism; and the lack of a strategy for dealing with radical Islam. He said Washington has failed to solve the economic problems, and "there's a very real danger we're going to have a second dip" of the recession.
In the current impasse between President Obama and Congress over raising the debt ceiling, Gingrich said House Republicans are missing an opportunity to pass numerous potential solutions and force Senate Democrats to vote on them. Gingrich proposed increasing oil and gas exploration offshore and on federal lands, and raising the debt ceiling by $200 billion in exchange for getting that additional revenue.
"They have every right to say to the president ‘here are five different ways of solving the problem, are you going to force America to default?' " Gingrich said. "If you are, we'll have the Obama depression plus the Obama default."

  