
    COLUMBUS, OH -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced the leadership of Pennsylvania Veterans for John McCain, a statewide grassroots organization that will work to bolster John McCain's support within Pennsylvania's veterans' community. The group was hosted and introduced by Marine Corps veteran and Allegheny County Republican Party Chairman Jim Roddey.
"John McCain's life has been defined by putting his country first, and veterans throughout the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania know that he will continue to put them first and work tirelessly to improve their health care and their way of life," said State Senator Bob Robbins. "While his opponent has said no to veterans and their families, John McCain has worked tirelessly to improve veterans' health care and ensure that veterans have equal access to quality care regardless of where they live."
State Senator Bob Robbins graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1966. He served as Company Commander with D Company, 501st Airborne Infantry Battalion, 2nd Brigade, 101st Airborne Division. During two tours of duty in Vietnam, he received over a dozen medals for his service to his country. Robbins was honorably discharged in 1971 from the Army with the rank of Captain.
"Veterans know leadership when they see it, and John McCain's service to his country is one of the many qualities that will make him a great Commander in Chief," said James Warner. "I have seen John McCain inspire and lead under trying circumstances, and have witnessed his willingness to put his country ahead of all else. As President, John McCain will continue his long record of fighting for the rights and benefits of those who serve and protect our freedoms."
James H. Warner is a retired attorney. He was a policy advisor to President Ronald Reagan from 1985 until 1989. He was a Marine officer in Vietnam and was held as a POW with Sen. McCain, in North Vietnam, for five and a half years.
PENNSYLVANIA VETERANS FOR JOHN MCCAIN LEADERSHIP TEAM
State Chair Tom Lynch, Philadelphia
Pennsylvania Statewide Veterans Leadership CommitteeState Representative Bob Bastian -- Somerset
Barbara Cross -- Carlisle
John Patten -- New Holland
Dominic DeFransico -- Middletown
Bob DeSousa -- Harrisburg
State Senator John Pippy -- Moon Township
State Senator Bob Robbins -- Greenville
Jim Roddey -- Pittsburgh
Other Pennsylvania Veterans for McCainRyan Aument -- Quarryville
Dave Battaglia -- Kittaning
David Bayne -- Plum
Frank DeCarlo -- Pittsburgh
Carl Duda -- Greensburg
Jim Flaherty Pittsburgh
David Hadley -- Pittsburgh
Ronald Metros -- Uniontown
Lou Nudi -- Pittsburgh
Jack Roberts -- Millvale
Rodney Rudduck -- Indiana
Frank Sims -- Pittsburgh
Charles Stevenson -- Indiana
Richard Wingerter -- Belle Vernon
  