
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Roslyn A. Mazer, Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Gabriel Guerra-Mondragon, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
•      Dallin Jensen, Member, Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these talented and dedicated individuals have agreed to take on these important roles and devote their talents to serving the American people. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:
Roslyn A. Mazer, Nominee for Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security
Roslyn A. Mazer is currently the Inspector General of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), where she manages inspections, audits, and investigations relating to the programs and operations of the ODNI. Ms. Mazer serves concurrently as chair of the Intelligence Community Inspectors General Forum, working with all Intelligence Community elements – including the Departments of Homeland Security, Justice, and State – to fulfill community-wide objectives established under the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. From 1993 to 2009, she served in senior positions at the Department of Justice, including seven years in the Office of the Inspector General, where she led reviews of the FBI's use of national security letters and conducted investigations of misconduct by high-level Department officials and employees. Ms. Mazer also served as Associate Deputy Attorney General; as the Attorney General's representative to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel, which she chaired from 1996 to 2001; and as Special Counsel for Intellectual Property in the Criminal Division, when she led federal interagency and international initiatives to boost enforcement of criminal intellectual property laws. Prior to her government service, she was a partner at Dickstein Shapiro LLP, specializing in media and First Amendment law, criminal defense, and complex civil litigation. Ms. Mazer holds a B.A., magna cum laude, from Syracuse University and a J.D. from the Columbus School of Law, Catholic University of America.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Ambassador Gabriel Guerra-Mondragon, Appointee for Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
Ambassador Gabriel Guerra-Mondragon is President of his own international consulting firm, Guerra and Associates. Ambassador Guerra-Mondragon served as the United States Ambassador to Chile from 1994 until 1998. He was a U.S. Foreign Service Officer at the Department of State for 14 years. During these years, he served as staff assistant to the U.S. Secretary of State, Desk Officer for Colombia, Desk Officer for Nicaragua, and Executive Director of the U.S. National Commission to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Ambassador Guerra-Mondragon is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a board member of the Latino Justice PRLDEF and the Limon Foundation. Ambassador Guerra-Mondragon has a bachelor's degree from Fordham University, a Master of Arts from the School of Advanced International Studies at the Johns Hopkins University, and a law degree from the University of Puerto Rico Law School.
Dallin Jensen, Appointee for Member, Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
Dallin Jensen practices primarily in the area of water law at the law firm of Parsons Behle & Latimer. He focuses on the analysis and governmental licensing of water projects, as well as negotiating with public interest and environmental groups. Previously, Mr. Jensen served as Assistant Utah Attorney General and as Utah Solicitor General where he represented various state natural resource agencies, including the Division of Water Rights and the Division of Water Resources. In addition to serving as a member of the Utah Reclamation, Mitigation, and Conservation Commission, Mr. Jensen is also a member of the legal committee of the Upper Colorado River Commission and a member of the Utah State Water Development Commission. Mr. Jensen has a J.D. from the University of Utah and a B.S. in geology from Brigham Young University.
  