
    On Thursday, July 14, First Lady Jill Biden will travel to Boston, Massachusetts.
At 12:15 PM ET, the First Lady will arrive at Boston Logan International Airport in Boston, MA. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Wednesday 7/13 at 5:00 PM ET.
At 2:45 PM ET, as part of the White House's Joining Forces initiative, the First Lady will visit military families, veterans, service members, and clinicians at Home Base in Boston, MA. Home Base, a Red Sox Foundation and Massachusetts General Hospital program, is dedicated to healing the invisible wounds of war for veterans of all eras, service members, military families and families of the fallen. The program provides direct clinical care, wellness, education and research all at no cost to veterans, service members and their families regardless of era of service, discharge status or geographical location. This visit will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Wednesday 7/13 at 5:00 PM ET.
At 4:45 PM ET, the First Lady will attend a Democratic National Committee finance event in Andover, MA. This will be print pool coverage only.
On Friday, July 15, at 10:45 AM ET, the First Lady will attend the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) Convention 2022 at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center, and deliver remarks. This event will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP to AFTPress@aft.org and request credentials, which can be picked up in the convention press office. The convention will also be live streamed on AFT's social media channels and https://www.aft.org/convention.
At 11:45 AM ET, the First Lady and U.S. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh will visit Eversource Station 99, an electrical substation servicing the Seaport District of Boston, to highlight Bunker Hill Community College's (BHCC) partnership with Eversource and local unions to provide job training opportunities to BHCC students. The First Lady will meet with students participating in a paid summer internship with Eversource as a part of BHCC's Electric Power Utility Technology Program. This event will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Wednesday 7/13 at 5:00 PM ET.
At 1:45 PM ET, the First Lady will arrive at Nantucket Memorial Airport (ACK). This arrival will be closed press.
On Saturday, July 16, at 11:00 AM ET, the First Lady will attend a Democratic National Committee finance event in Nantucket, MA. This event will be covered by a print pooler only.
  