
    Today, the Democratic Treasurers Association (DTA) endorsed Joe Biden for President of the United States. DTA, an organization that works to support Democratic State Treasurers and candidates, strives to make certain that everyone can attain economic stability and security. With Biden's leadership, DTA believes that America's economic erosion under Donald Trump will come to an end as we work to live up to America's promises of liberty and justice.
DTA issued the following press release:
Democratic Treasurers Association Endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States
We are all elected officials responsible for state treasuries, public pensions and the economic well-being of the people we represent. We work to ensure that every child, every retiree, and every person within our states are able to achieve economic security, economic stability and are given the opportunities they deserve.
There is absolutely no question that our citizens will be best served by Joe Biden becoming the next President of the United States.
Trump argues that the country is better off under him and that the pandemic will miraculously disappear, but we know that the economy and America's standing on the global stage has eroded significantly. America cannot afford another four years of this President.
His mismanagement of the COVID crisis has states and local communities facing shortfalls that affect all Americans, and particularly those already marginalized. State and local treasuries are already facing layoffs of firefighters, teachers, police officers, and other essential service providers precisely when their expertise and heroism are most needed.
Joe Biden has the humility and values to understand that we are all in this together. And he has a proven track record to get the job done.
Joe's economic plan is a blueprint for bipartisan collaboration on how to build our way out of the current financial crisis. He is ready to invest in our national infrastructure and put Americans back to work in modern, sustainable engines of growth all over the country. By upgrading roads and bridges and providing 21st century schools and universal broadband, Joe will deliver what our country needs to take care of people and regain our position in the world.
Joe is a caring, empathetic person who feels deeply and "gets" how everyday Americans are suffering. And we share his commitment to ensuring that America lives up to its promise of liberty and justice for all Americans, as they work hard to pursue their version of the American Dream.
A President Biden will deliver on the Paycheck Fairness Act, universal paid sick leave and 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave. He will help break down barriers that have kept millions of women, black and brown people, and many others on the side-lines while a select few have thrived.
As State Treasurers we have created programs in our states to help people have a more secure financial future. A Biden Presidency that shares our goals and values to create economic prosperity for all, will amplify these efforts and help our citizens achieve the dreams they have for themselves and their families.
We agree that America's collective goal should be looking toward a bigger, better, and more inclusive future. We know it will not be easy and the challenges will be great, but we believe in Joe and have confidence that he will get us where we need to be. We are proud to endorse Joseph R. Biden for President of the United States.
  