
    Biden will raise taxes on middle class Americans. 
To help Americans weather the global pandemic, the Trump Administration delayed the tax filing deadline from April 15 to today, July 15.
Joe Biden won't be easing anyone's burden if he's elected. In fact, if Biden gets his way, Americans will have less money in their pockets next year. He's said the first thing he would do as president is "eliminate the president's tax cut."
Raising taxes on middle-class Americans would strangle our economy, but Biden's planning a long list of tax hikes that will hurt workers and families:

Americans will face significant tax increases to fund Joe Biden's $2 trillion radical plan to kill affordable American energy.
Americans will have higher household costs for heating and cooling if Biden implements his carbon tax.
Americans will pay higher utility bills every single month if Biden repeals the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
American jobs will be shipped overseas because of Biden's plan to hike the U.S. corporate tax rate higher than the rate in communist China.
Biden's promise to reinstate Obamacare's individual mandate tax will disproportionately hurt low income Americans.

President Trump's tax cuts helped spur America's record-breaking economic growth prior to the artificial economic interruption from the coronavirus. Biden's plan to repeal President Trump's tax cuts and raise taxes on middle class Americans would be a gut punch to workers and smother job creation exactly when we need it most.
President Trump doubled the Child Tax Credit, instituted a 20% tax deduction for small businesses, and created Opportunity Zones to spur investment in struggling communities. Joe Biden doesn't care. He wants to eliminate it.
Biden oversaw the worst economic recovery since the Great Depression. Looking at his disastrous plan to raise taxes on families, it's not hard to see why. He will raise taxes by $4 trillion over the next 10 years, more than double the tax increase proposed by Hillary Clinton.
President Trump built the strongest economy in history once, and he will do it again. The only thing that can stop the Great American Comeback is Biden's failed, old, liberal ideas.
  