
    Pool Reports by Peter Baker, The New York Times



Sent:
Reports:




July 19, 202008:04

Pool Report #1 
Your pool has been loaded into the motorcade for an excursion to an undisclosed location but your guess is probably right. For what it's worth, the temperature in Sterling, Va., is set to climb to a muggy 98 degrees today.
Will update as events warrant.



July 19, 202008:15

Pool Report #2 
The motorcade is rolling as of 8:12 am. A man in a golf shirt, shorts and cap was escorted into the motorcade moments before departure, presumably a guest. Will endeavor to identify him.



July 19, 202008:57

Pool Report #3 
The motorcade arrived at the Sterling club at 8:47 am for a presumed golf outing. If you picked Lindsey Graham in the who-is-the-mystery-guest pool, you're a winner.
Since Graham was in a different vehicle, it left plenty of time during the ride for tweeting about the "anarchists and agitators" in Portland. As the motorcade pulled into the club, it passed the same flatbed truck parked outside that was outside the entrance yesterday with a large billboard that read "TREASONOUS TRAITOR TRUMP."
Building on S.V. Dáte's numbers from yesterday, that would make today POTUS's 87th day trip to Sterling and his 260th day at one of his golf clubs since taking office.
Your pool is holding on the sunny, sweltering sidewalk outside the Italian restaurant at the nearby strip mall.



July 19, 202012:36

Pool Report #4 
The motorcade departed the club at 12:34 pm and we are now en route back to Washington. No word on activities during POTUS's stay or plans for the rest of the day.
Outside the club entrance, about 15 or so protesters displayed mostly handmade anti-Trump signs like "The World Despises You," "Have a Nice Convention," "Trump the Body Snatcher. What Country Is This?" "No Trump. No KKK. No Racist Fascist USA," "Trump Is The Virus," "Trump Is Corrupt," "Grifter and Failure," and one that said "PIG" with the "I" in the shape of a female stick figure.
About five or so POTUS supporters waved pro-Trump flags (versions of "Trump 2020: Keep America Great"), planted a "Trump-Pence" sign in the grass or held up a handwritten "Jobs Not Mobs" sign. A Jeep flying a blue "Trump: Make America Great Again" flag and a US flag drove back and forth repeatedly with patriotic songs playing on the radio. Other drivers honked as they passed by, although it was not always clear which camp they were cheering on.



July 19, 202013:22

Pool Report #5 
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 1:16 pm. The ride was uneventful. POTUS lobbed a Twitter shot at "Radical Left Democrats" just as the Beast neared the Beltway and another at Obama and Biden as the vehicles approached the White House. Your pool briefly spotted POTUS in a white shirt and red baseball cap heading back into the building.
We now have a lid. Have a great rest of the day; stay cool and stay healthy.




  