
    "And, by the way, the President's announcement that he plans on extending just for certain classes of Americans, what he's really saying is that those that are job creators and small businesses are going to see a massive tax increase and that will kill jobs. The President's plan is aimed at small business and job creators. It will kill jobs in this country and hurt the middle class. The right answer is to extend the tax rates as they currently exist indefinitely until we put in place an entirely new and reformed system." — Mitt Romney
Radio Iowa
July 9, 2012
Click Here To Listen To Mitt Romney Discuss The Best Way To Reform Our Tax Code
O. KAY HENDERSON, RADIO IOWA: "President Obama, this morning, is recommending a one-year extension of the Bush-era tax cuts for Americans who, I believe, earn $250,000 or less annually. Governor Branstad, one of your supporters, just this morning accused the President of playing class warfare on this. Do you agree and do you plan to push a more detailed alternative tax plan in the coming weeks?" 
MITT ROMNEY: "Well, I've already laid out my plan which is that we should have an extension of the current tax code over a sufficiently long period for us to put in place a restructuring of our entire tax code to bring down the rates in the country at the same time to eliminate—or, excuse me, to limit—some deductions and exemptions for people at the high-end so we keep our code progressive. But remember the Simpson-Bowles Commission? It laid out a plan to do what I just described: to get the rates down but keep the revenue for the government strong and that's the place that I would go. And, by the way, the President's announcement that he plans on extending just for certain classes of Americans, what he's really saying is that those that are job creators and small businesses are going to see a massive tax increase and that will kill jobs. The President's plan is aimed at small business and job creators. It will kill jobs in this country and hurt the middle class. The right answer is to extend the tax rates as they currently exist indefinitely until we put in place an entirely new and reformed system."
  