
    Pool Reports by Galen Bacharier, Des Moines Register 



Sent:
Reports:




July 28, 2023 11:22 CDT

VP travel pool report #1/wheels down in Iowa
VP landed 11:21 a.m. CST at Iowa Air National Guard field at Des Moines International Airport, clear skies and high 80s temp.


July 28, 2023 11:36 CDT

VP travel pool report #2/en route
VP disembarked AF2 at 11:30 a.m. Shook hands with two uniformed officials and Des Moines Mayor Frank Cownie.
Motorcade departed airfield 11:32 a.m. en route to Drake University's Sheslow Auditorium. ETA ~11:45 a.m.


July 28, 2023 13:02 CDT

VP travel pool report #3/remarks
VP joined Jennifer Palmieri for a discussion starting at 12:12 p.m. and lasting around 40 minutes. The two discussed the future of abortion rights in the post-Roe era and struggles that women seeking abortions face. VP emphasized the "profound" fallout of abortion restrictions, decrying Republican-led abortion laws as "playing political games" and "an attack on autonomy."
The VP tied restrictions on abortion to other Republican-led efforts on voting rights and education. She touted young people's ability to organize and form coalitions and urged attendees to "stay vigilant."
Full quotes to come.
The crowd of a couple hundred in an at-capacity auditorium gave VP a standing ovation upon entrance and exit and frequently applauded and murmured in agreement throughout the discussion.
VP exited stage to do an interview.


July 28, 2023 13:08 CDT

VP travel pool report #4/remarks
Quotes from VP's discussion on abortion rights in Des Moines with Jennifer Palmieri:

"This is an agenda that has been a long time in the making. … I do believe that we are witnessing a national agenda that is about a full on attack on hard won freedoms and hard won rights."
"How dare these supposed leaders decide they're in a better position to tell (a woman) what's in her best interest than she is to know."
"One does not have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree that the government should not be telling women what they can do." VP received standing ovation for this line.
Urging states to extend Medicaid coverage for months post-pregnancy: "Expand medicaid coverage for postpartum care. Put your money where your mouth is."





  