
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
July 13
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Camp David, MD.
July 15
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
July 17
The President named Barry J. Toiv as Deputy Press Secretary to the President, effective July 29.
The President announced that he sent fiscal 1997 budget amendments to the Congress.
July 18
In the afternoon, the President held a Cabinet meeting in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
The President had telephone conversations concerning the aircraft tragedy in East Moriches, NY, with Mayors Rudolph Giuliani of New York City and John Doring of Montoursville, PA; Gov. George Pataki of New York; Speaker Newt Gingrich and Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt; Majority Leader Trent Lott and Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle; former Senator Bob Dole; and Jeffrey H. Erickson, president and CEO of Trans World Airlines.
The White House announced that the President appointed Robert E. Peterson to be Chairman, and Scott E. Buchheit and Gladys Gershenfeld to be members of Presidential Emergency Board No. 231.
The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Bertha July 10-13.
July 19
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Atlanta, GA.
Later, the President toured the cafeteria and dining area of the Olympic Village and greeted athletes.
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton attended the opening ceremony of the Centennial Olympic games. They returned to Washington, DC, after midnight.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jon P. Deveaux to the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan Ford Wiltshire to the National Council on the Humanities.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. Naranjo to the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as Chairman and members of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission: Harold T. Shapiro (Chair); Patricia Backlar; Arturo Brito, M.D.; Alexander M. Capron; Eric J. Cassell, M.D.; R. Alta Charo; James Childress; David Cox, M.D.; Ezekiel J. Emanuel, M.D.; Laurie M. Flynn; Steven H. Holtzman; Bernard Lo, M.D.; Lawrence H. Miike, M.D.; Thomas H. Murray; and Diane Scott-Jones.
  