
    It's an honor to be here at one of Miami's most famous restaurants. Brother Jeb suggested we come here and have some coffee with some of south Florida's leading entrepreneurs. We've got people who have started their own business, people who are carrying on family traditions, all of whom share with me their optimism but also share with me some of the problems they face.
One of the key problems that many of the businesses face here is labor. The unemployment rate is unbelievably low right now, and therefore, businesses who are planning for the future are wondering whether or not they're going to be able to find people to help their businesses expand. I assured them that the administration is still working toward a comprehensive immigration policy that will be rational, that will be able to, one, enforce rule of law and, on the other hand, be compassionate about how this country treats people.
I assured them, as well, that we will continue to work to keep taxes low. It's very interesting, you know; when an entrepreneur gets their business started, they want to keep more of their own money so they can expand. And one way to do that is to make sure that taxes stay low, and that's what we will do.
We talked about health care; we talked about energy; we talked about Cuba. So I want to thank you all very much for being here. Thanks for giving me a chance to come.
And by the way, we also talked about the situation in the Middle East. And I assured the people here that we will work toward a plan in the United Nations Security Council that addresses the root causes of the problem so that whatever comes out of the Security Council will be able to last and that the people in both Lebanon and Israel will be able to grow—be able to remain in peace. That's what we want. We want there to be a long-lasting peace, one that's sustainable. And I'll speak to Condi Rice when she gets back tonight, to talk about what she saw and what she heard in the Middle East. And of course, there will be a way forward in the Security Council later on this week.
Thank you.
  