
    Today, the Ohio Mayors Alliance held a press call in support of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework announced last week by President Biden and Senators from both sides of the aisle.
Five bipartisan mayors from cities across Ohio representing the Ohio Mayors Alliance, highlighted the critical investments the framework will make in the nation's infrastructure and emphasized the "$1.2 trillion in roads, bridges, transit, rail networks, highways, green infrastructure, and more."
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework will not just make strides and improvements to our roads and bridges, but will also make key investments to make sure our economy is more sustainable, resilient, and equitable.
"This bill will also make important investments in the future of transportation, by investing in EV infrastructure and ensuring high-speed Internet connectivity for all our residents, building a more sustainable, resilient, and just economy," said Dayton Mayor and US Conference of Mayors President Nan Whaley. 
The mayors stressed the importance of this package as "long-term investment in our country's people and economic competitiveness," and urged Congress to move swiftly and pass the bill.
Listen to a recording of the call here. 
Read the full press release following the call below: 
OHIO MAYORS URGE IMMEDIATE ACTION ON FEDERAL BIPARTISAN INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN
Columbus, OH - Today, a bipartisan group of five mayors from across Ohio expressed their support for the federal, bipartisan infrastructure deal announced last week by the White House. The group of mayors urged Congress to continue negotiations and pass the legislation.
The five mayors represented the Ohio Mayors Alliance, a bipartisan coalition of mayors from Ohio's 30 largest cities. The mayors included Dayton Mayor and US Conference of Mayors President Nan Whaley, Findlay Mayor Christina Muryn, Youngstown Mayor Jamael Tito Brown, Lancaster Mayor David Scheffler, and Akron Mayor Dan Horrigan.
"Not only is this package an important next step in our nation's recovery, it is a much needed long-term investment in our country's people and economic competitiveness," said Findlay Mayor Christina Muryn.
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework would invest $1.2 trillion in roads, bridges, transit, rail networks, highways, green infrastructure, and more. This money would invest in the economic competitiveness of the country and rebuild the economy from COVID-19.
"In Ohio, this bill will invest in our roads and bridges, but will also bring us up to standards for public transit and passenger rails to connect all our great cities and great residents to one another," said Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley. "This bill will also make important investments in the future of transportation, by investing in EV infrastructure and ensuring high-speed Internet connectivity for all our residents, building a more sustainable, resilient, and just economy."
The mayors are supportive of the framework outlined, and encouraged that it does not attempt to repurpose previously allocated American Rescue Plan funds.
"We strongly urge that the ARPA funds to help our communities address the health, public safety, and economic impacts of COVID-19 be sustained and not 'clawed back' to help pay for this bill," said Youngstown Mayor Jamael Tito Brown.
The mayors said they were encouraged that the group that crafted this bill, including Senator Rob Portman, was bipartisan as well.
"I know things get done when we come together, Republicans and Democrats, for a common goal and work together to find a solution," said Lancaster Mayor David Scheffler.
"Many administrations have talked about doing this, but we are thrilled to see a more concrete plan in place, but we must ensure this time around it gets done and done quickly," said Akron Mayor Dan Horrigan.
A recording of the press call can be found by clicking this link.
Formed in 2016, the Ohio Mayors Alliance is a bipartisan coalition of mayors in the largest 30 cities by population. For more information, please visit OhioMayorsAlliance.org
  