
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted July 20
Jan Lodal, of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Walter Becker Slocombe.
Walter Becker Slocombe, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Frank G. Wisner.
Submitted July 21
Jose M. Amador, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, vice Duane Acker, resigned.
William A. Nitze, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Timothy B. Atkeson.
Roger C. Viadero, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Department of Agriculture, vice Leon Snead, resigned.
Bill Anoatubby, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term of 6 years (new position).
Terrence L. Bracy, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term of 4 years (new position).
Matt James, of California, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term of 6 years (new position).
Norma Udall, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term of 6 years (new position).
Submitted July 22
Frederic Block, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Eugene H. Nickerson, retired.
John Gleeson, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Jack B. Weinstein, retired.
Allyne R. Ross, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice I. Leo Glasser, retired.
Paul L. Hill, Jr., of West Virginia, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years (new position).
Paul L. Hill, Jr., of West Virginia, to be Chairperson of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years (new position).
Edward Joseph Kelly, Jr., of New York, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Francis K. Peo.
Robert Moore, of Illinois, to be U.S. Marshal for the Central District of Illinois for the term of 4 years, vice James L. Fyke.
Joseph Nye, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Graham T. Allison, Jr.
  