
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate David Eisner of Maryland, to be Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service. Mr. Eisner is currently a consultant for Network for Good having just recently departed AOL Time Warner in June 2003 where he was Vice President of Corporate Relations at AOL Time Warner and Senior Vice President of the AOL Time Warner Foundation. From May 1997 until January 2001, Mr. Eisner served as Senior Vice President of the AOL Foundation and as Vice President of Corporate Communications at America Online, Inc. Previously, Mr. Eisner served as Senior Vice President of Fleischman-Hillard International Communications, Washington D.C. from February 1993 until May 1997. Mr. Eisner was Director of Field Communications of Legal Services Corporation from January 1990 until February 1993. Earlier in his career, Mr. Eisner was the Press Secretary for Congressman Mac Sweeney, Congressman Bill McCollum and Congressman, Dana Rohrabacher. Mr. Eisner is a Board Member of the Independent Sector, Advisory Board Member of America's Promise, Founder and Board Member of Network for Good, and Board Member and Trustee of the National 4-H Council. He earned his B.A. at Stanford University and has a Prospective J.D. from Georgetown University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Constance Albanese Morella of Maryland, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the Rank of Ambassador. Ms. Morella served as a Member of Congress from 1987 until 2003. Before her election to Congress, Ms. Morella served for eight years in the Maryland House of Delegates. From 1970 to 1985, Ms. Morella was a professor in the English Department at Montgomery College in Rockville, Maryland. Ms. Morella received her A.A. and A.B. from Boston University and earned her M.A. at American University. She holds ten Honorary Doctoral Degrees.
The President intends to nominate Paul Michael Warner of Utah, to be reappointed as the United States Attorney for the District of Utah, for the term of four years. Mr. Warner currently serves as the United States Attorney for the District of Utah and as Colonel of the Judge Advocate Branch of the Utah National Guard. Previously, Mr. Warner served as Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Utah from 1983 until 1996 and as Assistant Attorney General for the State of Utah from 1982 until 1983. Earlier in his career, Mr. Warner worked as an attorney for the Judge Advocate General's Corps, U.S. Navy, from 1976 until 1982. Mr. Warner earned his B.A., J.D., and M.P.A. at Brigham Young University.
  