
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

On September 17, 1980 the Constitution of the United States will be 193 years old. Yet, it is as forceful and dynamic today as on that day in 1787 when it was signed by our Forefathers. Not only has this hallowed document endured, it has grown stronger in the nearly two centuries since its adoption and continues to increase in vitality with each succeeding generation. Today, as ever, it stands as a beacon for those dedicated to the principles of government by and for the people.
By joint resolution of February 29, 1952 (36 U.S.C. 153), the Congress designated September 17 as Citizenship Day, in commemoration of the formation and signing of the Constitution and in recognition of all who have attained the status of citizenship. The resolution authorized the President to issue annually a proclamation calling upon officials of the Government to display the flag on all Government buildings on that day. By a joint resolution of August 2, 1956 (36 U.S.C. 159), Congress authorized the President to designate the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23 of each year as Constitution Week and to issue a proclamation calling for observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter, President of the United States of America, call upon appropriate Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on Citizenship Day, September 17, 1980. I urge Federal, State and local officials, as well as leaders of civic, educational and religious organizations to conduct meaningful ceremonies and programs on that day.
I also designate as Constitution Week the period beginning September 17 and ending September 23, 1980, and urge all Americans to observe that week with meaningful ceremonies and activities in their schools, churches and in other suitable places in order to foster a better understanding of the Constitution, and of the rights and duties of United States citizens.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this second day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.

JIMMY CARTER
  