
    "President Obama has based his entire reelection campaign on a vicious, dishonest assault on Mitt Romney's business career. The real question for President Obama is this: if Bain Capital is so bad, why have you taken nearly $120,000 in donations from them? President Obama's actions are the height of hypocrisy." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama Has Centered His Entire Campaign Around A Sustained And Vicious Attack On Governor Romney's Business Career At Bain Capital:
The Obama Campaign Has Repeatedly Attacked Governor Romney's Tenure At Bain Capital By Attempting To Brand Him As A "Corporate Raider." "The Obama campaign has used Mr. Romney's time at the private-equity firm Bain Capital to try to brand him as a corporate raider, including releasing an ad about a former steel company, GST Steel, that went bankrupt eight years after Bain took it over. The Romney campaign has said the ad is part of the Obama administration's attack on free enterprise." (Jared A. Favole, "Obama Defends Attacks On Romney, Bain Capital," The Wall Street Journal, 5/21/12)
President Obama And His Campaign Have Waged An "Aggressive Strategy Attacking Bain Capital," Portraying The Company And Governor Romney "In Highly Personal And Unflattering Ways." "Mr. Obama's comments were his first explicit endorsement of his campaign's aggressive strategy attacking Bain Capital. The Obama campaign's full-throated assault, through ads, statements and Web videos, is now in its second week and portrays Mr. Romney in highly personal and unflattering ways." (Helene Cooper and Michael D. Shear, "Facing Criticism, Obama Defends Ads Attacking Romney's Record At Bain Capital," The New York Times, 5/21/12)
But President Obama Has Accepted Almost $120,000 In Direct Contributions From Bain Capital Employees:
President Obama Has Received Nearly $120,000 In Political Donations From Bain Capital. Between June 2004 and May 2012, Barack Obama has received a reported $118,121 in contributions from donors listing Bain Capital as their employer. (Center for Responsive Politics, www.opensecrets.org, Accessed 7/17/12)
  