
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Colonel Douglas Macgregor, United States Army (Retired), of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Germany.
Colonel Douglas Macgregor is a decorated combat veteran, author, and a consultant. Colonel Macgregor is widely recognized as an expert on force design and grand strategy. He is a frequent radio and television commentator on national security affairs and his writings on military affairs have been influential in the transformation of United States ground forces, NATO, and the Israeli Defense Force.
During his military career, Colonel Macgregor worked in support of Ambassador Holbrooke's team during the Proximity Talks in Dayton, Ohio. Later, he worked closely with senior military and political leaders of the United States, the United Kingdom, and Germany as the Chief of Strategic Planning and, subsequently, as the Director of the Joint Operations Center at Supreme Headquarters, Allied Powers Europe, during the Kosovo Air Campaign.
Colonel Macgregor earned a B.S. degree from the United States Military Academy and M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Virginia. He is the recipient of numerous awards from his military service, including the bronze star with "V" device for valor for his leadership under fire.
Mark C. Christie, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
Mark Christie is the Chairman of the Virginia State Corporation Commission. He is one of the Nation's longest-serving state utility regulators, having served for 16 years.
Mr. Christie has served in several leadership roles in multi-state organizations of state utility regulators. He was elected president of the Organization of PJM States Inc., comprised of states in the PJM power markets region and served on the board for more than a decade. He was also elected president of the Mid-Atlantic Conference of State Utility Regulators.
Mr. Christie is a graduate of Wake Forest University, where he earned Phi Beta Kappa honors. He received his law degree from Georgetown. Mr. Christie has taught extensively as an adjunct, including regulatory law at the University of Virginia School of Law and constitutional law and public policy in a doctoral program at Virginia Commonwealth University for 20 years.
Mr. Christie served as an officer in the United States Marine Corps.
Allison Clements, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
Allison Clements has over two decades of public and private sector experience in Federal energy regulation. Ms. Clements is the founder and president of Goodgrid, LLC, an energy policy and strategy consulting firm based in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Previously, Ms. Clements spent 2 years as director of the energy markets program at Energy Foundation. Before this she worked for a decade at Natural Resources Defense Council in New York, New York, as the organization's corporate counsel and then as director of the Sustainable FERC Project.
Ms. Clements also spent several years in private legal practice with the energy regulatory group at Troutman Sanders LLP (now Troutman Pepper) and then with the project finance and infrastructure group at Chadbourne & Parke LLP (now Norton Rose Fulbright).
Ms. Clements has a Bachelor of Science from the University of Michigan and a Juris Doctorate from The George Washington University Law School.
Colonel Craig Duehring, United States Air Force (Retired), of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
Colonel Craig Duehring was most recently the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs, where he led a four-division department that was responsible for providing overall supervision of manpower, military and civilian personnel, Reserve component affairs, and readiness support for the Department of the Air Force.
Before this position, Colonel Duehring served 6 years as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs. He performed the duties of acting Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs during and following the attacks of September 11, 2001.
Colonel Duehring is a 28-year Air Force veteran, retiring in 1996. He is a decorated combat pilot, completing more than 800 missions during the Vietnam War as a forward air controller.
Colonel Duehring is a graduate of Minnesota State University at Mankato and Troy State University. He is a recipient of the Silver Star, Defense Superior Service Medal, Distinguished Flying Cross with oak leaf cluster, Meritorious Service Medal with 3 oak leaf clusters, and the Air Medal with 26 oak leaf clusters, among other awards
—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jon Harrison, of California, to be a Member and Chairperson of the Arctic Research Commission.
Michael Newton, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Arctic Research Commission.
  