
    Read the following excerpts from "Republicans in Cleveland Applaud Trump Pick of Mike Pence" by John McCormick & Mark Niquette

Republican delegates and party leaders gathering in Cleveland for next week's national convention praised Donald Trump's selection of Indiana Governor MikePence as his running mate.
…
As thousands of Republicans prepare to descend on Ohio's second-largest city, the pick triggered high anticipation to see the duo together as a nationalticket for the first time.
…
"I'm impressed with his conservative credentials and I think he will be a positive, stabilizing force for the Trump campaign," said Kris Warner, a nationalcommitteeman from West Virginia. "I think it's a very positive move."
Haley Barbour, a former Mississippi governor and past Republican National Committee chairman, called Pence "a very solid, well-regarded person."
…
The choice of Pence, who served in the U.S. House of Representatives for 12 years, was a nod to social conservatives and to the Rust Belt, a region crucialto Trump's chances of victory. It adds significant government experience to Trump's outsider campaign for the White House.
An Indiana native and former radio talk-show host who became a born-again Christian in college, Pence has championed limited government and social causes,such as opposition to abortion, that appealed to conservatives and evangelicals.
"He appeals to a different side of the party," said Tom Mechler, chairman of the Republican Party of Texas. "It sends a very strong message for what'simportant to Trump. If there is a lingering concern, I think that is off the table as of today."
Pence has deep ties with conservative groups and a history of helping those entities that will generate more enthusiasm for Trump among conservativevoters, said Morton Blackwell, a delegate from Virginia who backed Senator Ted Cruz of Texas in the primaries.
"It unquestionably will help him with conservatives across a broad spectrum," Blackwell said. "Mike Pence is a full-spectrum Reagan conservative on limitedgovernment, free enterprise, strong defense, and traditional values."
…
Jeff Cardwell, Indiana's Republican Party chairman, said Pence brings assets that will balance the ticket and could help attract votes in Pence'sneighboring Midwest states that Trump has targeted.
Pence has overseen a strong job-rate increase and a AAA government bond rating, on top of his years in Congress that include serving on the Foreign AffairsCommittee, Cardwell said. Indiana's unemployment rate was 5.0 percent in May, down from 8.4 percent when Pence took office in January 2013.
"His record speaks well of his leadership,'' Cardwell said. "Pence brings a lot of value to the ticket."
  