
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:

Sue Clark, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
Rod Ewing, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
Linda Nozick, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

President Obama said, "I am proud that such experienced and committed individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to a key Administration post:
Dr. Sue Clark, Appointee for Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
Dr. Sue Clark is currently a Regents Professor of Chemistry at Washington State University in Pullman, WA, where she has taught and conducted research in actinide environmental chemistry and radioanalytical chemistry since 1996. From 1992 to 1996, Dr. Clark was a Research Ecologist at the University of Georgia's Savannah River Ecology Laboratory. Prior to her position at the University of Georgia, she was a Senior Scientist at the Westinghouse Savannah River Company's Savannah River Technology Center. Dr. Clark has served on various boards and advisory committees, including the National Academies Nuclear and Radiation Studies Board and the Department of Energy's Basic Energy Sciences Advisory Committee. Dr. Clark holds a Ph.D. and M.S. in Inorganic/Radiochemistry from Florida State University and a B.S. in Chemistry from Lander College.
Dr. Rod Ewing, Appointee for Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
Dr. Rod Ewing is the Edward H. Kraus Distinguished University Professor in the Department of Geological Sciences at the University of Michigan. He also has faculty appointments in the Departments of Nuclear Engineering & Radiological Sciences and Materials Science & Engineering. Dr. Ewing was also a visiting professor at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University for the 2010-2011 academic year. Dr. Ewing is an Emeritus Regents' Professor at the University of New Mexico where he was a member of the faculty from 1974 to 1997. Dr. Ewing is a fellow at several professional societies, including serving as Councilor and Secretary at the Materials Research Society and President of the Mineralogical Society of America and the International Union of Materials Research Societies. He received an Honorary Doctorate from the Universite Pierre et Marie Curie in 2007, a Guggenheim Fellowship and a National Science Foundation Fellowship. He received his B.S. in Geology from Texas Christian University and an M.S. and Ph.D. from Stanford University.
Dr. Linda Nozick, Appointee for Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
Dr. Linda Nozick is currently a Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Cornell University. She is also cofounder and Director of the college program in systems engineering. She has been the recipient of several awards including a CAREER award from the National Science Foundation and a Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers from President Clinton for "the development of innovative solutions to problems associated with the transportation of hazardous waste." She has been an associate editor for Naval Research Logistics and a member of the editorial board of Transportation Research Part A, and has served on two National Academy Committees to advise the U.S. Department of Energy on renewal of its infrastructure. From 1998-1999, she was a Visiting Associate Professor in the Operations Research Department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California. Dr. Nozick holds a B.S. in Systems Analysis and Engineering from George Washington University and a M.S.E and Ph.D. in Systems Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania.
  