
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Ronald L. Batory, of New Jersey, to be Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration, vice Sarah Elizabeth Feinberg.
Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Rhea S. Suh, resigned.
Paul Dabbar, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Science, Department of Energy, vice Franklin M. Orr, Jr.
Lewis M. Eisenberg, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Italian Republic, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of San Marino.
Robert P. Kadlec, of New York, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Nicole Lurie.
Stephen B. King, of Wisconsin, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Czech Republic.
Mark Wesley Menezes, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Kristina M. Johnson, resigned.
Randal Quarles, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of fourteen years from February 1, 2004, vice Jeremy C. Stein, resigned.
Randal Quarles, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the term of fourteen years from February 1, 2018. (Reappointment)
Randal Quarles, of Colorado, to be Vice Chairman for Supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of four years. (New Position)
Dennis Shea, of Virginia, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative (Geneva Office), with the rank of Ambassador, vice Michael W. Punke.
Mary Kirtley Waters, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Legislative Affairs), vice Julia Frifield.
  