
    ST. PAUL, MN -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced the leadership of Minnesota Veterans for McCain, a statewide grassroots organization that will work to bolster John McCain's support within Minnesota's veterans' community. The press conference occurred in conjunction with the announcement of the Statewide Veterans for McCain Steering Committee and Veterans for McCain rallies across the country.
"We're here today on behalf of many Minnesotans who are currently serving in uniform and therefore cannot be here today," said Minnesota Veterans for McCain Chair, Brigadier General Dennis Schulstad, USAF (Ret.). "As retired members of the military we know the dedication it takes to put the uniform on and we wholeheartedly believe that Senator John McCain is the right person to be our next commander-in-chief."
Schulstad joined with an estimated 35 Minnesota veterans of every military conflict since World War II to praise Senator McCain's experience, leadership and record of strong support for veterans and their families.
"Being a Blue Star mother and wife, I know how important it is to have strong leadership in the White House," said Colleen Dettmer, a Forest Lake resident whose husband and two sons have served in Operation Iraqi Freedom. "John McCain understands the nature of this war and will do everything in his power to finish the job and bring our soldiers home when the mission is completed. I believe Senator McCain also realizes the tremendous sacrifices of our men and women in uniform, as well as the sacrifices of their families."
Retired Air Force Colonel Leo K. Thorsness, a Minnesota native from Walnut Grove, former POW and Congressional Medal of Honor recipient, joined Minnesota veterans in voicing his support for his fellow POW in the infamous "Hanoi Hilton."
"John is a man of character and integrity," said Col. Leo K. Thorsness. "I saw him put to the test as a fellow POW in Hanoi and he showed courage, integrity and faith in the worst possible situation. His service to our country and ability to work with Republicans and Democrats give him the real ability to become a true statesman as President."
  