
    Powered by $32 average contributions, Inslee's climate plans and strong debate performance drive support 
Seattle, WA – Today, Inslee for America announced its second quarter fundraising numbers, including over $3 million dollars raised and 96,400 donations during the second quarter.
With an average donation of just below $32, engaged grassroots supporters passionate about climate powered Inslee's campaign onto the debate stage. Inslee reached the 65,000 unique donor threshold to qualify for the first debate in late May, and added more than 20,000 new donors by the close of the quarter.
Donors saw their contributions pay off, as Inslee led the conversation on climate change in a highly praised performance in the first debate. The five days following Inslee's strong performance represented the best fundraising days of the quarter, including nearly 12% of total dollars and donors for Q2. Inslee's national introduction to voters at his CNN Town Hall outpaced his average contributors per day by 250%.
"When Democrats hear Governor Inslee's clarion call to action and his bold plans to defeat the climate crisis, the message resonates and our fundraising shows it," said Ben Unger, Deputy Campaign Manager for Inslee for America. "Governor Inslee is presenting the clearest, boldest vision for defeating climate change of any candidate in the race, and Democrats are getting on board at a record rate."
Throughout Q2, Inslee released four comprehensive plans as part of his climate mission agenda, with each policy announcement driving higher than average contributions to the campaign. Inslee also saw an uptick in contributions in the aftermath of the DNC's decision not to hold a debate focused on climate.
"More donors than ever are putting their trust behind Governor Inslee to hold this field of candidates to a higher standard on addressing climate change," said Aisling Kerins, Campaign Manager for Inslee for America. "Whether it's his detailed plans to create 8 million jobs or his unwavering advocacy for a climate debate, Democrats know Governor Inslee will never let the existential threat of our time play second fiddle."
Governor Jay Inslee is the only 2020 candidate making climate change his top priority. He recently announced his "Freedom from Fossil Fuels" plan, the most aggressive plan ever proposed by a presidential candidate to combat fossil fuel pollution. The plan builds on Inslee's groundbreaking climate platform, including his "100% Clean Energy for America," "Evergreen Economy", and "Global Climate Mobilization" plans, which have been called the "gold standard" among climate change plans.
  