
    Today, Biden for President announced key staff hires in Maine and Minnesota – including Maine and Minnesota natives, former staff from the Obama-Biden campaigns, and various state and local races.
James Stretch, Maine State DirectorJames Stretch has over a decade of campaign experience working on federal, state and local elections. He first came to Maine in 2013 where he served as senior staff on Emily Cain's congressional race. Last cycle, as regional political director with the DCCC, he worked closely with Congressman Golden's campaign helping to unseat Bruce Poliquin and take back the House. He and his wife enjoy hiking and biking in the Maine mountains.
Spencer Thibodeau, Maine Senior AdvisorSpencer Thibodeau is an attorney and public servant, serving as a City Councilor for the City of Portland since 2015. Elected at the age of 27, Spencer is the current Chair of the Sustainability and Transportation Committee and a member of the Economic Development Committee. Spencer was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, adopted to Maine at an early age, and is a proud graduate of Fairfield University and Northeastern University School of Law. Spencer is a board member of the United Way of Greater Portland and when he is not in the office, he can be found running, enjoying the Maine outdoors, or visiting one of Portland's many restaurants.
Ryan Doyle, Minnesota State DirectorRyan Doyle is the MN State Director. Previously, Ryan was the Campaign Manager for Keith Ellison's 2018 Attorney General Race and worked on Elizabeth Warren's Presidential Primary campaign. In 2017, he directed the DNC's summer organizing program and served as the DNC liaison to national progressive organizations.
Corey Day, Minnesota Senior AdvisorDay was the longtime executive director of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor (DFL), overseeing the party's local, state, and federal election campaigns. He has directed state and field operations for the presidential campaigns of John Kerry, Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton. Recently, Day served as Minnesota's Senior Advisor for Biden for President during the primaries and is currently the principle of Blue Ox Strategies.
Misha Battiste, Minnesota Coalitions DirectorMisha Battiste is the Coalitions Director for the MN Coordinated Campaign. Previously, she was the National Deputy Director of Surrogates for Elizabeth Warren's Presidential Primary. Misha was the Deputy Political Director for Tina Smith for Minnesota in 2018 and the Deputy Operations Director for Hillary for America in 2016.
  