
    On July 20, President Obama will host the White House Summit on Global Development. The President will bring together development leaders, public and private sector financing partners, civil society, diplomats, and entrepreneurs to mark our global progress and catalyze further development efforts.
From the very beginning of the Administration, President Obama has defined development not as charity, but as an investment in the future security and prosperity of us all. We have successfully established new and effective approaches to development that leverage new models of financing, empower local partners, harness innovation, and measure our progress in terms of real-world results. From Feed the Future to Power Africa to our Open Government Partnership, the Administration's signature initiatives have advanced significant reductions in poverty, malnutrition, and infant and maternal mortality, while spurring entrepreneurship and economic growth, increasing the number of young women in school, and helping to build more stable, accountable and inclusive societies.
Even as we celebrate these gains, we are reminded that every day billions of our fellow human beings still confront poverty, violence and disease. Corrupt and unaccountable governments continue to neglect their people, threatening the stability of their nations and creating the conditions for conflict and violent extremism to flourish. The worst refugee crisis since the end of World War II has further strained resources and exacerbated tensions. Despite the advances we've made, the circumstances in developing nations around the world demand creative and sustained global action.
At this critical moment, the White House Summit on Global Development will provide the opportunity to institutionalize the progress we have made and recommit ourselves to the task of expanding dignity and opportunity across the globe. The United States will continue to lead on these issues and we look forward to engaging with our partners as we map the future of global development.
  