
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Cristina Beato of New Mexico, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services (Health). She currently serves at the Department of Health and Human Services as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary. Ms. Beato previously served as Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs at the University of New Mexico Health Services Center. Prior to this position, she served as Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs. Ms. Beato earned her bachelor's degree from the University of New Mexico and her master's degree from the University of New Mexico School of Medicine.
The President intends to nominate Jennifer Young of Ohio, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services (Legislation). She currently serves at the Department of Health and Human Services as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislation. Previously, Ms. Young served as Executive Director of Public Programs for the American Association of Health Plans. Prior to this position she served as a Senior Health Policy Advisor for the House Committee on Ways and Means and for the Senate Finance Committee. Ms. Young earned her bachelor's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Michael O'Grady of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services (Planning and Evaluation). Currently, he serves as a Senior Health Economist for the Senate Joint Economic Committee. Mr. O'Grady previously served as a Senior Research Director for the Project HOPE Center for Health Affairs. Prior to this position, he served as a Health Analyst for the Senate Finance Committee. Mr. O'Grady earned his degree from Alfred University and his Ph.D. from the University of Rochester.
The President intends to designate Eugene Hickok of Pennsylvania, to be Acting Deputy Secretary of Education, Department of Education.
The President intends to designate Ronald Tomalis of Maryland, to be Acting Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education.
  