
    "This is part of the big difference in the election between the President, who believes more entitlements and more government and more guarantees are the way for prosperity and Mitt Romney who believes, like me and Republicans, that more opportunity and more access to the American Dream is the way that you build a great country on Earth back to prosperity." — Gov. Bob McDonnell
America's News Headquarters
FOX News
July 14, 2012
Click Here To Watch Gov. Bob McDonnell Discuss President Obama's Decision To Undermine Bipartisan Welfare Reforms
UMA PEMMARAJU, FOX NEWS: "There is also a political firestorm erupting over the White House's decision to unilaterally allow states to waive work requirements, which have been at the heart of welfare reform. It's that requirement that has moved millions of people from welfare to work. What's the impact here? Will the Romney campaign move to make this a major campaign issue?"
GOV. BOB MCDONNELL: "Well, I think absolutely Uma. This is part of the big difference in this election between the President, who believes more entitlements and more government and more guarantees are the way for prosperity and Mitt Romney who believes, like me and Republicans, that more opportunity and more access to the American Dream is the way that you build a great country on Earth back to prosperity. And so, this idea of eliminating or giving waivers to get rid of the work requirement, which might be the most positive public policy development to come out of Washington in twenty-five years—something we championed in 1995 in Virginia, something Bill Clinton signed in 1996. And now, to say that that social compact—that you have to work for your benefits, if you're able-bodied—now can you waive it is outrageous and destroys completely the welfare reform ideas that were successfully implemented fourteen years ago that have moved millions of people from federal government dependence now to freedom and opportunity and jobs. It's a horrible policy. And the more people focus on this, Uma—and the Romney campaign and I will—the more they focus on it, the more they realize this President is really out of touch and this big government, entitlement society is the wrong way to go."
  