
    LAS VEGAS, NV -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced its Nevada Small Business Leaders for McCain coalition chairs. On Monday several Las Vegas area small business owners endorsed John McCain's economic plan, joining business leaders across the country who have praised John McCain's jobs-first plan to grow the economy as president.
"John McCain has a bold plan to help our economy, particularly small businesses," said Lorraine Bono-Hunt, former Lt. Governor and owner of the Bootlegger Restaurant. "Obama's expensive tax plan will only hinder small business growth across the country and we cannot afford additional tax burdens."
Irma Aguirre, owner of La Madonna Restaurant added, "John McCain has consistently tried to do what is best for the American people and small businesses. Providing a small business the tools necessary to thrive in our economy is paramount, Senator Obama's tax plan will only choke growth across the board."
Today in Denver, Colorado John McCain announced his Jobs for America economic plan, kicking off five days of economic themed activity in critical battleground states. John McCain will continue to discuss his comprehensive blueprint that will create millions of good American jobs, ensure our nation's energy security, get the government's budget and spending practices in order, and bring relief to American consumers.
SMALL BUSINESS LEADERS FOR MCCAIN CHAIRS
Carmen Mahan, Multiple Vacation Travel Agency, Las Vegas, NV
Dolly de Leon, Weddings Inter Alia, Las Vegas, NV
Ed Goedhart, Ponderosa Dairy, Las Vegas, NV
Fely Quitevis, Precious Properties, Las Vegas, NV
Grace Tam, Family Mortgage Inc., Las Vegas, NV
Irma Aguirre, La Madonna Restaurant, Las Vegas, NV
Jan-ie Low, Satay Malaysian Grille, Las Vegas, NV
Marleny Noriega, Travel Master Biz, Las Vegas, NV
Mike McCowan, The Omelet House, Las Vegas, NV
Teresa Ramirez, Studio 34 Salon, Las Vegas, NV
Tibisa Ellis, Home Helpers, Las Vegas, NV
Xaviar Rivas, Santa Rosa, Las Vegas, NV
  