
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and recess appoint four individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Valerie Lynn Baldwin, of Kansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management) at the Department of Defense. Ms. Baldwin currently works for the Subcommittee on Military Construction of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations. Prior to that, she worked at the Committee as Staff Assistant for the Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and Independent Agencies. Earlier in her career, Ms. Baldwin served as a Trial Attorney in the Office of Litigation at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. She received her law degree from the University of Kansas School of Law; her master's degree from The London School of Economics and Political Science; and her bachelor's degree from Wichita State University.
The President intends to nominate Christopher J. LaFleur, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Malaysia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. LaFleur currently serves as the Cyrus Vance Fellow in Diplomatic Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. He previously worked as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs at the State Department. Earlier in his career, Mr. LaFleur served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Tokyo, Japan. He earned his bachelor's degree from Oberlin College.
The President intends to recess appoint Theodore William Kassinger, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce. The President nominated Mr. Kassinger on February 26, 2004.
The President intends to recess appoint Michael D. Gallagher, of Washington, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information. The President nominated Mr. Gallagher on October 14, 2003.
The President intends to recess appoint Floyd Hall, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak), for a five-year term. The President nominated Mr. Hall on October 24, 2003.
The President intends to recess appoint Jack Edwin McGregor, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. The President nominated Mr. McGregor on November 25, 2003.
  