
    "I proudly endorse Senator Kamala Harris for president because it's time we have someone in the White House again who fights for our families."
Leading up to the second round of Democratic presidential debates, Kamala Harris is picking up two major Nevada endorsements from State Senator Joyce Woodhouse and Assemblywoman Sandra Jauregui, who are members of the nation's first majority-female state legislature. Woodhouse and Jauregui bring Harris' Nevada endorsements to 23 and she remains the 2020 presidential candidate with the most endorsements from the Silver State. Woodhouse and Jauregui are leading voices on two of the most critical issues concerning Nevadans -- public education and gun violence prevention.
Senator Woodhouse has been a leader on public education in the Nevada Senate, where she served for over a decade following a long career as a teacher and school principal. As chairwoman of the Senate Finance Committee, Woodhouse helped craft and pass the largest public education budget in Nevada history, which includes a salary increase for educators championed by Gov. Steve Sisolak. Kamala Harris' plan to close the teacher pay gap represents the largest investment in teachers in American history and would give the average Nevada teacher a $15,000 raise.
Assemblywoman Jauregui is a survivor of the October 1 mass shooting in Las Vegas and an outspoken advocate for gun violence prevention. During the 2019 legislative session, she championed Assembly Bill 291, an omnibus gun violence prevention law that bans bump stocks, enacts "extreme risk" measures, and strengthens penalties for unsafe firearm storage. Kamala Harris has put forth a bold plan to end gun violence by taking executive action to keep our kids and communities safe if Congress fails to send her comprehensive gun safety legislation during her first 100 days in office.
"Kamala Harris will be a president who puts our children first," said State Senator Joyce Woodhouse, vice-chair of the Senate Education Committee. "Her investment in increasing teacher pay is an ambitious and meaningful plan that will give teachers the respect they deserve and improve educational outcomes for students across Nevada and the country. If we're serious about improving our education system, we need a bold response to the teacher pay gap that's holding back students and educators alike. I proudly endorse Senator Kamala Harris for president because it's time we have someone in the White House again who fights for our families."
"Nevadans need a president who will fight to address the issues that keep us up at night: the threat of gun violence, rising health care costs, and economic security. Kamala Harris will be that president," said Assemblywoman Sandra Jauregui. "She's proven that she is not only a fearless leader, but she's not afraid to take bold action to save lives from gun violence. There is no one I trust more than Senator Harris to take meaningful action to keep our families safe, and that's why I'm proud to endorse her for president."
Previously announced Nevadans endorsing Kamala Harris:

State Sen. Pat Spearman
Washoe County Recorder Kalie Work
Clark County Commissioner Justin Jones
Gerri Schroder, former Henderson City councilwoman
Helen Foley, former Nevada State Senator
Francisco Aguilar, Las Vegas attorney and entrepreneur
Nancy Ayala, Las Vegas attorney
Brian Ayala, Las Vegas small business owner
Alex Dixon, former president of the Las Vegas Urban League Young Professionals
Tanya Flanagan, African-American community leader and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Rev. Leonard Jackson, African-American community leader
LeVerne Kelly, African-American community leader and member of Links Inc. and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.
Jennifer López, community advocate
Rose McKinney James, clean energy leader
Chris Miller, former chairman of the Clark County Democratic Party
Lesley Miller, former board member of Nevadans for Background Checks
Stephanie Pizzoferrato, public school teacher and gun violence survivor
Sanje Sedera, founder and former president of the Asian American & Pacific Islander Democratic Caucus
Janet Serial, chair of the Black Caucus of Washoe County and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Andrew Sierra, former College of Southern Nevada student body president
Al B Sure, R&B singer and songwriter

  