
    HOUSTON, Texas — Today, the Cruz for President campaign released data for the most recent fundraising period. The reports show Ted Cruz ahead of almost all other candidates in several important categories.
"Three months ago, if someone had said Ted Cruz would be beating the field in hard money and second only to Jeb Bush in super PAC money, most of the political chattering class would have never believed you," said Campaign Manager Jeff Roe, "Yet, here we are with Cruz in the lead and the most well-funded conservative in the race."
The full text of the memo is below:
MEMORANDUM
DATE: JULY 16, 2015
FROM: JEFF ROE, CAMPAIGN MANAGER, CRUZ FOR PRESIDENT
TO: POLITICAL REPORTERS
RE: CRUZ'S FUNDRAISING SUCCESS
With the release of each presidential campaign's second quarter fundraising and expenditure data, it is clear the Ted Cruz for President campaign is well positioned against the other candidates. Ted Cruz raised more "hard money" than any other Republican in the race, including Jeb Bush; he has built a fundraising infrastructure that will sustain the campaign for the long-term; and he has shown the ability raise money all across the country, receiving donations in nearly half the all the zip codes in America.
Highlights from Cruz's fundraising success:

Raised $14.3 million, more than any other Republican candidate
Reinvested nearly three out of every four dollars (72 percent) spent on furthering fundraising efforts
Attracted more than 175,000 contributions
Average contribution was $81
Has donors in every state in the country and five territories
Has donors in 48 percent of all zip codes
Groups supporting Cruz have raised $38 million

You don't just wake up with 175,000 contributions. What we are seeing is a combination of widespread, enthusiastic grassroots support for Ted Cruz coupled with a sophisticated, data-driven fundraising operation. Three months ago, if someone had said Ted Cruz would be beating the field in hard money and second only to Jeb Bush in super PAC money, most of the political chattering class would have never believed you. Yet, here we are with Cruz in the lead and the most well-funded conservative in the race.
We know that people are ready for change and ready to support the campaign that represents change. Cruz has said that since the beginning of the campaign and we now have the data to prove it.
  