
    Dear Senator:
I have read with considerable interest your letter of July tenth with respect to S. 1134. As for the provisions of the bill dealing with the organization of the Executive Office of the President, I agree thoroughly with your Committee that the measure is not consistent with the recommendation of the Hoover Commission that the President "should be given complete freedom to adjust the internal relationships of the President's Office" and that he "should not be prevented by statute from reorganizing the President's Office." My experience convinces me of the wisdom of this recommendation and the soundness of the Committee's judgment in applying it.
I also agree with your view that the adoption of a standard nomenclature for the various types of organizational units of the executive branch can best be left to administrative action.
In your letter you referred to the reorganization plans rejected by the last Congress relating to the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, the National Labor Relations Board and the Department of Agriculture, and implied that revised plans might be presented to carry out the recommendations of the Hoover Commission on those agencies. Since the plans rejected by the 81st Congress were substantially identical with other plans which became effective for most of the other executive departments and regulatory commissions, I should be much interested in any suggestions you may be able to offer on the modifications, consistent with the recommendations of the Hoover Commission, which are needed to obtain acceptance of these remaining plans by the present Congress.
In dealing with the pending bill relating to the Department of Agriculture, I hope that your Committee will succeed in developing a bill which will carry out for that Department the basic recommendations of the Hoover Commission on departmental organization and management already applied to the other civil departments by the plans and legislation of the last two years.
Sincerely yours,
HARRY S. TRUMAN
[Honorable John L. McClellan, Chairman, Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments, The United States Senate, Washington 25, D.C.]
  