
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




July 23, 202109:46 JST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 1 - overview of Friday 
Happy Friday from Tokyo. Your pool is in place at the Akasaka Palace for Dr. Biden's event with Mariko Suga.
Pool was temperature checked and is waiting, shoeless, for the event to begin at 10 a.m.
As a bilateral cultural event, Mrs. Suga has prepared an incense workshop for FLOTUS.
In addition, pool is expected to have access to Biden's virtual meet-and-greet with Team USA athletes. And for her arrival at the Imperial Palace.
Pool will not accompany her into the Opening Ceremony.
Please let me know if you have any questions. Again, I'll be putting pictures in the Dropbox account that I shared a link to in Wednesday's Pool Report No. 1.



July 23, 202110:39 JST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 2 - Cultural event with Mrs. Suga
Pool was told at 9:58 a.m. that FLOTUS arrived through the palace gates.
She and Mrs. Suga walked into the room for the event at 10:01 a.m. Biden is again wearing slipper-socks. She's wearing a trench-length grey blazer over a white top. She's wearing a black mask. She told the pool "good morning" before being introduced to the workshop host. She has a translator sitting next to her whispering to her in English.
The room for the event is set up with two desks - one for Dr. Biden and one for Mrs. Suga - with a plexiglass screen in front so the lecturer and another woman are protected. Lecturer is wearing a pale yellow kimono. Event is being held in Japanese.
Biden is smelling incense in small glass bowls. She is taking off her mask to get a good whiff. I'm told that sandalwood is being explained. Then she tried cinnamon and is being told how it's used for perfume and cooking.
"Oh that's strong, that wakes you up, right?"Biden then said. Unclear what the scent was, pool is trying to find out.
Biden is wearing a pin that was a gift from Mrs. Suga when her husband visited the White House earlier this year, her spokesman said.
Biden and Suga's backs are facing floor to ceiling windows and pool can see a koi pond directly outside.
Pool was pulled at 10:11 a.m.



July 23, 202110:52 JST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 3 - additional incense details 
The scent Dr. Biden thought was strong was Palo Santo.
The East Wing sends along more information about the Koju Raku Incense Workshop. Apologies if the formatting is odd, it came from PDFs. I'll try to upload them to the Dropbox as well.
Ingredients for chopped incense
SandalwoodAroma: Sandalwood from India has a soft, sweet, woody, balsamic aroma with remarkable persistence. scent characteristics vary depending on the region.
Place of origin: India, Indonesia, Australia, Timor, Tonga, etc.Characteristics: Semi-parasitic evergreen tree, 3-4 m tall, with smooth grayish-white bark. The leaves and bark only have a faint scent, but the heartwood has a sweet aroma, which is essential for oriental tones. The one from India is considered to be aromatic and of high quality.
CinnamonAroma: A spicy note. For when you want to be clean and sharp.Place of origin: China, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, etc.Characteristics: Dried bark from camphor tree, used as a preservative for mummification in ancient Egypt. Today, it is used as a flavoring agent in sweets, curry, sauces, and other foods, as well as in herbal medicines such as stomachics, antipyretics, and painkillers, soaps, and cosmetics.
CloveAroma: Typical of spicy notes (pungent odor).Place of origin: Madagascar, Indonesia, etc.Characteristics: Dried flower buds of the clove tree. Typically in oriental herbal medicine. Known as clove in the West, it is used in soaps and perfumes. Can also be used as a spice to flavor food. Found in Shosoin's treasures.
Star aniseAroma: Sweet, aromatic.Place of origin: Guangdong, Guangxi, Fujian, northern Indochina, etc.Characteristics: Dried mature fruit of an evergreen tree in the Illiciaceae family, used in liqueurs, sweets, and toothpaste. It is also famously known as the spice "bajiao" in Chinese cuisine and is used as a stomachic in herbal medicine.
Ginger lilyAroma: Gingery and spicy.Place of origin: Southern China, etc.Characteristics: The rhizome of kencur, a member of the ginger family, is dried and cut into pieces. As a drug, it is used as an aromatic stomachic and for toothache.
NardostachysAroma: Used as a secret ingredient to bring out a Japanese feel.Place of origin: Mountainous areas in China, India, Nepal, etc.Characteristics: Dried rhizome of the Oenotheraceae family, mainly used as a raw material for incense, but also as a raw material for treating vomit, stomachache, and loss of appetite due to its sedative effect.
LavenderAroma: Green, refreshing, and herbal. For when you want to have a western-style scent at once. Characteristics: Lavender is found at altitudes of 700-1500 meters. Originally, it was used mainly for eau de cologne, but its use has expanded with the recent boom in herb-related products. In recent years, this scent has been used for its tranquilizing effect.
Palo SantoAroma: Slightly sweet. Goes well with fruity scents.Place of origin: South America, etc.Characteristics: Palo Santo means "tree of god" and its name comes from the fact that the resin-rich heartwood was used for incense in churches.
BorneolFlavor: Camphoric. For a Japanese style, calm and cool scent.Place of origin: Southern Malay Peninsula, Sumatra, Borneo, etc.Characteristics: Crystalline granules found deep in the voids at the heart of the trunks of evergreen trees of the Dipterocarpaceae family distributed in tropical rain forests. The refreshing scent of ink is obtained by adding borneol. It has long been used as an insecticide and antiseptic, found in the remains of the Marukoyama Kofun tumulus (about 1,500 years old). As a substitute, inexpensive camphor is used.
VanillinFlavor: For a soft, sweet scent.Characteristics: A crystalline flavoring agent with a distinctive sweet aroma, the main flavor component of vanilla bean.Used as a sweetening, suspending, and amplifying agent in a wide range of applications, including food flavors, cosmetic flavors, industrial flavors, and even as a pharmaceutical ingredient.
And here's the procedure for the workshop:
1 Think of a scene where you would like to use the scent and come up with an image of the scent. (Who, where, how, etc.)2 Choose your favorite drawstring and string.3 Choose one liquid scent that fits the scene.4 This is the base scent and the pillar of the scent bag. Even if you feel that each of the fragrances is a bit dull, you can add them while feeling the richness and three-dimensionality that comes from mixing them little by little. 5 *Liquid Flavors The scent will change, so listen for it as you mix.6 *Crystal scent Choose two scents to compare to the finished scent to bring it all together.7 The scent will change, so listen for it as you mix.8 Blend all the scents in a mortar with a pestle.9 When finished, use a spoon to put the scent into the bag.*Our staff will seal it for you. *Tie it with a drawstring and you're done. 



July 23, 202111:53 JST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 4 - Team USA Zoom 
Pool was pulled into an ornate room in the ambassador's residecne at 11:31 a.m.
Dr. Biden was standing in place, wearing a white dress with a white USA jacket over it. The jacket has Navy lettering and blue and red piping on the sleeves and collar. She's wearing black heels with grey square bows. CNN's Kate Bennett tells me the dress is Michael Kors.
A Zoom screen is over her shoulder has 25 different screens showing athletes competing in the Tokyo games.
Biden is speaking into a camera, reading from a teleprompter, and delivering an inspirational message to the athletes.
"I want to thank each person who helped you be here today. Now those years of work, the drive and faith that have kept you going, have led you here. Congratulations."
"Becoming an Olympian is a rare accomplishment in a normal time. But you did it during a global pandemic."
"In these moments we are more than our cities or states or backgrounds. We are more than our jobs or are political parties."
"We are Team USA."
She finished her planned remarks at 11:35 p.m.
Sarah Hirshland, chief executive officer of the United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee, was then introduced to a number of athletes to the first lady. Because NBC has the rights to the Olympics, pool is not able to name the athletes.
"Go for the doctorate" she encouraged one of the athletes.
She also complimented an athlete for doing work on mental health issues.
"I'm so looking forward to watching you compete and as a teacher I think what you're doing is so important in that area of mental health because I know that a lot of students as they return back to school this fall are going to need a little help," Biden said.
"We'll be watching!" she encouraged the athletes.
"It was emotional," she told pool after the event concluded of seeing the athletes. "Thank you for your help," she then staff.
"It meant a lot to me. And to Joe. It should be exciting to watch the events. Am I allowed to shake hands?" she asked the staff, giving out elbows. "Just pretend these are hugs." She then exited.



July 23, 202112:52 JST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 5 - more Team USA quotes and athlete names 
Here are additional quotes from the Team USA event – and, good news, we are able to use the names of the athletes.
"For most of you, the journey to Tokyo began long, long ago. It likely started at a young age. The first time you picked up a ball or jumped in the water. The first ride that made you feel really free. Or when the backflip you thought was impossible suddenly wasn't," Biden said.
"You've given up so much to be here. You've sacrificed time with friends and pushed yourself harder than you thought you could," Biden said.
"Your journey was supported by dedicated parents and siblings, grandparents and cousins, friends, classmates and, of course, the coaches that guided you along the way to Tokyo," Biden said.
The first athlete she spoke to was Eddy Alvarez, a baseball player and a short track speed skater. He's a flagbearer this year.
"Thank you so much, I love seeing you – you must be so excited!" she said giggling.
She then spoke to Sue Bird, a basketball player and flagbearer.
"You are one amazing woman," Biden said.
She then spoke to Allison Schmitt, a four-time Olympic swimmer and mental health advocate.
"I think it's an even bigger honor that you're not just FLOTUS, but you're a Dr. Jill Biden," Schmitt said.
Biden then commended Schmitt's mental health work.
Schmitt says she's currently doing her master's.
"Go for the doctorate," Biden advised.
And one quick correx – she finished her planned remarks at 11:35 a.m. not p.m. – I blame the jetlag.



July 23, 202118:05 JST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 6 - Imperial Palace 
Dr. Biden is attending a meet-and-greet at the Imperial Palace in Tokyo with Emperor Naruhito and other heads of state and heads of delegations.
Prior to Biden's arrival, pool spotted French President Emmanuel Macron and Albert II, Prince of Monaco. Also, Polish President Andrzej Duda. I'll send the full list of leaders in the next report.
Each of the delegation vehicles is sporting the country's flag. Two soldiers in grey-blue uniforms are flanking the doors.
Biden's motorcade pulled up at 2:23 p.m. The largest of any leader.
She is wearing a white draped dress with black polka dots. She acknowledged the greeter. She walked into the palace a moment later.
Pool is now splitting off from FLOTUS for the rest of the day. She won't have press with her for the Opening Ceremony.



July 23, 202118:08 JST

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 7 - Imperial Palace reception attendees 
Here's the list of delegation heads/countries that the Emperor invited to the Imperial Palace for the meet-and-greet ahead of tonight's opening ceremony.
I'm giving it to you verbatim from what we received from the Japanese:
U.S. first ladyLuxenbourgMonacoPoland – PresidentFrance – PresidentArmenia – PresidentSan Marino – PresidentKosovo – PresidentMontenegro – PMMONGOL – PMTurkmenistan – son of president
That's it from me today. As always, feel free to reach out with any questions. If pool does receive any details from the East Wing about FLOTUS' participation in the Opening Ceremony tonight, I'll be sure to pass them along. Have a great rest of your night!




  