
    Office of National Drug Control Policy
This week, White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Director Jim Carroll joined United States Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in Kentucky to recognize the recent addition of Logan, Simpson, and Clark counties to the Appalachia High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program. The designation provides the counties with access to HIDTA resources and greater law enforcement coordination to combat illicit drug trafficking in the region. Director Carroll joined Leader McConnell for a series of events throughout the state on July 7 and 8.
"Leader McConnell and I share a keen understanding that the global COVID-19 pandemic has not lessened the importance of the fight against illegal drug trafficking," ONDCP Director Jim Carroll stated. "Adding Logan, Simpson, and Clark counties to the ONDCP HIDTA program will step up the fight against illegal drugs in Kentucky, enhancing law enforcement's capability and resources to keep illegal drugs out of local communities and across our country. It was an honor to join Leader McConnell in this great commonwealth to recognize these new HIDTA designations. Thanks to his leadership and the tireless work of our ONDCP HIDTA partners, lives will be saved."
"Kentucky continues to strengthen our partnerships across federal, state, and local governments as we fight the substance abuse epidemic," said Leader McConnell. "I'm glad Director Carroll once again accepted my invitation to see Kentucky's efforts firsthand, and I'm grateful he answered my call to add Logan, Simpson, and Clark counties to the HIDTA program. The coronavirus crisis will not stop our comprehensive response to substance abuse. This new federal designation will support Kentucky law enforcement with much-needed coordination, equipment and resources. As Senate Majority Leader, I'm determined to continue mobilizing the federal government to address this scourge, and I'm glad to have partnership of President Trump and Director Carroll to keep our communities safe."
Created by Congress in 1988, the HIDTA Program coordinates and assists Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement agencies to address regional drug threats with the purpose of reducing drug trafficking and drug production in the United States.
The HIDTA program oversees 33 regional HIDTAs in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia.
For more information about the HIDTAs' work and successes, click here.
  