
    With Eleven Offices, O'Rourke's Field Operation Amongst Largest in State
DES MOINES, IA — Building off of great momentum from the O'Rourke's first family trip to Iowa, Beto For Iowa today made several key announcements about the growth of the campaign's footprint in the Hawkeye State. O'Rourke's field operation is now amongst the largest in Iowa with 11 field offices.
They also announced:

A wave of 22 new activist endorsements
Attended 11 Lights for Liberty vigils across Iowa on Friday night to protest the inhumane treatment and conditions of immigrants and asylum seekers

"The only way we take back this country is by bringing everyone into our democracy — and here in Iowa, our team building a grassroots campaign where every Iowan's voice is at the core of our solutions. We're growing our movement throughout the summer, so that every Iowan, regardless if they have caucused or not and regardless of whether they're a Democrat, Republican, or wants to put country over party, knows they're in the right place with Team Beto," said Norm Sterzenbach, Iowa State Director.
The 22 new activist endorsements are:
1. Tavis Hall, Waterloo Community Leader2. Andy Auge, Educator, Loras College3. Dr. Richard Salas, Polk County Activist4. Beatrice Silva-Salas, Polk County Activist5. David Goodson, Waterloo Community Leader6. Jerry Hageman, Vice Chair, Black Hawk County Democratic Party7. Joan Bolin-Betts, former Iowa Deputy State Treasurer8. Joe Gorton, President, Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence — Iowa Chapter; Former President, United Faculty — UNI9. Patrick Chambers, Attorney, Webster County10. Megan McEvoy, Vice President, University of Iowa College Democrats11. Megan Mineart, Secretary, Law and Politics Society at Mount Mercy University12. Margaret Peterson, Vice President, Law and Politics Society at Mount Mercy University13. Michael James, Woodbury County Youth Activist14. David Drissell, Educator, Iowa Central Community College15. Reenie Montgomery, 2018 Candidate for Iowa House District 9616. Sarah Murphy Mannheimer, Des Moines Community Leader17. David Lopez, Educator, DMACC18. Lydia Pesek, President, Iowa Climate Strike19. Randy Larson, Former Iowa City Councilman and business leader20. Grace Van Cleave, Polk County Activist21. Teresa Schneider, Moms Demand Action — Iowa City22. Renee Penalver, President, American Association of University Women — Cedar Rapids
By the end of this week, O'Rourke's field operation will be amongst the largest in Iowa with 11 field offices. The field offices will be open in:
1. Ames2. Burlington3. Cedar Rapids4. Council Bluffs5. Davenport6. Des Moines7. Dubuque8. Iowa City9. Ottumwa10. Sioux City11. Waterloo
Beto will be back in Iowa this week to attend the AARP/The Des Moines Register Forum in Sioux City on Friday, July 19. He will also host a town hall in Sioux County, which voted overwhelmingly for President Trump and invite Iowans from the other "SOLO" Counties — Sioux, Osceola, Lyon, and O'Brien Counties in northwest Iowa. On his last trip, Beto visited Williams, a town with a population of less than 350 people, to meet with and listen to the concerns of the community. According to the Des Moines Register, "many residents said they couldn't remember the last time in recent years a candidate had stopped there."
  