
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the endorsement of several prominent Republican State Legislators. Led by Speaker Pro Tempore Mark Burkhalter, State Representatives David Casas, Brooks Coleman, Jan Jones, Chuck Martin, Fran Millar and Bob Smith will be joining Romney for President.
"I am proud to have the support of these strong conservative leaders in Georgia," said Governor Romney. "Each of these legislators has been a strong and vocal advocate for our common conservative values. With their help, we are building a strong campaign in the state."
These legislators will be joining fellow Georgians, U.S. Congressmen Tom Price and Phil Gingrey, and Cobb County Commission Chairman Sam Olens, in their support of Governor Romney.
With today's announcement, Speaker Pro Tempore Burkhalter said, "Throughout his many years of service, Governor Romney has demonstrated strong leadership and made the tough decisions necessary to turn around companies, the Olympics and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. We need his leadership if we are to change Washington. I'm proud to be a part of the strong organization Governor Romney is building in Georgia."
Background On State Legislators:
Georgia House Speaker Pro Tempore Mark Burkhalter: Representing the metro Atlanta suburbs of North Fulton County, Representative Burkhalter is currently serving his eighth term in the Georgia House of Representatives and is the second highest ranking Republican. In 2007, he was unanimously elected by the Georgia House of Representatives to serve a second term as Speaker Pro Tempore. Representative Burkhalter serves as an ex-officio member on all House standing committees and as one of three House conferees on all state budgets.
State Representative David Casas: Serving as a representative of the 103rd District since 2002, Representative Casas serves as Vice Chairman of the Economic Development and Tourism Committee, Chairman of the subcommittee on Trade, Chairman of the Education subcommittee on Academic Achievement, and a member of the Rules and Science & Technology Committees. Representative Casas is a Hawk, which makes him an ex-officio member of all standing committees of the House. He is also a highly regarded educator.
State Representative Brooks Coleman: First elected in 1993, the former Gwinnett County Assistant Superintendent now serves as Chairman of the House Education Committee. A motivational speaker and retired educator, Dr. Coleman represents District 97. He also serves as a member of the Retirement, Natural Resources and Intra-Governmental Affairs Committees. He has worked with governors on both sides of the aisle to improve education in Georgia.
State Representative Jan Jones: Representing Georgia's 46th District, including Milton and parts of Roswell and Alpharetta, Representative Jones currently serves as Vice Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Education, Chair of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Income Tax, and as a member of the Education and Reapportionment Committees. A former marketing executive and small business owner, she has worked relentlessly to fight for better educational standards and practices.
State Representative Chuck Martin: Representing Georgia's 47th District covering Alpharetta, Roswell and Greater North Fulton County, Representative Martin currently serves as Vice Chairman of House Appropriations, leading the Public Safety Appropriations Subcommittee, and Vice Chairman of the Science and Technology Committee. He is also a member of the Budget and Fiscal Affairs Committee, the Energy, Utilities and Telecommunications Committee, and the Ways and Means Committee. Prior to his election, he was Mayor of Alpharetta from 1996 through 2002. He currently is a Director with Ryan and Company.
State Representative Fran Millar: First elected to represent the 79th District in 1998, Representative Millar currently serves as Vice Chairman of the Education Committee and a member of the Health and Human Services, Rules and Economic Development Committees. He has also served as the Treasurer of the DeKalb Delegation and as the Ex-Officio for the Dunwoody Homeowner's Association Board.
State Representative Bob Smith: Representing the 113th District, Representative Smith serves as the Vice Chairman of Appropriations for the Higher Education Sub-Committee and a member of the Rules, Public Utilities and Telecommunications and Reapportionment Committees. He also serves as a Board Member of the Athens Technical College Foundation, Fiscal Affairs & Government Operations Committee of the Southern Legislative Conference and the Heartland Institute Board of Legislative Advisors.
  