
    MRS. OBAMA: Oh my goodness, I'm out of breath just watching you all. Oh my goodness, that's great. I'm tired just looking at you all. Well done! Yay! (Applause.)
Well, this is just very exciting. This is exactly what we envisioned happening when we started this music series, opening up this White House to just so many original forms of music. And we're going to have Broadway right here in the East Wing tonight, and it is phenomenal. (Applause.)
And more importantly, we get to showcase this young talent, to get them mixed with some of the best talent that this country has to offer. And that's just a powerful combination, because we want these kids --
MR. MITCHELL: I didn't make the steps easier for them.
MRS. OBAMA: It didn't look like you did.
MR. MITCHELL: They're the exact same steps they're doing on Broadway, so they did it.
MRS. OBAMA: It didn't look -- you are working with the best. I mean, we are bringing together some of the best that this country has to offer and putting them together with you all. I am so proud of you all. I am always proud of you all. Always holding it up, giving me things to show to the world. So this is what we had in mind.
And I want to thank Jerry and George and Margo and all the talent who has come together for this. I want to thank the parents and the teachers who I know are here. You guys, thank you so much. (Applause.)
We're going to have fun tonight. The whole White House is just lit up. I mean, you've got the ushers running around, the butlers all sweating. (Laughter.) But this is an exciting night, and we can't wait. Grandma's coming, Malia, Sasha -- Bo, if he wouldn't bark. But he's not allowed to come. (Laughter.)
So I just wanted to let you know you did fabulously. You're ready for whatever comes. And also, a lot of you guys are getting your first television credit, because thanks to PBS hosting "Performance at the White House" -- yay to PBS for getting it done. (Applause.)
So all your family members, make sure -- I think it airs -- it airs in October. So there's time to write letters, make sure everybody's watching. But this is going to be on PBS. So it's so exciting for us. We are just proud. And I'm looking forward to tonight.
So you guys continue to practice. You guys -- I know you'll do terrific, and we'll see you tonight. The President will be sitting there -- don't be intimidated. (Laughter.) Where will he be sitting, just so that they know? Where's his seat? You guys help them out. It's going to be right around there, all right? He's harmless. (Laughter.) Just keep moving!
All right, you all, thank you. Thank you, Jerry.
  