
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Virginia's Lieutenant Governor Bill Bolling has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Lieutenant Governor Bolling will serve as the chairman of Governor Romney's campaign in Virginia and will help communicate the Governor's message of conservative change throughout the state.
"I am proud to have the endorsement of Lieutenant Governor Bolling," said Governor Romney. "Washington is in his backyard, and he knows as well as anyone that it needs to be taken apart and put back together by implementing policies that make sense for American families. I look forward to his counsel as our campaign continues."
Announcing his endorsement of Governor Romney today, Lieutenant Governor Bolling said, "I have carefully considered all of the Republican candidates for President in 2008. While they are all good men, I believe that Mitt Romney is the best candidate to carry the Republican banner in the 2008 presidential campaign."
"Mitt Romney also has the right vision for the future of our country. We can trust him to keep America safe at home by defeating the Jihadists abroad; and keep America strong by reigning in government spending, keeping taxes low, protecting the values we believe in, and confronting head on the new generation of challenges currently facing our nation," Bolling continued.
Background On Lieutenant Governor Bill Bolling:
In 2005, Bill Bolling Was Elected To Serve As The 40th Lieutenant Governor Of Virginia. In a year that favored Democrats, Bolling received more votes that any other Republican candidate for statewide office. He is widely recognized as one of Virginia's most effective conservative leaders. Prior to his election as Lieutenant Governor, Bolling served for ten years in the Virginia State Senate. He also has experience in local government, serving as Chairman of the Hanover County Board of Supervisors prior to his election to the Senate. Nationally, Bolling serves as Chairman of the Republican Lieutenant Governors Association. He is also a member of the Executive Committee of the National Lieutenant Governors Association.
  