
    
  Continues to Expand Grassroots Network

Verona, PA - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) announced the endorsements of several prominent New Hampshire political and community leaders as he continues to build a grassroots network and campaign in preparation for next February's First-in-the-Nation Primary.
New Hampshire State Representative Jason Antosz of Epping, NH is a long-standing New Hampshire community leader. Antosz, a former volunteer firefighter, is a member of the New Hampshire Fireman's Association, New Hampshire Knights of Columbus, the National Rifle Association, and New Hampshire Liberty Alliance.
New Hampshire State Representative Lenette Peterson of Merrimack, NH is a leading social conservative and advocate for the Second Amendment. Peterson was elected to the New Hampshire State House in 2010 and serves on the New Hampshire House Republican Alliance (HRA), which is a group of Republican members of the House of Representatives focused on passing legislation consistent with the New Hampshire and U.S. Constitutions, to embody the traditional Republican values specified in the New Hampshire State Party Platform, and to be fiscally responsible to the people of the Granite State.
New Hampshire State Representative Matt Swank of Manchester, NH is a lifelong Republican activist known as a liberty-minded conservative and a well-respected New Hampshire small business owner. Swank was elected to the New Hampshire State House in 2010 and sits on the House Environment and Agriculture Committee.
Ted Maravelias of Windham, NH is a well-respected conservative activist in the Granite State. Maravelias was an elected delegate to the 1992 Republican National Convention, leading activist in the 1992 and 1996 presidential campaigns of Pat Buchanan, and former Deputy State Director for Americans for Prosperity. Mr. Maravelias is also the founder of the first modern New Hampshire TEA Party in 2009.
Greg Spero of Atkinson, NH is a well-known conservative activist and community leader. In addition to Spero's political activism, he serves as an active member of his local Lions Club and sits on the board of trustees for the local library system.
"I am excited to add the support of Jason, Lenette, Matt, Ted, and Greg to our growing list of grassroots supporters who are stepping forward to support our campaign focused on the American people, not the power of government," said Senator Santorum. "I look forward to returning to the Granite State next week as we do the hard-work necessary to build a campaign prepared to take on President Obama."
  