
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA - Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Representative Lanny Littlejohn (R-Spartanburg) has joined his South Carolina Leadership Team.
Announcing the support of Representative Littlejohn, Governor Romney said, "Lanny Littlejohn has served in the South Carolina legislature for eighteen years with honor and distinction. He has fought for the conservative values that are the backbone of my campaign. His background as a legislator, an educator, and a businessman give him the experience and expertise that make him an invaluable asset to my efforts in the Upstate, and I am very pleased to welcome him to our South Carolina team."
Representative Littlejohn will join an already strong Romney for President South Carolina team that includes United States Senator Jim DeMint and numerous other leaders across the state.
With today's announcement, Representative Littlejohn said, "After looking carefully at each of the candidates in this race, I came to the conclusion that Mitt Romney is the only candidate who has a proven record of leadership and success in both the public and private sectors. Governor Romney has turned failing businesses into job-creating success stories, cleaned up the 2002 Olympic Games, and as Governor, balanced his state's budget without raising taxes. I am proud to announce my support for such an accomplished leader."
Background On Representative Lanny Littlejohn:
Representative Lanny Littlejohn Has Served In The South Carolina House Of Representatives Since 1989. His career in public service began in 1967 when he served as an elementary school principal, teacher and coach. Representative Littlejohn represents Spartanburg and Cherokee counties in the State House of Representatives, where he is the Chairman of the Operations and Management Committee and sits on the Ways and Means Committee. Outside of his service in the South Carolina legislature, Representative Littlejohn is a deacon at Morningside Baptist Church and an amateur pilot. He has three children, Lanny Jr., Jenny, and Rebekah with his wife, Jean.
  