
    Today, the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen (BRS), representing over 10,000 members working for railroads across North America, announced its endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States. In a statement BRS President Jerry Boles wrote: "We need a President who will protect workers' rights, pay, and health and safety on the job."
BRS issued the following press release:
The Brotherhood of Railroad Signalman's Grand Executive Council Endorses Joe Biden for President
On June 11, 2020, the members of the BRS Grand Executive Council voted to unanimously endorse former U.S. Senator and Vice President Joe Biden for President of the United States.
"The Grand Executive Council monitors and promotes candidates who demonstrate that they understand and support our Union values and the working class in this country. I acknowledge that your vote is a personal choice, and I hope you take the time to research which candidate will support the growth of the Rail industry, safety regulations for Signalmen and Roadway Workers, as well as our right to bargain for a fair contract and good benefits for our members."—Jerry Boles, President.
Through the primary season, former Vice President Biden has laid out his plans on many issues, including two of the most important to the BRS, Infrastructure and Unions. Vice President Biden says he will:
1. Spark the second great railroad revolution.2. Electrify the rail system.3. Invest in freight infrastructure, including freight rial.4. Check the abuse of corporate power over labor.5. Encourage and incentivize unionization and collective bargaining.6. Ensure workers are treated with dignity and receive the pay, benefits, and workplace protections they deserve.
President Boles added, "I feel that Vice President Biden's experience as Vice President, and a multi-term United States Senator, makes him the most qualified candidate in the field, add that to his platform which supports the working class, and I think the choice for endorsement was clear to the entire Grand Executive Council. We need a President who will protect workers' rights, pay, and health and safety on the job."
  