
    Prominent Nashua and Manchester Activists, Former State Rep. Among Influential List of New Hampshire Leaders Backing Booker
Manchester, NH — Following Cory Booker's latest visit to New Hampshire, Cory for New Hampshire announced today that prominent Nashua activist JoAnne St. John, Manchester activist Pat Kalik, former NH state representative John Knowles are among more than 40 New Hampshire activists and community leaders who are endorsing Cory Booker for President.
"You only have to watch Cory Booker in person to know why he's the best candidate in this race," said JoAnne St. John, a leading statewide Democratic activist who has helped elect and re-elect President Obama and was a key part of the 2016 and 2018 blue waves in Nashua. "I came away from his speech this weekend in Nashua inspired and ready to take action. Sharp, smart, passionate and driven, Cory's vision for our country is ambitious and forward-thinking. He is a proven fighter who has taken on tough challenges and gotten results. His team is running a campaign that can truly win here in New Hampshire and across the country, and I'm excited to help them win."
"As someone who has worked for many cycles in Democratic politics, I know the real deal when I see it," said Pat Kalik, a longtime Manchester activist. "Cory Booker has invested heavily in New Hampshire, hiring a smart, experienced team and spending time talking to thousands and thousands of voters. He has a long history of working tirelessly to pass critical legislation, and to make lives better for all Americans. Cory is the best person to take on Donald Trump in this race, and I am proud to join this group of activists in standing by his side."
"Cory brings strong, progressive values and substantial leadership experience — both executive and legislative — to this race," said former Rep. John Knowles. "He is aware of the issues facing our communities here in New Hampshire, and has passion to fight for what's right. He will bring Americans together to build a more just and fair nation for everyone. The word I most associate with Cory is 'presidential' — because that's what he is."
"We need a president who will take a fearless stand to end the crisis of gun violence in our country, and Cory Booker is that person," said Clai Lasher-Sommers, a gun violence prevention activist in Cheshire County. "No other candidate understands, in such a personal way, the impact this violence has had on communities across the country. His bold, ambitious plan to fight back against the gun lobbyists and the NRA will save lives, and I am proud to support his candidacy in the Democratic primaries."
The local activists and community leaders endorsing Booker today are:

Chloe Paige Armstrong (Conway): Conway High School activist
Kyle Ball (Tamworth): environmental activist and North Conway business owner
Chelsea Berlucchi (Rye): Rye activist
Madeleine Bernardeau (Hanover): New Hampshire College Democrats events director and Dartmouth Democrats deputy communications director
Noah Burn (Durham): University of New Hampshire College Democrat
Cherish Chang (Bedford): Bedford activist
Chris Chen (Windham): Windham activist
Claire Connolly (Lebanon): nurse and health care provider
Anna Danielski (New Castle): New Castle activist 
Samantha Davidson Green (Plainfield): filmmaker and media educator 
Luke DeMio (Hampstead): Southern New Hampshire University activist
Jane Dionne (North Hampton): North Hampton activist
Liza Draper (Claremont): activist, author and ACLU volunteer
Johanna Evans (Hanover): Hanover activist and former staffer for NH Senate Democratic campaigns 
Tom Fiedler (Ashland): former dean at Boston University's College of Communication and veteran political journalist
Sue Fitzgerald (Exeter): Exeter activist
John Gabrieli (Manchester): founder and co-chair of the Every Voice Coalition
Becky Gargan (Center Conway): Center Conway activist
Medea Gargan (Center Conway): Conway High School activist
Angie Garozzo (Pelham): Saint Anselm College Democrat
Jordan Green (Plainfield): Upper Valley business leader
Lisa Hamblen (Plaistow): Plaistow Democratic Town Committee member
Mehera Hathaway (Hudson): Hudson activist
Mike Hoefer (Keene): Keene community leader and former campaign manager for State Senator Molly Kelly
Gail Hotohkee (Bedford): Bedford activist
Pat Kalik (Manchester): Manchester activist
Former State Rep. John Knowles (Hudson): New Hampshire Democratic Party delegate and State Committee member
Clai Lasher-Sommers (Westmoreland): gun violence prevention activist
Jennifer Lindgren (Concord): founder of the New Hampshire chapter of the Prison Yoga Project
Susan McDonough (Nashua): Nashua activist
Maria McNaught (Merrimack): Merrimack activist
Michael McNeil (Atkinson): Atkinson activist
Max Mickenberg (Hanover): Dartmouth student activist
Marty Mobley (Manchester): Air Force veteran and member of Manchester Christian Church 
Bill O'Brien (Charlestown): Sullivan County community activist
Linda Piotrowski (Lebanon): ACLU, Indivisible and MoveOn member
Dr. Jane Primm (Bedford): health care leader and advocate
Jena Stevens (Freedom): New Hampshire Democratic Party delegate 
JoAnne St. John (Nashua): Nashua activist, Moms Demand Action member and New Hampshire Democratic Party delegate
Shideko Terai (Cornish): Sullivan County activist and New Hampshire Democratic Party delegate 
Alyssa Wilson (Derry): Derry activist
Colleen Wolfe (Portsmouth): Portsmouth activist

 These leaders join Granite State elected officials Sens. Jon Morgan (Brentwood) and David Watters (Dover) and state Reps. Anita Burroughs (Bartlett); Peter Leishman (Peterborough); Linn Opderbecke (Dover); Lee Walker Oxenham (Plainfield); Katherine Rogers (Concord); Jeffrey Salloway (Lee); and Bruce Tatro (Swanzey) in endorsing Booker's campaign for president.
  