
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Dennis K. Burke, of Arizona, to be United States Attorney for the District of Arizona for the term of four years, vice Diane J. Humetewa.
Brenda Dann-Messier, of Rhode Island, to be Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education, Department of Education, vice Troy R. Justesen.
Steven M. Dettelbach, of Ohio, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio for the term of four years, vice Gregory A. White, resigned.
Brendan V. Johnson, of South Dakota, to be United States Attorney for the District of South Dakota for the term of four years, vice Martin J. Jackley.
Karen Louise Loeffler, of Alaska, to be United States Attorney for the District of Alaska for the term of four years, vice Timothy Mark Burgess, resigned.
Florence T. Nakakuni, of Hawaii, to be United States Attorney for the District of Hawaii for the term of four years, vice Edward Hachiro Kubo, Jr.
Carter M. Stewart, of Ohio, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio for the term of four years, vice Gregory Gordon Lockhart.
Aaron S. Williams, of Virginia, to be Director of the Peace Corps, vice Ronald A. Tschetter, resigned.
Glyn T. Davies, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
Glyn T. Davies, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador.
Jonathan B. Jarvis, of California, to be Director of the National Park Service, vice Mary Amelia Bomar, resigned.
Bryan Hayes Samuels, of Illinois, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Joan E. Ohl, resigned.
Rolena Klahn Adorno, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2014, vice Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, term expired.
Craig Becker, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring December 16, 2014. (Reappointment)
Craig Becker, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring December 16, 2009, vice Dennis P. Walsh.
Christopher P. Bertram, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Phyllis F. Scheinberg, resigned.
Francis S. Collins, of Maryland, to be Director of the National Institutes of Health, vice Elias Adam Zerhouni.
Sherry Glied, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Benjamin Eric Sasse, resigned.
Brian Hayes, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring December 16, 2012, vice Robert J. Battista, term expired.
James A. Leach, of Iowa, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Humanities for a term of four years, vice Bruce Cole.
Philip D. Murphy, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Germany.
Mark Gaston Pearce, of New York, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring August 27, 2013, vice Peter N. Kirsanow.
  