
    THE PRESIDENT. Hello, Madam Prime Minister.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President, shalom.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. I want you to know that as I speak here from the Oval Office, where you and I have met so many times, that I extend the very best wishes of all of the people of the United States to all of the people of Israel.
I think this program, as I saw the countries you were talking to, instead of being called "Around the World in 80 Days," could be called "Around the World in 60 Minutes."
THE PRIME MINISTER. That is right. Mr. President, it is extremely kind of you to take time off and speak to us. I can only tell you that the best wishes of all the people of Israel, appreciation, and all the friendship that we can express goes out to you and the people of the United States.
I remember the Oval Room very well, always with a great feeling of satisfaction and appreciation and joy and thankfulness that you have always taken so much of your time to listen to my long stories of troubles and wishes and so on.
But I must say I always came out with the right answers.
THE PRESIDENT. Madam Prime Minister, I want you to know that you, needless to say, are always welcome here. I only regret that while I have visited Israel on other occasions, I have never been able to do so as President, but you can be sure that we will continue to work together for what you are interested in, what we are interested in, and that is a just peace in the Mideast which will protect the integrity of Israel, for which your people have suffered so much and sacrificed so much.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Thank you very, very much. It is easier to face difficulties when you speak as you do, and I know what you have done, so thank you very much.
There is a large group here. They are all smiling, and they are all happy to hear your voice.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to say just one last thing. I think the fact that we do have this new television communication will mean that the programs that will be carried from Israel to the United States, and from the United States to Israel, will mean that more of our people here will have an opportunity not only to see Israel by television, but perhaps to go there as tourists and we hope that more people from Israel can come here. We hope that will be one of the dividends of this new program.
THE PRIME MINISTER. This is a commercial that will work both ways.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. That's right. I know that I have enjoyed my visits, and we want you and any of your friends to know they are always welcome here in our country.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Thank you very, very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. We will look forward to seeing you. Goodby.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Goodby.
  