
    Biden for President and the Nevada State Democratic Party coordinated campaign have made several new staff hires who previously worked on the presidential campaigns of Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Pete Buttigieg, and Kamala Harris.
These individuals join State Senator Yvanna Cancela as senior advisor, Alana Mounce as state director, and Shelby Wiltz as coordinated campaign director.
"Nevada Democrats recognize the tremendous urgency of defeating Donald Trump in November," said Clark County Commissioner Tick Segerblom. "These hires represent the diversity of Democratic viewpoints from the presidential primary and reflect our shared commitment to leading Joe Biden to victory in Nevada and electing Democrats up and down the ballot."
Susana Cervantes, Nevada Coordinated Organizing Director Cervantes rejoins the Nevada Democrats team after serving as field director for the Bernie Sanders campaign where she led the team to a historic 26-point win in the Nevada caucuses. She has been working on campaigns since 2012 having previously worked for Nevada Democrats in the 2018 and 2014 midterms, on Sanders' 2016 presidential campaign during the Iowa caucuses as deputy political director, and as an organizer in East Las Vegas for President Obama's 2012 re-election campaign. She is the proud daughter of immigrants from Mexico.
Alex Kania, Nevada Coordinated Deputy Organizing Director Kania was previously the deputy field director for Bernie Sanders in Nevada and Florida, helping to deliver Sanders a 26-point win in the Nevada caucuses. She is a Nevada campaign veteran and alum of the 2018 coordinated campaign, where Nevada Democrats swept nearly every statewide office.
Morgan Mohr, Nevada Coordinated Deputy State Director  Morgan Mohr has worked on more than half a dozen campaigns, having served in management, operations, policy, and field capacities. Most recently, she was chief of staff to Pete Buttigieg's presidential campaign and led Super Tuesday planning and staffing. In 2016, Morgan worked in operations for Hillary for America beginning in Brooklyn and later as deputy operations director in Florida.
Lauren Brooks, Biden for President Nevada Strategic Advisor Brooks most recently was the Nevada political director for Kamala Harris' presidential campaign. Prior to that, she was the deputy director of government affairs at R&R Partners. In 2018, Brooks was an advisor to U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen and Lt. Gov. Kate Marshall and previously worked with then-State Sen. Aaron Ford for several years.
Erika Herrera, Biden for President Nevada Political Director Herrera most recently worked for Senator Jacky Rosen's state office. In 2018, she was the Southern Nevada political director for Jacky Rosen's Senate campaign. In 2016, Herrera worked as a deputy political director to elect Catherine Cortez Masto to the U.S. Senate. She also worked for the Nevada State Democratic Party during the 2016 caucus. Herrera is a native Nevadan and a proud daughter of immigrants.
Madison Mundy, Nevada Democrats Director of Rapid Response Prior to her new position as Nevada Democrats rapid response director, Mundy worked for Bernie 2020, first as the communications coordinator in Nevada, and then as the national surrogate communications coordinator. Previously, she worked with a coalition of national advocacy and labor groups to create communication pieces combatting right-wing misinformation and anti-labor practices.
Pam Gidwani, Nevada Coordinated Training Director  Gidwani joins Nevada Democrats after working on Elizabeth Warren's 2020 presidential campaign as a training associate in Northern California, and then with Organizing Together 2020 as the Arizona deputy training director. Prior to politics, she worked in the tech industry running digital marketing campaigns for some of the industry's biggest conferences.
Kevin Liao, Biden for President Nevada Communications Director Liao joins the Biden campaign after mostly recently working on Senator Elizabeth Warren's presidential campaign as Iowa press secretary and California communications director. Kevin has spent much of his career in California politics, including four years serving as press secretary for the state's Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon.
  