
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 30
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
—The President met at the White House with:
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie.
July 1
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—the Democratic congressional leader ship;
—Mr. Moore.
The President announced that $96 million will be made available to provide additional jobs this summer and fall in selected cities. The funds are expected to generate 32,000 jobs in 31 cities with very serious unemployment and poverty problems. In addition, almost $260 million of projects will be accelerated in the selected cities, providing more than 5,000 jobs more quickly. No new budget requests will be required to fund these programs.
The President transmitted to the Congress the fiscal year 1978 annual report of the Office of Alien Property, Department of Justice, and the 1979 annual report of the Federal Council on the Aging.
July 2
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—President Gaafar Mohamed Nimeiri of the Sudan;
—Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher of the Federal Republic of Germany;
—Foreign Minister Kamal Hasan 'Ali of Egypt and Interior Minister Yosef Burg of Israel.
The President announced the appointment of Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie as a member of the board of governors of the American Red Cross.
The President announced that he has designated S. B. Pranger, Associate Director for Agency Relations of the Office of Personnel Management, as Chairman of the Government Red Cross Blood Program for the Washington area.
The President announced the appointment of Herta Lande Seidman, Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade Development, as a member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
The President announced the appointment of William A. Borders, Jr., of Washington, D.C., as a member of the District of Columbia Judicial Nominating Commission. Borders is in private practice in Washington and is president-elect of the National Bar Association.
Jury 3
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1979 annual report of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee.
The President announced the appointment of Harold Amos, of Boston, Mass., as a member of the President's Cancer Panel. Amos is a professor of bacteriology and immunology at Harvard Medical School.
The President announced the appointment of Rear Adm. Gerald J. Thompson as a member of the Committee for Purchase From the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped. Thompson is Deputy Director of the Defense Logistics Agency for Contract Administration Services.
The White House announced that the President has designated Calvin W. Carter as Vice Chairman of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
The President left the White House for a trip to California and Florida, followed by a visit to Plains, Ga. Releases and announcements issued on the trip begin on page 1295.
  