
    Dear Mr. Chairman:
I hereby report, pursuant to section 804(d) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, 21 U.S.C. 1903(d) (the "Kingpin Act"), on the status of sanctions imposed upon significant foreign narcotics traffickers designated this year.
On May 29, 2003, I designated the following seven foreign persons and entities as appropriate for sanctions, and subsequently imposed sanctions against them, under the Kingpin Act:
Juan Jose Esparragoza Moreno
  Jose Albino Quintero Meraz
  Hector Luis Palma Salazar
  United Wa State Army
  Leonardo Dias Mendonca
  Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, "FARC")
  United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia, "AUC")

Attached is individual background information on each of the above foreign persons and entities. Each individual and entity is now subject to all of the sanctions authorized under the Kingpin Act. As a result, United States persons are prohibited from engaging in financial transactions and conducting business with these individuals. In addition, any assets within the United States or within the possession or control of United States persons that are owned or controlled by significant foreign narcotics traffickers are blocked. Finally, significant foreign narcotics traffickers and immediate family members who have knowingly benefited from their illicit activity will be denied visas for entry into the United States. While all of the sanctions are currently in effect, to date I have not been notified of any specific enforcement action taken since the date of their imposition.
The Department of the Treasury, in consultation with the Departments of Justice, Defense, and State, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Drug Enforcement Administration, continues to work toward identifying derivative designations for these newly designated individuals pursuant to the powers granted under section 805(b) of the Kingpin Act, 21 U.S.C. 1904(b).
In addition to the foregoing actions, the Department of the Treasury, in consultation with the Departments of Justice, Defense, and State, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Drug Enforcement Administration, continues to research potential foreign persons for future recommendations for designation as kingpins.
Enclosed is a classified table reflecting expenses incurred and projected for fiscal year 2003. Other than certain intelligence expenses reflected in the enclosed table, total reportable expenses incurred by Federal agencies in fiscal year 2002 are approximately $1,022,115. These expenses are those directly attributable to the imposition of the Kingpin Act sanctions. The personnel costs portion, $591,562, is centered principally in the Department of the Treasury. The remaining $430,553 of the $1,022,115 total was for resource expenditures.
Sincerely,
GEORGE W. BUSH
  