
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Keith E. Gottfried, of California, to be General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Gottfried recently served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Special Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of Borland Software Corporation. Prior to that, he served as the company's Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Legal Officer. Earlier in his career, Mr. Gottfried was a Corporate Associate with Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in New York, NY. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania. He later received his J.D. and master's degree from Boston University.
The President intends to nominate Bertha K. Madras, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Director for Demand Reduction at the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Dr. Madras is currently a Professor of Psychobiology in the Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital. She also chairs the Division of Neurochemistry at the New England Primate Research Center. Dr. Madras previously served as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Toronto. She received her bachelor's degree and her PhD from McGill University.
The President intends to nominate Mark S. Schneider, of the District of Columbia, to be Commissioner of Education Statistics at the Department of Education, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring June 20, 2009. Dr. Schneider currently serves as Deputy Commissioner of the National Center for Education Research, the Institute of Education Sciences at the Department of Education. He previously served as Professor and Chairman of the Department of Political Science at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. Earlier in his career, Dr. Schneider served as Vice President of the American Political Science Association. He received his bachelor's degree from City University of New York and his PhD from the University of North Carolina. He later served as a Fulbright Hays Senior Fellow at Osmania University in Hyderabad, India.
The President intends to nominate Alfred Hoffman, Jr., of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Portugal. Mr. Hoffman is founder and Chairman of the Board of WCI Communities, Inc, a company serving primary, retirement and second-home buyers. He previously served as Chairman of the Florida Education Foundation and Chairman of the Florida Council on Economic Education. Mr. Hoffman received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy at West Point. After serving four years in the United States Air Force, he received his master's degree from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for the remainder of five-year terms expiring July 19, 2009:
Sandra Frances Ashworth of Idaho
Jan Cellucci of Massachusetts
Diane Rivers of Arkansas
  