
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today the addition of eight field representatives throughout California. The field representatives will work on the grassroots level in communities across the state to grow the volunteer base, recruit county chairs and communicate Mayor Giuliani's optimistic message to the voters of California.
The field representatives join the campaign's California Executive Director Brent Lowder, Political Director Thomas Roberts, Deputy Political Director Jessica Patterson, and Coalitions Director Steve Frank.
"Mayor Giuliani's support and momentum continues to grow throughout the state," said Rick Wiley, Giuliani Campaign Deputy National Political Director. "Rudy has built a strong campaign staff and statewide organization in California. He is well-positioned to win the Republican primary in California because voters know he has a record of results, proven executive experience and a solid campaign network in the state."
About the California Field Representatives:
Cathy Hayes
Hayes was Regional Field Director for California GOP Victory 2006, handling the Central Coast. She has also served as the Executive Director of the Santa Barbara County Republican Central Committee, Regional Finance Coordinator for the National Republican Congressional Committee in Washington, DC, Deputy Director of the Majority Leader's Fund and Joint Fundraising Manager of the National Republican Senatorial Committee.
Ashley Ingram
Ingram served as head intern with the California GOP Victory 2006. She worked specifically on youth issues for Governor Schwarzenegger. She coordinated precinct walks and phone banks, while recruiting high school and college students to volunteer.
Kelly Kuntz
Kuntz worked as an associate at JJ Communications in Redlands, CA, where she helped managed day-to-day operations on political campaigns, public relations, media development, grassroots operations, and fundraising in local government. Kuntz has also assisted with treasury operations on political campaigns and has coordinated special events, meetings and conferences.
Chris Luna
Luna served as campaign Manager on Perkins for Assembly in Salinas. He previously worked as campaign manager on McShane for Hartnell Trustee in Salinas. As Central Valley Field Director on McPherson for Lieutenant Governor, he served as the director of grassroots operations in the San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Tuolumne, Mono, Mariposa, Merced, Fresno, Tulare, Kings, and Kern Counties.
Cathy Poncabare
Poncabare served as Governor Schwarzenegger's Deputy Appointments Secretary, where she recruited, screened, interviewed and recommended candidates to serve as the Governor's appointees to full-time exempt positions and part-time volunteer positions on boards and commissions within the state government.
Krista Powers
Powers worked as a client representative for IBM organizing marketing events and coordinating teams to create client proposals. Powers served under New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations, Joseph Lhota, and as a Congressional Page in the U.S. House of Representatives.
Jennifer Saylor
Saylor worked under California GOP Executive Director Deborah McCall during 2004 election cycle and managed phone banks. Saylor served under California State Field Director Kathy Tavoularis on during the 2006 election cycle.
Bryan Watkins
Watkins was the Deputy Field Director for San Diego County and Imperial County during Governor Schwarzenegger's successful 2006 reelection campaign. Bryan most recently worked as campaign coordinator on Carl DeMaio's campaign for San Diego City Council. He worked on Nathan Fletcher campaign for State Assembly.
  