
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
June 25
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
June 27
In the evening, the President returned to the White House.
June 28
In the morning, the President traveled to Westport, CT, and in the afternoon, he traveled to New York City.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Monroe Miles to be Ambassador to Bulgaria.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael E. Ranneberger to be Ambassador to Mali.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carl Spielvogel to be Ambassador to Slovakia.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia for a working luncheon on July 12.
June 29
The President announced his intention to nominate Barbro A. Owens-Kirkpatrick to be Ambassador to Niger.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles A. Blanchard to be General Counsel of the Army.
The President announced his intention nominate Carol DiBattiste to be Under Secretary of the Air Force.
The President announced his intention to appoint Anita Borg as a member of the Commission on the Advancement of Women and Minorities in Science, Engineering, and Technology.
June 30
In the morning, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President had two separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom concerning the Northern Ireland peace process.
The President announced his intention to appoint Patricia Gallup to the Twenty-First Century Workforce Commission.
July 1
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom concerning the Northern Ireland peace process.
In the evening, the President attended the U.S. versus Germany Women's World Cup soccer game at Jack Kent Cooke Stadium in Landover, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Phillip R. Anderson to be a member of the Mississippi River Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Cohen to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education at the Department of Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate James B. Cunningham to be U.S. Deputy Representative to the United Nations, with rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
The President announced his intention to nominate Earl E. Devaney to be Inspector General at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Harriet L. Elam to be Ambassador to Senegal.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Richard Fredericks to be Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein.
The President announced his intention to nominate Barbara J. Griffiths to be Ambassador to Iceland.
The President announced the nomination of Curt Hebert, Jr., to be a member of the Federal Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gregory Lee Johnson to be Ambassador to Swaziland.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jimmy J. Kolker to be Ambassador to Burkina Faso.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan Ness to be member of the Federal Communications Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sylvia Gaye Stanfield to be Ambassador to Brunei.
The President announced his intention to nominate Clifford Gregory Stewart to be General Counsel at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Raymond D. Nasher as member of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities.
July 2
In the afternoon, the President participated in a swearing-in ceremony in the Oval Office for newly appointed Secretary of the Treasury Lawrence H. Summers.
  