
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Thomas J. Curry, Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
•      Mary John Miller, Under Secretary for Domestic Finance, Department of the Treasury
•      Wendy R. Sherman, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, Department of State
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Rafael Anchía, Member, Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations
•      Carmen Lucca Nazario, United States Representative, Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
President Obama said, "I am proud to nominate such impressive men and women to these important roles, and I am grateful they have agreed to lend their considerable talents to this Administration. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Thomas J. Curry, Nominee for Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
Thomas J. Curry has served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation since 2004. Mr. Curry serves as Chairman of the FDIC's Assessment Appeals Committee and Case Review Committee. Mr. Curry also serves as the Chairman of the NeighborWorks America Board of Directors. Prior to joining the FDIC, Mr. Curry served five Massachusetts Governors as the Commonwealth's Commissioner of Banks from 1990 to 1991 and from 1995 to 2003. He served as Acting Commissioner from February 1994 to June 1995. He previously served as First Deputy Commissioner and Assistant General Counsel within the Massachusetts Division of Banks. He entered state government in 1982 as an attorney with the Massachusetts' Secretary of State's Office. Mr. Curry served as the Chairman of the Conference of State Bank Supervisors from 2000 to 2001 and served two terms on the State Liaison Committee of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, including a term as Committee chairman. He received a B.A. from Manhattan College and a J.D. from the New England School of Law.
Mary John Miller, Nominee for Under Secretary for Domestic Finance, Department of the Treasury
Mary John Miller has served as the Department of the Treasury's Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets since February 2010. Assistant Secretary Miller is responsible for Treasury's management of the public debt and advises the Secretary on broad matters of domestic finance, financial markets, federal, state and local finance, and federal government lending policies. Prior to joining the Department of the Treasury, Ms. Miller spent 26 years working for T. Rowe Price Group, Inc., most recently as the Director of the Fixed Income Division, and was a member of the firm's Management Committee. Prior to joining T. Rowe Price Group, Inc., Ms. Miller was a Research Associate for The Urban Institute in Washington, D.C. Ms. Miller has earned her Chartered Financial Analyst designation, holds a B.A. from Cornell University and an M.C.R.P. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Wendy R. Sherman, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, Department of State
Wendy R. Sherman is the Vice Chair of Albright Stonebridge Group, a global strategy firm, and is also a member of the Investment Committee of Albright Capital Management. Before becoming a founding member of The Albright Group in 2001, she served as Counselor for the State Department, while also serving as President Clinton's Policy Coordinator on North Korea from 1997 to 2001. Prior to her confirmation as Counselor, Ambassador Sherman was President and CEO of the Fannie Mae Foundation. From 1993 to 1996, she was Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs under Secretary of State Warren Christopher. In 2008, she was appointed by Congressional leaders to serve on the Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction, Proliferation and Terrorism. Ambassador Sherman has served on the U.S. Defense Policy Board since 2009, and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Aspen Strategy Group. She attended Smith College and received a B.A. from Boston University and a Master's degree from the University of Maryland.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Rafael Anchía, Member, Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations
Rafael Anchía is the representative for House District 103 in the Texas House of Representatives, which covers the western section of Dallas County. He is also a partner with the international law firm of Haynes and Boone, LLP. Representative Anchía serves as Vice Chair of the Pensions, Investments and Financial Services Committee and the Sunset Advisory Commission. He began his career in public service as an elected member of the Dallas Independent School District Board of Trustees, the nation's 12th largest school district. Representative Anchía is the Immediate Past Chairman of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO) Educational Fund, and serves on the Board of Directors of the Spain-Texas Chamber of Commerce. He is a recent recipient of the Ohtli Award, the highest acknowledgment that the Government of Mexico bestows upon individuals living outside Mexico who have contributed to the empowerment of Mexican or Mexican-American communities in the United States. He has served as an adjunct professor on NAFTA and trade policy at the Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, Texas Tech University Law School, and the University of Texas at Dallas. Representative Anchia received his B.A. from Southern Methodist University and his J.D. from Tulane University School of Law.
Carmen Lucca Nazario, United States Representative, Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
Carmen Lucca Nazario is an Assistant Professor in the School of Social Work at the Inter American University of Puerto Rico. Previously, she served at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, first as Senior Advisor to the Secretary and later as Assistant Secretary for Children and Families. Ms. Nazario's previous government service also includes Administrator of the Puerto Rico Administration for Children and Families from 2003 to 2008, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Children and Families in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and Secretary of Health and Social Services for the State of Delaware from 1993 to 1997. Ms. Nazario is currently a member of the American Public Human Services Associations and the Puerto Rico College of Social Workers. She holds a B.A. from the University of Puerto Rico and an M.S.W. from Virginia Commonwealth University.
  